Report No. 463a-IN
Appraisal of. West Bengal Agricultural
Development Project                                                                RETURN TO
India                                    i                                      REPORTS -
FILECOPY                                      WITHIN
April 4, 1975                                                                        ONE WEEXP-   l 
Agricultural Credit and Development Finance Companies Division
South Asia Projects Department
Not for Public Use
U
Document of the International Bank for Reconstruction and Development
International Development Association
This report was prepared for official use only by the Bank Group. It may not
be published, quoted or cited without Bank Group authorization. The Bank Group does
not accept responsibility for the accuracy or completeness of the report.



CYRRENDY EQUIVALENTS /a
US$1.00        =    Rupees (Rs) 8.00
Rs 1           =    US$0.125
Rs 1 million   -    US$125,000
WEIGHTS AND MEASURES
(Metric System)
1 kilogram (kg)           a    2.20 pounds
1,000 kg - 1 metric ton  =    0.98 long ton
1 meter (m)               -    1.09 yards - 3.28 feet
1 kilometer (km)          =    0.62 mile
1 hectare (hai
10,000 m         2        2.47 acres
1 square kilometer (km )
- 100 ha                    0.39 square mile
1 cubic meter (mi)        =    35.39 cubic feet
ABBREVIATIONS
AIC  -    West Bengal Agro-Industries Corporation
ARC  -    Agricultural Refinance Corporation
CADP -    Comprehensive Area Development Project
CB   -    Commercial Bank
DTW  -    Deep Tubewell
GOI  -    Government of India
GOWB -    Government of West Bengal
LDB  -    State Land Development Bank
MIC  -    Minor Irrigation Corporation
PLDB -    Primary Land Development Bank
RBI  -    Reserve Bank of India
RLI  -    Riverlift Installation
RN   -    Regulated Market
RKC  -    Regulated Market Committee
SCB  -    State Cooperative Bank
SMB  -    State Marketing Board
STW  -    Shallow Tubewell
SWB  -    State Water Board
VLW  -    Village Level Worker
/a   The Rupee is officially linked to the Pound Sterling.  As the Pound is
now floating relative to the US Dollar, the US Dollar/Rupee exchange rate
is subject to fluctuations. Conversions in this report are at US$1 -
Rs 8.0, which was the rate prevailing at the time of appraisal.



-2-
CROP SEASONS AND RICE CROPS
Kharif         Monsoon season, June-October.
Rabi           Dry season, November-March/April.
Aus Rice       Mostly broadcast sown in April-May
and harvested in August-September.
Aman rice      Transplanted in July-August and
harvested in November-December.
Boro rice      Irrigated dry season rice,
transplanted in December-January
and harvested in April-May.
FISCAL YEARS
GOI and GOWB         -    April 1 - March 31
ARC and LDB          -    July 1 - June 30
Commercial Banks    -    January 1 - December 31






INDIA
WEST BENGAL AGRICULTURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
TABLE OF CONTENTS
Page No.
SUMMARY  AND  CONCLUSIONS  ...................................   i  -  iv
I.  INTRODUCTION                                     .....................................                                                                         1
II.  BACKGROUND ................................                                                                                                                     1
A.          India    ................................................                                                                                   I
B.         West   Bengal    ..........................................                                                                                 2
Agriculture    .....................................                                                                            2
Land   Tenure    .....................................                                                                          3
Irrigation    ......................................                                                                            3
Credit  and  Banking  ..............................                                                                            5
Marketing    ................                                ........................                                           5
Transport    .......................................                                                                            6
Development  Policy  ..............................                                                                             6
III.            THE  PROJECT  AREA  ..........................................                                                                                         6
Climate  and  Soil  ................................                                                                            7
Agriculture  .........                                    ............................                                          7
Irrigation  ..........                                    ............................                                          8
Agricultural Inputs and Services  ....                                                          ............                    8
IV.          THE  PROJECT  ...............................................                                                                                           9
A.          Definition    ...........................................                                                                                  9
B.         Detailed  Features   ....................................                                                                                   9
General    .........................................                                                                            9
Shallow  Tubewells   ...............................                                                                          10
Deep   Tubewells    ..................................                                                                        11
Riverlifts    ......................................                                                                          11
Market Development ...............................                                                                            11
Agro-Service  Centers  ............................                                                                           12
Workshop  Equipment  ..............................                                                                           12
State Water Board ...............................                                                                             12
Agricultural Extension ...........................                                                                            13
Future Project  Preparation  ......................                                                                           13
Water  Availability  ..............................                                                                           13
Electricity  and Diesel  Supplies  ....                                                        .............                  13
C.    Phasing and Construction Schedule  ....................                                                                                        14
D.         Cost  Estimates  and  Financing  .........................                                                                                14



-2-
Page No.
E.   Procurement and Disbursement ......        ...................  17
Procurement .........      ............................   17
Disbursement ........      ............................   18
V.   ORGANIZATION AND MANAGEMENT ...............................   19
A.   Coordination        .........................................   19
B.   Main Participating Institutions .......... ............   20
Agricultural Refinance Corporation ...........   ...   20
The Lending Banks .......     ........................   20
Minor Irrigation Corporation .................   ...   21
Engineering Directorate .....     ....................   22
Farmers' Groups ..........    ........................   22
Small Farmers . . ......... 23
State Water Board ......      .........................   24
State Marketing Board and Regulated Market
Committees .......     ..........................   25
C.   Terms and Conditions of Subloans ..................    ...   25
D.   Audit and Accounts .......       ...........................   25
VI.   PRODUCTION. MARKETING. PRICES AND FARMERS' BENEFITS .... .... 26
Production          .......................................  26
Markets and Prices ....         ..........................   26
Farmers' Benefits ............. ..      ...............  27
Water Charges ................. ..................   27
VII.   BENEFITS AND JUSTIFICATION ................................   28
VIII.   RECOMMENDATIONS ...........................................   30
SCHEDULE A:  Project Lending Terms and Conditions
SCHEDULE B:  Small Farmer Definition
SCHEDULE C:  Criteria to Determine Participation of Land
Development Bank Branches or Primary Land
Development Banks
SCHEDULE D:  Deep Tubewell Site Selection Criteria
ANNEXES
1.     Agriculture
Table 1:  Use of Cultivable Land in Project Area
Table 2:  Crop Production, Area and Yields for 1967/68, 1971/72 and
1973/74
Table 3:  Comparison of Average Crop Production in Project Districts
Table 4:  Size Distribution of Land Holdings
Table 5:  Organization of West Bengal Agricultural Research Services
Table 6:  Estimated Increase in Crop Production



-3-
2.     Minor Irrigation
Table 1: Monthly Rainfall and Temperature as 30 Year Means (1931-1960)
Table 2: Increase and Present Distribution of DTW,
STW and RLI Schemes in West Bengal
Table 3:  Priority Areas for Minor Irrigation Development
Table 4: Estimated Crop and Irrigation Water Requirements
Table 5: Estimated Irrigation Pumping Requirements
Table 6: Existing and Proposed Minor Irrigation Facilities
in the Project Area
Table 7: Estimated Project Area Recharge and Utilization
Table 8: Staff Requirements
Chart #WB8588 - Proposed Organizational Chart of the Minor
Irrigation.Corporation
Chart #tWB8587
(2R)- Proposed Organizational Chart of the State
Water Board
Appendix 1: Guidelines for Terms of Reference and Qualifications
of Experts to be recruited by the State Water Board
Appendix 2: Terms of Reference for the RLI Study.
3.     The Lending Institutions
Table 1: West Bengal Central Cooperative Land Mortgage Bank Ltd.
Condensed Statement of Net Income
Table 2: West Bengal Central Cooperative Land Mortgage Bank Ltd.
Condensed Balance Sheets
4.     Agricultural Produce Marketing
Table 1: Annual Operating Cost of a Typical Market
Table 2: RMC Cash Flow Projections
Appendix 1: Technical Specifications of a Typical Market Yard
under the Project
Drawing #9313 - Typical Layout for a Wholesale Market
Appendix 2: Guidelines for a Marketing Study
5.     West Bengal Agro-Industries Corporation Ltd.
Table 1:  Agro-Service Centers - Estimated Operating Revenues
and Expenses
Table 2:  Agro-Services Centers - Cash Flow Projections and
Rate of Return
6.     Cost Estimates
7.     Schedule of Estimated Disbursements



- 4-
8.     Financial Analysis
Table 1: Cropping Pattern, Yields, Costs and Returns per Hectare
Table 2:  Farmers' Costs of Operating Shallow Tubewells
Table 3: Annual Costs of Operating Deep Tubewells and Riverlifts
Table 4: Farm Models, Shallow Tubewells
Table 5:  Farm Models, Deep Tubewells
Table 6: Estimated Farm Budgets Before and After Irrigation
Table 7: Financial Rates of Return to Farmers Operating
Shallow Tubewells
Table 8: Financial Rates of Return to Farmers Operating
Deep Tubewells
Appendix 1: Guidelines for Revising Water Rates
Table 1: Assumptions for Deep Tubewell Cost Recoveries
9.     Economic Analysis
Table 1: Economic Rates of Return Shallow Tubewells
Table 2: Economic Rates of Return Deep Tubewells and Riverlifts
MAP: IBRD 10905
REFERENCE
1.   "Report to the Government of West Bengal on Minor Irrigation"
Keith Anderson, January 1975.



INDIA
WEST BENGAL AGRICULTURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
SUMMARY AND CONCLUSIONS
i.        This report appraises an agricultural development project cover-
ing 6 districts in West Bengal. This project would support a four year
agricultural development program costing about US$67 million, mainly for
minor irrigation. This would include credit to farmers for shallow tubewells,
and to farmers' groups and the Minor Irrigation Corporation for a small
deep tubewell program. It would also provide direct finance to the West
Bengal Department of Agriculture for completing partly constructed riverlift
schemes. The project would also finance: (a) agro-service centers to improve
inputs distribution; (b) a trial development of three wholesale markets;
(c) improvement of agricultural extension; and (d) support for a number of
State rural institutions.
ii.       West Bengal has about 8% of India's population on less than 3%
of its land. Agriculture accounts for almost 50% of the State income and
60% of its jobs, and its development has high priority. Holdings are small
(50% are less than 0.5 ha) and severely fragmented (averaging 8 fragments
per owner). About 40% of the farmers are share croppers. After a static
period, increase in foodgrain production has accelerated over the last
7 years, mainly due to a large scale minor irrigation development program
linked with the rapid spread of high yielding rice and wheat varieties,
and adequate supporting inputs. Following this success Government's policy
is to expand minor irrigation as quickly as possible. The project area has
the best water resources in the State, with high potential for further
development, thus offering high and quick returns in the most densely
populated part of the State. However, water utilization from state owned
deep tubewells and riverlifts is unsatisfactory and this project would focus
on this problem and, at the same time, support considerable expansion of
private sector shallow tubewells.
iii.       Increased production has come entirely from irrigation during the
dry season, but rainy season crop production, which still accounts for two-
thirds of the foodgrain and all the jute (the most important cash crop), has
not increased in recent years. Financial assistance for the preparation of
a second project is included in this project. Such a project would aim at
broader agricultural development, including expansion of rainy season crop
production, by improving research, extension, agricultural training, land
drainage, and communications, and may also include an expanded markets
component.
iv.       This project would assist in financing:
(a) individual farmers or farmers' groups for 18,000 electric
and diesel powered shallow tubewells;



- ii -
(b)  farmers' groups for 200 deep tubewells;
(c) the Minor Irrigation Corporation (MIC) for 100 deep
tubewells;
(d) the Government of West Bengal (GOWB) for completing
600 riverlift and deep tubewell schemes;
(e) private borrowers for equipment for 200 agro-service
centers; and
(f)  Regulated Market Committees (RMC) for the development of
3 markets.
The project would also support the development of GOWB's maintenance
facilities, technical assistance and training for the newly-formed State
Water Board (SWB), reorganization and strengthening of the agricultural
extension service and preparation of the second stage project.
v.        The small deep tubewell component for farmers groups would have
important institution building objectives. Deep tubewells are currently
owned and operated by GOWB. Experience in India and elsewhere shows that the
efficiency of services from state controlled irrigation departments or cor-
porations generally tends to deteriorate as the scale of operations grows.
In addition, state owned pumps are seldom as well utilized as privately owned
facilities. The trial program to establish irrigation cooperatives would, if
successful, provide an alternative to public tubewell development and would
lay the foundation for expansion of deep tubewells and riverlifts. This type
of facility is important for areas not suitable for shallow wells, particularly
since it provides water for the poorest farmers, including share croppers.
Because the irrigation cooperative concept is relatively new in West Bengal,
it will take time to identify groups willing to form them, and subsidies may
be needed.
vi.       Estimated total project cost is US$67.0 million, of which Us$40.4
million would be for minor irrigation, US$3.1 million for markets and agro-
service centers, US$6.4 million for technical assistance, equipment and
improving extension services, and US$17.1 million for contingencies. The
IDA Credit of US$34 million would cover about 51% of total project cost.
vii.      The Government of India (GOI) would bear the exchange risk on the
IDA Credit and lend US$13 million to GOWB on the terms prevailing at that
time.   GOI would lend the rest of the Credit to the Agricultural Refinance
Corporation (ARC), which would repay part of it at an annual interest rate of
6.5% after 9 years, and the balance at 7.0% after 15 years. ARC would re-
finance 80-90% of loans by the lending banks, at 7.5% minimum a year. Loans
to final borrowers would bear minimum interest of 10.5%-11% a year. Indivi-
dual farmers and farmers groups would repay in 7 to 15 years depending on
the life of the investment, agro-service centers in 7 years, MIC in 10 years
and RMC (whose investment would be largely in buildings and other civil works)
in 14 years.



- iii -
viii.     Farmers' contributions would be 5% of each investment for small
farmers and would vary from 10-15% for larger farmers. Those of RMC's and
other borrowers' would be at least 5%. The balance of funds for riverlift
completions, equipment, extension services, technical assistance and project
preparation would be provided by the Government of West Bengal.
ix.       Numerous agencies would participate in the project.  A newly
formed sub-committee of the State Level Coordinating Committee for Agri-
cultural Finance would be responsible for project coordination, with
representatives of SMB, MIC and the State Electricity Board as coopted
members.
x.        The State has a well developed commercial banking network which
has recently gained valuable experience *in agricultural lending.  The State
Cooperative Land Development Bank (LDB) is one of the least developed in
India. Although an expansion program is under way, the LDB branch network
would not cover the project area adequately and about 70% of the lending
would be through participating commercial banks. Both LDB and commercial
banks would need to employ and train additional staff. To ensure adequate
banking facilities, ARC has prepared a banking plan, which would be finalized
by December 31, 1975. ARC would be the channel for the credit component and
would supervise its implementation, as it already does for the 10 on-going
IDA-assisted credit projects in India.
xi.       About 30,000 farmers would make small and scattered investments
in shallow tubewells over 4 years, thus centralized bulk buying would be
inappropriate. They would buy pumpsets in the local market, which is com-
petitive, and hire private contractors for well drilling. Similarly, each
agro-service center would require different equipment, which could therefore
not be bulked, and would be purchased by each borrower locally. The deep
tubewells construction program is small, spread over four years and over a
wide area. Implementation of most of it would depend on the formation of
irrigation cooperatives and on the uncertain timing of their establishment.
For the small annual program which would result, international competitive
bidding would not be practical. For tubewell drilling and purchase of pipes,
pumps, engines and related minor civil works, contracts would be awarded on
the basis of competitive bidding advertised locally and in accordance with
local procedures, which are satisfactory to IDA. Riverlift completions in-
volve only minor civil works over a wide area and would be subject to the
same local bidding procedures. International competitive bidding would also
be impractical for the markets component of the project. Design of each market
would depend on type and projected quantities of produce and form of construc-
tion. Each market would require a large number of small works, which would
be carried out after local competitive bidding. Procurement of equipment for
MIC, SWB and extension services would involve many small contracts and would
be made by using the same local bidding procedure already described.
xii.      About 200,000 farmers would benefit directly from the project and of
these, at least 75% would be small farmers. The main benefits would be in-
creased grain production of about 310,000 tons per annum, representing US$50



- iv -
million foreign exchange savings for food imports; and the annual generation
of about 100,000 man-years labor, ,mostly in the slack season, in an area
where unemployment is a serious problem. Incremental income generated by
the project would be widely distributed. Shallow tubewell investors would
be either groups of small farmers or individual farmers with 2 to 3 ha, con-
sisting on average of 15 to 20 scattered fragments. Individual farmers would
thus have to sell water to neighbors to obtain right of way to pass irrigation
water to their various fragments. Estimated financial rates of return to
investors in minor irrigation facilities vary from 31% to over 50% and the
estimated economic rates of return range from 33% for deep tubewells to over
50% for most other facilities.
xiii.     The project is suitable for an IDA Credit of US$34 million on
standard terms.



INDIA
WEST BENGAL AGRICULTURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
I. INTRODUCTION
1.01      In 1972 the Government of India (GOI) requested an IDA Credit for
an agricultural development project in West Bengal. The original request
was revised by the Government of West Bengal (GOWB) with the assistance
of an IDA mission that visited India in May 1973, and was appraised in
December 1973. An appraisal report was prepared but shortly before scheduled
negotiations GOI asked that the number of deep tubewells (DTWs) and riverlift
installations (RLIs) be increased. This project, for which GOI has requested
an IDA Credit of US$34 million, is based on the results of a reexamination
of the 1973 appraisal, following the requested increase in DTWs and RLIs.
1.02      About 62% of project cost would be for agricultural credit with
development objectives similar to those in the 10 on-going IDA agricultural
credit projects (with total IDA Credits of US$320 million), but the on-lend-
ing channels and borrowers would be different. Most of the finance would be
channeled through ARC to commercial banks (CB), since the State's Land
Development Bank (LDB) (unlike those in the States covered by the previous
projects) has an insufficiently developed network of branches to ensure
project success on its own. Whereas almost all the borrowers in the previous
projects were farmers, some finance in this project would be on-lent to two
corporations, for construction of deep tubewells, and for markets development.
The rest would be on-lent to farmers. The project would also differ from
earlier ones by sponsoring trial market development and irrigation cooperatives
and by channeling finance through GOI directly to GOWB mainly for improving
600 State-owned RLIs.
1.03      This report is based on the findings of a mission consisting of
Messrs. G. Stern and J. Khalilzadeh-Shirazi (IDA) and K. Anderson (Consultant)
that visited India in October 1974. Mr. P. Pohland (IDA) of the Resident
Mission in India assisted the mission in the field.
II. BACKGROUND
A.  India-
2.01      Since 1965, India has shifted the emphasis of its development
efforts from industry to agriculture, giving priority to accelerating the
spread of modern agricultural technology through increasing the availability
1/   A detailed discussion of the present situation and prospects of agri-
culture in India is given in Economic Situation and Prospects of India,
Report .~o. 402-IN, dated May 7, 1974.



- 2 -
of improved inputs such as high-yielding seed varieties, fertilizers, and
irrigation. Although 70% of India's labor force is engaged in agriculture
(providing 42% of India's GNP), many farmers who could take advantage of
the new techniques, if agricultural inputs were made available to them, have
scarcely been affected by the recent advances. Moreover, recent droughts
and floods have stressed once again that Indian agriculture remains heavily
dependent on the vagaries of the weather. In the long term its effects can
be minimized by continuing irrigation development coupled with improved
technology.  The on-going IDA irrigation and agricultural credit proje.ts
have assisted irrigation development, and a project to develop drought
prone areas has recently been approved. 1/
B. -West Bengal
2.02     2West Bengal, in eastern India (Map 10905), has an area of about
87,700 km  and a population of about 44 million (1971 census).  It has about 2
8% of India's population on 2.7% of its land. Agricultural land is 55,700 km
(65% of the total) and can be divided into four main ecological regions: the
high rainfall sub-mountain ranges in the north, the drier hill areas in the
west, the non-saline alluvial areas in the east (the most productive part of
the State) and the saline alluvial plains bordering the coast. The estimated
rural population is 33 million, giving a density of about 600 per km2 (the
1971 all-India average is 182). Over 50% of farms (1970/71 census) are less
than 0.5 ha, representing only 4% of the cultivable areas, and 85% of holdings
are less than 2 ha (Annex 1, Table 4). Average number of fragments per hold-
ing is almost 8 and about 40% of farm operators are believed to be share-
croppers. Although the State has the second largest industrial base in
India, agriculture provides about 50% of State income and 60% of its jobs.
Administratively, the State has four divisions, 15 districts and 333 blocks.
About 70% of its population, particularly in rural areas, live below the
poverty line (consumption of Rs 20 per month in 1960/61 prices) compared
with 40% for all India.
Agriculture (Annex 1)
2.03      Despite its relatively small size, West Bengal ranks fourth in
Indian foodgrain production (first in rice production), and accounts for 60%
of the country's jute and 25% of its tea (the two most valuable agricultural
exports). Nevertheless, between 1.5 to 2.0 million tons of grain is imported
annually, mainly for the 8 million Calcutta population. Because of localized
floods and rain failures, the State food supply decreased seriously in 1974
and 15 million people reportedly faced severe food shortages. In the face
of this situation GOWB is more than ever determined to increase food pro-
duction rapidly.
1/   Report No. 533a-IN, dated November 14, 1974.



- 3 -
2.04      Between 1967 and 1972, grain production grew at 6% a year, while
fertilizer consumption increased at 20% a year, compared with 13% for all
India. This growth coincided with a GOWB drive to expand minor irrigation
and introduce high yielding (HYV) rice and wheat varieties. Increased grain
production came mainly from irrigated rabi crops, while rainfed crop produc-
tion (kharif rice, jute, pulses, oilseeds) remained static. Over the last
two years both rainfed and irrigated production has fallen (see Annex 1,
Table 2) because of unfavourable weather and power, fertilizer and wheat seed
shortages.   Power and fertilizer supplies have improved and GOWB will ensure
adequate wheat seed supplies (para 3.07) in future. Rainfed production is
likely to remain static for some time and the quickest way to increase food
production is to accelerate exploitation of the ample minor irrigation
potential.
Land Tenure
2.05      The large minor irrigation development to date has taken place
against the background of high proportions of small, fragmented holdings
and of sharecroppers. The State land reform program aims to redistribute
land from large farms and to register sharecroppers.  But implementation
difficulties are great and even if all redistribution objectives were
achieved the effect on holding size would be negligible. However, secure
tenure for sharecroppers would benefit agricultural production. The
fragmentary pattern makes water distribution difficult. Boundary realign-
ments, to form part of the extension program (para 4.12) of this project,
would improve water distribution.
Irrigation (Annex 2)
2.06      An estimated 1.86 million ha, just over 26% of the area sown, is
irrigated. Of this, 0.63 million ha are covered by GOWB controlled canal
irrigation, 0.83 million ha by privately owned tanks, canals and traditional
irrigation facilities, and 0.40 million ha by deep tubewells (DTWs), shallow
tubewells (STWs) and riverlifts (RLIs). Only DTWs, STWs and RLIs provide
year-round irrigation, the remainder (80% of the irrigated area) receives
water mainly to supplement and expand monsoon rainfall.
2.07      There are now about 2,250 DTWs (200m3/hogr capacity), 2,050 RLIs
(300-400m3 / hour capacity) and 61,000 STWs (20-25m /hour capacity). All DTWs,
RLIs and 3,350 STWs are State-owned, the remaining STWs are privately owned.
The main expansion in minor irrigation occurred in the last four years. How-
ever, most of the emphasis was on numbers installed, and not on their opera-
tion.   The result is that only 700 RLIs are substantially completed (only
100 completed in every respect) and irrigation coverage is only 20% of the
feasible command area from RLIs, and under 50% from DTWs. Therefore, instead
of further large scale expansion of DTWs and RLIs at present, attention should
be given to completing existing schemes and improving their utilization;
particularly on porous soils, where water utilization is difficult.



- 4 -
2.08      Most STWs have been installed through concessional credit provided
directly by the Agricultural Department, with little attempt to collect re-
payment or interest charges. Consequently pump owners had little incentive
to make full use of the investment, and utilization is estimated at only 50%
of the feasible optimum. However, in the last two years only institutional
credit has been available for STW investment and this, coupled with better
loan repayment collection, is improving STh utilization.
2.09      The greatest potential for further irrigation expansion lies in
the State's rich groundwater resources, which receive ample recharge. Shallow
groundwater levels in most alluvial areas make them suitable for STW develop-
ment, particularly in the short term. In the long term, at least 20 years
(which is more than the life of a STW), intensive development will lower the
water table to a point where typical STWs equipped with centrifugal pumps may
fail, and have to be replaced with DTWs. Such lowering of the groundwater
table would reduce runoff and increase recharge, and allow maximum ground-
water utilization. Consequently, irrigation development strategy shoulld con-
centrate on rapid development of STWs, and lay the foundation for future ex-
pansion of DTWs and RLIs.
2.10      As with STWs, water from DTWs and RLIs has been practically free,
but in 1973, GOWB increased water charges to Rs 240/ha boro paddy and
Rs 60/ha wheat, payable in advance, and collection averaged almost 90% of
demand. However, evaluation after a full year of collection shows that
these rates are far too low, since they bring in only about 5% of the annual
operating cost (including capital cost). GOWB is considering new charges
to increase State revenue and to Lmprove water utilization (para 6.05-6.07).
2.11      Construction and operation of DTWs and RLIs and investigation of
water resources have been carried out by the Engineering Directorate of the
Department of Agriculture. GOWB has decided to stop financing new DTWs and
RLIs. In view of the need for water resources management and institutional
finance for water development, GOW]3 in January 1974, established: (a) a
Minor Irrigation Corporation (MIC) to construct and operate minor irrigation
facilities; and (b) a State Water Board (SWB) to take over investigations,
to help plan future water use, and to advise on the technical soundness of
new investment.  Both organizations are in the early development stages.
Some Directorate staff has been transferred to SWB, and this should allow
it to begin a reasonable level of field operations. MIC has as yet little
staff, and reservations of Directorate staff about their career prospects,
exacerbated by trade union problems, prevent large scale transfers of
Directorate staff in the near future. Consequently MIC may not be able to
undertake large scale operations in the near future. Furthermore, the
current level of water charges must be raised substantially before MIIC could
hope to attain financial viability without heavy GOWB subsidies. GOWB intends
that MIC should construct new DTWs, but the Directorate may have to continue
operating most of the existing State owned facilities for the next two to
three years, and would provide services to MIC on an agency basis (para 5.11).



-5-
Credit and Banking (Annex 3)
2.12      West Bengal's farmers traditionally have three sources of agri-
cultural credit: (a) Taccavi loans from GOWB, which are tantamount to
limited relief grants; (b) loans from moneylenders and traders; and (c)
institutional credit. In 1972, moneylenders supplied about 50% of the total
outstanding credit. Most institutional credit comes from the cooperative
movement: the State Cooperative Bank (SCB) for short and medium term (two
to five years), and the State Cooperative Land Development Bank (LDB) for
long term (above five years). The cooperative banking system has suffered
from deficient management and poor collection, and the volume of LDB business
has been low because of a poorly developed branch network and ineligibilitv
for additional funds because of high overdues. However, over the last two
years the cooperative sector has been revitalized. To date, most attention
has been given to SCB, where disbursements have increased by 250% and over-
dues have been reduced from 73% of demand 1/ in 1972, to 33%. Increasing
attention is now being given to improving LDB management and coverage.
During 1973/74 disbursements increased by 40% and overdues were reduced from
55% of demand to 40%. GOWB is confident of substantial further improvement
in LDB collections this year. CBs in the State are rapidly gaining experience
in agricultural lending, and should play a major part in project implementation.
Marketig (Aex 4)
2.13      About 20% of paddy, 30% of wheat, 90% of fruits and vegetables,
and nearly 98% of the fiber crops (jute and kenaf) are marketed. Most of
them pass through 2,100 village and 130 wholesale markets, which serve about
39,000 villages. In these a variety of middlemen, agents and processors buy
from farmers for resale, storage and processing. Commission agents provide
some credit to farmers and arrange sales. In 1972, to eliminate malpractices,
GOWS passed the Agricultural Produce and Marketing Regulations Act, under
whlich regulated markets (Edls), administered by market committees (RGCs), are
being established at wholesale markets. RMCs are corporate bodies empowered
to borrow from GOWB and from other sources with GOWB approval. Start-up
funds come from GOWB. RUMCs have jurisdiction to oversee and regulate market-
ing at both village and wholesale markets. RMs should provide improved facil-
ities for receiving, storing and selling produce, and introduce and monitor
fair trading practices. GOWB expects that RM development will increase farmers'
incentives to augment crop production by improving market-facilities,
stabilizing product prices and reducing marketing costs. The Act empowers
GOWB to set up a State Marketing Board (SM1B), to assume GOVIB's existing
regulatory powers, including control of the activities of RMCs.  Several
RMCs have been established and construction of several RMs, financed by CBs,
is scheduled for 1975.
1/   "Demand" in this context means principal and interest falling due
during the year plus overdues from the previous year.



-6-
Transport
2.14      The State is well served by about 13,500 km of all-weather roads
linking the more important urban areas. In addition, two railways connect
Calcutta with other important centers. Waterways are not well developed
and rivers are not navigable in the upper reaches. The urban-rural linkages
and the feeder road system are poor, seriously hampering transportation to
and from the villages, especially during the monsoon. Under the current
Five Year Plan, GOWB intends to improve the urban-rural road network. The
Ganges, which divides the state, was formerly an obstruction to road gn:d
rail communication, but the Farrakka Barrage now carries the road and railway
across the river.
Development Policy
2.15      West Bengal has high potential for further development, particularly
of its abundant underdeveloped water resources. Recent GOWB policy to develop
these resource has resulted in impressive gains in grain production and rural
incomes. Expansion of minor irrigation, provision of inputs and improved
marketing retain first priority in the development plans. However, there are
institutional constraints to providing the necessary services to the mass of
very small farmers in West Bengal, particularly for rural credit, input
supplies and management of irrigation facilities. This project would form
an important part of GOWB plans to expand agricultural production, to strengthen
existing institutions and to explore new ones. The policy to increase agri-
cultural output supported by this project is complementary to that to improve
the conditions and function of Calcutta supported by IDA Credit 427-IN (the
Calcutta Urban Development Project). The agricultural development policy
will increase output, income and employment in rural areas. This in turn will
divert some unemployed or underemployed labor from migrating to Calcutta
where opportunities for useful employment are scarce, create a demand for
some of the industrial and consumer goods produced in the city, and contribute
to the supply of food for the city's population.
2.16      This project would be specifically adapted to utilize the irriga-
tion potential of the non-saline alluvial areas. However, GOWB is also
determined to improve rainfed agriculture and to increase production in
other ecological areas. Different technologies would be needed for such
purposes and GOWB is examining suitable technologies to prepare projects for
IDA finance.
III.  THE PROJECT AREA
3.01      The project area of about 26,000 km2 is about 30% of the State's
total area (40% of its cultivable land), and comprises most of the non-saline
alluvial area, covering much of the six districts of Hooghly, Burdwan, Nadia,
Murshidabad, Malda and West Dinajpur.   With a rural population of 12.9 mil-
lion and an estimated cultivable area of 22,500 km2, the area has a population
density of 570 per km2 and is among the most densely populated rural areas



-7-
of the State. Within it, GOWB has identified 11,000 km2; 51 blocks as priority
development areas (Map 10905 and Annex 2 Table 3), where most project invest-
ment would take place. These blocks were selected for their good water
resources and potential for market development.
Climate and Soil
3.02      Rain normally varies from about 1,400 mm over much of the area to
1,800 mm in the north. Mean temperatures vary from about 370C maximum in
May to about 11°C minimum during December to February. Temperatures some-
times drop to 4C, particularly in the north, and this retards the boro
paddy crop. Wheat must be sown no later than December because of the sudden
rise in temperature during March.
3.03      Soils are all alluvial, Vindhya alluvium in the west and Gangetic
alluvium in the east (Map 10905). Both soil types have reasonable fertility,
are about neutral and have no salinity or toxicity problem. About 55%-60%
are pervious loams, suitable for wheat, vegetable and olitorius jute, while
the rest are impervious clay soils particularly suitable for boro paddy.
3.04      Most of the area is flat with only a small portion on older, gently
undulating alluvial soils. Fields are bunded to retain water for the kharif
paddy crop and slopes are terraced. On average, 7% of the area is annually
affected by damaging floods, although during the rains the water table
rises to the surface on at least half the land, which may be submerged to
about 50 cm for varying periods. This factor determines that over 60% of
the area is, during the rains, sown to paddy and jute.
Agriculture (Annex 1)
3.05      Of 2.25 million ha cultivable land, about 0.9 million is double-
cropped. The project area, which contains about 40% of the State's cul-
tivable land, accounts for 40% of its food grain and 65% of its jute. Rice
occupies 1.8 million ha (55% of the sown area), of which 1.2 million ha
are rainfed aman, 0.4 million ha rainfed aus and 0.2 million ha irrigated
boro. 1/ The latter, which is grown on only 10% of the rice area, accounts
for 22% of the crop. Other important crops include pulses (0.4 million ha),
jute (0.3 million ha), oilseeds (0.1 million ha) and wheat, which increased
from 0.05 million ha in 1967/68 to 0.24 million ha in 1973/74. In general,
on heavier soils aman rice is the only crop grown, whereas on lighter soils
either jute or aus sown early may be followed by pulses, or early pulses may
be followed by aman. As in the rest of the State, rabi grain production
increased steeply between 1967 and 1972 -- 62,000 tons boro to 538,000 tons,
and 45,000 tons wheat to 598,000 tons, that has since dipped to 492,000 tons
boro and 418,000 tons wheat in 1973 -- with little change ia the level of
other crops. Thus the effect of irrigation has been confined to increased
rabi grain production, although in exceptional drought years like 1972,
irrigation helps to maintain rainfed production.
1/   A description of the three seasonal rice crops is in Annex 1.



-8-
Irrigation (Annex 2)
3.06      The alluvium consists of a mixture of clays, silts, sands and
gravels. Both unconfined and, where covered by clay, confined aquifers
occur. In the unconfined aquifers covering the greater part of the project
area, groundwater occurs mostly from three to five m deep, and such areas
are suitable for STWs. In the older alluvium found in Murshidabad, in the
recent alluvium of Hooghly and Burdwan, and in parts of other districts where
groundwater sinks below six m during the dry weather, aquifers are suitable
only for DTWs. On the whole there have been few well failures, but a number
of STWs sited without technical advrice have run dry in the main irrigation
season. While DTW sites are usually chosen after careful technical assess-
ment, more careful location of STWs is needed.
Agricultural Inputs and Services (Annex 1)
3.07      Seeds are supplied from COWB farms and commercial sources, includ-
ing the IBRD-financed Tarai Development Corporation (Loan 614-IN). Supplies
were adequate in the past, but since 1973 wheat seed supplies have been in-
adequate because, with the high grain prices farmers sell their farm-retained
seed for foodgrain. GOWB has found it difficult to procure the additional
seed shortly before sowing time, and plans to ensure adequate future supplies
by placing irrevocable advance orders with seed merchants. Assurances to
this effect were obtained from GOWB at negotiations. In addition, the
West Bengal Agro-Industries Corporation (AIC) is preparing a seeds project to
supplement seed imported from other States.
3.08      Fertilizer and pesticides distribution through both public and
private agencies is satisfactory, and would be further developed by establish-
ment of at least two agro-service centers per block (para 4.09). However,
due to global shortages, fertilizers are in short supply. While GOWB, which
controls distribution, would give some priority to the project area there can
be no guarantee that demands there can be completely met. The likely effect
of this on project benefits is discussed in paras 6.04 and 7.02.
3.09      Labor is abundant in the project area.  Peak project labor demand
will be March to May, a time of rural underemployment. Draft power, almost
entirely provided by bullocks, is adequate.
3.10      The extension service staff in the project area includes 70 (mostly
subject matter specialists) at district headquarters, 800 at block level and
1,500 at village level. It is estimated that about 2,000 come into regular
contact with farmers; a ratio of 1 extension worker to 1,500 farmers. How-
ever, the effectiveness of agricultural extension has declined since 1972
when block and village level staff were integrated with other departments
and were expected to perform many duties in addition to agricultural extension.
While they succeeded in introducing HYV boro and wheat and related inputs, there
are gaps, particularly related to utilization of irrigation water, and the
project would aim to improve agricultural extension (para 4.12). In addition,



- 9 -
there has been little result from efforts to increase rainfed crop production
despite special schemes. Available technology for rainfed crop improvement
has not proved attractive to farmers, although recent research results,
particularly for aman paddy, show promise. During preparation of a follow-up
project (para 4.13), the feasibility would be examined of increasing kharif
production in the project area by a comprehensive program including intensive
research, and further efforts to improve extension, flood control and drainage.
IV. THE PROJECT
A. Definition
4.01      The project would be implemented over 4 years.  It would support
GOWB's policy to develop minor irrigation and supporting services; the first
step in a more comprehensive development of the project area. It would
support the lending program of the LDB and of 8 CBs to provide credit:
(a)  to farmers for 18,000 shallow tubewells;
(b) to MIC for 100 deep tubewells and to farmers'
groups for 200 deep tubewells;
(c) to Regulated Market Committees for developing
3 markets; and
(d) to private borrowers for developing 200 agro-service
centers.
The project would also strengthen MIC, SWB and the Department of Agriculture
by providing equipment and technical assistance, and help finance completion
of 600 State owned riverlift and deep tubewell installations, improved agri-
cultural extension and the preparation of a follow up project.
B. Detailed Features
General
4.02      Thie credit components (para 4.01a-d) comprise 62%f;' of total project
cost. Under the ARC Credit Project (Report No. 562-IN), ARC would appraise
those types of agricultural credit projects in which it has gained experience.
The West Bengal Project was initially planned and prepared before the ARC
Project and contains several components outside the purview of that project.
These include financing MIC and farmers' groups for DTW construction, fi-
nancing wholesale markets and agro-service centers, and the difficult ins-
titution building problems of the project area. The project introduces



phased agricultural development into selected parts of West Bengal, based on
development priorities. The capacity of the lending banks to process loans
and of the Department of Agriculture to complete riverlift installations was
the main factor determining project size. The project would benefit about
200,000 farmers, of whom at least 75% would be small farmers as defined in
Schedule B.
4.03      Because utilization of existing DTWs and RLIs is unsatisfartory
(para 2.07), the project emphasizes better utilization of the existing 3,000
DTWs and RLIs in the project area, by improving agricultural extension and
by completing partly constructed RLIs. However, a small DTWs expansion
program has been included for areas unsuitable for STWs. This would provide
a modest work program for the newly established MIC and would provide irriga-
tion water to the poorest farmers who find it difficult to obtain institu-
tional credit.   The greater part of the DTWs component would serve as a
trial to see whether irrigation cooperatives or other types of farmers' groups
(paras 5.11 - 5.13) can successfully own and operate DTWs. This part of the
project is important because experience in West Bengal and elsewhere in India
suggests that state ownership and operation of minor irrigation installations
usually becomes unsatisfactory as the scale of operations increases. Diffi-
culties in collecting water charges create financial problems for the
operating agency, leading to a decline in the quality of its services.
Frequently, also, state tubewells are not fully utilized. Cooperative owner-
ship and operation of each installation may be a better solution. Success
of this trial would lay the foundations for a more sound and lasting alter-
native to the present state tubewell organizations.
4.04      The markets component would also represent a field trial, to test
GOWB assumptions on the benefits of controlled marketing to farmers in the
form of more stable and higher farmgate produce prices. Project markets
would serve as a training ground for possible future markets expansion, and
a testing ground to refine market design and operating procedures.
Shallow Tubewells
4.05      Shallow tubewells generally consist of 76 mm diameter pipes to a
depth of 25 to 45 m, with coir or brass strainers. They are equipped with
centrifugal pumps driven by diesel or electric motors of about 5 hp, and yield
about 20-30 m3 water per hour, enough to irrigate 3 to 5 ha. About 75% of
the 18,000 project wells would be electric (Annex 2). Because of the small
farm size and fragmentation, individual farmers who install wells frequently
sell water to neighbors, to obtain access to their own land fragments. In
the last two years some small farmers have formed groups to invest in STWs.
There are numerous local contractors skilled in sinking wells, and they also
provide pipes and strainers. There is a network of dealers to supply and
service pumps and engines. Project agro-service centers (para 4.09) would
help to strengthen maintenance facilities.



- 11 -
Deep Tubewells
4.06      Deep tubewells would generally be 80 to 180 m deep with 35.5 cm
diameter steel pipe for the top 30m, 21.6 cm pipe for the remaining depth
and slotted pipe for the aquifer zone, which would be packed with coarse
and medium gravel. They would be equipped with electric jotors of about 18 hp
and turbine pumps, and would yield on average about 200 m water per hour.
Construction of 100 DTWs for MIC and 200 for farmers' groups would be by
contract drilling. Both programs would be supervised by MIC, which would
also procure the pipes, pumps and engines and install distribution systems.
DTWs would discharge into underground concrete pipe distribution systems with
one outlet per 4-5 ha command area (Reference 1, Table of Contents). The
average command area would be from 35 to 50 ha, varying with soil type.
DTWs would be confined to areas unsuitable for STWs, mostly on clay soils
where water distribution is fairly easy. Careful topographic survey before
construction would be made to determine the command area, location of the
well and distribution system layout. In addition, DTWs would only be con-
structed where at least 70% of beneficiaries were small farmers and after
participation of at least 80% of potential beneficiaries had been assured.
Assurances that these criteria for DTWs siting would be observed, as detailed
in Schedule D, were obtained at negotiations. Project finance would also be
available to the Department of Agriculture, for completing partly constructed
DTWs and for modifying existing DTWs distribution systems as necessary.
Riverlifts
4.07      Riverlifts consist of 2 and sometimes 3 centrifugal pumps with
about 200 m /hour capacity each, designed for a head of about 12 m, mostly
powered by 20 to 25 hp diesel engines and a few, where power lines are near,
by electric motors. Command areas would vary from 70 to 100 ha. Completion
of 600 existing RLI would involve construction of underground piped distribu-
tion systems and water intake and shore installations. The work would be
done by contract, supervised by the Engineering Directorate of the Department
of Agriculture. The Department would continue to own and operate the RLIs
until MIC or cooperatives are capable of taking over. Present designs and
technical specifications for the works are unsatisfactory and would be
reviewed after detailed field studies by consultants. Suitable terms of
reference (Annex 2, Appendix 2) were discussed, and agreement by GOWB and IDA
on technical specifications for RLI completions would be a condition of
disbursement of the relevant credit category.
Market Development
4.08      The project would include the development of three markets, at
Samsi, Karimpur and Katwa (Map 10905), each of which would handle a different
produce mix. It would finance survey and land development, access roads,
auction platforms, fencing, offices, shops, godowns, internal roads, parking
areas, utilities, equipment (Annex 4 Appendix 1), and market staff training,
particularly for RMC secretaries and supporting staff. The location of the



- 12 -
markets has been determined to suit related feeder markets, but the actual
market site would be chosen after taking into account ease of access, land
suitability and traffic flow. Market size would depend on the type of
produce and projected arrivals and designs would make provision for expansion.
GOWB would be responsible for providing land, and assurances were obtained
that it would purchase land if necessary and would provide RMCs with adequate
and suitable land as required for project markets. Economic evaluation to
analyse the impact of the markets on agricultural development (particularly
farmers' benefits), and studies to guide further markets development would
be carried out by a qualified research institute or by consultants under
terms and conditions satisfactory to IDA. Guidelines are in Annex 4,
Appendix 2.
Agro-Service Centers
4.09      AIC selects and trains unemployed agriculture graduates (Annex 5),
and assists them to set up agro-service centers by arranging bank loans and
acting as wholesale supplier of seeds, fertilizers and a range of machinery,
and by providing servicing and repair facilities for the machinery. A typical
center sells agricultural equipment and current inputs, and provides
maintenance for STW pumps and engines. Some also provide crop spraying
services, and all have one other major activity, such as tractor or tiller
operation or shallow tubewell construction. Investment in individual centers
is kept small to avoid burdening new entrants with heavy debt repayments
and management problems. In line with this policy, which has proved success-
ful, financing would be limited to Rs 80,000 (US$10,000) per center for
purchase of machinery and equipment, and for working capital.  The 250 centers
so far established in the State have found a strong demand for their services,
and are proving commercially viable.  The proposed 200 centers would sell in-
puts, provide custom services and some technical assistance to farmers in the
project area, and would support the main project investment by improving STW
maintenance facilities.
Workshop Equipment
4.10      Major pump and engine repairs for DTWs and RLIs are satisfactorily
done in government workshops in the larger towns, but facilities for lesser
breakdowns, which have caused delays in the past, need improvement. The
project would provide equipment for 6 district workshops, and vehicles and
equipment for 18 mobile workshops to ensure improved maintenance and speedy
repairs for existing and new irrigation facilities.
State Water Board
4.11      Considerable water resource data have been collected in the State
and they show that water use, particularly groundwater, has nowhere reached
resource potential. However, minor irrigation is developing rapidly, and
it is important that SWB collects more data to ensure sound water manage-
ment. The project would provide SWB with equipment for groundwater explora-



- 13 -
tion and with technical assistance for long range water exploration and
planning (Annex 2) and would help SWB conduct irrigation equipment trials.
It would also include some overseas scholarships for SWB staff.
Agricultural Extension
4.12      To improve water utilization, the agricultural extension services
in the project area would be reorganized in a similar manner to those in
the Chambal and Rajasthan Canal Command Area Development Projects (Reports
No. 430-IN and 447 IND), that have been operating successfully for the
past year. The project would help finance additional extension workers,
transport, equipment, staff training, materials for field demonstrations
and similar costs. Assurances were obtained that the plan, satisfactory to
IDA, would be completed by December 31, 1975.
Future Prjct Preparation
4.13      GOWB is considering a number of proposals to complement this
project and to intensify development of priority areas.  Possibilities
under review include feeder roads, markets, agricultural research, extension
and training, seed production, horticulture, and a rural works program. Pro-
posals in the form of a follow-up to this project would be prepared by a
senior officer to be appointed full time for this work. Ile would be provided
with adequate staff and would call on technical assistance provided by this
project. Assurances were obtained that by December 31, 1975, GOWB would
appoint suitable staff and draw up a work program acceptable to IDA.
Water Availability
_~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
4.14      Available groundwater recharge in ths 11,000 km  priority develop-
ment area has been assessed at 4,300 million m per year, conservatively
based on recharge from 25% of precipitation and ignoring all other recharge
sources. To date there are 920 DTWs and 19,000 STWs in these areas. W4ith
a further 18,000 STWs and 300 DTWs, estimated extraction would be about one
third the calculated recharge. Completion of 690 RLIs under the project would
increase surface water pumping by 320 million m a year. Available records
show that there is ample surface water for this.
Electricity and Diesel Supplies
4.15      Power shortages, serious up to mid 1974, have now been alleviated
and generating capacity is being increased. Thus, with projected agricultu-
ral use at less than 5% of power demand, and because minor irrigation has
priority for supplies, there should be no problem in meeting project needs.
Transmission coverage is also satisfactory. However, funds available to the
State Electricity Board from the Rural Electrification Corporation would
meet only about 30% of the cost of connecting wells to the transmission sys-
tem. To ensure prompt energization of wells, the project would finance the
balance. In areas where Corporation funds are not available, connection



- 14 -
costs up to Rs 5,500 per STW and Rs 25,000 per DTW, would form part of the
loan to final borrowers for tubewells, but the Electricity Board would repay
capital and interest on the loan for connection charges in excess of the
non returnable deposit -- Rs 600 per STW and Rs 3,500 per DTW -- payable
by applicants for power. To ensure adequate technical and financial criteria
for this project component, GOWB agreed to make arrangements, satisfactory
to IDA by December 31, 1975 for appraising schemes for energizing project
tubewells. Financial losses, common with rural electrification schemes in
India, endanger essential investment programs of electricity boards. To avoid
this problem, GOWB agreed to provide its Electricity Board, each year, with
funds equal to the amount by which the operating cost of rural electrification
schemes in the project area exceeds revenue, to the extent that such funds are
needed to meet the Board's targeted rate of return. With project finance for
connections, the West Bengal Electricity Board would be able to provide elec-
tricity for all DTWs and 75% of all STWs. The remaining STWs and most RLIs
would be diesel powered. GOWB would continue to ensure adequate supplies in
the event of shortages by giving agricultural users overall priority for
diesel fuel allocations. Assurances covering prompt provision of electrical
connections and adequate diesel supplies to borrowers were obtained at
negotiations.
C. PhasinR and Construction Schedule
4.16      Project implementation is estimated to take four years.  STW con-
struction takes one to two months, but the program would be constrained
initially by the need for lending banks to gear up to the program. Estimated
completions are 3,000 STWs in the first year and 5,000, 7,000, and 3,000 in
the following three years. DTW construction would depend on the number of
cooperatives formed annually, and may be negligible in the first year but
would stretch over the four implementation years. The RLI construction
program would start in the second year and continue over the next three years.
Planning of markets would take at least a year, and subsequent construction
about two years. Agricultural extension activities would involve expenditure
throughout the project implementation period. Financing of agro-service
centers and the other project activities would be completed in the first 2
years.
D. Cost Estimates and Financing
4.17      Detailed cost estimates, based on October, 1974, prices, are in
Annex 6 and summarized below. Price contingency rates used for civil works
are 16% for 1975, 14% for 1976 and 12% for 1977-79. Corresponding rates used
for equipment are 12%.1, 10% and 8%. Price contingencies represent 34% of
basic project cost.



- 15 -
Foreign
Local Foreign Total Local Foreign Total Exchange
--------(Rs M)-------  --------(US$ M)------    %
A. Minor Irrigation
(1) Shallow tubewells        152.3    27.5   179.8   19.0    3.4    22.4    15
(2) Deep tubewells            41.4     4.2    45.6    5.2    0.5        5.7     9
(3) Riverlift Completion    98.7        -      98.7   12.3      -      12.3     -
Sub-total            292.4    31.7   324.1   36.5    3.9    40.4    10
B. Agro-Service Centers          13.8      2.2    16.0    1.7    0.3       2.0    15
C. Market Development             8.9       -       8.9    1.1      -       1.1      -
I. Technical Assistance
and Equipment
(1) Department of
Agriculture               36.7      1.9    38.6    4.6    0.2       4.8      5
(2) State Water Board          4.6     5.8    10.4    0.6    0.7        1.3    55
(3) Project Preparation
& Studies                  2.0      -       2.0    0.3      -       0.3     -
Sub-total             43.3      7.7    51.0    5.5    0.9        6.4    15
Sub-total Items
A to D            358.4    41.6   400.0   44.8    5.1    49.9    10
E. Physical Contingencies
--Market Development           0.5       -      0.5    0.1    -         0.1    -
F. Price Contingencies          118.1    17.4   135.5   14.8    2.2    17.0    13
Total Project Cost  477.0    59.0   536.0   59.7    7.3    67.0    11
4.18      The total cost of Rs 536 million (US$67 million) would be financed
from the following sources:



- 16 -
Ultimate /a                                  Total    IDA
Borrowers  Lending Banks    ARC/GOWB         Costs   Funds
Rs M  % of   Rs M    % of  Rs M   % of                Rs M  % of
Total           Total         Total   Rs M            Total
A. Minor Irrigation
Shallow tubewells   12.9          7  21.3    12  145.6/C   81    179.8   90.8   51
Deep tubewells
for farmers'                                           /b/
groups                0.7        2   1.5      5   28.  -   93       30.4    8.0   26
Deep tubewells                    99850
for MIC               1 .        9   1.4      9   1     d2.  82     15.2    7.6   50
Riverlifts             _       _ _        =         98.7-  100       98.7   54.0   55
Sub-total           14.9           24.2         285.0             324.1  160.4   49
B. Agro-Service                                            /c
Centers               0.8        5   3.0    19   12.2-    76        16.0    8.3   52
C. Market Development   0.4/e        5   1.7    19    6.8"A   76          8.9    4.6   52
D. Technical Assistance
and Equipment          -         -    -       -   51.0'    100      51.0   31.1   61
Sub-total
Items A to D       16.1            28.9         355.0             400.0  204.4   51
E. Contingencies          5.1             8.5         122.4             136.0   67.6   50
Total Project
Cost             21.2            37.4         477.4             536.0  272.0
Percent of Total
Project Cost              4               7            89               100     51
/a   Borrowers' rates according to Schedule A.
/b   Includes 50% subsidy of Rs 15.2 million by GOWB (eara 5.14).
Ic   ARC
/d   GOWB
Ie   To be provided by GOWB as equity contribution (paras 2.13 and 5.09).



- 17 -
4.19      The proposed IDA Credit of US$34 million (Rs 272 million) would
finance about 51% of total project cost. GOI would on-lend about US$21 mil-
lion to ARC for onlending to participating banks to finance STWs, DTWs, agro-
service centers and market development, and on-lend the balance to GOWB for
RLI completions, equipment, technical assistance, training, extension staff
and project preparation.
4.20      The IDA Credit would be on standard terms to GOI.  Onward lending
terms through ARC to the ultimate borrowers are set out in Schedule A. A
Subsidiary Loan Agreement, satisfactory to IDA, would be executed between
GOI and ARC, under which GOI would make the US$21 million of the IDA proceeds
available to ARC, repayable partly over 9 years at 6.75% and partly over
15 years at 7.25% (with 0.25% rebate for prompt repayment of principal and
interest). GOI would bear the foreign exchange risk. ARC would on-lend to
participating banks under agreements acceptable to IDA at a minimum interest
rate of 7.5% per annum. Participating banks would lend to ultimate borrowers
at a minimum of 10.5% per annum for minor irrigation and 11% for other
purposes. GOI would on-lend the balance of US$13 million to GOWB according
to established policies on terms prevailing at the time each advance was
made.
E. Procurement and Disbursement
Procurement
4.21      Execution of the shallow tubewell program would involve small invest-
ments of about Rs 8,000 (US$1,000) for a tubewell and pumpset, and operations
on many individual farms, with purchases spread over four years, so that it
would not be practical to bulk these for centralized procurement. An adequate
choice of pumpsets is available and prices are competitive, so that farmers
have a fair choice at reasonable prices. Procurement would be through normal
commercial channels, as in the case of all IDA projects in India involving
minor irrigation.
4.22      Similarly, equipment for agro-service centers would involve a
variety of items such as power-tillers, threshers, sprayers, hand-operated
drilling rigs, pumpsets, and workshop equipment. Each center's equipment
would be approved by the lending bank, and be based on-the specific needs
of its area of operations. Centralized procurement would not be practical.
The borrower would obtain his equipment through normal trade channels.
4.23      Construction of 300 DTWs would be spread over four years and cover
a wide area. It would depend on the number of irrigation cooperatives formed
and on the uncertain timing of their establishment. The annual program would
be small, scattered and uncertain, and would usually be compiled shortly before
the construction season and procurement would thus not be suitable for
international bidding. Drilling, procurement of equipment, and construction



- 18 -
of minor civil works (distribution systems and pump houses) would be subject
to local competitive bidding. There are numerous competent local drilling
contractors already prequalified by GOWB, and local equipment has proved its
merit on the existing 2,000 installations. The need to maintain standardized
spare parts with existing installations can only be met by local purchase.
Completion of 600 RLIs would consist of minor civil works similar to those
for DTWs spread over a wide area and over three years, and would be subject
to local competitive bidding.
4.24      About 80 motor vehicles of various types would be required for work
in rural areas. They would be purchased in small quantities over four years
and would be widely dispersed in rural areas. It would therefore, be ex-
tremely difficult to ensure adequate maintenance and spares for a small
number and a variety of imported vehicles. Scientific equipment for SWB,
and equipment for MIC and the Department of Agriculture would involve many
small contracts, sometimes from few suppliers of specialized items. It would
not, therefore, be practical to procure these items and motor vehicles under
international competitive bidding procedures.  GOWB's established local
procurement procedures, which are satisfactory, would be employed, and local
competitive bidding would be used wherever possible.
4.25      The development of each market would be the responsibility of the
RMC concerned.  The markets would differ in size, commodities handled and
timing of construction and would be designed according to individual
needs. The works involved, simple brick and concrete structures and minor
earthworks, are not suitable for international competitive bidding. Pro-
curement for each market would thus follow local competitive bidding pro-
cedures, while local building contractors would carry out construction. Each
RMC, with help and approval of S?IB and with help from GOWB's Public Works or
other suitable Department, would prepare plans and cost estimates adequate
-for appraisal by lending banks. The Department would provide subsequent
detailed engineering designs, tender preparation and evaluation, and con-
struction supervision to RMCs. Contract awards by RMCs would require SMB
approval.
4.26      For items described in paras 4.23-4.25 contracts will be awarded
on the basis of competitive bidding advertised locally and in accordance
with local procedures, which are satisfactory to IDA. Local purchase of
suitable foreign goods for any project component would not be precluded.
Assurances on these points and that procurement procedures outlined in
paras 4.21 - 4.25 would be followed, were obtained at negotiations.
Disbursement
4.27      Against appropriate documentation, IDA would reimburse:
(a) 55% of loans disbursed by lending banks for minor
irrigation, agro-service centers, and markets;



- 19 -
(b)  (i)  55% of civil works cost;
(ii) 100% of the cost of equipment imported directly
and 55% of the cost of locally purchased equipment;
(iii) 55% of the cost of improving extension services; and
(iv) 100% of technical assistance costs.
Documentation for the credit component (subpara (a) above) would not be
submitted to IDA for review, but would be retained by the lending institutions
and be available for inspection by IDA during project supervision. A
schedule of estimated quarterly disbursements is in Annex 7.
V. ORGANIZATION AND MANAGEMENT
A. Coordination
5.01      Some of the agencies involved in the project are either departments
of the Ministry of Agriculture or corporations br boards operating under it.
Consequently coordination would be through that Ministry. However, some
important project agencies are outside the Ministry, notably the lending
banks, cooperatives and the State Electricity Board. In February, 1974, GOWB
set up a 22-member State Level Coordinating Committee to keep under continuous
review the overall progress of institutional finance for agriculture and to
suggest measures for eliminating deficiencies and effecting improvement. Its
wide membership includes government departments, ARC, cooperatives and com-
mercial banks. The Committee has two sub-committees, one for long term loans
and ARC schemes, and the other for medium and short term credit. The sub-
committee for long term loans and ARC schemes is responsible for: (a) co-
ordinating the activities of those government departments and institutions
involved in long term credit; (b) reviewing the issue of new loans and
recovery of repayments; (c) formulating and initiating ARC schemes; and (d)
developing goodwill among those responsible for long term credit. Its
membership includes ARC's regional representative and the local representa-
tive of the Agriculture Credit Department of the Reserve Bank of India (RBI).
It must meet at least once a quarter.
5.02      Although newly-formed, this sub-committee has carried out its respon-
sibilities satisfactorily. It has suitable membership and terms of reference
to undertake responsibility for project coordination, provided a representative
each of the SMB, MIC and State Electricity Board was coopted as a member when
the project was under review. GOWB agreed that the sub-committee would be
responsible for project coordination. It would meet once per month during
the first project year, and at all meetings, representatives of SMB, MIC and
the State Electricity Board would be invited. It would also maintain liaison
with the sub-committee for medium and short term credit, to ensure that problems



- 20 -
of seasonal credit under the project were given due attention. In addition,
a district coordinating committee would be set up in each of the six project
districts, under the chairmanship of the district magistrate and with member-
ship of all project agencies. These committees -^uld each meet at least once
a month and send minutes to the State level subcommittee.
B. Main Participating Institutions
Agricultural Refinance Corporation
5.03      ARC, 1/ an associate institution of RBI, and the financing channel
for sixteen previous IDA projects, is competently managed and in satisfactory
financial condition. Its objectives are to provide medium and long-term
refinance for agricultural credit institutions, and at the same time to direct
and guide them towards a development oriented approach to their operations.
It refinances SCBs, LDBs and CBs for approved agricultural schemes. ARC's
role is important, not only as a source and channel for development funds,
but also for its influence on the lending policies and procedures of the
agencies it assists. It is a suitable institution for overall responsibility
for implementation of this project. As in previous projects, ARC has agreed
that its accounts would continue to be audited by auditors acceptable to IDA.
The Lending Banks
5.04      ARC would ensure that the lending banks follow policies, terms and
conditions agreed by IDA, and the criteria and procedures outlined in
Schedule A. Execution of a Subsidiary Loan Agreement between GOI and ARC,
acceptable to IDA. would be a condition of effectiveness. Agreements between
ARC and lending banks would be subject to IDA approval. Assurances on these
points were obtained during negotiations.
5.05      To ensure adequate and suitable project banking arrangements, ARC,
in consultation with GOWB and the lending institutions has prepared a bank-
ing plan. Agreement was reached at negotiations, that ARC in consultation
with GOWB would finalize the banking plan and take action to implement it.
The plan would include staffing details and training programs for lending
banks, and details of assistance to be provided to such banks by SWB,
extension services and other GOW13 agencies.
5.06      Direct GOWB loans with low interest rates, granted after only token
appraisal and followed by little attempt at recovery, have severely curtailed
the activities and effectiveness of credit institutions in the past. GOWB has
1/   For details of ARC's organization and operations see Annex 4 of
Agricultural Refinance Corporation Credit Project Appraisal Report
No. 562-IN.



- 21 -
now withdrawn such facilities.   To ensure reasonable business potential for
the lending banks and their observance of project credit and appraisal terms,
GOWB has agreed not to make any direct agricultural loans in any block of
the project area in which project lending for minor irrigation takes place.
5.07      Eight CBs, with 220 branches in the project area are expected to
participate in the project, and would provide both seasonal and investment
credit. They have well qualified agricultural specialists at their head
offices and between them 100 field staff in the project area.   Due to their
initial inexperience, recoveries are currently only 32% of demand, but they
are now making determined efforts to improve the position. In this they are
being assisted by: (a) the 1973 Agricultural Credit Operations Act, which
allows them to recover overdue payments through GOWB channels; and (b) by the
determination of GOWB to recover all overdue loans, including those of CBs as
well as its own. The CB network is adequate for project implementation.
5.08      LDB is the apex institution for long term cooperative credit,
operating through two branches and 21 affiliated primary societies, of which
9 are in the project area. Current improvement in LDB's low level of
operations have been discussed above (para 2.12). Its further rehabilitation
and strengthening would be an important part of the banking plan. Participa-
tion in the project by LDB and primary banks, and their refinancing levels
would be regulated by criteria agreed with ARC during negotiations, and de-
tailed in Schedule C. Because of its present limited coverage of the project
area LDB's participation in the project is unlikely to exceed 40% of the
loans made under the STW program.
Minor Irrigation Corporation
5.09      An outline of the proposed organization of MIC is shown in Annex 2,
(Chart 5588). At appraisal MIC had only a Managing Director (who was also
SWB chairman) with a small headquarters staff. To ensure that MIC can im-
plemnent its part of the project it would draw up: (a) a work program, and
based on it; (b) a staffing plan with adequate provision for financial as
well as technical management, and (c) a financing plan, which, in addition
to revenue, would show the amount and sources of capital and operating
subsidies. The three programs were discussed at negotiations and their
implementation would be a condition of disbursement from the relevant Credit
category.
5.10      There is a danger with both MIC and the Engineering Directorate
operating in the same area, that staff and equipment may be duplicated. To
avoid this, GOWB has agreed that the Engineering Directorate would 'carry out
work for MIC on an agency basis and vice versa, as necessary. MIC's main
revenue would be water charges. Lending banks could help collection materially
by giving seasonal loans for water charges and crediting them directly to the
tubewell authority. During negotiations assurances were obtained from ARC
that it would not refinance long term loans unless the CB financing a
specific DTW agreed to include water charges in its short term loans to farmers



- 22 -
in the specific command area. These charges would be credited to MIC's account.
In addition, MIC would have its own staff to collect water charges from farmers
not taking short term loans.
Engineering Directorate
5.11      The Engineering Directorate of the Department of Agriculture would
continue to operate and maintain most DTWs and RLIs during project implementa-
tion (para 2.11). The Directorate is headed by the Chief Engineer (Agricul-
ture) and in general has adequate and well qualified staff in its groundwater
unit responsible for DTWs, in its surface water unit responsible for RLIs
and in its mechanical unit responsible for DTW and RLI repairs. However,
management of the surface water unit has not been satisfactory and this is
reflected in slow completions of RLIs in the past (para 2.07) and their un-
satisfactory design (para 4.07). Therefore, to facilitate effective project
implementation, management of the surface water unit has been strengthened by
recent senior staff appointments. Under the project the Directorate would
be responsible for RLIs completions (para 4.07), improving maintenance
facilities (para 4.10) and would provide agency services for MIC as necessary
(para 5.10).
Farmers' Groups
5.12      GOWB and CBs are developing several farmers' group schemes for
minor irrigation. Their objective is to allow even the poorest farmers to
benefit from modern technology, and to reduce the expense and administrative
problems of a mass of small loan accounts. Two schemes under field trial
are multi-purpose farmers' service cooperatives, based on recommendations of
the National Commission for Agriculture Report of December, 1971, and
Anchal 1/ Panchayat Schemes. Anchal Panchayats are local government author-
ities which, in places where they have retained their traditional influence,
may be more suitable development agencies than cooperatives. CBs have
financed several on a trial basis, in which they have provided supervision
and training for scheme management. RBI and ARC are assessing whether
Anchal Panchayats are suitable organizations for ARC schemes. The two schemes
have received 50% capital cost subsidy from GOWB.
5.13      Two other approaches under consideration are specialized irri-
gation cooperatives and Comprehensive Area Development Projects (CADP).
Irrigation cooperatives are provided for in the Cooperatives Societies
Act (1973), and GOWB together with ARC has drawn up detailed proposals and
satisfactory by-laws for such societies. CADP, a concept developed by the
GOWB Planning Board, aims at complete resources development in selected areas,
with minor irrigation the chief component in most instances. Several 4,000 ha
pilot schemes, now under preparation, may be implemented in the project area
over the next four years. A CADP Corporation has been established to channel
1/   Anchal - group of villages.



- 23 -
institutional finance and management to each scheme. In the long term GOWB
expects that cooperatives would take over the schemes. The first scheme
proposals are being assessed by ARC.
5.14      These four types of groups and possibly other types would be
operating in the project area. The project would help to finance STWs and
DTWs for those groups which, after assessment by ARC, would qualify for
refinancing under ARC schemes. However, experience from other states, where
there are state-owned facilities, indicates that farmers are reluctant to
form groups to own and operate DTWs, mainly because of conservatism towards
unproven innovations and reluctance to assume a sizeable debt (jointly and
severally as a group of possibly 100), particularly when they can participate
in a state scheme where collection of water dues is frequently lax. To
overcome this resistance GOWB: (a) would select areas, preferably within
"priority areas" served by a project market, in which DTW construction would
be confined to farmers' groups during project implementation; and (b) proposes
to provide a subsidy of 50% of the capital cost of DTWs. Assurances were
obtained at negotiations that GOWB would, by December 31, 1975, select areas
where DTW construction would be confined to farmers' groups and would provide
the necessary finance for the subsidy.
5.15      The subsidy is a necessary inducement, firstly to allow reasonably
competent farmers' groups to supply water to members at a cost not too
much above that of similar state owned facilities; and secondly to ensure
that water charges are not so high that farmers have little incentive to
irrigate. On the first point, even with the 50% capital subsidy, water cost
for members of a group would be from three to ten times higher than the
present state water charges. On the second point, with the subsidy water
cost would represent between 26 and 40% of net incremental benefits from
irrigation (Annex 8, Appendix 1, Table 1). Since 802 of group members would
irrigate less than 0.5 ha, their capacity to pay for water would be low and
higher water costs would probably discourage farmers from supporting irriga-
tion groups.
Small Farmers
5.16      To allow poor farmers access to institutional credit IDA, GOI
and ARC, some years ago, introduced concessional lending terms for small
farmers, defined as farmers with a post development income of Rs 2,400 a
year. However, subsequent operations have shown that this definition
excluded many bona fide small farmers. IDA, GOI and ARC have therefore agreed
to change the definition to: "farmers whose predevelopment net income would
be Rs 2,000 a year or less, based on 1972 pricesT (see Schedule B).  With
this rationalization of the small farmer definition it is estimated that at
least half the investors in STWs would be small farmers and would qualify
for concessions with regard to initial deposit and repayment terms. In
addition, similar but somewhat smaller concessions would be available to
farmers with predevelopment net incomes between Rs 2,001 and 3,500 a year,
based on 1972 prices (Schedule A).



- 24 -
State Water Board
5.17      SWB's functions are:  (a) to assess surface water resources;
(b) to collect and interpret groundwater data; (c) to conduct groundwater
studies; (d) to suggest techniques for better utilization of surface and
groundwater and (e) to carry out studies to provide data to GOWB for
statutory control of water resources. SWB's proposed organization is
outlined in Annex 2, Chart 8587. A fulltime executive chairman has been
appointed and technical staff has been seconded from the Engineering
Directorate to SWB. Assurances on provision of suitable and adequate ad-
ministrative staff were given by GOWB at negotiations. These actions satis-
fy initial SWB staffing needs for project implementation, outlined in
Annex 2 (para 47). In the longer term technical staff would be strengthened
by secondment from the Central Groundwater Board and additional recruitment.
For surface water data, SWB would rely on the large surface water monitoring
unit of the Irrigation and Inland Waterways Directorate, but SWB would ar-
range adequate liaison with the Directorate and GOWB is considering possible
future transfer of the unit to SWB. GOWB has indicated that the services of
consultants specializing in aquifer recharge would be needed, and they are
not available locally. GOWB has agreed that they would either be seconded
from GOI or recruited internationally and appointed to SWB on terms and
conditions satisfactory to IDA.  Guidelines for terms of reference and experts'
qualifications are in Annex 2, Appendix 1.
5.18      Surface water legislation has been in force for many years and
groundwater legislation has been drafted by GOWB based on a model prepared
by GOI. While the latter legislation is not important in the short run,
because ample groundwater is still available in West Bengal, in the long run
it is essential to ensure the most efficient use of the State's groundwater
resources. Confirmation was obtained during negotiations that GOWB would
use its best endeavors to introduce this legislation as soon as practicable.
5.19      Appraisal of groundwater conditions has been satisfactory for
DTWs but has been lacking for STWs, and there have been failures. At present
no criteria are used for spacing minor irrigation facilities, but with more
intensive development these will be necessary. Calculations (Annex 2)
indicate that on clay soils STWs should normally be more than 350 m apart
and not closer than 250 m, and on loam the respective distances are 300 and
200 m.  For DTWs the respective figures are 1,100 m and 950 m on clay, and
850 and 750 m on loam. However, these are only average figures for the whole
project area, and distances would vary in different localities according to
available water resources, localized recharge conditions, and crop rotations.
For STWs the technical criteria must include the depth of water below ground
level and water level fluctuations before the suitability of the area for
STWs, equipped with centrifugal pumps, can be assessed. SWB would be the
appropriate authority to devise such criteria for each area, but before
adoption by GOWB they would be reviewed and approved by ARC. Assurances
were obtained at negotiations that detailed well spacing and technical
criteria would be worked out by SWB and embodied as a condition to be
observed by all lending banks when approving loans.



- 25 -
State Marketing Board and Regulated Market Committees
5.20      The 1972 Agriculture Produce Marketing (Regulation) Act gives wide
powers to GOWB to regulate markets, including the establishment of Regulated
Market Committees (RMCs) and a State Marketing Board (SMB), licensing of
traders, levying of market charges and imposition of penalties (para 2.13).
It would be a condition of disbursement from the relevant Credit category that
SMB had been established in a form acceptable to IDA.
5.21      RMC members would be appointed by GOWB, and include representatives
from GOWB, cooperatives, banks, local authorities, farmers and traders, and
would be assisted by a full-time secretary. RMCs would operate markets in
accordance with the 1972 Act. To cover the costs of market services, RMCs
would levy 1% on the value of the goods traded in the market area, and charge
shop and godown rentals and licence fees to intermediaries. Secretaries
would take the six month training course for market secretaries operated by
GOI at its Nagpur or Poona Training Institutes. Assurances on these points
were obtained during negotiations.
5.22      To measure the impact and benefit of the three project markets, and
others to be constructed by GOWB during the project implementation period,
GOWB has agreed to contract with a suitably qualified research institute,
consultant firm or University to carry out an appropriate study under terms
and conditions acceptable to IDA.
C. Terms and Conditions of Subloans
5.23      Borrowers' minimum contribution, interest rate and loan repayment
periods are detailed in Schedule A. All minor irrigation loans would be sub-
ject to technical criteria laid down by SWB, including spacing requirements,
and for DTWs to criteria listed in Schedule D. Security for all loans would
be in accordance with arrangements between ARC and the lending banks. For
market development RMCs would submit plans, trading projections and financial
details to SMB. after which the lending bank would carry out detailed appraisal.
ARC would refinance up to 90% of loans for minor irrigation and up to 80% of
loans for market development and agro-service centers. Lending banks would
follow the terms and conditions outlined in this paragraph and detailed
in Schedule A.
D. Audit and Accounts
5.24      The accounts of the commercial banks are audited annually by
independent auditors, approved by RBI. LDB's audit is done by the audit
section of the Cooperative Department in accordance with its standard
practice. The accounts of MIC would be audited annually by commercial



- 26 -
auditors. It was agreed that RMCs accounts would be audited by independent
auditors. These audit arrangements are satisfactory to IDA. Agreement was
reached during negotiations that the participating banks, MIC and RMCs would:
(a) maintain clearly identifiable accounts for project loans; and (b) send
their audited accounts, as well as statements of project lending of the
financing institutions certified by ARC, to IDA within four months after the
end of each fiscal year.
VI.  PRODUCTION, MARKETING, PRICES AND FARMERS' BENEFITS
Production
6.01      Under the project 125,000 ha would be irrigated, increasing pro-
duction by an estimated 145,000 tons of rice, 165,000 tons of wheat, and
130,000 tons of potatoes. All incremental wheat and potatoes, and almost 90%
of the extra rice would come from rabi cultivation. In addition improved
agricultural extension should yield 70,000 tons foodgrains from better
utilization of existing irrigation facilities. In line with West Bengal
production trends over the last five years, only marginally increased produc-
tion due to irrigation is assumed for the kharif; about 20,000 tons rice, and
5,000 tons jute. Estimated production of pulses would decrease by 10,000 tons
(Annex 1, Table 6). However, if successful kharif technology could be in-
troduced there should be potential additional rice production of between
50,000 and 75,000 tons in the kharif from the same land. Maximum production
has been assumed from the seventh year after commencement of project imple-
mentation, based on four years for project implementation and a further three
years to attain full productivity.
Markets and Prices
6.02      West Bengal consumes more grain than it produces (para 2.03), and
the incremental output from the project would all be consumed within the
State. Marketing channels for the grain crops are well established (Annex
4), though the project would explore ways of improving marketing facilities.
Most agricultural produce prices have risen steeply over the last two years
and in the case of rice and wheat they are well above government support
prices. Faragate prices used for financial benefit calculations are an
estimated average between 1974 support prices and 1973/74 West Bengal market
prices, and are close to the 1980 forecast world market prices (Annex 9).
Indian foodgrain supplies are likely to remain tight, particularly since
GOI intends to rebuild depleted buffer stocks. Consequently it is unlikely
prices would decline within the next five years below those used in this
report.



- 27 -
Farmers' Benefits (Annex 8)
6.03      An estimated 200,000 farmers would benefit directly from the pro-
ject. At least 75% of the beneficiaries would be small farmers. Ten farm
models have been prepared (Annex 8, Tables 4-6) which show that benefits from
investments in minor irrigation are attractive. They vary somewhat according
to type of power, water use and soil. Thus, because electricity is subsidized
and diesel fuel taxed, returns from electrically driven wells are higher than
from those with diesel engines. However, the greater flexibility of diesel
driven pumpsets, which can be transported to different well points or iused
for surface water pumping, offers some compensation to investors, and diesel
sets would in any case have to be used in areas without transmission lines.
Investors able to use all the water on their own land would have better returns
than those selling some water. Returns on different soil types are similar
except with DTWs on porous loam soils where heavy investment in water dis-
tribution systems is necessary, and returns are therefore lower than on clay
soils. In most models, investors' present net income would be almost doubled
after debt service, and increments would in no case be less than 60%.
6.04      Financial rates of return have been worked out for each of the 10
farm models (Annex 8, Tables 7 and 8) based on current crop and input prices.
Returns vary from 31% to over 50% for STWs and DTWs. For these estimates
the same fertilizer availability as in the past has been assumed. Fertilizer
availability is, however, by no means assured. If fertilizer application
were to be reduced by one third, estimated yields would decline by 20%.  To
cover such a decline, tests have been made for a 25% reduction in net in-
cremental income. These show rates of return that would still be satisfactory,
ranging from 20% to over 50%.
Water Charges
6.05      Water revenue has been disappointing (para 2.10) because of small
command areas per pump and because the system of charging, based on irrigated
area and crop type encourages: (a) false registration of irrigated areas;
(b) monopoly of water by present beneficiaries; and (c) wasteful water use,
but at the same time discourages irrigation in the kharif season. A pump
rental charge to cover a significant portion of fixed costs supplemented by
a charge for water actually supplied, would be feasible, would encourage
enlargement of command area (thereby lowering rental charges per beneficiary)
and would discourage wasteful water use.
6.06      GOWB has started a command areas review and is establishing a work-
ing party of all concerned departments, to devise a water charges policy.
Assurances were received at negotiations that GOWB would: (a) by December 31,
1975, institute a program for collecting water charges that as a minimum would
recover full operating and maintenance costs initially, to be increased to
recover a progressively larger portion of capital costs; and (b) promptly
commence field studies, on terms satisfactory to IDA, to provide the necessary
information to adjust charges. Guidelines for revising water rates are shown
in Annex 8, Appendix 1.



- 28 -
6.07      Appendix 1, Table 1 of Annex 8 shows the high sensitivity of charges
to command area size, and the proportion of incremental income required to
meet different water charges, based on operating costs and various levels of
debt service. GOWB's review would include a detailed study of existing command
areas and cropping patterns. There may have to be higher charges for pumps
on clay soils (where returns are higher and water application is easier) than
on loam soils, and for large farmers whose ability to pay exceeds that of
small farmers. Since existing consumption levels of small farmers are low,
a large portion of incremental income would be used to augment their basic
subsistence, leaving little for paying water fees.
VII. BENEFITS AND JUSTIFICATION
7.01      The main benefit to the Indian economy would be the annual incre-
mental production of about 310,000 tons foodgrain per year, worth Rs 400
million (US$50 million) at 1980 projected grain prices, coming mainly from
land at present fallow during rabi. This would help GOI and GOWB achieve
their target of food self-sufficiency, and represent a sizeable saving of
foreign exchange for food imports. Reliable irrigation in the most favorable
cropping season would assure a high level of crop production every year, and
would decrease year-to-year grain supply fluctuations.
7.02      The estimated economic rates of return (Annex 9) are based on the
projected 1980 prices (expressed in 1974 constant prices), current investment
costs, adjusted for taxes and subsidies, and a seasonally variable imputed
cost for labor of Rs 5 per man-day during the peak labor demand periods and
Rs 2 per man-day for the rest of the year. The rates of return range from
33% for a DTW on loam soil to over 50% for most of the other types of invest-
ments. The sensitivity of the rates of return to each of the major parameters
used in estimating them has been tested and shows the following pattern: a
15% reduction in gross product value (resulting from either lower prices or
yields or both) would lower the returns from the various investments to the
range of 21% to 51%; a 15% increase in recurrent costs would lower the returns
to the range of 25% to over 50%; finally, a yield decline due to a reduction
in fertilizer use by one-third would lower the returns to the range of 23%
to over 50%.
7.03      The project's impact on employment would be particularly important
to West Bengal, which is plagued by overpopulation and unemployment. The
incremental farm labor requirement of the project would be about 25 million
man-days a year (equivalent to 100,000 man-years at 250 labor days per man-
year). Most of this labor would be needed during the rabi (the months of
labor surplus in rural areas), since without irrigation most land remains
fallow.



- 29 -
7.04      Since the project would involve mainly small farmers, its benefits
would be widely distributed. STWs would be mainly owned by farmers with
holdings around 2 ha, but because of land fragmentation these farmers would
need to sell water to neighbors to supply water to their own fragments. In
addition, it is expected that many wells would be operated by farmer groups,
a type of operation gaining acceptance in West Bengal. The main beneficia-
ries from DTWs and RLIs would be the poorest farmers (including sharecroppers),
since 80% of farmers in existing schemes irrigate less than 0.5 ha each.
7.05      A number of important benefits are expected from markets develop-
ment, principally from improved facilities to handle the expected larger
volume of produce. Physical limitations in existing markets result in high
transport costs because of long waiting times (especially for trucks), and
in produce losses fromAinsufficient and poor storage facilities. On the basis
of field data and other studies and reports, the estimated economic rate
of return from markets would be about 12%. One of the main objectives of
this component would be to ascertain what the effect of benefits would be
on farmgate produce prices.
7.06      Other benefits, which have not been quantified in the rate of return
calculations include:
(a) improving agricultural extension;
(b) strengthening the credit system in the project area;
(c) strengthening greatly water resources management; and
(d) establishing, through irrigation cooperatives,
an effective organization for large scale minor
irrigation development.
Irrigation cooperatives are considered particularly important, firstly
because they could lay the foundation for efficient operation and optimum
utilization of DTWs, and secondly because they would encourage the concept
of service cooperatives for crop production in West Bengal. Such cooperatives
can obtain credit, inputs and extension advice. Since it is impossible to
provide these services satisfactorily to the eight million farm operators
(including sharecroppers) individually, cooperative grouping is a prerequisite
to widespread, intensive, and relatively efficient rural development. As has
been proved in other countries, an irrigation pump provides a good economic
focus for cooperation among small farmers. The trial, if successful, would
show that irrigation cooperatives could become important catalysts in the
development of rural West Bengal.
7.07      Measurement of the financial and economic benefits obtained from
the project during and after implementation is important, particularly to
improve the formulation of future projects. ARC is responsible for this
measurement in on-going IDA projects, and methods of improving current



- 30 -
procedures have been agreed between ARC and IDA. Assurances were obtained
that ARC would monitor and evaluate this project's financial and economic
benefits. Particular attention would be given to the DTW component.
VIII. RECOMMENDATIONS
8.01      During negotiations agreement was reached on the following principal
points:
(a)  participation of LDB in the project and their refinancing
level would be determined by criteria detailed in
Schedule 'C' (para 5.08);
(b)  SWB would work out detailed iwell spacing and technical
criteria for minor irrigation investments (para 5.19);
(c)  lending banks would follow agreed lending policies and
procedures as detailed in Schedule A, technical and siting
criteria to be established by SWB, and additional criteria
for DTWs detailed in Schedule D (para 5.23); and
(d)  By December 31, 1975, GOWB would levy water charges to
recover operating and maintenance costs, which would be
increased to recover a progressively larger portion of
capital costs (para 6.06).
8.02      It would be a condition of Credit effectiveness that a Subsidiary
Loan Agreement between GOI and ARC, satisfactory to IDA, had been executed
(para 5.04).
8.03      It would be a condition of disbursement against the relevant Credit
component that:
(a)  specifications for RLIs had been agreed between GOWB
and IDA (para 4.07);
(b)  a staffing and financing plan for MIC, satisfactory to
IDA, had been implemented (para 5.09); and
(c)  SMB had been established in a form satisfactory to IDA
(para 5.20).
8.04      The project is suitable for an IDA Credit of US$34 million, on
standard IDA terms.



SCHEDULE A
Page     1
INDIA
WEST BENGAL AGRICULTURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Project Lending Terms and Conditions
The following lending terms and conditions would be used in imple-
menting the project, and would not be altered without prior IDA agreement.
1.        GOI to ARC
(a) For ARC refinancing up to 9 years:
(i) annual interest rate of 6.75% minimum, less 0.25% for prompt
payment;
(ii) repayment at the end of 9 years;
(b) For ARC refinancing for more than 9 and up to 15 years:
.i) annual interest rate of 7.25% minimum, less 0.25% for
prompt payment;
(ii) repayment at the end of 15 years;
(c) GOI to carry exchange risk.
2.        ARC to Lending Banks
(a) Annual interest rate of 7.5% minimum;
(b) Installment repayments to coincide approximately with collections
from ultimate borrowers;
(c) Refinancing by way of loans or purchase of debentures up to 90%
of individual loans.
3.        Lending Banks to Ultimate Borrowers
(i) Minor Irrigation
(a) Annual interest rate to be 10.5% minimum;
(b) A once and for all evaluation fee of 0.5% of cost of project
investments may be charged;



SCHEDULE A
Page     2
(c) MIC's contribution, in the form of equity capital, not to be
less than 10% of investment costs financed under the project;
(d) Farmers' contribution (including obligatory purchase of LDB
shares, own labor and other contributions in cash or kind)
for investments in shallow tubewells and pumpsets:
(i)  for lending to small farmers as defined1/, a minimum
of 5% of investment cost of pumpsets and tubevells;
(ii) for lending to farmers with net income between Rs 2,001
and Rs 3,500 per annum2/, a minimum of 10% of the
investment cost of pumpsets and tubewells;
(iii) for lending to all other farmers, a minimum of 10%
of the investment cost of pumpsets and 15% for
tubewells;
(e) Repayment periods to be based on ultimate borrower's repayment
capacity, but not to exceed:
(i) for the shallow tubewell program:
(1) for lending to small farmers as defined 1/, 7 years
on loans for pumpsets, whether financed as separate
loans or included in tubewell loans, and 15 years
for tubewells;
(2)  for lending to all other farmers, 7 years on
loans for pumpsets whether financed as separate
loans or included in tubewell loans; and 9 years
for loans for tubewells;
(ii) for the deep tubewell program:
(1) 10 years for loans for MIC;
(2) 15 years for loans to farmers' groups;
(iii) Grace periods not exceeding 23 months from the date
of the first instalment of the loans, taking into
account a full kharif and rabi crop, may be granted
at the discretion of ARC, provided, that the repayment
period of such loans is not exceeded;
1/   As defined in Schedule B.
2/   Net income determined as detailed in Schedule B.



SCHEDULE A
Page     3
(f) Technical standards, in particular spacing criteria, as laid
down by SWB to be observed;
(g) If his own cultivated area is significantly smaller than that
which can be adequately irrigated by the shallow tubewell
concerned, the borrower would undertake to sell water surplus
to his needs or to hire out his pumpset, or to participate
with other farmers in the joint investment and operation of the
shallow tubewell.
(ii) Other Lending
(a) Annual interest rate 11% minimum;
(b) A once and for all evaluation fee of 0.5% of the cost
of investment may be charged;
(c) RMC's contribution to investment for market development,
not to be less than 5% of investment cost;
(d) Borrower's contribution for equipment for agro-service
centers not to be less than 5% of the cost;
(e) Repayment periods to be based on ultimate borrower's
repayment capacity, but not to exceed:
(i) 7 years for loans to agro-service centers;
(ii)  14 years for loans to RICs with a grace period of
2 years.
(iii) General
(a) Lending banks would maintain separate accounts for
small farmers; and
(b) Security to be in accordance with arrangements between
ARC and lending banks.



SCHEDULE B
INDIA
WEST BENGAL AGRICULTURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Small Farmer Definition
1.        "Small Farmer" shall mean any farmer cultivating land providing a
predevelopment net return to family resources to such farmer and his family
not exceeding Rs 2,000, based on 1972 prices.
2.        For the purpose of determining said net return the following criteria
shall apply:
(a) "land" shall include all land actually cultivated by
the farmer notwithstanding the fact that ownership
of such land may vest in one or more persons;
(b) "net return to family resources" shall mean gross family
income from the land, less costs actually incurred
(including cash value of the farmer's own input, includ-
ing seed, fertilizer, hired human labor, hired bullock
labor, feed consumed by family bullocks, irrigation
charges, land revenue, interest on crop loan, and rent
on leased land); and
(c) the amounts for the current year shall be arrived at by
applying the current price index of the All India Agricultural
Laborers Index for the State of West Bengal to the amount set
forth in paragraph 1 above.



SCHEDULE C
Page     1
INDIA
WEST BENGAL AGRICULTURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Criteria to Determine Participation of Land Development Bank
Branches or Primary Land Development Banks in the Proiect
1.        ARC shall ensure that all refinancing made available in any fiscal
year to LDB for lending through a branch of LDB or to a Primary Bank, as the
case may be, be proportionate to the percentage of recovery of principal
and interest on loans fallen due at the end of the preceding fiscal year
of such branch of LDB or Primary Bank. The amount of refinancing so to be
made available to LDB for lending through a branch of LDB or to a Primary
Bank, shall be determined by applying to the aggregate of all debentures
issued in the previous fiscal year of LDB for refinancing lending made
through such branch, or issued by such Primary Bank, as the case may be, the
percentage set forth in column (2) of the table below corresponding to the
percentage of overdues of principal and interest on loans fallen due at the
end of such fiscal year for such branch or Primary Bank set forth in column
(1) below:,.
(1)                                  (2)
Maximum Debentures
Overdues                         to be issued
(% of demand)                   (% of previous year issue)
0-25                             unrestricted
26-35                                  80
36-45                                  70
46-55                                  60
56-60                                  50
61-100                                NIL
In calculating the overdues for the purpose of this Schedule, ARC may take
into account, until June 30, 1977 or such other date as the Association shall
agree, redeemable equity paid in by West Bengal to reduce such overdues,
provided that the amount of such equity shall not exceed 10% of demand.
2.        ARC shall withhold any further financing of LDB for lending
through a branch of LDB or to a Primary Bank, if, two years (or such
other time as the Association may agree) after ARC has sanctioned the first
Scheme to be financed under the Project through such branch or Primary Bank,
LDB fails to recover 65% of demand on loans made through such branch, or such
Primary Bank fails to recover 65% of demand, as the case may be, and, in the



SCHEDULE C
Page     2
event that LDB, through such branch, or such Primary Bank, has achieved a
recovery rate of 65% or more of demand, but less than 75%, West Bengal fails
to pay in equity of LDB or Primary Bank in an amount such that the recovery
rate is brought to 75% of demand or more, provided, however, that the amount
of such paid-in equity shall not exceed 10% of demand.
3.        For the purpose of this Schedule, the term demand shall mean
the aggregate of principal and interst on loans fallen due.



SCHEDULE D
INDIA
WEST BENGAL AGRICULTURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Deep Tubewell Site Selection Criteria
1.        DTW should not be located in areas which, according to criteria
laid down by SWB, are more suitable for STWs.
2.        Most DTW should be located in areas of clay or clay loam soils;
in no case should they be located in areas where soils are so sandy that the
water cannot be efficiently distributed throughout the command area.
3.        Farmers within the proposed command area should be organized
into an acceptable irrigation group; at least 70% of the landowners should
qualify as small farmers as defined in Schedule B.
4.        The command area, for a 200 m3/hour capacity pump, should include
a minimum of 35 ha with final area depending upon soils and cropping pattern.
5.        Topography of the command area should be suitable for a distribution
system to deliver water efficiently to all landowners; the command area should
not be subject to prolonged seasonal flooding.
6.        At least 70% of the command area should be cultivated by farmers
participating in the irrigation group and participation of at least 80%
of potential users should be assured before the well is sited.
7.        The well site should have adequate year-round access for operation
and maintenance and it should be located centrally within the command area
to facilitate water distribution.
8.        Electricity should be available to power the pump.
Note:     A detailed and accurate topographic survey is needed before a
decision can be made with regard to criteria No. 4, 5, 6 and 7
listed above.



ANNEX 1
Page 1
INDIA
WEST BENGAL AGRICULTURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Agriculture
I. WEST BENGAL
1.       2West Bengal, situated in northeast India, with a total area of
88,000 km , is bordered by the Bay of Bengal in the south, Sikkim and Bhutan
in the north, Assam and Bangladesh in the east and Nepal, Bihar and Orissa in
the west. At its narrowest only abouit 10 km separate Bihar from Bangladesh.
The greater part of the State consists of a flat or gently undulating alluvial
plain with elevations below 30 m. The western portion of the State consists
of uplands, part of the crystalline rock area extending from Bihar, and the
north consists of steep hilly country, part of the Himalayan zone. Alluvial
plains cover most of the State and can be divided into the non-saline alluvium
occupying the center and the east and the saline alluvium bordering the coast,
in the south. The Ganges river separates the north from the south. Other
important rivers are the Hooghly, branching off from the Ganges and the
Damodar in the south, and the Tista in the north. Rainfall over the main
part of the state averages between 1,200 mm - 1,500 mm per year but rises to
2,000 mm near the Bay of Bengal and to 4,000 mm in the northern hills.
2.        With a population of 44 million, West Bengal ranks fourth in
population among Indian States but only twelfth in area. The population
density of about 500 per km2 is surpassed only by Kerala. With a rural
population of about 33 million and a cultivable area of 55,700 km2 (about
63% of the total land area), rural population density is close to 600
inhabitants per km2, or 0.17 ha of cultivable land per inhabitant. About
1.9 million ha are irrigated (about 34% of the sown area of 5.6 million ha);
mostly tank and canal irrigation, but latterly an increasing area has come
under tubewell and riverlift pump irrigation which gives a more reliable year
round water supply. The total cropped area is reported as 7.1 million ha,
giving a cropping intensity of about 127%.
3.        Agricultural production in West Bengal compares favorably with
other States. 1971/72 grain production, amounting to 8 million tons, ranked
fourth in India. The average rice yield of 1.3 tons/ha ranks fifth and the
wheat yield of 2.4 tons/ha ranks third. Rice is the most important crop. It
occupies over 70% of the total cropped area and accounts for 80-85% of total
grain production. Wheat is a new crop and, from negligible production in
1967/68, has increased to close on 1 million tons a year -- about 12.5% of
the grain crop. In addition to foodgrains, West Bengal produces 55-60% of the
entire Indian jute crop and about 25% of tea production. Jute products and
tea account for about half the value of Indian agricultural exports.
Bengali farmers also grow considerable quantities of horticultural crops,



ANNEX 1
Page 2
including potatoes, chillies, a wide variety of kharif and rabi vegetables,
mango, lichi and excellent citrus. Finally, parts of Malda and Murshidabad
Districts are important silk producing areas.
4.        Despite high grain production (by all India standards) West
Bengal must import food: about 0.4-0.5 million tons of rice and between
1.1 and 1.3 million tons of wheat annually. During the 20 year period
1951-1971, foodgrain production doubled from four million tons to eight mil-
lion tons, an overall growth rate of about 3.5%. After a period of slow
growth, production accelerated from 1967/68 onwards, with an increase of
about 2.2 million tons grain in the last five years -- an annual growth rate
of close to 7%. The production increase is mainly accounted for by rabi
wheat and boro rice but since 1972, rabi grain production has declined
somewhat due to drought and power, fertilizer and wheat seed shortages.
Production of aman which accounts for over four million tons of grain, and
that of pulses has remained static.
5.        The increase in rabi grain production is due to a combination of
factors. Firstly, reasonable political stability following a period of
turmoil which saw five State legislature elections in three years. Next,
the crash program of installing privately-owned shallow tubewells and
state-owned deep tubewells, culminating in the 1972 drought relief program.
Thirdly, the introduction and rapid spread of HYV rice and wheat varieties.
In the boro crop, HYV rice varieties caused yield increases from about 20
quintals per hectare (qu/ha) to 33 qu/ha clean rice and in wheat from
10 qu/ha to 23 qu/ha. The introduction of the Kalyansona and Sonalika
wheat varieties had a dramatic effect. They were capable of high yields
in W. Bengal -- most of which had previously been considered too warm for
wheat -- even if sown in December following the all important aman rice
crop. Wheat, sown in December is harvested in March-April and proved
suitable for areas with canal and tank irrigation which can supply water
only till March. In addition much wheat is grown without irrigation, on
residual moisture, albeit, at low yield levels.
6.        Fertilizer consumption increased steeply.  Total nutrients
consumption increased from 34,000 tons per year in 1967/68 to 95,000 tons
per year in 1971/72 -- a growth rate of just short of 20% per year, compared
with the 13% growth rate for India. Fertilizer use per ha is 14 kg, still
slightly lower than the all India average of 16 kg but there is a growing
and, at present unsastisfied, demand by farmers for more. Fertilizer
consumption growth is constrained by the global shortage and the present
estimated demand is between 150,000 tons and 200,000 tons nutrients per
annum.
7.        The State technical services must be given much credit for the
expansion of minor irrigation and of HYV rabi grain crops. However,
insufficient attention has been given to irrigation water utilization,
particularly utilization of water from state owned facilities. Better
extension would put this right and investment in improved extension would
result in greater agricultural production than investment, at this time,
in a large number of new state owned irrigation facilities.



ANNEX 1
Page 3
8.        While the main development thrust is on irrigation and increased
production during the dry season, the raingrown aman crop remains the main
source of foodgrain and will continue to play a major role in the agricul-
tural economy of the State. As demonstrated in neighboring Bangladesh, the
introduction of suitable HYV (promising varieties are undergoing extensive
field trials) and improved drainage, could increase production considerably.
A rainfed rice production project in the project area would complement the
proposed irrigation project and may generate comparable grain production
increases.
II. THE PROJECT AREA
A. Natural Conditions
9.        The project area covers the greater part of West Dinajpur, Malda,
Murshidabad, Nadia, Burdwan and Hooghly districts all situated in the center
and east of the State. The area of about 26,000 km2 comprises most of
the non-saline alluvium and is particularly suitable for groundwater
development. Within the project area the State Government has selected
50 blocks 1/ covering about 11,200 km2 as priority areas where most of the
project work would be concentrated.
Climate
10.       Rainfall is reasonably high, about 1,200-1,400 mm per year over
most of the area, rising to 1,800 mm in W. Dinajpur in the north and to
about 1,600 mm in Hooghly in the south (Annex 2, Table 1). About 75%-80%
of the rain falls during the four months monsoon season between June and
October followed by four to five months dry weather (November-March) with
rainfall inadequate for crop production. Erratic scattered showers fall
between March and May, grow in frequency and intensity and merge into the
monsoons. Over a ten year period the minimum for March, April and May is
nil and the maximum is 100 mm, 300 mm and 300 mm respectively. Consequently,
jute and aus rice sowing which should take place as soon as rainfall is
reliable for crop growth, does not usually take place till mid-April and
often May and, without irrigation, only one crop a year is grown on most
land. There is considerable variation in length, timing and total rainfall
even of the main monsoon rains. Total rainfall in any one station may
vary from 800 mm per annum to over 3,000 mm. Usually in a ten year period,
there will be one very dry year with precipitation 50% below average, and
one dry year with rain 25% below average. Equally there will be two high
1/  A block is an administrative sub-division of a District.



ANNEX 1
Page 4
rainfall years when precipitation exceeds the average by 50%-100% and may
cause flooding. The amount of rain during June and October (normally the
beginning and end of the monsoons) varies from nil to 600 mm - but even
during July, August and September, the peak rainfall months (average 300-
500 mm), there may be prolonged dry periods with monthly rain less than
100 mm. Water requirement of paddy, the main crop during this time is
about 140 mm per month.
11.       Temperatures are high between March and September when mean
temperatures vary from 26°C-38°C. November to February are the cooler
winter months when mean temperatures are between 10°C-26°C. Extremes
range from 4C in winter to 46C in summer.  The warm rainy season is
climatically suited to most tropical crops while the cool season is
suitable for temperate crops including wheat, potatoes and temperate zone
vegetables. Paddy grows year round but in winter growth is retarded by
low temperatures.
12.       Sunshine hours vary sharply between the relatively cloudless dry
season when, despite shorter winter days, they average 8.5-9.5 hours a day
to the cloudy monsoon months when sunshine averages only 4.5-5.5 hours a
day. The small amount of sunshine reduces crop yield potential, particularly
crop response to fertilizers. High humidity, high temperatures and cloudy
conditions during the rainy season, favor plant pests and diseases from
which the cool season is relatively free.
13.       To sum up, provided irrigation water can be provided, the cool,
dry, cloudless rabi season offers near ideal conditions for high crop yields.
This has been amply corroborated by high average wheat and rice yields
(2.5 tons/ha and 3.3 tons/ha respectively) achieved by farmers in
recent years. By contrast, it is difficult to achieve high yields from
rainy season crops. However, there are possibilities of developing
technology such as variety tailoring to adapt paddy to different hydrologic
conditions, introduction of pest and disease resistant crop strains and
better water control through irrigation and drainage, which should help
farmers also obtain high yields for rainfed crops. Since these crops
account for 80% of the sown land in the project area, even modest yield
improvements would have a major impact on production.
Soils
14.       The project area lies almost entirely on two types of alluvium.
Out of the total 26,000 km2, about 11,000 km2 are classified as Vindhya
alluvium, about 14,500 km2 as Gangetic alluvium and about 500 km2 as red soils;
however, priority areas are entirely on the two alluvia. Vindhya soils have
a reasonable base status and are neutral (pH16.5-7.2). Crops respond well to
nitrogen fertilizers but less markedly to phosphates. Some of the lighter
associations are mildly acidic (pH 5.8-6.5) and give lower fertilizer
response. Gangetic soils are rich in calcium and calcium carbonate nodules
occur in the top two to three feet. Soil reaction varies around neutral
from mildly acid to mildly alkaline (pH6.5-8) and crops give good response
to N, P and K fertilizers. There do not appear to be soil toxicity or



ANNEX 1
Page 5
serious alkalinity problems. Only in the south of the project area (in
Hooghly District) are there some soils with fairly high sodium content. So
far, this has caused no crop production problems, but the soil chemist
advises that particular attention to drainage is needed for these soils, to
prevent salinity spreading into the top soil. The affected area is not
among priority areas.
15.       Soil texture is more important than nutrients in determining
types of crops grown. Texture of both soil groups (Vindhya and Gangetic)
varies from sandy loam to heavy clay. Clay soils are most often used for
rice and possibly capsularis jute production, whereas the lighter soils are
used for a wide range of crops including rice, wheat, both jute varieties,
pulses and oilseeds and on higher ground a large range of annual and
perennial horticultural crops.  Thesa soils are permeable and because of
high irrigation water losses by seepage, the main irrigated crops are those
with reasonably small water requirements, notably wheat, potatoes and
winter vegetables.  The clay soils by contrast are almost impermeable and
therefore suitable for paddy, which has high crop water requirements. The
lighter soils occupy about 55%-60% of the project area (about 14,000-
15,000 km2) and clay soils 40%-45%  (about 11,000-12,000 kn2).
Hydrologic Effects on Agriculture
16.       The hydrology of the project area is determined by rainfall,
topography, soil type and river flooding. Due to heavy monsoon rains and
the flat terrain much of the land becomes saturated, particularly clay
soils which generally occur in lower lying land. These are liable to
15-100 cm deep flooding. In addition to this type of flooding, caused by
impeded drainage, periodic river overflows are estimated to cover about 7%
of project districts, varying from about 13% in Hooghly and Malda to 2%-3%
in Burdwan and W. Dinajpur. Flood protection work is in progress in several
districts notably Malda. Unprotected areas have been excluded from the
priority areas.
Land Capability and Crop Rotations
17.       Land capability in the project area is determined by the inter-
action of natural conditions, modified to some extent by economics and is
reflected by present land use. Since rice and jute are well suited to
the warm, moist conditions of the monsoon season, they occupy about 60%
of the total sown area. However, hydrologic conditions influence the types
of rice and jute. Transplanted amian rice, which requires standing water,
occupies the lower lying and heavier soils, while broadcast aus rice is
common on permeable soils. However, due to heavy rains and flat topography,
the water table may reach the surface even in light soils, making them
suitable for transplanted aman, and this crop is the most important one
in the project area comprising 40% of the sown area.  With jute, capsularis
varieties can withstand flooding, but olitorius types need reasonable drain-
age.
18.       Soil type can affect type of crop and cropping intensity.  Lighter
soils can be cultivated early in the season in time for aus and jute sowing



ANNEX 1
Page 6
in April-May, as early as the rains permit. Both crops are harvested in
August-September and are frequently followed by pulses or oilseeds, which
grow partly with residual moisture after the end of the monsoon. More
rarely, aus and jute are followed by transplanted aman. By contrast, the
heavier clay soils cannot be cultivated by animal draft until rain has
softened the ground and where there is no irrigation, aman is often the
only crop.
19.       Turning to the effect of land capability on irrigated land,
horticultural crops require light soils and good drainage but the amount
grown depends primarily on market considerations. The choice between rice
and wheat may be determined by soil or hydrologic conditions. Low lying
land may not dry out in time for wheat sowing which should take place
before mid December. Wheat sown later runs into hot weather too soon and
yields poorly. In addition, the heaviest clays are not suitable for wheat.
By contrast, rice water requirements are too high to allow dry weather
production on permeable soils. However, there is a broad range of soils
on which either rice or wheat can be grown under irrigation during the
dry season and farmers' choice rests on economics.
20.       In the project area, raingrown aman and irrigated dry season
rice predominate in Hooghly, Burdwan and W. Dinajpur. Raingrown aus, jute
and pulses and irrigated wheat predominate in Nadia and Murshidabad, and
in Malda, both types of land use are equally important.
21.       The following are main crop rotations of the project area:
Without Irrigation
(1) Aman
(2) Pulses- aman
(3) Aus/jute
(4) Aus/jute - pulses/oilseeds/aman
With Irrigation
(5) Boro - aman
(6) Wheat/vegetables - aman/pulses
(7) Wheat/vegetables - aus/jute
(8) Wheat/vegetables - aus/jute - aman/pulses
Of these, all of (1) to (4) are common except aus/jute - aman. The average
cropping intensity is 120%-130%; for instance if there is 1 ha aus or jute,
it tends to be followed by 0.3 ha pulses/oilseeds. (1), (2) and (5) are
clay soil rotations and the others are found on loams. All the irrigated
rotations are found, but apart from (5) which is common and has been taken



ANNEX 1
Page 7
for estimating project benefits few are found at maximum intensity. They
tend to range from 150%-200% cropping intensity. Rotation (8) with 190%
cropping intensity has been used to estimate farmers' benefits from the
project (see Annex 8, Table 1).
B. Crop Production
22.       The project area contains about 2.2 million ha of cultivable land,
about 41% of the State total, and accounts for about 41% of the State food-
grain production and 65% of its jute production. Rice, wheat pulses and
jute are the most important crops but potatoes and other vegetables are
becoming important. About 800,000 ha are irrigated -- about 550,000 ha by
tanks and canals, which may not supply water after March, and 250,000 ha
from tubewells and riverlifts which provide year round irrigation. Cropping
intensity is about 140% and varies from 150% in Nadia and Murshidabad where
lighter soils predominate to 120% in Burdwan (where heavy and seasonally
flooded soils predominate). Crop production growth and 1971/72 land
utilization of the cultivable area are shown in Tables 2 and 3, which illus-
trate the rapid growth of boro and wheat production in the project area
in common with the rest of the State and the lack of growth of other
products. The following are notes on the most important crops:
(a) Boro: transplanted December-January and harvested in May
has expanded rapidly with expansion of minor irrigation
and introduction of HYV. Between 1967/68 and 1971/72 area
sown increased from 55,000 ha to 300,000 ha, production from
100,000 to 700,000 tons (clean rice) and yields rose from
1.9 tons/ha to close on 3 tons/ha. High average yields
due to perfect growing conditions indicate that practically
the whole boro area is under HYV. New varieties promise
further yield increases. Boro expansion would be the main
effect of the project in clay soil areas.
(b) Aus: is broadcast sown in April, May and harvested in August-
September. Mainly local quick maturing varieties are used.
This crop suffers from severe pest and disease attack,
cloudy growing weather and a wet harvesting season. In
some districts it is grown as a transplanted crop when
irrigation water is not available for boro - or as in the
northern part of the project area when January weather is
too cold for boro. The sown area has remained constant at
about 800,000 ha, but production has increased from 600,000
tons to between 700,000 and 800,000 tons rice depending on
weather conditions mainly due to increase of the propor-
tion under transplanted HYV.  It should be possible to
follow wheat with HYV aus but there is little evidence that
this has happened to date and cannot therefore be expected
under the project in the near future. New HYV better adapted
to the season are under trial but any large scale expansion



ANNEX 1
Page 8
believed possible some time in the future, may have to be
accompanied by provision of mechanical grain drying.
(c) Aman: is transplanted in July-August and harvested in
November-December. Aman remains the most important grain
crop (3.9 million ha producing 4.6 million tons rice) but
its proportion of total grain production has decreased from
70% in 1967/68 to 50%. Irrigation has had little impact
on production to date, though local farmers and officials
report that in the 1972 drought (a 1 year in 10 drought)
irrigation gave considerable benefits. There is practically
no HYV aman grown to date, though promising varieties are
under trial. An indication of possible improvement comes
from neighbouring Bangladesh, where 800,000 ha are reported
under HYV aman. Analysis of available crop records show
yields fluctuating, 10% either side of average, with
lowest production caused by flooding rather than drought.
In view of this, and taking into account production trends
to date and uncertainty of future spread of HYV, the
project is expected to have only a small effect on aman.
Research, extension, flood protection and drainage may need
to be improved to increase aman production.
(d) Wheat: Rapid production and yield increase from 80,000 ha
producing 70,000 tons (0.9 tons/ha) to 400,000 ha producing
900,000 tons (2.3 tons/ha) 1971/72 has already been described
(para 5). Since then, production has dropped to 690,000 tons
in 1972/73 mainly because drought reduced the unirrigated
crop; and to 630,000 tons in 1973/74. The yield has dropped
from 2.3 to 2.1 tons/ha, possibly due to fertilizer shortages,
but the main reason for the 1973/74 production drop has been
wheat seed shortage, which caused the area under wheat to
decline to 330,000 ha. The State Department of Agriculture
is taking measures to assure adequate seed supplies in
future (see para 41). The main effect of the project on loam
soils would be increased wheat production. So far rust
diseases have not caused the same damage as elsewhere in
India, but new resistant varieties should be tried in case
of future problems.
(e) Jute: The production season coincides with that of aus
(April-August) and the two crops are considered to be
interchangeable. However, in the last ten years this
happened only twice when the lowest production during the
decade (following peak production in the preceding year)
coincided with an all time aus production peak; jute
prices dropped drastically during the peak crop year and
farmers switched to aus. This switch seems to happen
mainly when a steep decline in jute price coincides with
a steep rise in the rice price. Since the project is not
expected to have much impact on aus production, it is



ANNEX 1
Page 9
assumed that the jute hectarage would not be materially
affected by it either. Jute yields have remained at the
same level of around 7-7.5 bales/ha (1 bale = 180 Kg) despite
widespread demonstrations proving that more than twice this
yield is feasible. Government recently mounted an intensive
jute package program in Nadia and Murshidabad, the two main
jute districts in the project area, which includes massive
extension and demonstration and subsidies for irrigation,
fertilizers and plant protection. Since reasons for
farmers' past reluctance to adopt the improved jute package
are not clear, prospects for future production growth must
be viewed with caution. An examination of rainfall and
production data indicates that benefit from irrigation
at existing yield levels may be about 10%-15% and, based
on this estimate and past production data, it is estimated
that incremental jute production due to the project would
not exceed 1-1.5 bales/ha.
(f) Pulses and Oilseeds: comprise 550,000 ha (16%) of the sown
land in the project area. Since yields and consequently
returns are low and since the growing season extends into the
dry season, there may be some displacement by wheat. Past
records show that this has not happened to date, because farmers
may have used formetly fallow land for these crops. However
with more concentrated irrigation, particularly in priority
areas, some loss of production from the project has been
assumed. There does not yet seem to be a HYV which would be
financially as attractive as wheat or boro, though ongoing
research work indicates that such HYVs are a distinct
possibility.
C. Land Tenure
23.       Since 1955 all land has been State-owned, and there is no freehold.
Table 4 shows land distribution (1961 census). Preliminary results of the
1970/71 census (not yet published) show little change in the main categories.
About 50% of holdings, comprising only 4% of the land, are smaller than 0.5
ha and 85% of holdings, comprising about 45% of the land, are under 2 ha. In
addition, land fragmentation is severe, on average about eight fragments
per holding, with average fragment size 0.2 ha. The smallest holdings
(below 1 ha) have three to six plots of 0.05-0.1 ha. GOWB estimates that 40%
of farm operators are sharecroppers.
24.       Government land reform aims to redistribute land purchased from
former owners with holdings above the land ceiling (5 ha irrigated and 7 ha
unirrigated). So far, of 400,000 ha taken over, 180,000 have been distri-
buted. The rest is either under litigation or unsuitable for agriculture.
Revenue authorities estimate that, in addition, a further 120,000 ha
should become available for distribution. Outdated land registers hamper
land reforms and a massive land registration exercise is under way.



ANNEX 1
Page 10
25.       Even complete success of land reform would affect the present
distribution pattern only marginally, but registration of sharecroppers
would improve the incentives of many operators to invest in modern techno-
logy. GOI gives land registration and redistribution higher priority than
the much more complex land consolidation. Some planners feel that, on
balance, fragmentation has some advantages at this stage as it forces
larger landowners who can afford STW to share irrigation water with
neighbors. Increased grain production in recent years has occurred against
the background of small and fragmented farms. However, the fragment pattern
makes irrigation water distribution difficult and improved extension, to
be provided by the project, would demonstrate boundary realignment of the
fragments to suit improved irrigation field channel layout. Such channels
would reduce water losses which are high at present and which are one of
the reasons for low utilization of state owned irrigation facilites.
D. Agricultural Services
General and Coordination
26.       The various project implementation agencies are well coordinated
because the State Commissioner for Agriculture and Community Development
controls the main technical agencies concerned with the project. The
Director of Agriculture in charge of research, extension and training, the
Additional Director in charge of marketing, and the Chief Engineer of the
Engineering Directorate responsible for tubewells and riverlifts (RLIs) are
all responsible to the Commissioner. He is Chairman of the Agro Industries
Corporation (AIC), an increasingly important inputs supply agency and the
supporting agency for Agro-Service Centers (Annex 5), and the Chairman
elect-of the State Water Board (SWB) and the proposed Minor Irrigation
Corporation (MIC), which are scheduled to take over the duties of the
Engineering Directorate.
27.       Extension services are integrated at district and block level
with the civil administration and other technical departments. While
extension workers are paid by the Agricultural Department and receive
technical backup from departmental headquarters, their day-to-day activities
are controlled by the District Magistrate, and at block level by the Block
Officer. While this system allows balanced and coordinated implementation
of a broadly based development policy, the change has hurt agricultural
extension and the project would introduce measures to improve extension
(see para 40). In general, district headquarters has emerged as the policy
planning center but policy implementation depends mainly on block staff.
Research
28.       Agricultural research is organized on a subject matter basis with
services for jute, rice, pulses and oilseeds, horticulture, water management
and economics and statistics. Jute research is controlled and financed by
the Indian Council for Agricultural Research. All other programs are



ANNEX 1
Page 11
controlled by the State Agricultural Department, but are closely coordinated
with, and partly financed by, All India programs. The agricultural faculty
of Kalyani University has carried out research on a broad range of subjects,
but results do not seem to have found their way to extension services or
farmers. The establishment of an agricultural university (most probably
at Kalyani) and subsequent responsibility for all State-controlled research
by the University has been agreed and implementation plans are under
preparation.
29.       Total staff includes about 155 professionals (Table 5), at least
half of whom have higher degrees. Commodity research stations operate
integrated teams - breeders agronomists, pathologists, entomologists and
chemists. The Jute Research Institute is particularly well staffed and
equipped, and can take much credit for the initial rapid spread of jute
cultivation in India following partition and has since made important
contributions to most aspects of jute cultivation. However, the Institute
has not investigated why 200-300% yield increases, consistently and widely
demonstrated, have so far evoked little farmer response. Above everything,
the ultimate goal, a jute HYV with dramatically higher yields has so far
eluded it, mainly because of the small amount of genetic material (70 lines
each of olitorius and capsularis compared to at least 15,000 paddy lines)
and the small number of breeders working on the problem. Nevertheless, seven
improved varieties have been released and seven more are undergoing field
trials.
30.       Of the State controlled services, rice research is the most
important. The success of boro varieties is due to local selection and
evaluation. The service issued numerous improved varieties before the
introduction of IRRI 1/ HYV, and is currently testing promising HYV resulting
from crosses of IRRI with local varieties for the three rice seasons. With
successful boro varieties already in widespread use, emphasis of research
has shifted to aus and aman. In addition, improved local flood, salinity
and drought tolerant varieties have recently been issued.
31.       The wheat research section has never been very strong and has
been recently put on a care and maintenance basis, when the scientist in
charge was transferred and the research station land was taken over by
Kalyani University. In view of the rapidly growing importance of wheat and
potential disease problems wheat research needs substantial strengthening.
32.       Pulses and oilseeds research has also identified and bred
varieties with at least double the yield of existing varieties. However,
to date, research has had no effect on production.
33.       The water management section was established in 1972 and the
size of its sanctioned staff (16 professionals) (Table 5) illustrates
1/   International Rice Research Institute.



ANNEX 1
Page 12
the importance GOWB attaches to this work, in light of rapid irrigation ex-
pansion. Because of widespread replication of experiments, early results
--- adequate for some field recommendations --- are expected in perhaps
two to three years.
34.       Jute, rice and wheat results are widely demonstrated mainly on
farmers land and it may be that lack of emphasis on pulses and oilseeds
demonstrations is part of the reason for lack of farmer response to
improved technology for these crops. For rice, the issue of about 400
seed minikits (about two kg seed) of new varieties per district provides
widespread field testing, demonstration and a measure of farmers' response
to new varieties.
35.       Existing services are on the whole adequate for the project, though
reduction of wheat research is disturbing. These services should be
restored to at least their former level. In October 1974, there was a
high number of vacancies among professional staff mainly due to a recruiting
moratorium ordered by the State Government. Recruiting has resumed and
vacancies are to be filled during 1975. In view of the vast untapped agricul-
tural potential of the State, expansion of research, improvement of farms,
laboratories, training and scientific exchange with other research
organizations would most likely give high benefits.
Agricultural Extension
36.       There are usually 6-12 agricultural extension officers (mainly
subject matter specialists) at district level, one agricultural extension
officer, an assistant agricultural extension officer and two to four
demonstrators at block level, and a village level worker (VLW) per village.
Asst. extension officers upwards are graduates, and VLW and demonstrators
have one to two years training in departmental training centers. In
general, considerable additional extension staff has been added through
several special schemes and the total in the six project districts includes
about 70 at district level, 800 at the block level and about 1,500 VLW.
With an estimated 3 million holdings (including sharecroppers) and counting
half the block staff as regular field workers, there would be one field
extension worker per 1,500 farmers. In fact, the situation is less favorable
because the VLW spends at least half of his time on duties other than
agricultural extension, so that the true ratio of full time extension worker
to farmer is closer to 1:3,000. Staff supervision is constrained by lack
of vehicles at district and block level. Usually one motor vehicle is
shared between all the staff of two blocks. Well organized crop demonstrations
on farmers' land, including prestigious National Demonstrations organized by
the Indian Council for Agricultural Research, are one of the main extension
tools. Field extension workers are supported by a daily farm forum radio
program which provides lectures and discusses correspondence with numerous
farmers groups organized by the extension staff; and by agricultural informa-
tion services which provide rather limited pamphlets, a monthly journal and
some films.
37.       The success of extension services in spreading HYV rabi grain
crops and its failure in teaching irrigation water management have been



ANNEX 1
Page 13
mentioned (para 7). In addition the service has failed to improve rainfed
agriculture. Even greatly intensified extension has failed to make any
progress there. Burdwan District participating in the Intensive Agricultural
District Program has double the staff of other districts, a vehicle
exclusively for agriculture in each block, a peripatetic agricultural
training unit (doing the work of a residential farmers training center),
soil testing services and its own visual aids and information center.
Burdwan claims somewhat higher yields of rabi crops and somewhat higher per/ha
fertilizer consumption than other districts but shows no more progress
with rainfed crops than other districts.
38.       The latest intensive jute drive includes employment of 400
extension workers to work on jute in Nadia and Murshidabad districts. There
were some indications of improved yields in scheme areas, but the scheme
has been adversely affected by the drop in jute production brought about
by the decline in jute price and concurrent rise in the rice price.
39.       Seven departmental VLW training centers with total capacity of
1,200 places provide two year training courses for VLW, one-year courses for
women VLWs and a one-year upgrading course for VLWs for promotion to assis-
tant extension officers. In addition, the centers provide several courses to
train farmers and department staff in operation and maintenance of tillers,
pumps and engines. With the recruitment moratorium there have been no VLW
courses-in the last two years and, while centers have given a miscellany
of courses to a variety of government staff, the centers have generally
been underutilized.  Furthermore, lacking centralized direction, some of
the centers are run-down. With a resumption in VLW recruitment, the
centers are to be revitalized and one of them situated at the Rice Research
Station will be converted to give rice production courses to staff and
farmers' leaders along the line of courses given at IRRI. In addition,
GOWB is considering establishment of Farm Science Centers but how these
would differ from existing centers, and whether new centers are needed or
existing ones could be converted or extended has not been decided.
40.       Under the project, extension services would be strengthened,
provided with sufficient vehicles, equipment and materials for their work;
and the service would be reorganized, in line with the successful reorgani-
zation of extension services carried out under the Rajasthan Canal and
Chambal Command Area Development Projects (Reports No. 430-IN and 447-IN).
Details would be worked out by GOWB with IDA assistance, but the following
measures would probably be implemented:
(a) A chain of command would be set up under the Department of
Agriculture at every level, from project headquarters to
farmer level; with a staffing plan, job descriptions and
description of staff duties specified at every level;
(b) Extension workers in the project area would be exclusively
concerned with extension and would be relieved from other
duties;



ANNEX 1
Page 14
(c) Special schemes (e.g. the Jute Schemes) would be phased out
and their staff and equipment would be absorbed by the extension
service, as far as possible;
(d) Subject matter specialists would be used constantly, including
research workers, to backstop general extension staff, to
solve specific problems, to help devise seasonal or other
programs and to draw up technical specifications;
(e) Part time extension workers would be recruited from among
successful farmers. They would spend two to three days a
week on extension duties but would remain first and foremost
progressive farmers;
(f) Detailed plans and schedules would be drawn up which would
specify training and the duties (including places to be
visited on each day of the week) of each staff member, and
together with this, a system of reporting and evaluation
would be introduced.
The main objective of this service in the first instance would be to improve
water utilization and to promote high crop yields in the project area.
Whether improved yields can be achieved for kharif crops also outside the
irrigated areas or whether improved technology is needed is not clear at
this time.
E. Agricultural Inputs
41.       Seeds:  Most seeds are retained by farmers but this supply is
supplemented by seeds grown on 4,000 ha GOWB seed farms and by commer-
cial supplies. In general, local authorities consider seed supplies ade-
quate but since 1973 there has been a serious wheat seed shortage, allegedly
because farmers tempted by high wheat prices sold their home retained seed
supply. GOWB, which procures seeds, has found it difficult to obtain
adequate amounts shortly before the sowing season, and seed shortage has led
to a drop in wheat acreage. Enough seed for the State can be procured
by timely requisition and GOWB would in future, place irrevocable orders
one year in advance with commercial seed companies, including the Bank
financed Terai Seed Project (Loan 614-IN), to prevent recurrence of the
seed shortage. In addition, the AIC is investigating the feasibility of a
seeds project. GOWB farms consist of 176 block farms of 10 ha each and
22 large farms. Seed quality is controlled by the State seed inspection
and testing service. While there was no opportunity to judge seeds produced
on GOWB farms, there would appear to be a need for processing equipment
on these farms.



ANNEX 1
Page 15
42.       Fertilizer:  The distribution network and storage facilities
maintained by the main distribution agencies -- AIC, State Cooperative Mar-
keting Corporation and the Fertilizer Corporation of India--are adequate and
would be further improved by AIC establishment of two agro-service centers
in each block to sell fertilizer, seeds and pesticides. However, the global
fertilizer shortage is seriously affecting the project area. The project,
at full development in about seven years, would require about 35,000 tons
nutrients for rabi crops alone, and a shortfall of 30% may reduce production
by about 20%.
43.       Pesticides:  are distributed commercially together with seeds
and fertilizers and are freely available throughout the project area. In
addition, the Agriculture Department maintains one or more pesticides stores
per district for emergencies. There is a pests and diseases specialist in
each district to advise and train farmers and extension staff, and some
agro service centers managed by agriculture graduates provide customs plant
protection services.
44.       While pests and diseases are at a low level and reasonably well
controlled, during the rabi season, control measures during the rainy
season are difficult and less satisfactory. The Department of Agriculture
has taken the first step in insect pest forecasting by establishing light
traps and is considering the feasibility of district pest and disease
scouting services to provide accurate early warning to farmers.
45.       Mechanization:  So far, land preparation for rabi crops has not
proved a constraint and is practically all done by bullock. Mechanization
is in an early stage, mainly stimulated by tractor stations and tractor
and tiller sales by AIC. Present sales are 70 tractors and 130 power
tillers per year, forecast to rise to 300-400 tractors and 500-600 tillers
for the State in five years. Even if this were to take place, and counting
customs service from agro-service centers, mechanized cultivation would be
less than 5% of annual tillage. Custom services report good demand for
their services and may become important as farmers begin to intensify
cropping during the rainy season.
46.       Labor:  At peak labor demand periods, particularly during aman
harvest, the total rural labor force of about three million is already
fully occupied. Fortunately peak labor demands for the project would come
during IMarch-April for the wheat harvest and during M4ay for boro harvest,
when the rural labor force is underemployed. The project wobld generate
about 25 million labor days equal to about 100,000 man years, of which 30%
would be needed in the March-May period.
F. Project Crop Production
47.       The main effect of the project would be the cultivation of about
45,000 ha boro, 85,000 ha irrigated wheat and 9,000 ha potatoes at maturity,



ANNEX 1
Page 16
seven years after the start of the project, producing about 125,000 tons
clean rice, about 165,000 tons wheat and 130,000 tons potatoes. Based on
past production records it has been assumed that there would be relatively
little increased production from rainy season crops -- about 20,000 tons rice
and about 5,000 tons jute. The project would probably displace about 10,000
tons pulses production. For details of crop production see Table 6.
Typical average rotations based on data from sections IIA and IIB of this
Annex are shown in Annex 8, Table 1.



INDIA
WEST BENGAL AGRICULTURAL DEVPLO'ENT PROJECT
Taule 1: Use of Caujiivabje Land in Project Area
(I 0o  ha)
Cultivable   Aus      Jman      Boro     Total    Wheat   Pulses   Oilseeds   Jute         Potatoes   Others   Total      Land Cropped more
Land       Eiee     R4e       Ri^e      Eicc                                                                   Sown         than once
Hoogly          240.08     17.00    153.03    61.53    231.56      24.69    25.10      5.66     29.55     16.19       7.69     340.48      100.40
Burdwan         500-40     33.19    412.55    60.72    506.46      29.14    24.69      5.66      9.71     14.57       7.28     597.57       97.16
Nadia           311.74     97.16      52.22    10.12    159.50     70.44   105.66    39.67      80.56      0.4O      21.45     477.73      165.99
Murshidabad     415-38     74.79    146.55    14.17    235.21    101.21   134.00    32.79       86.23      2.83      36-43     628.74      213.36
Malda           306.88     82.18    101.21    19.02    202.41      27.53    91.09    17.00      26.31      o.80      54.65     419.83      112.95
W. Dinajpur     474.89    122.67    353.44      4.04    480.15     20.64    34.8i    23.07      63.15      3.23      41.29     666.39       191.49
Total         2,249.38    426.69  1,219.00   169.60  1,815.29    273.65   415.35   123.85    295.51       38.02    168.79   3,130.74        881.37
December 5, 1974



INDIA
WEST BENGAL AGRICULTURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Table 2:   Crop Production, Area and Yields for 1967/68, 1971/72 and 1973/74.
Total              Total
Eloogly      A    Burdwan                adia              Murshidabad             Malda          W. Dinajpur       Prjegt Area     West Bengal
A      P     Y       A   1'        A    Y  A                  P Y    A               P       Y A           P     Y A          P     Y     A       p
13e - Aus _          1967/68                1)]  15     8   25      27    11  116   102    9   88        54      6    78        56      7      92   70      8s  413    324    8    738   594         8
1971/72               17   15      9   33     67    20   97    73    8   74        41       6    82        82    10      123  1871/  15   426    465   11    800   951        12
1973/74               20   30    15   36      53    15   99    71    7   99        82       8    94        56     6      116   86      7   464    372    8    842   696         8
Aman -       1967/68               177  205    12  430    586    14   91    84    9  204        256      13   120        93     8      306  264      9   328   1488   11   3924  4423       11
1971/72              153  202    13  412    473    11   53    50    9  147        155      11   132       103     8      353  365    10  1250   1348   11   3889  4535        12
1973/74              1714  211    12  429    527    12   93    90   10  189       232      12   124       111     9      315  303    10   324   1474   11   4048  4374         11
Boro-        1967/68                12   26    22    4       9    22    2      4   22    2        4      17    11        18    18        2    3    14    33      64  19       55  109       20
1971/72               61  208    34   61    214    35  1]0    29   29   14         28      20    19        50    26        4    8    20   169    537   32    305   753         25
1973/74               59  130    22   77    210    27   12    27   22   22         42      19    24        61    25       10   23    23   204    493   24    325   729         22
Wheat                1967/68                3    3    10    9        7     8    5      3    6   30       28      9     2         1      5       4    3      8    53      45    8      79    70       9
1971/72               24   56    23   29      72    25   70   157   22  101       213      21    27        56    20       21   44    21   272    598   22    423   907         21
1973/74               14   29    20   29      57    20   25    52   21   78       162      21    33        58    17       28   59    21   207    417   20    330   630         19
Pulses               1967/68               18    5      3   26     11      4  136    61    4 160         95      6  101         49      5      36   19      5   477    240    5    655    338        5
1971/72               15    7      5   21     10      5   97    55    6  127       81       6    71        30     4       28   13      5   359    197    5    586    311        5
1973/74               16    8      5   26     12      5  133    76    6 145       108       7    86        36     4       4419    14 450    259    6    660    349              5
Oilseeds             1967/68                1      .2   2    2        .6   3   22      5    2   23        7      3    20         7    35       35  10       3   103      30    3    143       51     3
1971/72                3    1.0  3    5        1.5   3   39      9    2   30      8.4       3    20         8     4       23    9      4   120      37    3    161      48      3
1973/74                6    3.0   5    6       2.1   4   35    10    3   33        14       4    22         9     4       34  10       3   136      48    4    194      66      3
Jute                 1967/68               47   93    20   17       27    16   74   117   16   70        95     14    28        26      9      75   73    10   311    431   14    496    688    14
1971/72               30   60    20   10      17    12   81   114   14   86        117     14    26        26      5      63   64    10   296    296   13    361    620    13
1973/74               26   53    20   15      25    16   73   124   17   81       152      19    24        31    13       51   54    11   270    439   16    419    661    16
Potatoes             1967/68               21  185    88   15    151    ol  0.14       3   75    4       34     85      1        4    40        4    4    35    45    463   86        77    632    82
1971/72               20  401   200   14    203   145  o.14      5  125    4        43    108      .7       2    29        3   10    33    42    664  164        73   1043   143
1973/74               23  383   166   15    194   130  0.9       9   98    5       52    115      1         3    34        5   22    48    50    663  133        78    955   122
A:  Area in 000 hectares
P:   Production in 000 tons                                                                                                                                                                               x
Y:   Yield in qunitals per hectare
I/   Believed to be reporting error and 1971/72 Project Area and West Bengal totals may tberefore be too high.
December 12, 1974



INDIA
WEST BENGAL AGRICULTURAL DEELOPMENT PROJECT
Table 3: Comparison of Average Crop Production in Project Districts
,000 tons)
-    ----    ---1962/63 to 1966/67 - - - - -91/7
_~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~                                - - - - _-       16!3t  1617                         - - - - - -    -_       - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - -_9,161  - 19 71/R  o /72  - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - -
Rice                                      Oil                       Sugar                      Rice                             oil                                  Sugar
Aus      Aman    ooro        xoa    Wheat   Pulses    Seeds   Jute   Potatoes   Cane           Aus       Aman      Boro      Total    Wheat    Seeds   Jute   Pulses   Potatoes   Cane
Hoogly          7.16     213.30    1.74       222.20    0.24     7.56    0.26    59.4  264.22        67.00    15.44      230.76    80.48     326.68   28.66    0.86    57.2       6.80   269.62      243.94
Burdwan        24.42     605.14    2.44       632.00    2.76    14.90    1.20    20.7  169.16       193.70    43.14      591.94    77.02     712.10   41.76    1.28    18.7    12.90   179.66        225.62
Nadia          87.32      76.60    1.74       165.66    2.92    77.98    8.82    78.0      3.82     346.40    99.o4       87.16    11.42     197.62   74.10    9.82    84.4    69.88       3.72      292.60
Nurshidabad    60.o4     227.52    3.30       290.86  124.58    94.96    9.08    83.9   30.78       302.18    60.86      241.40    12.60     341.86  144.34    9.44    84.9    87.62    37.90        277.96
Nalda          39.52     110.44   13.98       163.94    1.924    44.22    5.68    21.9     4.28      99.96    60.14      105.84    26.82     192.80   24.80    7.84    20.0    43.30       3.58      133.12
W. Dinajpur    63.68      327.72    0.76      392.16    0.94    16.08   13.12    59.9   15.62         89.60   113.34     319.14     4.92      437.40   25.44    9.88    56.8   18.04    15.68         45.20
TOTAL       282 14   1,560.72   23.96    1,866.82   23.38   255.70   38.16   323.8  487.88   1,098.84 _ 391.96   1,576.24   213.26   2,181.46  339.10   38.76   322.0  238.514   510.16   1,018.44
December 10, 1974



TNDIA
WEST BENGAL ACRICULTURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Table 4:  Size Distributioa of. -.and HQdings
N.. I/of Owned iHoldings  ,Vi  Holdings in       Area?/Owned        %3/of Area in       DreA 1Leased out       %/A,.  Owned          N2.2//areels        AverageZ/Area
Size Class Acres           -_--                         Size class          000 Acres            Size Class          000 Acres            Which is Leased        Per Holding      Per 5arcel Acres
Up to   - 0.49                2,133                       43.41               186                  1.63                 4                      2.15                 2.21               0.12
0.50   - 0.99                  380                        7.73               282                  2.4B                16                      5.67                 3.86               0.18
1.00   - 2.49                   890                      18.11             1,528                 13.43               111                      7.26                 6.15               0.26
2.50   -  4.99                 820                       16.81             2,955                 25.97               288                      9.75                 8.33               0.42
5.00   -  7.49                 346                        7.04             2,092                 18.39                78                      3.73                 9.27               0.63
7.50   - 9.99                  136                        2.77             1,186                 10.42                58                      4.89                11657               0.70
10.00   - 12.49                  83                        1.69               908                  7.98                 26                     2.86                11.05               0.95
12.50   - 14.99                  45                        C.92                618                 5.43                 31                     5.02                13.47               0.96
15.00   - 19.99                  36                        0.73                628                 5.52                 85                    13.54                14.02               1.16
20.00   - 24.99                  27                        0.55               611                  5.37                63                     10.31                18.96               0.99
25.00  - 29.99                    8                        0.16                205                 1.80                 31                    15.12                13.96               1.65
30.00   - 49.99                   4                        0.08               150                  1.32                15                     10.00                22.52               1.63
50.00 and Above                   -                        0.00                 29                 0.26                 15                     51.72               21.76               2.92
TOTAL                    4,914                      100.00            11,378                100.00                821                      7.22                7.78               0.57
Average               Average          Average
1/ Calculated
2/ Source: The national sample survey Number 144 tables with notes on soae aspects of land holdings in rural areas; September 1961-Jaiv 192 - ovar.,,went (f T,rndi. *1I.8.
December 5, 1974



ANNEX 1
INDIA
WEST BENGAL AGRICULTURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Table 5: Organization of West Bengal
Agricultural Research Services
Professional                   Sub
Controlling         Staff            Main       Stations
Subject            Agency             No.            Station        No.
Jute                ICAEW            35              Barrackpore   4
Rice                GOWB              2              Chinsura       5
Pulses and)         GOWB             25              Berhampore      W
Oilseeds )
Wheat               GOWB               4             Kalyani
Horticulture        GOWB             20              Krishnanagar  6
Water     )         GOWB              i 6            Ranaghat       9
Management)
Economics &         GOWB             20              Calcutta       -
Statistics
1/ Indian Council for Agricultural Research
2/ Three outside West Bengal
3/ Six paid by the "All India Central Rice Improvement Program."
V   Land for trials available on Government farms throughout the State
5/  16 posts sanctioned - 6 filled by December, 1973
December 9, 1974



INDIA
WEST BENGAL AGRICULTURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Table 6:   Estimated Increase in Crop Production
CROPS                  AREA SCWN             YIELD                               CROP PRODUCTICN
(000 HA)          (T C/HA)                            (--- 000 TONS ---)
Without    With     Without    With             Without      With        Increase
Djoject                      Project           (Decrease)
Loam Soils (90,000 HA) -
Aus Paddy                  36.o      36.0       1.5        1.8              54.0       64.8           10.8
Jute                       27.0      27.0       1.3       1.5               35.3       40.5            5.2
Aman Paddy                  18.0     18.0       2.0        2.3              36.2       41.4            5.2
Pulses                     17.4        -        0.7         -               12.2         -           (12.2)
Wheat                       37.5     81.0       0.8        2.5               34.5     202.5          168.0
Potatoes                    0.3       9.0      15.0       15.0               4.5      135.0          130.5
Sub-total HA              13        171.0
Sub-total Paddy            54'.      54.0                                   90.2      106.2           16.0
Clay Soils (49,000 HA)-/2
Aman Paddy                  49.0     49.o       2.0        2.3              102.1     112.7           10.6
Boro Paddy                  2.1      49.o       4.0        4.0               8.1      196.0          187.9
Sub-total HA and Paddy     51.1                                            110.2      307:7          19.5
Total Estimated Increase in Crop Production (139,000 HA)
Paddy                     105.1    152.0                                   200.4      414.9          214.5
Jute                       27.0      27.0                                    35.3      40.5            5.2
Pulses                     17.4        -                                     12.2         -          (12.2)
Wheat                      37.5      81.0                                    34.5     202.5          168.0
Potatoes                     0.3      9.0                                     4.5     135.0          130.5
Total HA                  1         269
/3
Total Grain Production-                                                     168.1     479.1          311.0
71  Includes 3,000 haaready irrigated by partially-completed riverlifts.
72 Includes 2,100 ha already irrigated by partially-completed riverlifts.
73 Taking 1.5 tons paddy as 1 ton clean rice.
December 7, '^74



ANNEX 2
Page 1
INDIA
WEST BENGAL AGRICULTURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Minor Irrigation
A. Natural -Conditions
1.        West Bengal has the potential for a substantial production
increase of 'Zood and fiber by developing minor irrigation. Most of the
existing irrigated area (S9 million ha out of a total net sown area of 5.6
million ha) is provided with a water supply sufficient only to extend and
supplement the monsoon rainfall during the kharif season. Less than 15%
of the irrigated area receives water during the dry rabi season. Because
temperatures are ideal for crop production throughout the year, development
of minor irrigation facilities for the rabi season, such as shallow and
deep tubewells (STWs and DTWs) and riverlifts (RLIs), will permit intensive
crop production to be extended throughout the year in large portions of the
State.
Area and PhsiograEphLc Conditions
2.        The project lies viLthin the "non-saline alluvial" region of the
State. North of the Ganges, and in the eastern part of the main extension
south of the Ganges, the project lies on alluvium brought in and distri-
buted by the Ganges river system; to the west, it lies on alluvium brought
down by the past and present rivers draining the Chotanagpur plateau and
the Rajmahal hills. The areas south of Calcutta with soil water salinity
problems and those of consolidated sediments and crystalline rocks to the
west, are excluded. In the north, the areas underlain by sediments com-
prising Himalayan piedmont and outwash plains, are also excluded. Parts
of the State excluded from the project present problems of groundwater
occurence, compositirn9 development and use, which are different and
probably more difficult than those expected within the project area; they
appear to call for further study. The limits of the project area in the
south have been aijusted for administrative reasons to coincide with
boundaries of Na,dia  Hooghly and Burdwan Districts.
Hydrogeological Conditions
3.        Geologically, the project area is within the great alluvial basin,
formed by sedIments deposited in Quartenary times by the Ganges, Brahmaputra
and other rivers at the head of the Bay of Bengal. They overlie consolidated
Tertiary sev!-i'nts and vary between 260 and 137 m in thickness, between
West Dinajpur in the north and Nadia in the south.  The Tertiary sediments
are much thicker; some 2,500 m in Burdwan, for instance. The two are
similar in lithology and apparently hydrologically continuous. Beds, layers



ANNEX 2
Page 2
and lenses of clays, silts, sands and gravels vary widely in thickness and
in lateral extent. Coarse material is common but clean, well-classified
sands are rare. The composition and occurrence of different materials are
not influenced by the thickness of the deposit. A few thick clay beds
appear to be quite extensive in area.
4.        The non-saline alluvial tracts forming the project area are sub-
divided into Pleistocene "older alluvium" and recent "newer alluvium". The
former, similar to the Barind of Malda and West Dinajpur, occur mainly in
the western part of the project area bordering outcrops of consolidated
formations. Where exposed, the older alluvium is being eroded, whereas
the newer alluvium is still being deposited. The older alluvium is generally
finer, well oxidized, (reddish, brown and tan colors, with some mottling),
lithified and has lime and ferruginous nodules. The new alluvium tends
to contain organic matter, is black, blue-black or grey, and shows little
or no lithification or consolidation.
5.        Topographically, the older alluvium is gently rolling, with a well-
defined drainage pattern; side slopes of the wider valleys have been terraced
for rice cultivation. Valley floors are usually covered with a thin deposit
of new alluvium. By contrast, the new alluvium is almost perfectly flat
and ideal for irrigation. Surface soils with a high clay content generally
occur in low-lying areas. Areas at slightly higher elevations generally
have surface soils containing more silt and sand which facilitates infil-
tration and aquifer recharge.
6.        The Ganges flood plain in the project area has not changed in
recent years, but the Bhagirathy-Hooghly river system draining them will be
considerably rejuvenated by diversion of Ganges water through the Farrakka
Canal. Unlike the Ganges plains, those of rivers flowing eastwards from
the Chotanagpur plateau and the Rajmahal hills are still actively evolving
and forming. Dams on the upper reaches of these rivers are, however,
influencing the lower valleys.
Climate
7.        Throughout most of the State the climate is tropical.  Temperatures
are mild, ranging from 260C to 38°C in the summer and from 10°C to 26°C in
winter. Extremes range from about 4°C during the winter to 46°C in the
summer. In the Himalayan district the temperatures are colder and range
from below freezing in the winter to 27°C in the summer.
8.        The average annual rainfall in the State is 1,750 mm of which
1,250 mm occurs during the monsoon months from June to September. The
Himalayan region receives the heaviest rainfall, ranging from 2,500 mm
to over 5,000 mm while the plains districts receive an average of 1,125 mm
to 1,875 mm (see Table 1). The precipitation varies greatly from year to
year as well as seasonally. For instance, at Krishnanagar (Nadia District)
the annual precipitation has varied from 885 mm to 2,296 mm with a mean
of 1,435 mm. The mean precipitation in December is 2.9 mm while that in
July is 281 mm. Historically, there have been years when no rain fell
during one month or more of the seven-month October through April period.



ANNEX 2
Page 3
Floods
9.        West Bengal is subject to floods due in part to inflow from rivers
draining into the State, but more so from excess local runoff and, in
southern districts, to occasional and seasonal rise of sea level. Figures
are available to show the average areas flooded by districts, during the
1964-1973 decade. Those for the districts within the project are:
Percentage
Average Annual Area      Area
District             Total Area       Flooded, 1964-73      Flooded
(Km )             (Km2 ) 
West Dinajpur           5,553               161                 3
Malda                   3,605               483                13
Murshidabad             5,367               560                10
Nadia                   3,906               355                9
Burdwan                 7,006               114                2
Hooghly                 3,144               397                13
Totals            28,581             2,070                7
There are maps showing areas flooded each year, but there is a lack of
information on the duration of the flooding and on the depth of water. The
actual areas selected for the-project mainly lie outside the zones suscepti-
ble to flooding; only Ketugram in Burdwan and North Balagarh in Hooghly
District present flood problems. Development of groundwater may increase
infiltration and so reduce the duration and depth of flood waters. Protection
levees have been constructed to reduce flooding in Malda District where, in
the past, an average of 13% of the district has been affected by floods.
In other districts, work on flood control is also proceeding. In Hooghly,
tidal effects are present which often impede the evacuation of locally-
generated flood waters.
Surface Water Resources
10.       Figures on amounts of surface water available for RLI irrigation
in West Bengal and in the project area are meager. Surveys to determine
them more accurately are now in progress.
11.       The rivers are largely interconnected.  Likewise the beels
(cutoff oxbow and other lakes) and related depresssions, as well as the
tanks of the project area, are often filled with flood water and local3
runoff. The Farrakka Barrage, now completed, will divert some 1,130 m /second
into the Bhagirathi-Hooghly river system, mainly to flush out sediment
blocking navigation but also contributing to the water resources of the
area. Hence, while more accurate data are required on the availability
of surface water for lift irrigation in the pre-monsoon season, and must
be obtained for each individual lift irrigation scheme, both a general
hydrological evaluation and the practical experience gained with such
schemes over the past ten years indicate that there is sufficient surface
water available for the present and planned utilization.



ANNEX 2
Page 4
Groundwater Resources
12.       Groundwater potential throughout most of West Bengal has been
studied by the Geological Survey of India, the Exploratory Tubewell Organi-
zation and Central Groundwater Board of the GOI and the Agricultural
Engineering Directorate of the West Bengal State Agricultural Department.
The newly established State Water Board (SWB) of West Bengal will continue
the work. On the basis of existing studies, more than 2,200 ¶rWs and
60,500 STWs have so far been developed successfully throughout thfr State.
In turn, data obtained from the construction and operation of these wells
has generated considerable additional groundwater information. Pumping
tests in 1972/73 have enabled aquifer constants to be determined in
certain limited areas.
13.       The alluvial areas unquestionably have the greatest groundwater
potential although south of Calcutta there are problems of salinity, prob-
ably connected with residual and current seawater salts. Alluvial ground-
waters elsewhere are generally of excellent chemical composition; a typical
sample from Nadia showing TDS of 562 ppm of which HCO3 accounted for 391
ppm, and Cl for only 8 ppm. In the southernmost part of the project area,
in Hooghly District, chloride content reaches 100-300 ppm - but even this
is suitable for irrigation. Groundwater in the alluvium occurs under un-
confined, semi-confined and confined conditions, according to the presence,
size, thickness and depths of varying alternations and lensings of aquifers
composed of silt, sand and gravel, and of aquicludes composed of clays or
other relatively impermeable material.
14.       In the project area the older alluvium is, in general, only
suitable for limited DTW development. In most of the new alluvium, ground-
water is unconfined with groundwater level within two to five m of land
surface and therefore equally suitable for DTW and STW installations. How-
ever, in most of Burdwan and adjoining parts of Hooghly the aquifer is
confined by clay, often 90 m thick. There are some lenses of shallow
groundwater but in general these areas are more suitable for DTW development.
In some areas the water table is rising, following irrigation from canals.
The following table shows information on typical tubewell yields, drawdown
and groundwater levels:



ANNEX 2
Page 5
Depth of                          Depth to    Annual
Tubewell     Test               Water Below  Fluctu-   Nature of
Test-Pumped  Yields   Drawdown    Surface        ation     Aquifer
(m)       (m3 /hr)   _ m)          (m)        (m)     __ _
West
Dinajpur       130      200          6       1.5-7.0       N.A.    Unconfined
Malda            75      200      1.4-4.8     1-3         Variable  Unconfined
Murshidabad
(New Allu-
vium)    100-192       280     2.5-6.7      2-4 and    Small      Unconfined
6-9     2.5-3.5
Nadia            80      240      less than   2-7           N.A.    Unconfined
7
Hooghly         150      250      3-5         2-3         less       Confined
170                                        than 2      and
Unconfined
15.       There are some problem areas in Murshidabad District, identified
by the Groundwater Survey, where test boring did not meet satisfactory
aquifers and these areas would be excluded from the project. By contrast,
in the same district there are large areas where groundwater is found close
to the surface and where there has been large scale development of small
handpumps for irrigating horticultural crops.
Groundwater Recharge
16.       The amount of annual groundwater recharge has been determined
only in very general terms. Recharge occurs through infiltration, in
varying percentages, from the following sources: (a) direct rainfall;
(b) flood waters reaching the area; (c) river waters flowing through the
area; (d) leakage from canals; and (e) excess irrigation water originating
from canals, lift irrigation or groundwater. Natural flow of groundwater
is towards the rivers and drainage canals, and towards the sea. In the
project area, recharge is largely by downward infiltration of rainfall and
excess irrigation water. Discharge is by almost horizontal subsurface flow
towards the rivers which are effluent in the dry season. Infiltration of
about 350 mm, or 25% of the annual rainfall of about 1,400 mm, has been used
in recent studies by West Bengal hydrogeologists. This is considered
justified, in view of the amounts and intensities of rainfall, the topography
and bunding of fields, and the other sources of recharge (as return irrigation
water, flood waters, etc.) which are not separately evaluated. Natural
discharge is restricted due to the comparatively shallow incisions of the
effluent drainage rivers and the barrier of coastal groundwater in the south.
Actual infiltration is probably much less than the potential since the aquifers
are always almost full. In the long-term, higher extractions with increased
lowering of the water-table would tend to increase infiltration and reduce



ANNEX 2
Page 6
surface flooding. Although pumping lifts would increase, and shallow tubewells
with centrifugal pumps become less practicable in some areas, proper ground-
water management would nevertheless lead to greater utilization of the actual
and potential underground reservoirs of West Bengal.
B. Existing Water Development
17.       West Bengal has approximately 5.59 million hectares of cultivated
area. Through multiple cropping, the cropped area is about 7.10 million
hectares. Some 1.86 million hectares of the cropped area are now irrigated,
equivalent to just over 26% of the total. The sources of irrigation water,
and the increases achieved in water use over the past few years, is:
Increased
Area         Area (ha)
Source of         Irrigated (ha)   1968/69 to   Area Irrigated
Irrigation Water        1968-69           1972/73     (ha) 1973
Canals (Government)      629,200          Nil             629,200
Canals and Tanks
(Private)              633,000           500           633,500
Wells                      17,000           500            17,500
DTW                       56,800        73,000            129,800
STW                       40,000        80,000            120,000
RLI                       21,600       134,000            155,600
Other                     91,000        87,000            178,000
Total             1,488,600       375,000         1,863,600
18.      Mlost of the increase is due to minor irrigation development, by
pumping surface water through RLIs and groundwater from DTWs and STWs
which provide irrigation water throughout the year. The other sources
provide irrigation water mainly to supplement the monsoon rains, with
little water available for irrigation in the dry rabi season. The rate
of minor irrigation development in West Bengal is indicated in Table 2,
where the number of DTWs, STWs, and RLI schemes are listed by years and by
distribution in 1973-74.
Existing Minor Irrigation Development
19.       Extensive DTW development began in 1960 and by mid-1974 *the number
of wells had grown to 2,245, most of which are operational. The wells are
constructed, owned and operated by the State Government. The number of
well failures has been small, (less than 2 percent) usually because of
inflow of very fine sand due to gravel pack failure or to screen clogging
with iron bacteria. Development of STWs began only a few years ago but
more than 60,500 were constructed by mid-1974. They are privately owned,
except for 3,350 wells constructed in the 1972-73 season by the State
Government which also owns and operates them. The DTWs and STWs are



ANNEX 2
Page 7
scattered throughout the alluvial plain, as shown in Table 2, with the
greatest concentration in the area south of the Ganges-Padma river. Instal-
lation of RLI schemes commenced in 1964 and increased to 2,068 by mid-1974.
Only about 5 percent have been completed in all respects, however, and much
work remains to be done, particularly with concrete pipe distribution systems
and intake and shore facilities. Work is also in progress in converting from
diesel to electric power for pumping. The RLI schemes, scattered throughout
the State on streams and beels with a perennial water supply, were constructed
and are owned and operated by the State Government.
20.       The DTWs are drilled by conventional or reverse rotary methods,
gravel packed and equipped with 35.5 cm diameter blank steel pipe for the
top 30 m and 21.6 cm blank or slotted steel pipe for the remaining depth.
Slotted pipe is used opposite the aquifer zones of medium to coarse sand
and gravel. The average total depth ranges from 80 to 180 m and well
capacities range from 120 to 280 m3/hr, with total lifts averaging about
7 to 10 m. The turbine pumps are of both lineshaft and submersible type,
powered by 17.5 hp electric motors, although about 125 pumps in Jalpaiguri
and West Dinajpur Districts are belt-driven by diesel engines. Along with
the pump house, living quarters were generally provided for the operator.
The pump discharges into a low-head, reinforced concrete pipe distribution
system with unlined field ditches from pipe outlets to individual farms.
21.       The STWs, consisting of 76 mm diameter pipe and brass or coir
strainer, are equipped with small centrifugal pumps and 5 hp diesel or
electric motor. These wells have capacities of 20 to 36 m3/hr. Well
depths generally range from 25 to 45 m although in some areas in Midnapore
and Howrah Districts the depths are over 100 m. Unlined ditches to distribute
the water are provided by the farmers.
22.       A typical RLI scheme consists of 2 to 3 centrifugal pumps each
with a capacity of 150 to 200 m3/hr. Powered by 20 to 25 hp electric or
diesel motors, they are designed for a total head of about 12 m. Steps are
being taken to convert from diesel to electric power as quickly as practic-
able. Most of the pumps and motors are located in structures on the
stream banks but many are mounted on steel or wood barges to give more
operational flexibility especially when the river banks are unstable or
where river level fluctuations are significant. All of the schemes are
designed to discharge into a buried concrete pipe distribution system but
in only a few locations has construction of the distribution system been
completed.



ANNEX 2
Page 8
23.       Successful installation of STWs requires favorable water table
conditions (depths to water less than 3 to 5 m) and favorable geological
conditions (productive aquifers at depths less than 30 to 50 m). These
conditions are found throughout a large part of the project area. In some
areas, however, DTWs are the only feasible installation because of greater
depths to water table or the presence of thick clay beds at shallower
drilling depths. Even in areas suitable for STWs, some DTWs are desirable
to provide irrigation water to the many farmers with small holdings (less
than 0.5 ha) who would be unable, individually or in small groups, to
finance a STW installation.
C. Proposed Minor Irrigation Development
24.       Number and Distribution:  The minor irrigation development proposed
for West Bengal as a component of an agricultural development project would
consist of the construction or improvement of three types of water extrac-
tion structures, of which 18,000 STWs and 300 DTWs would utilize groundwater
while completion of 600 of the existing RLIs would pump surface water from
rivers, lakes and canals. Location of the small construction program for
DTWs and completion of RLIs has not yet been decided while preliminary
allocation has been made for most STWs. Most new project facilities would
be located in selected priority areas comprising 51 blocks of six districts,
as shown on the map and in Table 3. The distribution of both existing and
proposed facilities within these priority areas of the six districts is
shown in Table 6. STWs would be constructed by private contractors working
for individual farmers. DTWs would be constructed by private contractors
working for MIC. Completion work on existing RLIs would be performed by
private contractors working for the Agricultural Engineering Directorate of.
the Department of Agriculture.   All structures would need to meet technical
and siting criteria to be established by the SWB before construction starts.
Farmers would operate STWs. Of the 300 new DTWs 200 would be owned and
operated by cooperatives or other farmers' groups which would be formed
prior to construction; the remaining 100 would be owned and operated by MIC.
Design and construction of all DTWs would be by MIC with assistance in early
years, as necessary, from the Agricultural Engineering Directorate on an
agency basis. Maintenance and repair of DTWs, presently by the Agricultural
Engineering Directorate, would continue in the same manner until such future
time that MIC may assume these functions. To improve effectiveness of DTWs
and RLIs maintenance, the project would strengthen the present facilities of
the Directorate by construction of field workshops and provision of mobile
shops and transport.
25.       The main factors affecting farmers' choice of power for STWs are
availability of electricity, reliability of electricity or diesel supplies,
comparative capital and recurrent costs, and operating flexibility. Detailed
information has been received from the West Bengal State Electricity Board
concerning ongoing schemes to increase power supplies and to expand the
transmission and distribution network. On the basis of this information it
appears that all proposed DTWs, and a substantial proportion of STWs, would



ANNEX 2
Page 9
be able to connect to the grid. Most present DTWs are operated by electricity
and existing RLIs are being converted from diesel to electric power at a
number of locations. There have been some complaints about unreliability of
electricity supplies in parts of the project area, but the situation has
improved significantly in recent months. Diesel fuel though scarce has been
available up to the present time, and in the future this situation could
deteriorate as a result of high cost and consequent strain on foreign exchange
resources.
26.       While there should be no problem to connect new DTWs to the
electrical grid, it is unlikely that. distribution lines can be provided
everywhere for STWs. Both connecting and power charges are subsidized
whereas diesel has to date been taxed.  Consequently, cost of water to Siw
farmers is substantially lower from electric pumps (Rs 0.070-0.077 per m
water) than from diesel pumps (Rs 0.104-0.112 per m3 water) (para 27). In
addition, since West Bengal electricity is mainly generated from coal, in-
creasing cost of oil would not affect generating costs but might cause
further increase in diesel costs. Consequently, the comparative cost of
power would depend on Government taxation and subsidy policies but it has
been assumed that a high cost margin between electricity and diesel would
remain. To offset the disadvantage of higher cost, diesel pumps are more
flexible. They can be moved to different tubewells, used to pump surface
water, or hired out. The electric pump-motor combination, by contrast, is
static and transformers need protection from theft. The State Electricity
Board has initiated a hiring scheme for mobile electric pump sets, but this
has not made much impact to date. Taking the foregoing factors into account,
it is assumed that 75 percent of the STWs in the project would be electric
powered and 25 percent would be diesel powered.
Water Cost
27.       The financial cost of water per cubic meter to the farmer, for
the different types of installation, is shown in the following table:



ANNEX 2
Page 10
---------------- STW     -----------      ---- DTW
(Diesel)             (Electric)            (Electric)
Clay      Loam       Clay      Loam        Clay      Loam
Hrs/Year 3            1,500      1,250     1,500      1,250      2,150      1,700
Volume (m )          40,500    33,750    40,500    33,750    430,000   336,000
Investment (Rs)       7,500     7,500      8,000      8,000    125,000   141,000
Annual Cost (Rs):
Operation           2,800     2,400      1,500      1,300     16,500    15,300
Amortization        1,400      1,400     1,300      1,300     14,700    16,300
Total               4,200     3,800      2,800     2,600      31,200    31,600
Cost/m3 (Rs)          0.104     0.112      0.070     0.077       0.073      0.094
Cost/hr (Rs)          2.80      3.03       1.88       2.08      14.51      18.59
The following table shows the economic cost of water without subsidies or taxes:
--------------- STW --_________ -------DTW- -
(Diesel)              (Electric)           (Electric)
Clay       Loam       Clay      Loam        Clay      Loam
Hrs/Year 3            1,500      1,250     1,500      1,250      2,150      1,700
Volume (m )          40,500    33,750    40,500    33,750    430,000   336,000
Investment (Rs)       6,600     6,600      7,300      7,300    115,000   132,000
Annual Cost (Rs):
Operation           1,900     1,650      2,550     2,150      21,200    19,000
Amortization        1,250     1,250      1,250      1,250     15,000    17,000
Total               3,150     2,900      3,800     3,400      36,200    36,000
Cost/n3 (Rs)          0.078     0.086      0.094     0.101       0.084      0.107
Cost/hr (Rs)          2.10      2.32       2.53       2.72      16.84      21.18
Electricity costs were taken at Rs 0.22 with subsidy and Rs 0.40 without
subsidy. Current diesel fuel price is Rs 1.20/liter of which Rs 0.50 is
tax. Capital recovery figures are based on 12% interest and on standard
life for different items of the investment. Despite an apparent economic
advantage for diesel over electricity, the use of electric power for irri-
gation pumps wherever possible is supported for the following reasons;
(a)  the electricity cost used in the comparative calculations
reflects the average costs of both generation and transmission.
However, if the supply to the agricultural sector for irrigation
use is restricted to off-peak hours (as expected to be the
case in West Bengal), then only the marginal cost of generation
and transmission would constitute the true economic cost of
electricity for irrigation. Depending on system and load
characteristics, the marginal cost could be substantially
lower than the average cost. Hence, if the off-peak consumption
assumption is made, the cost advantage would most likely shift
in favor of electric power;



ANNEX 2
Page 11
(b) diesel use involves a greater drain of India's foreign
exchange reserves than electricity and if foreign ex-
change is shadow-priced at a premium, electricity emerges
as the more economic power source; and
(c) whereas electricity supplies appear to be adequate,
diesel supplies are scarce and have to be allocated.
There is little evidence that the supply would improve
in the near future and basing large scale irrigation
development on diesel pumpsets may therefore be risky.
Drilling and Construction Capacities
28.       The capacity of the contracting firms now operating in West
Bengal to carry out the proposed works-is attested by the rate of expansion
over the past few years in the number of DTWs, RLIs and STWs constructed
(Table 2). A survey of the DTW drilling capacity showed that seven drilling
companies operating out of Calcutta have a capacity to complete a total of
1,000 to 1,500 DTWs each drilling season (December through May). Additional
private drilling companies operating in adjacent states would be available
and interested in drilling in West Bengal. There are sufficient local STW
drillers throughout the project area to install the proposed facilities.
The rate of expansion noted above also indicates that the several State
Organizations (Department of Agriculture, MIC and SWB), are fully capable
of planning and executing the work. Likewise, the supply of casing, pumps,
motors, and materials for civil works are all adequate. There are a number
of factories manufacturing reinforced concrete pipe for the irrigation
distribution systems, with ample capacity.
D. Crop Water Requirements, Irrigation
Coverage and Tubewell Spacing
29.       Irrigation efficiencies have been estimated based on observation
of conditions in the field in West Bengal and from experience gained else-
where. On loam soils an irrigation efficiency of 65% is assumed for STWs,
DTWs and RLIs. On heavy or clay soils, an irrigation efficiency of 85% is
used for DTWs and RLIs, with buried pipe distribution systems and large
pump discharge rates, and 80% for STWs. The newly established water manage-
ment research section of the Agricultural Department is conducting experi-
ments to determine crop water requirements for a variety of crops, on
different soils, with a view to optimizing water use. This section should
be in a position in two to three years time to present accurate figures for
crop water requirements on different soils.
30.       Crop and irrigation water requirements were estimated (Table 4)
by the procedures described in Technical Series No. 2 of the Water Manage-
ment Division of the Ministry of Agriculture entitled "A Guide for Esti-
mating Irrigation Water Requirements" dated June 1971. The procedure
utilizes crop consumptive use coefficients determined experimentally. The



ANNEX 2
Page 12
coefficients represent the ratio of crop use to "Class A" pan evaporation
determined on a monthly basis from the time of planting the crop until harvest.
For the purpose of this report a preliminary analysis was made using rainfall
data from representative stations in West Bengal and pan evaporation data
for Rajshahi in Bangladesh. The crop consumptive use coefficients were
taken from Technical Report No. 2.
31.       To determine maximum areas which can be irrigated within a command
area, and with respect to rate of water production, hours pumped per day and
irrigation efficiency, the basic data presented in Table 4 can be summarized
as follows:
Peak Water Demand
Crop
Irrigatton                 Volume Pumped
Growing            Require-                 3
Season              ments                 m /hectare/month
Crop        (Days)  Month    mm/month    65% Eff.         80% Eff.       85% Eff.
Paddy-
Boro       150     April       258           --           3,230          3,040
Paddy-
Trans-
planted
Aus        120     Hlay        148        2,280
Wheat       120     January    100         1,540
Potatoes   105      December   100         1,540            --             --
Paddy-
Aman       120     October      61          940             760             720
Jute        120     May          26          400            --             --
Major water requirements are for boro-paddy and aus-paddy. Wheat and potatoes
have similar peak water demands and aman-paddy and jute (both supplemental
irrigation only) have small irrigation water requirements. Records of
water use in the past five years, data collected during field visits, and
crop production records all indicate that the main impact of irrigation has
been on dry season crops. Consequently, irrigated area would be limited by
pumping capacity and to some extent by water distribution problems during
the dry season. Projected dry season cropping patterns (Annex 1) show that,
on clay soils, boro paddy would be the main crop and, on loam soils, wheat
and a small amount of potatoes, with similar water requirements, would be
grown. Using these assumptions, with irrigation efficiencies described in
para 29 and crop water requirements calculated in Table 4, the following
is the estimated irrigation coverage for the different structures:



ANNEX 2
Page 13
Clay Soils                       Loam Soils
Pumping Hours                   Pumping Hours
Area               Maximum       Area              Maximum
Irrigated              Per      Irrigated              Per
Structure       Ha       Total      Day          Ha      Total      Da
__yy                              _2. __
DTW           35       2,150      18          50       1,700      12
RLI           70       2,150      18          100      1,700      12
STW            3       1,500      12            5      1,250       9
Details are shown on Table 5.  Fairly high pumping hours for one peak month
for DTW and RLI are considered justified, firstly because previous pumping
records show similar figures during peak months and secondly, because of
good maintenance services which can replace motors and pumps in case repairs
at site are not possible. Sufficient peak daily pumping time remains in
the event there is no effective rainfall in the dry season. Somewhat lower
peak pumping hours for STWs reflect a safety margin considered necessary for
the smaller, privately-owned pumps and some anticipated difficulty in
organizing groups or neighbors for optimum water use, at least in the
immediate future. It is estimated that 65% of the proposed DTWs and about
40% of STWs would be on clay soils and, on this assumption, average annual
pumping hours are estimated at 2,000 for DTWs and 1,375 for STWs.
32.       The cropping pattern and intensity adopted for project area use
during the short and medium term future (Table 5) allows a potential for
additional crop intensification. This could be achieved theoretically, on
loam soils, by adopting a crop rotation of 300% intensity as follows (per
hectare of command area);
Crop                 Ha              Season
Wheat                0.9             Dec.-Mar.
Potatoes             0.1             Nov.-Feb.
Aus paddy            0.7             Apr.-Aug.
Jute                 0.3             Apr.-Aug.
Aman paddy           1.0             Jul.-Nov.
3.0
Clay soils would remain in a boro paddy-aman paddy pattern at 200% intensity.
Such intensification on loam soils, if ever attained in the future, would
increase at each facility the annual total volume pumped and total hours of
operation but would not increase the average maximum daily hours of pumping
in peak periods. The effect on utilization of estimated groundwater recharge
(comparable to Table 7) is as follows:



ANNEX 2
Page 14
-----------(million mn3)---------
-----Annual Draft---- -Percent Utilization-
District         Estimated  Project   Theoretical Project  Theoretical
(Priority Areas)     Recharge   Estimate   Potential   Estimate  Potential
West Dinajpur            403        230         279          57         69
Malda                    443        109         133          25         30
Murshidabad            1,143        345         419          30         37
Nadia                  1,030        283         344          27         33
Burdwan                  822        179         217          22         26
Hooghly                  442        121         148          27         33
(unallocated)                      218        263
All priority areas    4,283       1,485       1,803          35         42
Well Spacing
33.       Spacing between wells is important to avoid interference between
individual water users. Determination of minimum allowable spacing depends
upon a number of factors, many of .which are difficult to measure or estimate.
Principal considerations include: (a) physical properties of the water-
bearing materials and overlying deposits (permeability and specific yield);
(b) rate of pumping, which is influenced by design of the well, aquifer
properties, size of farmer's holding, cropping pattern, crop intensity,
pump design and climate; (c) duration of pumping (daily and seasonably),
which is influenced by the same factors as is the rate of pumping; and (d)
available recharge in the vicinity of wells, that is influenced by the mode
of occurrence of groundwater, aquifer properties (water table or artesian
conditions), climatic conditions (particularly rainfall amount and intensity),
character of surface soils and topography, and the presence of additional
recharge opportunity from canals or areas irrigated with surface water.
These factors are seldom consistent over even small areas, so that many
separate analyses have to be made to account for individual circumstances.
In addition to determining permissible minimum spacing between wells to
avoid mutual interference, it is equally important to determine maximum
permissible density of wells in a given area, to prevent overdevelopment or
"miningt" of groundwater. Recommended minimum well spacing and minimum well
density for tubewells have frequently been based upon empirical formulas
that cannot consider all of the local factors involved, with the result
that the spacing and density criteria calculated may be too lenient in
some cases and too harsh in others.
34.       Detailed pumping tests, to determine aquifer properties, have
been conducted at nearly 20 locations in the project (Burdwan, Hooghly,
Murshidabad, and West Dinajpur Districts). These tests indicated that
aquifers of high permeability were prevalent throughout the area, with
coefficients of transmissivity typically ranging from 1,800-6,000 m3/day/m
(150,000-500,000 USGpd/ft). Under these conditions, pumping a DTW through-
out the dry season would cause only small lowering of water levels in the
vicinity of the well, such as 0.2 to 0.6 m lowering at a distance of 1,000 m
from the well. The permissible spacing and density of tubewells can also
be calculated from formulas that relate average annual recharge to average
annual depletion. Such calculations for the project are as follows:



ANNEX 2
Page 15
------DTW-------               ---STW---
Clay                 Loam       Clay        Loam
Area Irrigated (A) in ha.          35                    50          3         5
Irrig. Requirement
(R) in rn/ha              1,045                   437     1,045        437
Avg. Recharge (r)
in mm.                      380                   380        380        380
Minimum Spacing (S)
in m                  980                   760        290        240
Max. Density 2d)
wells/km                    1.0                   1.7       12.1       17.4
% Total Area
Irrigated                    36                    87         36         87
Using the formulas:
S- 10 0Rx 
y,    r
and       d           lOOr
with R          total crop irrigation requirement (mm/ha)
for all crops grown in normal pattern on
the irrigated area
35.       From the foregoing, and until further investigations by SWB
indicate that modification is justified, it is recommended that DTWs on clay
soils should normally be spaced 1100 m apart and in no case less than 950 m;
the respective distances apart for DTWs on loam soils are 850 and 750 m.
STWs on clay should be spaced 350 m apart and never less than 250 m and on
loam, 300 and 200 m. respectively.  Maximum density of wells in a unit area
of, say, 10 km2 should be such that not more than 35 percent of that area
is irrigated from tubewells on clay soils and 85% on loam soils.
Water Availability
36.       The amount of groundwater to be extracted by existing and proposed
DTWs and STWs within the priority areas (11,220 km2) in the six districts
has been calculated (Table 7) on the assumption that all structures would
be constructed in these priority areas. Using crop irrigation requirements
determined for standard DTWs and STWs, (Table 4) the total annual draft on
the groundwater reservoir-(net depletion) is calculated at 1,485 million
m3.  With a recharge area of 11,220 km2, and using infiltration perc Intage
of 25% (see para 16), total recharge is estimated at 4,283 million m ,
indicating that the 41,800 STWs and 1,360 DTWs in the priority areas (see
Table 7) will extract about one third of the average annual groundwater
recharge. As previously explained, this average recharge is calculated as
resulting solely from infiltration of rainfall, without including any amount



ANNEX 2
Page 16
for additional recharge by surplus irrigation water from other sources, by
flood waters or other possible sources, and therefore is conservative.
37.       The amount of surface water available for lift irrigation schemes
has not been determined accurately. The effect of the Farrakka Barrage in
increasing future flows was noted in paragraph 11. The completion of 600
existing RLI schemes may be expected to pump an additional 320 million m3
per year, mainly in the four dry months. Available records and past ex-
perience indicated that there is ample availability of surface water for
the completion of these existing RLI schemes. There is a need, however,
for precise gaugings to determine the exact quantities of available surface
water, as well as determination of the interactions between surface and
underground waters and observation of river level fluctuations and flood-
stage levels. Some of the rivers tend to shift their beds, and studies
must be made to avoid losses and setbacks from such shifting before any
additional RLIs schemes are sited.
E. Improved Water Utilization
38.       There is a need for improved water utilization and management on
the existing state-owned and privately owned minor irrigation facilities.
The irrigated area at many installations is significantly smaller than it
should be. -The use of standard designs at-DTWs and RLIs, without
modification to fit local site conditions, has resulted in instances of
investment costs higher than necessary; this is particularly true with
respect to such items as depth of well, size of motors and pumps and pipe
distribution system layout. Distribution system design has frequently
failed to consider fully the topographic and soil conditions with the
result that some irrigable lands in a command area cannot receive water.
Some DTW and RLI installations have been sited and constructed without
sufficient prior attention given to the interest of the adjacent farmers in
an irrigation development and a determination of their willingness to
participate in the undertaking.
39.       As a prerequisite to project investment in the completion of 600
existing RLIs, an in-depth technical study should be made to arrive at
optimum designs for the sites. The study should be initiated and coordinated
by the Chief Engineer (Agriculture) assisted by specialists from the staffs
of the Agricultural Engineering Directorate, SWB, MIC, and local private
consulting firms; additional valuable help could be obtained from the Water
Management Division (GOI) and from ARC water management specialists. Short-
term employment of a foreign consultant specializing in small irrigation
system layout could be of considerable help. These same investigations
would apply to the new DTW program but it is not as critical as in the case
of the RLIs.
40.       Problems relating to water utilization and management, with
suggestions for improved methods and practices, are discussed more fully
in Reference 1.



ANNEX 2
Page 17
F. Organizations
41.        Up to the end of 1973 the State's participation in the tubewell
and RLI programs was conducted through the Agricultural Engineering Directo-
rate of the Department of Agriculture. The Directorate, headed by the Chief
Engineer (Agriculture), was responsible for planning, installing, operating
and maintaining DTWs, STWs, and RLI schemes. It reviewed schemes submitted
by banks and ARC for private development, mainly for STWs. The Groundwater
and Surface Water Investigation Unit of the Directorate, established in 1970,
was responsible for collecting basic water resource data and for planning
minor irrigation schemes. Two other units were responsible for the installa-
tion, operation and maintenance of the state-owned tubewell and riverlift
schemes.
42.       The rapid expansion and increasing importance of minor irrigation,
the need to integrate and coordinate state-wide water resource studies with
respect to evaluation, allocation, development, and management -- plus a
number of other considerations--led the State to establish, early in 1974,
a West Bengal State Water Board (SWB) and a Minor Irrigation Corporation
(MIC).  SWB was constituted by a Government Resolution of January 2, 1974
and MIC by resolution of January 2.7, 1974.
43.        Transfer of the respective functions and staff now in the Agri-
cultural Engineering Directorate, to SWB and MIC, is now in progress and
will continue. The responsibility for construction of new facilities will
be the first undertaking of MIC to be followed eventually by the responsibil-
ity for operating and maintaining all State-owned STWs, DTWs, and RLI schemes.
44.        The prime objective of SWB is to ensure that the water resources
of the State are fully known and are allocated and developed in a rational
manner.  The Groundwater and Surface Water Investigation Unit has already
transferred from the Directorate to SWB and would continue the on-going
work of test drilling, aquifer evaluation, and studies to improve tech-
nology for better exploitation of groundwater. (Variations in well design,
screen lengths, pump designs and sizing, well spacing and recharge, etc.
which are more fully discussed in Reference 1). The surface-water investi-
gations, largely ignored in the past, would be fully pursued. GOWB agrees,
in view of the importance and scope of work to be done by SWB, that the
organization should be directed by a full-time experienced Chairman instead
of the previous position of part-time Chairman. As SWB dqvelops, it could
perform a valuable service in coordinating all water resource investigations
for the maximum benefit to various agencies (Public Works, Agriculture,
Public HIealth, etc). SWB would aiso be a logical group to administer the
Groundwater Control and Regulation Bill now under consideration for, adoption
by the State legislature. Possible organization for SWB is shown on
Chart 8587.
45.        The ultimate prime objective of the MIC is to construct, operate
and iiiaintain the minor irrigation facilities which are state-owned, includ-
ing taking over all such existing facilities. With the technical staff
already assigned to MIC, it is possible to commence with the function of



ANNEX 2
Page 18
new DTW constructions, using staff and facilities of the Directorate on an
agency basis as required. Transfer of existing minor irrigation facilities
to MIC, for operation and maintenance, will have to be phased over a
period of some years. Many of the existing facilities need completion or
rehabilitation. All existing maintenance shops and personnel are presently
with the Directorate and will remain there--with MIC using them on an agency
basis--until a complete transfer is practicable. Possible organization for
MIC is shown on Chart 8588.
46.       Proposals for staffing the groundwater sections of SWB and MIC are
shown in Table 8. Such a staff, with necessary administrative support, is
adequate to deal with current and foreseeable aspects of groundwater investi-
gations and development. In addition to the groundwater sections, SWB will
require a surface water section. For the time being, the surface water
monitoring unit of the Inland Waterways and Irrigation Directorate can pro-
vide data to SWB necessary for its work, provided adequate liaison is
established between the Board and the Directorate. In the longer term, it
would be preferable to transfer the unit to SWB. The minimum staffing
requirements of such unit in SWB would be:  one supervising engineer, 3 senior
engineers, 6 hydrologists-hydrographers and 15 field and office assistants.
47.       Since SWB would play a key role in the project, the timing of staff
appointments is important. The minimum staff requirements, before the credit
becomes effective, apart from the surface water unit would be: the full
time executive chairman and the three section chiefs. Within six months of
credit effectiveness, the following additional staff should be in their
post: at least four additional professional staff members each in the two
groundwater sections (at least two in each section should be senior executive
engineers or of similar rank), together with adequate field and office sup-
porting staff. The Chairman has been appointed and adequate technical staff
for the groundwater sections to meet the above requirements has been transfer-
red to SWB from the Department of Agriculture, but suitable administrative
staff remains to be appointed. In addition, there will be a need for strength-
ening in many fields, and for recruitment both from outside (specialists) and
within the State of West Bengal. The Central Groundwater Board of GOI is
ready to help with secondment and with training facilities. However, the
SWB Chairman feels that some training and experts will have to be obtained
outside India (as on models, computerized groundwater data, use of environ-
mental isotopes, etc.).



INDIA
WEST BENGAL AGRICULTURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Table 1: Monthly Rainfall and Temperature as 30 Year lsana0 (1931 - 1960)
Total
Jan.  Feb. Mar. April   May   June   July    Aug.   Sept.   Oct.  Nov.  Dec.           or
Mean
Burdwan (Elev. 32 m); Burdwan Dist.
Temperature (°C) mean daily maximum  26.2  28.6  34.1  37.5   37.2   34.8   32.0   31.9    32.2   31.4   28.1  26.2          31.7
Temperature (OC) mean daily minimum  12.7  14r-9  20.1   24.3  25.8   26.1   25.8   25.8    25.7   23e7   17.8  13.6         21.4
Rainfall (mm)                         11.2  24.6  25.0   46.1  11)4.8  196.0  314.4  301.2   236,5  106.8   23o0  403  1,403.9
No. of rainy days                      0.9   1.8   1.7    3.0    6.5   10.6   15.9   16.3    11.5    5.2    1.1   Oe2         74.7
Krishna_nagar (Eloe. 15 m); Nadia Dist.
Temperature (OC) mean daily maximum  26.8  29.6  35.0   37.9   37.0   34.3  32.3   32.4    32.9   32.6   30.2  27,4          32.4
Temperature (°C) mean daily minimum  11.1  13.7  18.8   23.4   25.2   26.0   25.6   25.7    25,5   23.0   16.7  12,1         20.6
Rainfall (mm)                         10.9  23.1  31,3   60.0  140.6  252,2  281.3  271,1   204,9  130.4   26.1   2.9  1,434.8
No. of rainy days                      0.9   1.7   2.0    3.6    7.7   12.6   16.7   15.9    11.3    6.1    1.1   0.2         79.8
Berhampore (Elev. 19 m); Murshidabad Dist.
Temperature (°C) mean daily maximum  25,7  28.4  34.1  37.6   37.1   34.5  32.5   32,3    32.8   32.2   29.4  26.4            31.9
Temperature (OC) mean daily minimum  11,8  13.7  18.4   23.1   24.7   26.0   26.0   26,1    25.8   23.3   17.4  13.1          20.8
Rainfall (mm)                         12.8  19.1  17.6   37.3  114o6  218.7  294.5  301.6   226.4  126.6  15.8   3.9  1,388.9
No. of rainy days                      1.0   1.6   1.7    2.7    6,6   12,2   17.5   15.7    12.2    5.8    1.0   0.3         78.3
Malda (Elev. 31 m); Malda Dist.
Temperature (OC) mean daily maximum  24.2  26,8  32.6   36.o   35.6   33,6   31.8   31,6    31.7   30.9   27.6  25,1          30.6
Temperature (°C) mean daily minimum  10.8  12.8  17.4   22.1   24.7   25.8   26.2   26.2    25,8   22.8   15.7  12,2          20.2
Rainfall (mm)                         12.6  18.0  15.2   28.1  104)4  231,9  302.7  288.2   276,3  117,7   13.2   1.5  1,4099
No. of rainy days                     11   1.4   1.3    2.0    5,3   10.6   14.1  15.1    11.4    4.8    0.5   0.2           67.8
November 1, 1974



ANNEX 2
INDIA
WEST BENGAL AGRICULTURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Table 2: Increase and Present Distribution
of DTWs, STWs and RLIs in West Bengal
YEARS                                       CUMULATIVE TOTALS
DTW         STW         RLI
1960-61                                95                      -
1964-65                             1,010           -        170
1969-70                             1,566           -        667
1970-71                             1,693       11,500       753
1971-72                             1,756       39,291       943
1972-73                             2,001       42,611     1,468
1973-74                             2,245       60,573     2,o68
DISTRICTS                              DISTRIBUTION - 1973-74
Darjeeling                              1            0         1
Jalpaiguri                             33          40g         7
Cooch Behar                            15        1,943        15
West Dinajpur                         116        4,837       270
Mal da                                128        5,586       347
Murshidabad                           368        6,880       264
Birbhum                                40        3,107        65
Nadia                                 510        7,620       239
Burdwan                               301        7,114       191
Hooghly                               240        5,720       219
Bankura                                59        1,632        65
Purulia                                 0            0        12
Midnapore                             152        6,234       212
Howrah                                 79        1,411        46
24-Parganas                           213        8,o80       115
2,245      60,573      2,068
November 1, 1974



TNDTIA
WEST BENGAL AGRICULTURAL DEVELO1MET PROJECT
Table 3: Priority Areas for Minor Irrigation Development
District               Priority Areas        Police Statiorsor Blocks          District          Priority Areas        Police Stations or Blocks
West Dinajpur                   Kaliaganj             Henmtabad                        Nadia             Chakdaha               Chakdaha
4T5,553 kI)                     (982 km2)           Kaliaganj                           (3,906 Im2)       (932 ln2)           Haringhata
Raiganj
Karimpur              Chapra
Malda                           Samsi                 Harishchandrapur                                      (1,179 ln2)         Karimpur
(3,605 km2)                     (1,150 km2)         Kharba                                                                    Tehatta
Malda Sadar
Ratua                            Burdwan           Burdwan                Bhatar
(7,006 km2)       (1,114 im2)          Burdwan
Murshidabad                     Cossimbazar           Be1dafgu                                                                  Khondokhosh
(5,307 khin)                    (2,155 kmi2)        Berhampore                                                                Raina I
Domkal                                                                    Raina II
Ilariharpara
Jalangi                                            Kalna                  Kalna I
Murshidabad (part)                                   (497 km2)            Kalna II
Nowda                                                                     Purbathali
Raninagar (part)
Katwa                 Katwa I
Jiaganj               Bhagobangola (part)                                   (821 km2)           Katwa II
(888 km2)          Jiagunj                                                                    Ketugram I
Murshidabad (part)                                                        Ketugram II
Nabagram                                                                  Mongolkot (part)
Raninagar (part)
Sagardighi                       Hooghly           Pandua                 Balagarh
(3,144 km2)       (544 km2)           Mogra
Lalgola                Bhagobangola (part)                                                       Pandua
(339 kml )           Lalgola
Raghunathgunj (part)                               Sheoraphooly           Bhadreswar
(619 kmI)           Chandannagar
Chanditala
Jangipara
Sheoraphooly
Singur                             to
November 13, 1974



INDIA
WEST BENGAL AGRICULTURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Table 4:  Estimated Crop and Irrigation Water Requirements
Jan.     Feb.      Mar.     Apr.      May     Jun.      Jul.      Aug.      Sep.     Oct.      Nov.      Dec.     Annual
Paddy Rice
Boro
Crop coefficient (%)                        51       105      .113      121     118        51
Pan evaporation (mm)                        99       135      214       242     221       165
Et (mm)                                     50       142      242       293     261        84                                                       100
Effective rainfall (ma)                      0        15       20        35      100       84                                                          0
Crop irrigation requirement (mm)            50       127      222       258      161        0                                                       100         918
Irrigation requirements:
85% efficiency (mm)                     59       149      261       304     189         0                                                       118       1,080
(m3/ha)                590    1,490    2,610    3,040   1,890           0                                                     1,180      10,800
80% efficiency (m2) 63                           159      278       323     201         0                                                       125       1,148
(m /ha)                630    1,590    2,780    3,230   2,010           0                                                     1,250      11,480
Aman
Crop coefficient (%)                                                                                 51       112      121       114        43
Pan evaporation (mm)                                                                                140       135      150       137       125
Et (mm)                                                                                   100        71       151      182       156        54
Effective rainfall (mm)                                                                   100        71       151      155        95        15
Crop irrigation requirement (mm)                                                            0         0         0       27        61        39                   127
Irrigation requirements:
85% efficiency (mm)                                                                     0         0         0       32        72        46                  149
(m3/ha)                                                                 0         0        0       320       720      460                 1,490
80% efficiency (mm)                                                                     0         0        0        34        76        49                  159
(m3/ha)                                                                 0         0        0       340       760      490                 1,590
65% efficiency (mm)                                                                     0         0         0       42        94        60                  195
(m3/ha)                                                                 0         0        0       420       940      600                 1,950
Aus
Crop coefficient (%)                                                     51      112      121       114        43
Pan evaporation (mm)                                                    242      221       165      140       135
Et (mm)                                                        100      123      248      200       160        58
Effective rainfall (mm)                                         20        35     100       160      160        58
Crop irrigation requirement (mm)                                80       88      148        40        0         0                                                356
Irrigation requirements:
65% efficiency (m)                                         123      135      228       62         0.        0                                                548
(m /ha)                                 1,230    1,350   2,280        620         0        0                                              5,480
November 8, 1974



INDIA
WEST BENGAL AGRICULTURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Table 4 (Cont'd): Estimated Crop and Irrigation Water Requirements
Jan.       Feb.    Mar.      Apr.      May     Jun.     Jul.      Aug.     Sep.      Oct.     Nov.      Dec.    Annual
Wheat
Crop coefficient (%)                      101        74       15                                                                                  55
Pan evaporation (mm)                       99       135      214                                                                                 107
Et (mu)                                   100       100        32                                                                                 59
Effective rainfall (mm)                     0        15        20                                                                                  0
Crop irrigation requirement (mm)          100        85        12                                                                                           256
Irrigation requirements:
65% efficiency (m=)                   154       131       18                                                                                  91        394
(mi /ha)            1,540     1,310       180                                                                                910       3,940
Jute
Crop coefficient (%)                                                     23      57        96      103       35
Pan evaporation (mm)                                                    242     221       165      140      135
Et (mm)                                                                  56     126       158      144       47
Effective rainfall (mm)                                                  35     100       158      144       47
Crop irrigation requirement (mm)                                         21      26         0        0        0                                               47
Irrigation requirements:
65% efficiency (mm)                                                  32      40         0        0        0                                               72
(m3/ha)                                             320     400         0        0        0                                              720
Potatoes
Crop coefficient (%)                       96        43                                                                                   15      93
Pan evaporation (mm)                       99       135                                                                                  125     107
Et (mm)                                    95        58                                                                                   19     100
Effective rainfall (mm)                     0        15                                                                                   15       0
Crop irrigation requirement (mm)           95        43                                                                                    4     100         242
Irrigation requirements:
65% efficiency (mm)                   146        66                                                                                    6     154         372
(m7/ha)             1,460       660                                                                                   60   1,540       3,720
November 8, 1974



INDIA
WEST BENGAL AGRICULTURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Table 5: Estimated Irrigation Pumping Requirements
Jan      Feb       Mar      Apr       May      Jun       Jul       Aug      Sep       Oct       Nov      Dec      Annual
Deep Tubewells
A. Clay soil (35 ha, 85% irrig. eff.)
Boro paddy (m3 for 35 ha)               20,650  52,150   91,350   106,400  66,150                                                                41,300
Aman paddy (m3 for 35 ha)                                                                                           11,200   25,200   16,100
Total pumping (i3)                      20,650  52,150   91,350   106,400  66,150          0         0        0    11,200   25,200   16,100   41,300    430,500
Hours pumping (at 200 m3/hr)               103      261      457        532     330        0         0        0         56       126       81       207       2,153
Avg. pumping (hrs/day)                       3        9       15         18       11       0         0        0          2         4         3        7
B. Loam soil (50 ha 65% irrig. eff.)
Wheat (m3 for 45 ha)                    69,300  58,950    8,100                                                                                  40,950
Potatoes (m3 for 5 ha)                   7,300   3,300                                                                                    300    7,700
Aus paddy (m3 for 20 ha)                                  24,600    27,000  45,000    12,400
Jute (m3 for 15 ha)                                                   4,800   6,ooo
Aman paddy (m3 for 10 ha)                                                                                            4,200    9,400    6,ooo
Total pumping (i3)                      76,600  62,250   32,700    31,800  51,600    12,400          0        0      4,200    9,400    6,300   48,650    335,900
Hours pumping (at 200 m3/hr)               383      311      164        159      258        62       0        0         21        47        32      243       1,680
Avg. pumping (hrs/day)                      12       11        5          5        8         2       0        0          1         2         1        8
Shallow Tubewells
A. Clay soil (3 ha 80% irrig. eff.)
Boro paddy (mi for 3 ha)                 1,890   4,770    8,340       9,690   6,030                  0         0                                  3,750
Aman paddy (m3 for 3 ha)                                                                                             1,260    2,820    1,800
Total pumping (m3)                       1,890   4,770    8,340       9,690   6,o30                  0        0      1,260    2,820    1,800    3,750        40,350
Hours pumping (at 27 m3/hr)                 70      177       309       359      223                                    47       104        67      139       1,495
Avg. pumping (hrs/day)                       2        6        10        12        7                 0         0         2         3         2         4
B. Loam soil (5 ha, 65% irrig. eff.)
Wheat (m3 for 4.5 ha)                    6,930   5,895       810                                                                                  4,095
Potatoes (m3 for 0.5 ha)                   730      330                                                                                     30      770
Aus paddy (m3 for 2 ha)                                    2,460      2,700   4,560      1,240
Jute (m3 for 1.5 ha)                                                    480      600
Aman paddy (m3 for 1 ha)                                                                                               420       940       600
Total pumping (m3)                       7,660   6,225    3,270       3,180   5,160      1,240       0         0       420       940       630    4,865      33,590
Hours pumping (at 27 m3/hr)                284      231       121       118      191        46       0         0         16       35        23       180      1,245
Avg. pumping (hrs/day)                        9       8         4         4        6         2       0         0          1        1         1         6
Riverlifts
A. Clay soil (70 ha, 85% irrig. eff.)         (Crop areas, volume of water per crop, and total volume pumped are double the corresponding amounts shown
above for Deep Tubewells;
B. Loam soil (100 ha, 65% irrig. eff.)         Pumping hours per month and average hours pumping per day are same as corresponding amounts above for
(each pumping at 400 m3/hr)             Deep Tubewells).
November 8, 1974.



INDIA
WEST BENGAL AGRICULTURAL DEVELOrMENT PROJECT
Table 6: Existing and Proposed Minor Irrigation Facilities in Project Area
- - --   --   -Existing Facilities                        -              -        Proposed Project Facilities         - - - - - - -
District                    State-owned             Privately-owned                             State-owned           Privately-owned
.Electric)   (Diesel)        e                    Total No.       (Electric)  (Diesel)    (Electric)  (Diesel)   Total No.
SHALLOW TUBEWELLS
West Dinajpur                         200                       -         4,637        4,837                                    2,350         780        3,130
Malda                                 239                       144       5,203        5,586                                    1,090         360        1,450
Murshidabad                           936                        90       5,854        6,880                                    2,820         940        3,760
Nadia                                 600                       239       6,781       7,620                                     1,160         390        1,550
Burdwan                               408                       131       6,575       7,114                                     1,130         380        1,510
Hooghly                               350                        60       5,310        5,720                                    1,200         400        1,600
(Unallocated)                          _                        _           -           _                                       3,750       1,250        5,000
Totals                 P,733                        664     34,360       37,757                                    13,500      4,500       18,00G
DEEP TUBEWELLS
West Dinajpur                          21          95                                    116              -
Malda                                 128           -                                    128              -
Murshidabad                           368           -                                    368              -
Nadia                                 510           -                                    510              -
Burdwan                               301           -                                    301              -
Hooghly                               240           -                                    240              -                        _                       _
(Unallocated)                          -           --                                                   100                       200                      300
Totals                 1,568           95                                 1,663             100                       200                      300
RIVERLIFTS
West Dinajpur                          -           270                                   270                         80                                      80
Malda                                  78          289                                   347                         90                                      90
Murshidabad                           134          130                                   264                         70                                      70
Nadia                                 134          105                                   239                         60                                      60
Burdwan                                99           92                                   191                         40                                      40
Hooghly                                64          155                                   219                         60                                      60
(Unallocated)                          -           -                                     -                         200                                     200
Totals                   489        1,041                                 1,530                        600                                     600
November 12, 1974



INDIA
WEST BENGAL AGRICULTURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Table 7: Estimated Project Area Groundwater Recharge and Utilization
- - - - - - - - - - - - - - - -Priority Areas of Project Districts A  - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - -
Priority                   Annual Recharee2             a           a  Annual Draft/   Annual Surplus Recharge   Percent
T), strict              Area(km2)   Rainfall(mm)   (mm)   (m3xlOb)    STW(No.)   DTW(No.)          (m3xlO6)              (m3x1o6)             Utilization
West Dinajpur                       982       1,640          410       403       7,725         100            230                    173                  57
Malda                             1,150       1,540          385       443       3,685          45            109                    334                  25
Murshidabad                       3,382       1,350          338    1,143        9,540         330            345                    798                   30
Nadia                             2,111       1,310          328    1,030        7,795         275            283                    747                   27
Burdwan                           2,432       1,350          338       822       4,570         205            179                    643                   22
Hooghly                           1,163       1,520          380       442       3,485         105            121                    321                   27
(Unallocated proposed
facilities)                                                                 5,000         300            218
Total Priority Areas             11,220                              4,283      41,800       1,360          1,485                  2,798                   35
1   See Map and Table 3 for details.
2   Assuming 25% of rainfall as recharge.
3   Number of installations in '73-'74, projected from records of previous year, plus project facilities.
Assuming average annual draft (net depletion) of 26,000 m3 for each STW and 293,000 m3 for each DTW.
November 13, 1974



ANNEX 2
INDIA
WEST BENGAL AGRICULTURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Table 8: Staff Requirements
STATE WATER BOARD GROUNDWATER SECTION
---- Hydrogeologists---  -----Geophysicists-----
Super   Senior   Hydro   Senior   Geoph   S.T.A.
Directing Group                       1       _         1       -        -        _
A.   Surveys & Investigation          -       3         6       -         -      12
B.   Aquifer Coefficients             -       1         2       -        -        2
C.   Geophysics                       -       -         -       1        2        3
D.   Library; maps pablication        -       1         2       -         -       -
E.   Laboratory; models; comput.      -       1         2       -         -       4
F.   Data Storage & retrieval         -       1         2       -        -        -
Totals                1        7       15       1         2      21
1'NOR IRRIGATION CORPORATION GROUNDWATER SECTION
Engineers, Civil and Mechanical
Super.    Execut.    Assist.    S.T.A.
Directing Group                      1         _            1         -
G.  Well Drilling/Construct.         -         1            2         -
H.  Well Development/Testing         -         1            2         2
I.   Structures and Pumps            -         1            2         4
J.   Procurement & Supplies          1         2            4         -
K.   Legal; Contracts                -         -            -
L.   Maintenance of Structures       -         1            2         -
M.   Operation of Structures         -         -            -         -
N.   Planning and Design             -         1            2         4
Totals               2          7          15         10
November 6, 1974



INDIA
WEST BENGAL AGRICULTURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Proposed Organization Chart of the Minor Irrigation Corporation
CHAIRMAN
BOARD OF DIRECTORS
MANAGING DIRECTOR
|CHIEF SECRETARY
CHIEF ENGINEER                                        CHIEF: ADMINISTRATION]
PLANNING AND             MAINTENANCE                      FINANCE AND
SUPERVISION                 AND                             BUDGE                     NISTRATION
OF CONTRACTS              OPERATION
World Bank 8588



INDIA
WEST BENGAL AGRICULTURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Proposed Organization Chart of the State Water Board
BOARD
CHIEF: SURFACE                           CHIEF: GROUNDWATER                                          CHIEF: GROUNDWATER|                        CHIEF:
WATER RESOURCES                                HYDROLOGIST                                                   ENGINEER                        ADMINISTRATION
WATER  ~       LBRRYRESEARCH AND                                 AUFRSORS&AMN
RESOURCES  LIBRARYDEVELOPMENT                                 TESIGSPLE
RESEARCH AND                             GEOPHYSICAL                                                              FIELD
|HYDROLOGY            DEVELOPMENT          HYDROLOGY        IHYOROCHEMICAL|    ILABORATORIES                      EXPLORTR
MEASUREMENTS
& RECORDS
World Bank-8587i2R)



ANNEX 2
Appendix 1
Page 1
INDIA
WEST BENGAL AGRICULTURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Guidelines for Qualifications and Terms of
Reference for Experts to be recruited by the
West Bengal State Water Board
1.        Groundwater Hydrogeologist
He would assist and advise SWB to evaluate all aspects of ground-
water availability, recharge and storage and to explore methods of under-
ground storage of surplus surface water. In particular, he would assist
SWB to establish, monitor and evaluate a pilot project to test methods of
increasing groundwater recharge and storage.
Terms of Reference: The expert would:
(a) Train counterpart staff;
(b) Assist SWB to select representative small areas for intensive
analysis, to evaluate all aspects of underground water
storage and water recharge therein;
(c) Determine and advise on methods of groundwater use and of
maximizing recharge, commensurate with optimum economic use
of groundwater in West Bengal;
(d) Assist SWB to select areas for recharge experiments and to
establish one or more experiments to test groundwater
recharge techniques such as water spreading, use of recharge
pits or wells, land management methods and other techniques
considered suitable for West Bengal;
(e) Establish a data collection system for monitoring the
experiments and for determining the effect of withdrawal
and recharge on groundwater storage;
(f) Evaluate results of experiments in terms of technical and
economic feasibility;
(g) Prepare periodic and final reports comprising a review of
work done with suggestions for a future work program.



ANNEX 2
Appendix 1
Page 2
Qualifications: The expert should have a university qualification in
engineering or geology, with emphasis on hydrology, preferably with
post graduate training. He should have had at least ten years experience
specifically with the determination of occurrence and development of
groundwater. This experience should be in alluvial soft rock terrain and
not hard rock. He should have experience in teaching and training
counterpart staff.
Employment Period: 18-24 months.
2.        Agricultural Engineer (Irrigation) or Irrigation
Agronomist with Engineering Qualifications
His main function would be to ensure that farmers' interests are
fully represented in SWB and to ensure that no gap develops between the
agricultural and the engineering approach within SWB.
Terms of Reference: The expert would:
(a) Train counterpart staff;
(b) Correlate water supply (rainfall and irrigation) and
drainage operations with agricultural requirements;
(c) Advise SWB on water and drainage development alternatives
related to regional development plans;
(d) Collect information for assessment of the benefits of
various water development options;
(e) Establish a methodology and systems for continuing assessment
and reassessment of optimum water development and use, so
as to cater for changes in engineering and farming technology;
(f) Review available information on water use in relation to
cropping patterns and provide guidelines to the relevant
technical agency on optimum irrigation water use;
(g) Prepare: (i) progress reports; (ii) a final report
comprising description of work completed; (iii) sugges-
tions for future work programs and for the establishment
of water development guidelines.
Qualifications: The expert should have a university degree in one or more
of the following: irrigation engineering, agricultural engineering, or
irrigation agronomy, preferably with post graduate training. He should



ANNEX 2
Appendix 1
Page 3
have at least 10 years practical experience of irrigation, drainage and rainfed
agriculture in the tropics, preferably in an alluvial plain under monsoon
rainfall conditions, and he should have reasonable experience of hydrology.
Economics qualifications would be an advantage and he should have staff training
experience.
Employment Period: 18 - 24 months.
3.        Groundwater Model Specialist (short term consultancy)
The specialist should be an internationally recognized authority
in groundwater model construction and evaluation. His services would be
required for two visits each of one month.
4.        Groundwater Management Specialist (short term consultancy)
The specialist should be an internationally recognized authority
in groundwater management. His services would be required for two visits
each of one month.



ANNEX 2
Appendix 2
Page 1
INDIA
WEST BENGAL AGRICULTURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Outline Terms of Reference for RLI Study
The objective of the study is to evaluate alternative construction
designs for diesel RLI schemes in order to reduce costs of construction,
operation, and maintenance and at the same time increase efficiency of water
distribution. Elements of the study, to accomplish the objective, are set
out in more detail below:
A.   Analysis of Existing RLI Schemes
1.   Select representative completed schemes for detailed study;
schemes should represent different command area soil types,
shore or bank conditions, river level fluctuations, etc.
2.   Compare original design command area and cropping patterns
with actual practice.
3.   Summarize performance history as to hours of operation,
fuel consumption, and costs for operation, maintenance,
and repair.
4.   Measure actual pump discharge, total lift, pump efficiency,
and field channel water losses.
5.   Summarize and analysis inadequacies of each scheme.
B.   Selection of Schemes for Completion
1.   Compile a list of incompleted schemes with data on shore
or bank conditions, lift, anticipated water level fluctuations,
size of potential comand area, water user interest in irri-
gation, soil types, etc.
2.   Select approximately forty schemes from the list, where
water users interest is significant, that will be represen-
tative of the different physical environment to be found
in all schemes.



ANNEX 2
Appendix 2
Page 2
C.  Alternative Designs
1.   Prepare detailed topographic maps and soil surveys for
the representative schemes selected for completion.
2.   Analyze cropping patterns and irrigation water require-
ments.
3.   Prepare a number of alternative designs for individual
scheme features including:
(a) Intake facilities
(b) Suction lines or rising mains
(c) Shore or bank installations
(d) Pump and engine designs
(e) Fuel handling and storage
(f) Pipe distribution and delivery valves
(g) Field channels and structures
4.   Prepare cost estimates for each alternative, including both
construction and operation and maintenance, using actual
experience data whenever available.
5.  Prepare standard designs, drawings, specifications, and
contract documents for feasible alternative plans for each
scheme feature.
D.   Operation and Maintenance
1.   Evaluate existing methods and procedures and their in-
adequacies.
2.   Prepare recommendations for improved operation and main-
tenance, including:
(a) Preventive maintenance
(b) Water distribution
(c) Water measurement
(d) Record-keeping



ANNEX 3
Page 1
INDIA
WEST BENGAL AGRICULTURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
The Lending Banks
A. Introduction
1.        The primary financing agencies under the project would be the LDB
and commercial banks, as in other similar IDA projects in India. However,
the commercial banks would play a major role in project lending because a
part of the funds would go to the MIC, which the LDBs presently cannot
finance; and because the LDB branch network does not cover the whole project
area. The participation of LDBs would therefore be limited to part of the
STW program to be taken up by individual farmers or groups, estimated to be
about 40% of this program.
2.        ARC has initiated preparation of a Banking Plan to explore bank
participation in the project.  The LDB and eight nationalized banks have
agreed to participate, but areas and financial involvements are yet to be
finalized. The detailed plan would be worked out by Government, ARC and
the banks but a broad outline is given in Appendix 1.
3.        About three-quarters of the loans to be handled by the commercial
banks is expected to be through the United Bank of India (UBI) and State
Bank of India (SBI), with the other six banks handling the remainder.
However, the volume of loans to be handled by the LDB and the banks would
not be fixed and there would be some competition between them. The lead
bank in any district will be made responsible for coordination of the
financial institutions and liaison with district authorities. It would
also identify further centers for branch opening in the project areas.
B. The Commercial Banks
General
4.        The commercial banking system in India comprises 83 banks of
which the 22 largest banks are in the nationalized sector while the remainder
including 12 foreign banks, are privately owned. Of the 83 banks 74 are
scheduled, i.e. their paid-up capital and reserves exceed Rs 0.5 million,
and the remaining nine are non-scheduled banks. The 22 nationalized sector
banks (all of which are scheduled) are the SBI and its seven subsidiaries
which were nationalized between 1955 and 1959 and 14 banks which were taken



ANNEX 3
Page 2
over by GOI in July 1969. These banks account for 84% of aggregate deposits,
and 85% of total bank credit and 82% of total bank branches in India.
Nationalized Sector Banks
5.        Constitution and Management:  The SBI and its subsidiaries are
incorporated under separate Acts of Parliament, i.e. State Bank of India Act,
1955, and State Bank of India (Subsidiary Banks) Act, 1959. The 14 banks
nationalized in July 1969 are governed by the Banking Companies (Acquisition
and Transfer of Undertakings) Act, 1970. Besides the statutes of their
incorporation, the banks are subject to statutory regulation by the Reserve
Bank of India (RBI) under the Banking Regulation Act and Reserve Bank of India
Act. The banks are all separate legal entitites managed by different Boards
of Directors in which GOI, RBI and farming, industrial and labor interests are
represented. The executive heads Gf the banks are the full-time chairmen of
their boards of directors appointed by GOI in consultation with RBI.
6.        Organization:  The Banks have a large network of 13,741 1/ branches
throughout the country. During the five year period after nationalization
in July 1969, the number of branches has almost been doubled, and special
emphasis was given to rural and semi-urban areas; by June 1973 the number of
branches in these areas was over 8,000, constituting about two-thirds of the
total.
7.        Decentralization has been introduced to some degree through the
establishment of regional and divisional offices. The banks are adequately
and competently staffed for general banking business, both at their head
offices and the branches, since the wage levels in the banking industry are
among the highest in the country. For agricultural finance, they have
engaged professionals with post-graduate degrees (from foreign schools) in
agronomy, economics and banking and have also hired government officials.
The present staffing is not adequate but the banks are going ahead with
further recruitment and training. They not only run their own training
institutions but they also use the training facilities provided by RBI and
the National Institute of Bank Management.
8.        Source of Funds:  The main source of funds of the nationalized sector
banks is deposits raised from the public, which amounted to Rs 100 billion
on June 30, 1974. Their own funds (share capital and reserves) are less
than 2% of deposits. The banks also have access to refinance facilities from
RBI, ARC and the Industrial Development Bank of India. Commercial bank
deposits are insured by the Deposit Insurance Corporation established in
1962 as a wholly-owned RBI subsidiary.
9.        Lending Operations:  The aggregate credit provided by the national-
ized banks was Rs 52.4 billion at September 30, 1973. Over 70% of the credit
1/   On June 30, 1974.



ANNEX 3
Page 3
was provided to large and medium industry and wholesale trade. Agricultural
credit constituted only 10% of the total.
Operating Results
10.       In 1972 the 22 nationalized banks had an aggregate profit (after
tax) of Rs 123 million, slightly above that of 1972 of 119 million.
Financing of Agriculture
11.       After nationalization in July 1969, the banks were encouraged to
finance agriculture as a matter of state policy. Towards this end, they
rapidly increased their rural and semi-urban branch network, gradually built
up agricultural finance divisions and RBI provided guidelines for farm
financing. A guarantee scheme for bank loans to small borrowers in agricul-
tural and certain other priority sectors (such as transport and retail
trade) was introduced in 1971 for which the Credit Guarantee Corporation of
India Ltd. was established as a subsidiary of RBI (see para 24). The banks
provide both short-term credit for seasonal agricultural operations and
term loans for investment. Besides financing farmers directly, the banks
have also undertaken agricultural financing through primary cooperative
societies. However, progress in agricultural credit has not yet been
significant, mainly due to initial organizational and staff constraints
and unfamiliarity with this field. The nationalized banks' total credit
for agriculture was Rs 5.0 billioni (10% of total credit on September 30, 1973).
Of this amount, direct finance to farmers was Rs 3,320 million (6% of total
credit); the remainder represented credit for primary cooperative societies,
rural electrification, fertilizer distribution, dairy and poultry farming,
fisheries, etc. The recovery performance has been unsatisfactory, with
overdues at 53% of demand as of June 1974.
Lead Bank Scheme
12.       To promote banking and economic development in backward areas,
a scheme was introduced in 1969 by designating one bank to be the "Lead Bank"
for each of the 336 districts in India. Under this scheme, the designated
bank is primarily responsible in the district for surveying the potential
for banking development, branch extension and credit expansion. The lead
bank is expected to act as the consortium leader and invoke the cooperation
of the other banks operating in the district for opening branches as well
as for meeting credit needs. The lead banks have completed surveys of the
economic profile of most districts and set up district-level consultative
committees in most of them which provide a forum to (a) evolve methods of
exchanging information among themselves about borrowers and lending to
priority sectors in the district; (b) identify bankable schemes; (c) allot
unbanked centers identified during the survey; and (d) serve as a clearing
house for discussing problems arising out of financing of priority sectors.
The banks have also been asked to prepare credit plans for a few of their
lead districts.



ANNEX 3
Page 4
C. Agricultural Financing By
Commercial Banks in West Bengal
General
13.       Commercial banks have been assigned an important role in financing
agriculture in West Bengal as a matter of State policy, due to the weakness
of the cooperative credit structure. As of June 30, 1974, 39 commercial
banks (19 nationalized and 20 private banks) operate in the State through
987 offices at 324 centers providing a coverage of 1 to 100 km2, which is
much higher than the national average of 1 to 214 km2, although population-
wise, the coverage of 1 to 45,000 was below the All-India level. As of
June 30, 1974, there were 467 branches in 305 rural and semi-urban
centers, giving a non-urban coverage of 1 to 226 km2, which compares
favorably with advanced states like Maharashtra, Gujarat and Karnataka.
Major Banks
14.       Branch network in the non-urban areas of the State is almost
exclusively provided by the following eight nationalized banks which would
be expected to participate in the project:
(a) State Bank of India (SBI);
(b) United Bank of India (UBI);
(c) United Commercial Bank (UCB);
(d) Central Bank of India (CBI);
(e) Allahabad Bank (AB);
(f)  Bank of India (BI);
(g) Punjab National Bank (PNB); and
(h) Bank of Baroda (BB).
These are national institutions with large resources and considerable
experience in general banking, and they are in sound financial condition.
15.       Three banks, namely UBI, UCB, and CBI, are lead banks in the
State for eight, four and three districts, respectively. SBI, though not
specificially assigned lead bank responsibilities, has a major role in
agricultural lending, and AB, with its headquarters in Calcutta, is also
an important agricultural lending institution. The five banks together
had 93% of the non-urban branches with a total of about 250 agricultural
officers. Brief financial particulars of these banks as at December 31, 1973
are given in the following table:



ANNEX 3
Page 5
(In Rs Million)
SBI       UBI        U          CBI         AB
1. Paid-up
capital            56.2      26.9       28.0       47.5         10.5
2.  Reserves           219.0       18.8       60.0      95.6         20.2
3.  Deposits        25,829.6   3,669.8   4,806.5   9,341.5        2,175.1
4.  Cash and bank
balances        2,455.1       41.7     630.6      810.3        256.5
5.  Investments      7,657.3   1,011.8   1,508.5   3,200.3          610.7
6. Loans and
advances       16,273.9   2,361.8   3,152.8   6,239.5        1,340.9
7. Direct advances
for agricul-
ture (All
India)                        69.2
8.  Total assets   29,026.2   4,342.6   6,265.9  11,568.0         2,561.5
9.  Income (1973)   2,073.0       261.6      367.4      757.9       172.6
10. Expenditure
(1973)         2,031.8      254.6      349.3      755.0        167.0
11. Net Profit for
1973               41.2        7.0      18.1        2.9          5.0
16.       UBI (with lead responsibility in eight of the State's 15 districts)
and SBI would be the main banks for the project because they have 70% of the
rural and semi-urban branches in the State and advanced about 60% of the
agricultural loans from commercial banks. They have built up agricultural
finance divisions at their head offices in Calcutta which are competently
staffed, and they have over 150 technical and financial field officers. The
staff position is periodically reviewed and augmented on the basis of one
field officer for 400 accounts. The other banks also have agricultural
finance divisions at Calcutta; however, their field staff has yet to reach
satisfactory levels but they are going ahead with the process of recruitment
and training.
Lending Operations
17.       The progress of the banks in agricultural lending in the State is
set out below:



ANNEX 3
Page 6
December        December        December         December
31,1970        31, 1971         31, 1972         31, 1973
Rs             Rs               Rs               Rs
Acc-    Mil-   Acc-    Nil-    Acc-    Mil-    Acc-    Mil-
ounts   lion   ounts   lion    ounts   lion    ounts   lion
Outstanding
Agriculutral
Advances         21,776  95.1   29,547  105.0   50,958  160.8   88,953  207.0
Of which direct
finance to
farmers          21,591  72.0   29,344   86.9   50,488  140.9   86,839  171.8
The level of operations has been low, although the outstanding loans formed
about 35% of institutional credit for agriculture in the State.
18.       The main reasons for the relatively low level of agricultural
lending were the initial organizational and staff constraints, inadequate
land records, and more importantly, provision of direct loans to farmers
on a large scale by the State government for minor irrigation purposes;
these loans were on softer terms, without formalities for land mortgages
and no recovery efforts were made. Government loans for tubewells and
pumpsets during the last five years aggregated Rs 234 million which is
substantially higher than those provided by institutions, both from cooper-
atives and commercial banks. The banks were also at a disadvantage in
agricultural lending on account of the more privileged position enjoyed by
the cooperatives under the law in regard to both lending and recovery
procedures.
19.       However, two recent developments are expected to stimulate the
agricultural lending operations of the commercial banks. First, the newly
enacted West Bengal Agricultural Credit Operations Act, 1973, has placed
the banks on par with the cooperatives in simpler lending requirements and
recovery procedures for their agricultural loans by:
(a)  simplifying the procedure for their mortgages;
(b)  exempting their mortgages from registration fees and
stamp duties;
(c)  according the same priority to their mortgages as for
cooperatives; and most important,
(d)  making their agricultural loans recoverable as "public
demand", i.e., as government dues, thus obviating the
need for going through lengthy court action against
defaulters for recovery.
Second, GOWB has agreed to withdraw its direct lending in areas served
by institutions. During the Fifth Five-Year Plan period, the commercial



ANNEX 3
Page 7
banks are expected to provide, irom their own resources, term loans of
Rs 300 million for agriculture, as against Rs 250 million planned for the
LDB system outside of ARC programs.
Lending Purposes
20.       Commercial banks have an edge over the cooperatives as they
provide both short-term credit and term loans for which farmers otherwise
would have to go to two different cooperative institutions. Short-term
loans are granted for seasonal agricultural operations mainly for inputs
like seeds, fertilizers and pesticides. Term loans are provided for
construction of wells, purchase of pumpsets, tractors, powertillers and
other agricultural machinery, raising of orchards, dairy farming, poultry
farming and fisheries; the most important purposes for which term loans have
been issued have been the sinking of tubewells and purchase of pumpsets.
A broad classification of the outstanding agricultural loans of the banks
in West Bengal on December 31, 1973 is given below:
Accounts       Amounts
(Rs Million)
I.   Direct Finance to Farmers
(a)  Short term                       56,297           70.3
(b)  Medium term                      30,542          101.5
II.   Indirect Finance
(a) Distribution of fertilizers
and other inputs                    385           9.4
(b)  Others                              132          12.0
87,356         193.2
Lending Policies and Procedures
21.       Initially, commercial banks were lending indiscriminately over
widely dispersed areas, which resulted in high overdues. They now operate
in specific villages or groups of villages (called Anchals), adopted by
them for agricultural lending near their branches. The process, though
slower in disbursements, is more successful. SBI, particularly, has opened
four agricultural development branches in rural areas catering especially
to the needs of the farmers, and will soon have a few more of these branches.
22.       Lending procedures of commercial banks are not uniform for all
the banks. For short-term loans mortgage of land is usually not insisted
upon and even for term loans, up to certain limits, a group guarantee is
sufficient. Branch managers have sufficient discretionary powers to handle
most of the loans without referring to their controlling offices. Interest
rates, which are not uniform among the banks, vary from 4-1/2% to 14-1/2%,
depending upon size of holding, amount and purpose of the loans. For loans
issued under ARC schemes for minor irrigation the interest rate is presently



ANNEX 3
Page 8
10-1/2%. Repayments for short-term loans are to be made soon after harvesting
of the crop for which the loan is granted, while for term loans they are
based on the economics of the investment and life of the asset created.
Banks have generally been advancing loans for five years for minor irrigation
works. While there is no rigidity about the term of the loan, guarantee
cover from Credit Guarantee Corporation of India Ltd. for the agricultural
loans of commercial banks is available only for loans up to 10 years (see
para 24).
Recoveries
23.       The main problem with agricultural credit operations in West
Bengal is their poor recovery performance. As of June 30, 1972, the latest
date for which overall state figures were available, the recovery was only
21.3% of the cumulative demand, as against the all India figure of about
50%. The reasons for the poor recovery are: (a) earlier lendings were too
dispersed for effective recovery; (b) climate of non-recovery created by
political instability till 1972, accentuated by remission of Government
dues; (c) crop failures due to successive floods and droughts in various
areas in the last three years; and (d) defaulters could be proceeded
against only through lengthy court action. However, the total overdues
of Rs 21.9 million are negligible in the banks overall financial situation.
Also, the Agricultural Credit Operations Act should help in improving
recovery which has already been evident in 1972/73. Although the recovery
performance of the individual branches varied widely within the State,
for the more important banks the average was between 25% and 35% of the
cumulative demand on June 30, 1973.
Guarantee for Agricultural Loans
24.       Moreover, loans of commercial banks for agriculture and allied
activities are guaranteed up to 75% of default, subject to certain overall
limits by the Credit Guarantee Corporation of India Ltd. (CGCI) which is
a subsidiary of RBI. It was created in 1971 to encourage the banks to
finance smaller borrowers in agriculture and certain other preferred sectors.
The guarantee limits vary from Rs 2,500 to Rs 37,500 and the period of loans
eligible for guarantee from 15 months to 10 years. Term loans up to 10
years for minor irrigation are guaranteed by CGCI up to a limit of Rs 10,000.
ARC Schemes
25.       Three banks (SBI, UBI and UCB) are implementing twelve ARC schemes
in the State involving loan assistance of Rs 7.6 million, mainly for minor
irrigation. The schemes are progressing satisfactorily. ARC has budgeted
a fairly large program of about Rs 560 million for the State in the five-year
period, ending 1977/78 which it expects to implement largely through the
commercial banks.



ANNEX 3
Page 9
Commercial Banks in the Project Area
26.       The six districts selected for the project have about 40% of the
net cropped area and 32% of the State's population. The eight banks had a
total number of 220 branches in the six districts, while the non-participating
banks had only two branches. The branch coverage in the project area appears
adequate. Even in the 50 priority blocks suggested in the project, the
number of branches was about 95. UBI and UCB are the lead banks for four
and two districts respectively.
27.       Agricultural lending in the project districts formed about 40%
of the overall state figures; commensurate with this, the number of field
officers for the area was about 100.
28.       Recoveries at 32% of cumulative demand in June 1973 in the six
districts were comparatively better than for the State as a whole and have
also shown some improvement over the previous year's figure of 28%.
D. West Bengal, Central Cooperative Land Development Bank Ltd.
(SLDB) and Primary Land Development Banks (PLDBs)
Constitution
29.       SLDB was registered in February 1958 under the Bengal Cooperative
Societies Act, 1940 and started operations in 1959. It has its headquarters
in Calcutta and operates in the State through both affiliated primary land
development banks (PLDBs) and its own branches. It is managed by a Board of
18 directors - 15 elected representatives and three State nominees of whom
one is an Additional Registrar of Cooperative Societies and the other two
are non-officials at present. The Board functions through three committees
- Managing, Development, and Loan and Accounts - all of which are headed by
the Bank's Chairman. Its Chief Executive Officer, designated as Manager,
is a Joint Registrar of Cooperatives Societies on deputation from the
Government and is not a member of the Board. The PLDBs are independent
institutions with separate Boards of Directors. Their Executive heads
(Managers) are government officers seconded for fixed terms and do not sit
on their Boards.
Organization
30.       SLDB operates in the 15 districts of the State through its two
branches and 23 affiliated PLDBs, many of them covering entire districts
while some serve parts of a district. Except for one PLDB which has two
small sub-officers, the others have no branches. The area to be served
by each unit is too large for effective coverage and hardly 1% of rural
households is covered by the LDB system. Proposals for setting up three
zonal offices of SLDB and 17 more PLDBs by the end of the Fifth Plan Period,
to have a PLDB for each sub-division of a District, have been accepted by
the State Government.



ANNTEX 3
Page 10
31.       SLDB and PLDBs are poorly staffed.  Total staff strength at SLDB
is only 20, comprising the Manager, Deputy Manager, Chief Accountant, Agro-
nomist, three Inspecting Officers, a part time Law Officer, and 12 other
staff members. The Agronomist and Deputy Manager have only recently been
seconded to SLDB's Technical Cell for formulating and implementing ARC
schemes. In addition, 20 agricultural graduate supervisors are to be posted
to SLDB to assist them and the PLDBs in scheme formulation.
32.       The staff complement at the PLDBs/SLDB branches is usually seven
or eight (Manager, Accountant, three or four supervisors and two clerks) and
they have no technical staff. The staff, both at SLDB and PLDBs, is inade-
quate in relation to the area of operation and poorly trained.
Sources of Funds
33.       Financial particulars of SLDB over the past five years are given
in Tables 1 and 2. Assets increased by only 80% showing unsatisfactory
growth during that period.
34.       The main sources of SLDB funds are (a) share capital contributed
by affiliated PLDBs and State government; (b) short-term accommodation from
State Cooperative Bank; and (c) long term borrowings raised through ordinary
and special development debentures. The funds of PLDBs come from their own
capital and borrowings from SLDB.
35.       The paid-up capital of SLDB on December 31, 1973 was Rs 8.6 million
of which Rs 5.5 million was GOWB's contribution. The PLDBs had a total
share capital of Rs 5.0 million of which Rs 3.0 million had to be utilized
for purchasing SLDB's shares to borrow from it; government contribution was
Rs 0.9 million.
36.       The ordinary debentures issued by SLDB for raising long term
resources are subscribed to by the commercial banks, Life Insurance Corpora-
tion, GOI, GOWB, and LDBs of other states; they have redemption period of
10 or 15 years and carry interest at 6.25%. The SLDB has issued ordinary
debentures for only Rs 82.6 million of which those for Rs 74.6 million are
outstanding on June 30, 1974. Special development debentures, under area
development schemes approved by ARC, amounted to Rs 1.1 million only on
June 30, 1974.
Lending Purposes
37.       LDBs may make loans for (a) on-farm investment, such as land
development, sinking of wells, excavation of tanks, pumpsets, purchase of
farm machinery and equipment like tractors, power tillers, raising of orchards
and other purposes classified as productive; and (b) redemption of prior
debts and other unproductive purposes but their extent is limited to 10% of
their total lending.
38.       Loan periods usually vary from 7 to 15 years based on size of
loans. For pumpsets and tractors they are fixed at 7 years. Under ARC



ANNEX 3
Page 11
schemes, loan periods, determined on the basis of incremental income and life
of assets created, are usually 7 years for pumpsets and up to 15 years for
shallow tubewells. Repayments conmence usually from the anniversary of loans.
Interest rates are currently 10-1i'2% to the farmers for minor irrigation.
Disbursements are made wherever possible to manufacturers of equipment or
contractors sinking the wells. Land mortgage is required for security.
Lending Operations
39.       Over the past six years, SLDB's lending operations have been as
follows:
Year Ending June 30             1969      1970     1971      1972      1973    1974
---------- ------Rs Million--------------------
Wells (including shallow
tubewells)                  1.6      1.5       1.8       1.0  )   4 8      1.1
Tanks                            1.6      2.9       3.6       1.8  )            3.0
Pumpsets                         1.1       1.5      3.6       3.8      3.1      3.9
Tractors, Power tillers, etc.   -           -       0.1       0.3      0.4      0.2
Land levelling and soil
conservation               5.1       1.9       1.3      0.6       0.4      0.6
Other Purposes                   1.3       2.3      2.3       1.4       0.7     0.6
10.7     10.1      12.7      8.9       9.4      9.4
The total lending has been considerably lower than in other States and the
bank could not achieve even 50% of its approved debenture program, except
in one year. The main reasons for the poor performance were (a) poor PLDB
coverage; (b) scattered lending unassociated with any identified land
improvement program; (c) inadequate staff; (d) ineligibility of many PLDBs
for debenture flotation purposes due to high overdues; and (e) direct
lending by GOWB for minor irrigation purposes. Purpose-wise there has been
a distinct shift in the last three years towards lending for productive
purposes, mainly tubewells and pumpsets, which constituted over 80% of total
lending in 1973.
Operational Results
40.       LDBs' recovery position since 1968-69 was as.follows:
Demand                          % of Recovery
SLDB            (Principal & Interest)    Recovery         to Demand
------------------------Rs Million------------ ---
1968/69                  4.8                   3.9             81.2
1969/70                  6.7                   4.9             73.0
1970/71                  8.0                   4.8             60.0
1971/72                 11.3                   6.3             55.8
1972/73                 13.8                   8.8             63.8
1973/74                 14.9                  11.9             79.7



ANN1EX 3
Page 12
Demand                                % of Recovery
PLDBs              (Principal and Interest)    Recovery           to Demand
------------Rs Million---------------------
1968/69                   4.1                       2.2             54.6
1969/70                   5.4                       2.7             49.5
1970/71                   6.6                       2.6             39.5
1971/72                   8.6                       3.2             36.6
1972/73                  10.7                       4.5             42.0
1973/74                  11.4                       6.0             52.4
Recoveries steadily deteriorated between 1968/69 and 1971/72 and while they
have improved in the last two years, the position is unsatisfactory.  The
reasons for the increase in overdues are the same as for the commercial banks
(para 23) and additionally, the lack of serious efforts for recovery.
41.       The following table shows variations of overdues at the PLDBs/
branches from 1969/70 to 1973/74.
No. of PLDBs/SLDB Branches
Overdues             1969/70  1970/71  1971/72  1972/73  1973/74
Up to 15%                     7         3        1         2        2
Above 15% and up to 25%       2        2         1         -        5
Above 25% and up to 40%       5        5         2         6        7
Above 40% and up to 50%       3        5         5         7        5
Over 50%                      6        8        14         8        4
42.       Since 1973, GOWB initiated a program to improve recovery.  In
particular, the intensive collection drive for short-term dues which reduced
overdues from 80% in 1971/72 to 30% in 1973/74, would be coordinated this
year with recovery of LDB dues. Departmental officers have also been
directed to be more actively involved in collection of SLDB's dues and
special attention is being paid to the weakest PLDBs. The improvement
already brought about is expected to be sustained and accelerated through
intensified GOWB actions.
43.       SLDB was making small profits till 1968/69 but in the three
years 1969/70 to 1971/72 it incurred losses of Rs 0.6 million, Rs 0.6
million and Rs 1.0 million on account of poor collections and incorrect
appropriation of recoveries first towards principal instead of interest.
However, the trend has been reversed in 1972/73 with a profit of Rs 1.3
million but it still carries a small loss balance of Rs 0.9 million (likely
to be cleared by profits earned in 1973/74) due to the earlier losses as
against its owned funds (share capital and reserves) of Rs 8.8 million. Own
funds increased threefold from Rs 2.9 million in 1968/69 to Rs 8.8 million
in 1972/73 mainly due to additional share capital of Rs 4.5 million provided
by Government. Percentage of own funds to total funds rose from 6.4% to
10.3% during the period. The following table shows the position:



ANNEX 3
Page 13
Net Profit (+)
Before        Provisions   Paid-up   Capital    Capital and
Year     Distribution         ancl       Share       and     Reserves as %
June 30    or Loss (-)       Reserves    Capital   Reserves  of Total Funds
----------------------- Rs Million---------------------------
1969      (+) 0.1              0.2          2.6        2.8          6.4
1970      (-) 0.6              0.3          4.4        4.7          8.2
1971      (-) 0.6              0.3          5.9        6.2          9.7
1972      (-) 1.0              0.3          8.2        8.5          10.7
1973      (+) 1.3              0.3          8.5        8.8         10.3
44.       The following table shows the position at PLDB level:
% of Paid-Up
Aggregate Net                 Paid-Up            Share Capital
Year    Profit before   Aggregate   Share Capital        and Reserves to
June 30   Distribution    Net Loss       and Reserves         Total Funds
-___________----_--_-------Rs Million---------------------
1969       0.1 (11)    Negligible (5)        2.7                  8.7
1970       0.1 (11)         0.2   (12)       3.3                  8.7
1971       0.2 ( 7)         0.2   ( 8)       4.1                  8.3
1972       0.2 ( 9)         0.4   (14)       5.0                  9.1
1973 /a    0.3 (11)         0.3   (10)       5.8                  9.7
/a   Data relates to 1972 for 11 banks and does not include figures of
two SLDB branches.  Figures in brackets indicate the number of
PLDBs working at profit/loss. The other banks not accounted for
broke even.
Working results received a setback between 1969 and 1972 due to poor
recovery but started improving in 1972/73.
ARC Schemes
45.       Five plantation/horticulture schemes are being implemented by
SLDB under ARC programs.  SLDB has also taken up eight minor irrigation
schemes with ARC refinance and these are progressing satisfactorily. The
total refinance provided by ARC to SLDB was Rs 1.8 million up to June 30, 1974.
Some more minor irrigation schemes are under ARC's consideration. SLDB is
thus gaining experience with ARC schemes.
Operational Study of the LDB System-
46.       The All-India Central Land Development Banks Cooperative Union
carried out a study of SLDB in December 1972. Subsequently, a study of
tne working of LDBs in cooperatively backward states including West Bengal
was organized by RBI. The West Bengal study has recently been completed
and the report is being reviewed and the main findings are broadly as
indicated below:



AINEX 3
Page 14
(a) Viability Of the 21 PLDBs and two SLDB branches, nine are
viable while three would be potentially viable and the rest
unlikely to be viable in the next three years. A major
criterion for viability would be potential loan business of
Rs 3 million in three years. The Study recommended setting
up branches of district level PLDBs at the sub-divisions
in the district. Recommendations have been made for
strengthening the staff of LDBs with suitable subsidies from
the Government, greater extension services from the Government
and providing training, since very few of the SLDB officials
were adequately trained;
(b) Loan Procedures LDB procedures do not provide for valuation
of security on the basis of. developed value, particularly
in minor irrigation schemes. Repayment periods are not based
on repaying capacity arising from incremental income. Process-
ing of loan cases takes unduly long and SLDB does not have
adequate machinery to inspect PLDBs. There is no separate
machinery in SLDB to review and follow up recovery;
(c) Coordination between LDBs and other institutions and
Government machinery is lacking. Particularly, there is no
arrangement to ensure short-term credit to Borrowers from
LDBs;
(d) For effective recovery, the Study has recommended extension
of the intensive collection campaigns that have been organized
for short term cooperative dues, greater involvement of
cooperative officers in the districts in LDB recoveries and
the setting up of a special cell in SLDB to review recovery
performance and take necessary follow-up measures; and
(e) Financial Rehabilitation of PLDBs Recommendations have
been made for redeemable share capital contribution by the
State Government to notionally bring down the overdues to
levels of eligibility for debenture support prescribed by
RBI. The total amount which would be required to bring down
overdues to 15%, the level for 100% eligibility, has been
worked out as Rs 4.6 million.  A Government contribution of
Rs five million to SLDBs share capital has also been suggested,
to augment its working funds.
E. The LDB System in the Project Areas
47.       Nine PLDBs operate in the six project district.  In 1972/73,
their share of lending was Rs 3.6 million or 38% of the state's total.



ANNEX 3
Page 15
48.       The RBI study considerecl five PLDBs viable, two potentially viable
and the remaining two (both in W. Dinajpur) unlikely to be profitable in
the next three years since their operational areas were comparatively small.
49.       The recovery performance in the project area is better than the
overall position for the State as shown below:
Project Districts         Overall for State
1969/70               57.9%                     49.5%
1970/71               44.9%                     39.5%
1971/72               37.3%                     36.6%
1972/73               49.4%                    42.0%
1973/74               67.1%                     52.4%
50.       Share capital contribution that would be necessary to reduce
notionally the overdues of the PLDBs in the project area to the level of
25% of demand would be about Rs 0.7 million based on 1973/74 figures.



INDIA
WEST BENGAL AGRICULTURAL DEVElOPMENT PROJECT
Table 1: West Bengal Central Cooperative Land Mortgage Bank Ltd.
Condensed Statement of Net Income
(In Rs million)
Year Ending June 30                1969          1970           1971           1972          1973
INCOME
Interest earned on loans-/              1.8           1.7            2.2            2.2            5.1
Interest on investments                 0.5            o.6           0.7            0.9            1.1
Other income                            0.1            0.1           0.1            0.1            0.1
Total Income            2.4            2.4            3.0           3.2            6.3
EXPENSES
Interest on
Ordinary debentures                  1.8            2.4           2.9            3.6            4.2
Special debentures                    -              -             -              -             0.1
Other borrowings                     0.2            0.2           0.2            0.1            0.2
Salaries and allowances              0.1            0.1           0.2            0.2            0.2
Administration                       0.1            0.2           0.2            0.2            0.2
Other expenses                       0.1           01            01            0.1            0.1
Total Expenses          2.3            3.0            3.6            4.2           5.0
Net Profit (f)/Loss (-)                  (+) 0.1       (-) 0.6        (-) 0.6        (-) 1.0        (+) 1.3
1/  Excludes overdue interest not taken as income at
Rs 0.1, 0.9, 1.7, 3.0 and 2.0 million in the 5 years.
November 19, 1974



INDIA
WEST BENGAL AGRICULTURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Table 2: West Bengal Central Cooperative Land Mortgage Bank Ltd.
Condensed Balance Sheets
(In Rs million)
Year Ending June 30                1969           1970          1971           1972           1973
ASSETS
Cash on hand and in banks                 4.5            1.3            1.6           1.5            2.5
Investments                               8.7           15.7           16.1          19.1           21.4
Loans to PLDBs & individual members      31.5           37.8           46.5          50.5           54.7
Other assets                              2.3            2.8            3.8            5.2           5.9
Total Assets              47.0          57.6           68.0           76.3           84.5
LIABILITIES AND CAPITAL
Debentures
Ordinary                              40.3           46.9           57.1          64.5            71.1
Special                                0.2            0.3            o.6            o.6           0.9
Overdrafts                                2,3            5.0            3.1            1.3            1.7
Other Liabilities                        10             1.3            2.2            3.7            2.9
Total Liabilities         43.8          53.5           63.0           70.1           76.6
Capital
Paid up shares                         2.6            4.4            5.9            8.2            8.5
Reserves and undistributed income      0.3            0.3            0.3            0.3            0.3
T--9      10.6           1.2            2.3             ri
Less loss balance                   -               *            1.2            2.3
Net Capital               2.9            4-1            5.0           6.2
November 19, 1974



ANNEX 4
Page 1
INDIA
WEST BENGAL AGRICULTURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Agricultural Produce Marketing
A. General
1.        This annex describes briefly agricultural wholesale marketing in
West Bengal. Appendix 1 provides technical specifications and a drawing of
a typical proposed wholesale market. Appendix 2 gives guideline terms of
reference for a market study.
B. Major Marketed Commodities
2.        Agricultural production in West Bengal is dominated by one major
food crop and one major cash crop: rice and jute, respectively. Other
important food crops are wheat and pulses. Tea, spices, fruits, potatoes
and vegetables are other cash crops. The State has net deficit in foodgrains
production, but some districts show a surplus in paddy production which is
heavily concentrated in the Gangetic Plains.
C. Marketed Surplus
3.        Available statistics on marketed volumes are scanty and not
reliable. However, current estimates put the marketed surplus of paddy at
about 10-26% of production, at 30% for wheat and other grains, at about 90%
for fruits and vegetables and at nearly 98% for the fiber crops.
4.        There has been little change in the overall growth of market
arrivals (about 3% to 4% per annum) and, with the exception of wheat, in the
relative shares of marketed crops. Based on estimates (1967/68 to 1971/72),
a total of about 4.6 million tons is presently marketed of which about
22% consist of rice and paddy, 3% wheat, 15% fruits and vegetables (notably
potatoes) and 60% jute.
D. Marketing System
5.        The marketing systems can be broadly divided into the public and
the private sectors, with the latter also subject to Governmental control.
The characteristics of the two sectors are briefly described below.



ANNEX 4
Page 2
The Public Sector Agencies
6.        The agencies that directly participate in marketing activities are:
(a) the Food Corporation of India (FCI), (b) the Jute Corporation of India
(JCI) and (c) the West Bengal Department of Food and Civil Supplies (DFCS).
FCI started its operations in 1961 and acts as a supplier and distributor
of foodgrain on behalf of the Government. Procurement practices for rice
and paddy include levy on rice mills and direct purchases from the market
through marketing societies. During the last five years, FCI's market share
averaged about 28% of the total marketed surplus of rice and paddy. However,
FCI has been less successful in wheat procurement in recent years because of
poor harvests and rapidly rising market prices which have been substantially
above the procurement price. DFCS is primarily a distributing agency in the
urban and semi-urban areas for supplies procured through FCI. The department
runs about 2,700 ration shops and 13,500 fair price shops in these areas.
JCI procures fibers through its own centers and primary marketing societies
since 1971; its market share in jute in 1972-73 was about 10% of the
total marketed surplus.
The Private Sector
7.        The 39,000 villages in West Bengal are served by an estimated
2,100 primary and 120 secondary (wholesale) markets. On an average, there
is a primary market within 3 km of each village and a secondary market
within 15 - 20 km.
8.        Primary markets assemble once or twice a week.  About 10% - 15% of
arrivals are bought for local consumption, the remainder being shipped to
secondary markets. Arrivals are usually in very small lots, and are combined
into larger lots for shipments on bullDck carts and trucks.
9.        The secondary markets (mandis or bazaars) are generally located
in areas with good transport connections to the urban areas and their
terminal facilities. Farmer's participation is low and confined to the
growers nearby. Market intermediaries comprise marketing societies, traders,
agents, commission agent, traders cum commission agents, processors and
brokers. Commission agents (aratdars) are probably the most influential
group combining buying and selling on their own account as well as for their
clients. Their functions also include: (a) provision of temporary storage,
(b) credit to their clients; (c) free lodging and boarding for their clients
and (d) arrangements for packing, transport and timely dispatch. Each aratdar
is supported by about 100 small brokers (farias and dalals) who arrange
small lot purchases.
10.       The primary, secondary and terminal markets have no system of
auction and prices are negotiated on a private basis. This particular
aspect has been subject to considerable criticism by Government officials as
a source of exploitation of the small producer by the large trader. However,
empirical data are inadquate to support this. Past studies of grain markets
in India have shown that price formation at the wholesale level is quite



ANNEX 4
Page 3
competitive and high price correlation for different markets are indicative
for market integration which, in turn, precludes any substantial collusion
among traders. Prices and seasonal pattern of arrivals for different markets
in West Bengal would tend to support this.
11.       Grading  procedures and standards are traditional and sophisticated
equipment is not used. It is usually assumed that grading as carried out by
traders is a major source of market imperfection. However, observed inter-
trade grading is quite uniform and the very small lots (usually between
6 and 20 kg) offer little scope for improvement by official grading. Larger
lots are usually graded by farmers and offered to traders and a price is then
negotiated.
12.       Collection and dissemination of market information at traders
level is effectively performed through their own network. Telegrams,
telephone and word-of-mouth are widely used. The Marketing Division of the
Directorate of Agriculture also collects and distributes such information.
Word-of-mouth is the major source of information at farmers' level.
13.       The major items of marketing costs at present are:  (a) commission
and brokerage (1% - 2% of sales price); (b) handling charges (0.3%) and
(c) miscellaneous fees and charges (0.3%). In spite of numerous charges
levied, the farmer's share is estimated at 70% to 80% of the consumer's price.
E.  Marketing Features of Major Crops
Paddy and Rice
14.       The small brokers are the first link between the producers and
consumers. They collect about 15% to 20% of the paddy from the farms, while
the rest is stored on farms or is transported by farmers to the
nearest market. Paddy from primary markets moves partly to secondary markets
and partly to mills. Paddy is bought in the market, parboiled, dried and
husked in small husking establishments and sold as clean rice in the same
market area. Clean rice then moves through wholesalers to terminal markets
in consuming areas.
15.       The rice milling industry has two types of establishments:  (a) large
rice mills with multiple hullers and shellers and (b) small husking machines.
Presently there are 661 licensed rice mills and an estimated 6,000 husking
machines. Since 1969 about 80 rice mills have completely closed down, while
the others run on extremely low utilization.
16.       Government's procurement policies and controls appears to be part
of the industry's problems. The mills are not allowed to operate in the
open market; cordoning prevents them from securing adequate paddy; and prices
offered for compulsory levies on outturn and custom milling are well
below prevailing market prices. Consequently, there has been a significant



ANNEX 4
Page 4
growth in the small, village-type husking machines, which are not easily
controllable. However, this results in low quality products.
Wheat
17.       The wholesale wheat trade was nationalized in 1973, and the
Government became the sole purchaser of wheat from farmers. However, the
Government was not able to achieve its procurement target mainly because the
procurement price was considerably below that dictated by supply and demand
conditions. In 1974 the Government increased the procurement price of wheat
to Rs 105 per quintal (from Rs 76) and lifted the restriction against private
wholesale trading in wheat on the condition that wholesalers turn over 50%
of their purchases to the Government at the procurement price of Rs 105 per
quintal. The balance could be sold on the free market at higher price which
would in turn permit the traders to offer more than Rs 105 per quintal to
farmers.
Potatoes
18.       Potatoes are West Bengal's principal vegetable crop.  There are
two harvest seasons: one in November-December and one in February-March.
For seed purposes and speculation, potatoes are stored in cold storages.
There are presently 144 cold storages with a total capacity of 400,000 tons.
These cold storages are licensed and rates which can be charged to farmers
are fixed. Since these rates are not very attractive, cold storage owners
buy, store and sell on their own account, which is legally only possible
after the farmer's demands for storage have been met. However, cold storages
which have to rely on storage rates only are financially not viable.
Jute
19.       As with paddy, farmers sell jute to a number of market functionaries
which include itinerant traders, commission agents, brokers and jute mill
agents. In addition about 2% of the crop is handled by marketing cooperatives
which sell directly to JCI. Farmers sell ungraded jute fiber on the farm,
in the village or in wholesale markets. Grading and baling takes place at
the wholesale market, at the jute mill or in Calcutta.
20.       To ensure a minimum return to jute growers, 60I announces a
floor price annually, which has generally been well below the market price
in the past. Market prices fluctuate from seasons to season and during the
season, according to the supply and demand conditions. Among the major
objectives of JCI are to intervene in the market to prevent sharp price
declines and to build up a buffer stock to even out seasonal and yearly
fiber supply and price fluctuations. However, to date the Corporation has
lacked adequate financial resources and buying, grading and storage
facilities to intervene in the market effectively. The table below
illustrates the year-to-year price fluctuations and the inverse relation-
ship between fiber price and production.



ANNEX 4
Page 5
Jute Production and Price Fluctuation
Price Index 
Year      Production Million Bales    Main Sales Season
1967/78              3.8                        84
1968/69              1.3                       145
1969/70              3.4                       100
1970/71              2.7                      128
1971/72-             3.4                       115
1972/73              2.7                       133
1973/74              3.7                       117
/a   100 = the 1969/70 main season price of Rs 122/
quintal in Calcutta.  About 50%-60% of the jute
crop is sold during the main sales season between
September and December.
Sharp price fluctuations suggest that some price stabilization policy would
be beneficial. Merely announcing floor prices does not, however, stabilize
prices. Extensive participation in the market as proposed but not yet
achieved by JCI would be necessary. JCI's past experience indicates that
this would require a large financial commitment, adequate buying agencies
coverage, adequate storage arrangements, effective transport arrangements
(a major bottleneck in the past) and adequate training.
21.       By contrast to justification for price stabilization there is
little evidence for or against the government contention that growers lose
heavily by selling ungraded fiber and by lack of temporary storage which
compels them to sell on the day they deliver fiber to market and thus puts
them at a disadvantage vis a vis buyers. It is not established at what
stage in the marketing chain grading and baling are best performed, whether
fiber storage would be financially advantageous to farmers, or whether there
is enough competition between buyers to preclude grossly unfair trading
practices.



ANNEX L
INDIA
WEST BENGAL AGRICULTURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Table 1: Annual Operating Costs of a Typical Market
A.    Staff                                       (Rs)
1  Secretary                                     7,000
1  Accountant                                    4,800
1  Cashier                                       4,800
h  Inspectors                                   18,o900
5 Office Assistants                             18,900
2  Graders                                       6,900
2  Mechanics                                     6,900
5  Sweepers                                      9,300
6  Peons and guards                             ll,hOO
Sub-total                                       88,900
B.  Utilities and Supplies
Electricity                                      9,900
Telephone                                        1,200
Maintenance                                     15,000
Sub-total                                       26,100
C.  Insurance and Miscellaneous                 15 ,000
Total                                          130 ,00
November 25, 1974



INDIA
WEST BENOAL AGRICULTURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Table 2:  DM0 Cash Plow Projections
(Rs Thousands)
I.   INCOME STATEMENT PROJECTIONS               Year       1        2     3      4        5        6        7        8        9      10       11       12       13      14       15       16       17      18      19      20
Market Fees 4/                                      62      166   683   700      717       735      750      765     780      796      81-2    824       836     849      862      875      875     375    875    875
License Feesj                                       75       75    75    75       75        75       75       75      75       75       75       75       75      75       75       75       75      75      75      75
Rentals 4/                                           -        -   i8o   iSo      i80       180      180      180     iSo      iso      18o      i8o     iso      iso      18o      iso      180    iso      180    iSo
Total Revenues                                     237      241   938   955      972       990   1,005   1,020   1,03.5  1,051   1,067   1,079   1,091   1,104   1,117   1,130   1,130   1,130  1,130  1,130
Operating Expenses                                  20Sf   . 204/1 130   134     138       142      146      150     155      i6o      165      170      175     iso      185      190      190     190    190    190
Profit Before Interest and Depreciationi (1)    217        221   BoB   821       834       848      859      870     880      891      902      909     916      924      932      940      940     940    940    940
Interest on Project Loan  9,                      9      2,74   366   350      332       312      290     265      238      208      159     136       94       48        -        -        -       -       -       -
Depreciation fj-                                            -   175   175      175       17.5    175       175     175      175      175     175      175      175      175      175      175,    175    175    175
Net Profits                                         126   (53)   267   296       327       361      394      430     467      508      568      598      647     701      757      76.5    765      765    765    765
II. CASH FLOW PROJECTIONS
Cash Outflow
In-vestment Costs g/                    -  (2)  1,750   1,750       -      -        -         -       -        -        -       -        -        -        -        -        -        -       -        -       -      -
Debt Service 9,!                                    91      274  .512   512      512       512      512      512     512      512      51-2     512      51.2    51-2        -       -        -        -      -       -
Operating Expenses                                  20       20   130   134      138       142      146      150     155      160      165      170      175     isO      185      190      190     190    190    190
Outflow Total                            (3)  1,861   2,044   642   646        650       654      658      662     667      672      677      682     687      692      185      190      190     190    190    190
Cash Inflow
Operating Revenues                                 237      241   938   955      972       990   1,005   1,020   1,035   1,051   1,067   1,079   1,091   1,104   1,117   1,130   1,130   1,130  1,130  1,130
Loan]~1                                          1,663   1,662      -      -        -        -        -        -        -        -                -        -        -        -        -        -       -       -      -
Equity                                              88       87     -      -        -         -       -        -        -        -       -        -        -        -        -        -        -               -       -
Inflow Total                             (4)  1,988   1,990   938   955        972       990   1,005   1,020   1,035   1,051   1,067   1,079   1,091   1,104   1,117   1,130   1,130   1,130  1,130  1,130
Ret Cash Flow
(4) - (3)                                          127    (54)   296   309       322       336      347      358      368     379      390      397      404      412      932     940      940    940    940    940
Interest on Acumulated Surplus LI-                            4    14    32        52        72      93      114      136      159     182      206      230      255      311      367     4'24    480    537    593
Total Cash Flow:
-Annual                                           127    (5o)   310   341        374      408      440      472      504     538      572      603      634      667   1,243   1,307   1,364   1,420  1,477  1,533
-Cumulative                          12~~~~I7  77   387   728   1,102    1,510   1,950   2,422   2,926   3,464   4,036   4,639   5,273   5,940   7,183   8,490   9,854 1,7   2711,8
III. NET BENlEFIT STRA
(1  -7(2)                                         (1 ,533) (1,529)  808   821       834       848     859      870      880      891      902     909      916      924      932      940      940     940    940    940
Rate of Return:   24%
4/0.23% of the value of arrivals in years 1 sod 2 and i% thereafter; arrivals expected to increase by 2..5% p.s. during the first five years, 2% p.a. next six years, and i.s% p.a. from years 12 to 16.
SfBased on average number of market functionaries,
~/12% of investment in godowns and traders shops.
Et Operating expenses of the PRO during the construction period.
4/At 11% p.a.
4/Straight line on average econasic life of 20 years of investment items.
WDetails in Annex 6.
Sf12 equal annuities including repayment  of principal and payment of interest at 11% p.s.; two years grace period.r
4/Covering 95% of all investment except land.
4/At 6% p.a.
November 26, 1974



ANNEX 4
APPENDIX 1
Page     1
INDIA
WEST BENGAL AGRICULTURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Technical Specifications of a Typical
Market Yard under the Project
General
1.        These specifications refer to an assumed model market under the
project. The specifications are a guide of what would be required under the
proposed project but are not intended to be exclusive since actual requirements
would vary among the three markets to be developed. An outline of the mar-
ket is shown in drawing 9813 (R) at the end of this Appendix. Construction
would be phased. The first phase would be completed under this project,
and market design and layout would provide for expansion of facilities.
Site Preparation
2.        A topographic survey with contour intervals would be carried out
for any market yard to be developed under the project. An open drain would
be excavated around the perimeter of the site to carry runoff from within
the site to the drainage outlet. A levee would be constructed around the
perimeter of the site (where needed) to prevent inflow of runoff water from
adjacent areas. Earth fill would be added to low areas within the site and
the entire area graded to provide a recommended uniform slope of 0.8% from
the lowest point along the perimeter to the highest point within the site.
Open drains constructed within the site would have a minimum recommended
grade of 2.0% to ensure "self-cleaning" water velocity in the respective
drains where possible, and where land gradients are too flat, adequate
measures for maintenance would be provided.
3.        A boundary fence would be constructed around the perimeter of the
market yard.
4.        An entrance road would be constructed between the new market and
an existing transportation route. The road would be hard-surfaced and meet
minimum specifications of the Indian Roads Congress and the Public Works
Department for roads for this use.
5.        Internal Roads - Roads with heavy traffic would be hard-surfaced
to reduce cleaning and maintenance costs, avoid dust in the dry season, and
to avoid mud and water in the wet season. These roads would be subjected to
impact from steel-rimmed bullock carts and from lorries, tractors and trailers.
Excessive maintenance costs would be avoided by constructing these traffic
areas on well-drained and compacted soil covered with 30 cm of crushed and



ANNEX 4
APPENDIX 1
Page  2
compacted rock, and five cm layer of bitumen or other hard surfacing. Roads
with light traffic would be of the same construction, but without the hard
surface. Roadways would be constructed sufficiently wide (generally to a
minimum width of 11 m) to avoid congestion.
6.        Parking Areas - Areas used for the parking of bullock carts,
trucks and other vehicles would be leveled, compacted, and covered with
suitable surfacing (generally a 30 cm layer of compacted crushed rock).
Structures
7.        Market yards would have different structure requirements depend-
ing upon kinds and quantities of products received. The following specifica-
tions are intended as a guide and reasonable deviation would be expected.
8.        Administration Building - Space would be provided for officials
of the Regulated Market Committee (RMC), sample analysis laboratory, storage
of records and supplies and toilets.
Storage Godowns
9.        Godowns for jute, grain and other dry products would be
constructed and would be leased to the Jute Corporation of India, State
Warehousing Corporation and other suitable organizations such as cooperatives.
Design would be the same as the latest designs used by the State Warehousing
Corporation, incorporating reinforced foundations, reinforced wall pillars,
with brick walls between pillars.  Roofs would be corrugated asbestos or
similar roofing material depending on price, supported by fabricated steel
trusses. Floor level would be at least 0.3 M above ground level. Door
ways would be sufficiently large and provided with ramps to permit use of
forklifts and trucks, some time in the future. Godown size would vary
according to local requirements from 1,000 tons storage capacity (based on
bagged grain) to 1,500 tons. Jute baling and grading sheds, where required,
would be of similar construction, modified as necessary for their respective
uses.
Auction Platforms
10. (a) Covered platforms, having the following characteristics, would
protect products displayed for auction or tender sale against
rain and sun:
-    Floors would be sloped towards sides for drainage
and be about 0.3 m to 1.0 m above ground and about
360 m2 area each;
-    Roofs would have wind ties to withstand maximum
expected wind velocities, minimum clearance of about
3.75 m and would extend about 1.0 m beyond the sides
of the platform;



ANNEX 4
APPENDIX 1
Page 3
(b) An open, hard-surfaced display area, adjacent to the covered
platforms would be provided for periods of peak product
arrivals. This area would be subjected to heavy traffic
and the construction would be equivalent to heavy traffic
roadways. When conditions and need warrant, additional
covered platforms would be constructed in this area.
11.       Shops for traders.  Shops would be constructed and made available
on a rental basis to traders licensed to conduct business in the market.
The shops would be single story and of conventional flat roof design. They
would be constructed side by side in commodity groups, with a common wall
between shops. Each shop would have a platform and covered arcade at the
front leading into an office and godown.  At the rear a hard-surfaced yard,
enclosed by the wall, would serve as a drying platform and/or for cleaning
grain. Each shop would be about 5.5 x 14.0 m with a front platform and
a rear yard, each about 5.5 x 5.0 m.
12.       Canteen - A canteen (generally of about 350 m ) would be con-
structed at a central location in the market for the convenience of market
employees, laborers, and the general public.
13.       Dormitory - A dormitory (of about 200 m ) would be constructed
for producers and others needing sleeping quarters for short periods.
14.       Public toilets and showers - These would be of basic design
emphasizing sanitation, and would be constructed in the market yard.
15.       Check Post - This would include space for display of market
information, and would be constructed at the entrance to the market yard.
16.       Shelter for Fire Fighting Equipment - A shelter would be provided
for a pressure pump, hoses, and other fire figkting equipment.
Utilities
17.       Watersupply - Where suitable town water is not available, a tube-
well would be drilled to necessary depth to obtain an adequate and dependable
supply of potable water. A storage tank elevated to 10 m and with a capa-
city of about 40 m3 would provide a reserve supply of.water and a uniform
pressure in the distribution pipes. Underground pipes would distribute
potable water throughout the market yard.         *
18.       Electric Power - A three-phase power line would be constructed
and transformers installed to supply adequate electricity (about 25 kw of
440 and 220 volt current). Single-phase 220 volt current would be
distributed throughout the market for illumination, ventilating fans,
power outlets for fractional motors, etc. and three-phase 440 volt current
for water pump and for other uses requiring higher voltage.
19.       Area Lighting - The entire market area would be illuminated at
night using conventional mercury vapor, sodium vapfor, or fluorescent lamps



ANNEX 4
APPENDIX 1
Page 4
mounted on poles. Sufficient lamps would be installed to obtain a minimum
illumination level of 50 lumens/m2 throughout the market area.
20.       Sewage - Sewage within the market would be collected and disposed
of according to existing regulations, standards, and recommendations for
the State. SMB would be responsible for the approval of designs for
adequate and reliable disposal facilities.
Equipment
21.       Office Equipment - The administration building would require
equipment such as typewriters, calculators, desks, chairs, filing cabinets,
supply cabinets, ventilating fans, drinking fountains, etc.
22.       Weighing Equipment - Platform scales would be required at each
market for the weighing of bagged products and suitable scales for weighing
jute would also be required.
23.       Fire Fighting Equipment - A portable water pump with pressure hose
and a power supply would be required.
24.       Miscellaneous Equipment - would include sampling equipment,
laboratory equipment and maintenance and cleaning equipment.



INDIA
WEST BENGAL AGRICULTURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
TYPICAL LAYOUT FOR A WHOLESALE MARKET
Suggested
Areas CM2
250  Bealing Shed
600    Grading or Assortment Shed
500  IDLoose Jute Godown                               >:.
36   Administrative
450 (Canteen, Bank, Post Office
Auction Platform. Suggested 
DimensionS6 X 6OM.~  
® Shop-Cum-Godown{1600 MI
for Immediate Construction)
FENCE~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~E
WPresent Parking and FutureBl'
Construction
®Parking
QFarmers' Rest House              (
® Public Toilets
OCheck Post
®Entrance Road.......
G  Bituminous Road~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~...  ..
HARD~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~X SURFACE...
H ~ ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~....                      .        ..        . .......  .....
LAND SCAPE  S                 __                U:) ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~....... ......"..
czozzn~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~..  .....  . ........
0  .......
FUtumio sRE   a EXTENTION..                                                             . 1.......   .. ..
. ........World.  B. nk-9.13



ANNEX 4
APPENDIX 2
Page 1
INDIA
WEST BENGAL AGRICULTURAL DEVELOPIENT PROJECT
Guidelines for MIarket Study
1.        The Study would be conducted in two phases, the first, during the
period of planning and constructing new wholesale markets, would focus on
the existing marketing system while the second, to commence after com-
pletion of market construction, would monitor changes in marketing and
benefits attributable to the new markets.
Purpose
2.        The first phase of the study would:
(a) identify existing marketing practices and procedures
which require improvement such as the degree of
competition; weighing and grading; transport methods
and costs; storage; handling and processing facilities;
market intelligence; and credit facilities;
(b) evaluate to what extent existing marketing facilities
and methods are a bottleneck to agricultural production
or might constrain agricultural intensification, and
are constraints on other sectors of the economy; and
(c) propose possible improvements in marketing infra-
structure or procedures, and for such changes
identify and quantify:
(i) direct and indirect benefits to farmers;
(ii) impact on agricultural produce traders; and
(iii)  overall economic and social benefits.
Completion of this part of the study may allow an early decision on addi-
tional investment for market development and may help formulate or modify
marketing policy and procedures for the trial markets scheme provided by
the Project. The second phase would examine the impact of the trial
market project - and of other wholesale markets which may be constructed by
GOWB within the next three years - on agricultural production and the distri-
bution of benefits between farmers, market intermediaries, consumers and
municipal authorities. This part of the study, based on practical experience,
would provide information on either the justification for further invest-
ments or for possible modification of infrastructure, policies and pro-
cedures.



ANNEX 4
APPENDIX 2
Page 2
Guidelines for Study
3.        The study should start as soon as it can be organized, if possible,
before the start of project implementation. Present marketing conditions
would be studied until project market construction has been completed, which
is estimated to be 2-3 years after credit signature. Impact of project
markets should be monitored for at least three years after completion of
construction.
4.        The study would be conducted by a University or by an economic
research institute. A senior economist would be assigned full time to the
study and would be responsible for planning, design of questionnaires, train-
ing of field staff, supervision and evaluation. He would be assisted as
necessary by senior specialist staff, for instance, to design and monitor
methods of ascertaining storages losses. At least one investigator would
be assigned to each town in which there is an existing wholesale market
and in which a new market would be constructed. He would stay in the
market town and would attend the market continuously during marketing hours
particularly during the marketing period of major crops. At least one
additional investigator would be assigned to cover all or at least the
most important feeder markets of each wholesale market under study. He
would visit each feeder market included in the study during each marketing
day and, if this is not possible, at least once every two weeks. Field
investigators should be agricultural graduates preferably ones who have
specialized in agricultural economics and are working towards post graduate
qualifications.
5.        Data gathering would be a combination of statistical information,
fact finding of marketing procedures and careful direct observation. For
this purpose each investigator would maintain a diary.
General Data Requirements for each Market Studied, Before and After Construction
6.   (a)  Market area both as defined by SRM and as exists in practice.
A sample survey of market arrivals would be conducted
to plot the actual area serving the market by principal
commodity. Alternative marketing outlets would be
identified and farmers' relative preferences for them
would be analyzed. Trends in production, area irrigated,
yields, marketable surplus, area under crops, introduction
of new practices, employment and population in the
market area would also be identified. Particular attention
would be paid to the relationship between farm size, dif-
ferent land tenure arrangements and farmers' crop pro-
duction and marketing decisions.



ANINEX 4
APPENDIX 2
Page 3
(b) Market Arrivals:
(i) Distance from origin of goods by commodity, mode of
transportation, lot sizes, cost of transportation and
handling, and proportions of deliveries to the market
by farmers (by farm size), by market intermediaries
and by others;
(ii) the number of farmers using the market; and
(iii) the proportion of farmers' produce sold by them in the
market or in other market outlets.
(c) Market Departures: Destination, seasonality, modes
of transport, lot sizes.
(d) Market Intermediaries: The number and functions of
market intermediaries, the charges for each marketing
activity and the mark-ups at each stage of the marketing
process.
(e) Market Intelligence: Details of information distributed
on prices, quantities, grades, etc. In this regard, the
above survey of arrivals, would examine how various parti-
cipants actually obtain information on prices, grades,
quantities purchased, etc. The evaluation would also
examine which media (telephone, radio, fellow farmers,
traders, people working in the market, etc.) are principally
used, and their adequacy.
(f) Prices: Care would be taken to identify variety and grade
and to record average weekly price and range.
(g)  Auxilliary Treatment of Commodities in Mlarket Yards:  Extent
of cleaning, drying, grading, baling and other processing
together with costs and resultant price markups would be
described.
(h) Available Storage: Details of quantities, quality, owner-
ship, tariffs, costs, utilization (by season and commodity).
(i) Inputs: Sources, prices and payment arrangements for agricul-
tural inputs would be identified. Also other services avail-
able in the market place such as institutional (bank or
cooperative) credit and non-institutional credit (at what
rates and conditions), food and lodging for farmers from far
away villages, etc. would be described.



ANNEX 4
APPENDIX 2
Page 4
(j) Attitudes: Farmerst and market intermediaries' attitudes to
changes in prices, regulations and marketing practices and
how these attitudes affect production and market prices.
(k) Market Regulations: Hiistory of regulation in the market;
where applicable activities of RMC, including revenues,
costs and investments, disputes, arbitration procedures,
market charges, grading and standards.
(1) Transport Costs:
(i) Time taken, by tvpe of vehicle (mainly trucks and bullocks
carts), to travel from the edge of town to market, unload
or collect goods, and travel out of town;
(ii) unit operating costs and rates of trucks and other
vehicles; and
(iii) the extent to which cost changes are passed on to farmers.
(m) Farmers Benefits and lime Savings Through Use of Tender System
of Sale: Both tender system and auction sale would be studied:
(i)  to estimate the effect on produce price to farmers
compared to individual bargaining;
(ii) to measure aggregate time required by buyers, sellers,
commission agents and RMC staffs in conducting a given
volume of sales under each sales system. The costs
of the times involved would be identified by examining
the returns and costs of the various participants.
Specifically, data on volumes handled, margins,
operating costs and profits of typical market inter-
mediaries would be collected and an estimate made to
what extent cost savings benefit farmers.
(n) Changes in Social Overhead Costs: For markets requiring the
shifting of trade from the bazaar, the effect on municipal
budgets of changes in costs of cleaning, sewierages, water,
police and fire protection.
(o)  Storage Losses:  Investigators would interview market
participants, take samples and examine records to obtain
information on actual storage losses on existing and new
storages.
(p)  Grades and Standards:  The extent to which investments in
market improvement are accompanied by change in grades and
standards, and their use by buyers and sellers.



ANNEX 4
APPENDIX 2
Page 5
(q) Other Uses of Markets: The extent to which the markets
are used to disseminate information to farmers. A record
would be made of farmers' meetings held, printed matter
distributed, and other extension activities. The amount
of credit (institutional and non-institutional) and other
input supplies provided before and after development would
be quantified.
Commodity Studies
7.        For selected important commodities, a comparison would be made
of total marketing costs of the system of sale through regulated markets
compared with sale through alternative systems (e.g. direct sale to buyer).
Jute marketing would receive particular emphasis in the study.



ANNEX 5
Page 1
INDIA
WEST BENGAL AGRICULTURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
West Bengal Agro-Industries Corporation Ltd.
Organization and Management
1.        In accordance with the general policy of GOI to encourage the
development of farm mechanization and agro-industries by establishing public
sector corporations in each State, the West Bengal Agro-Industries Corpora-
tion Ltd. (AIC) was incorporated on August 16, 1968 as a limited liability
company. Its authorized capital is Rs 50 million and present paid-up
capital is Rs 36 million, contributed by GOWB and GOI. AIC's Board comprises
up to a maximum of 15 directors including representatives of GOI, GOWB,
State legislature, farming interests and its managing director who is
presently an Ex-Director of Agriculture on deputation.
Objectives
2.        Like similar corporations in other States, AIC is intended to
operate as a commercial organization. The principal objectives of AIC are:
(a)  distribution of agricultural machinery and implements as
well as equipment for processing, dairy farming, poultry
farming, fisheries and other activities allied to
agriculture;
(b) to enable persons engaged in agriculture and allied
pursuits to own the means of modernizing their operations;
(c) to undertake and foster the efficient distribution of
agricultural inputs;
(d)  promotion and establishment of industries related to
production; preservation and supply of food; and for
processing of other agricultural products; and
(e) provision of technical guidance to farmers and persons
concerned with agro-industries for efficient conduct of
their enterprise.
3.        The corporation's head office is in Calcutta and it has service
centers and fertilizer depots in most of the districts.
4.        Operations:  AIC activities relate to supply, services, and
establishment of agro-based industries.



ANNEX 5
Page 2
5.        Supply:  AIC has so far distributed about 25,000 pumpsets (by sale
and on hire purchase terms), 880 tractors and power tillers and inputs
such as seeds, fertilizers and pesticides. Its experience with its earlier
scheme of supply of pumpsets on hire-purchase basis (value Rs 21 million)
has been unsatisfactory due to poor recovery of instalments. Its major
equipment supply activities in recent years have been distribution of tractor-
drawn implements, spare parts of tractors and power tillers, sprayers and
threshers.
6.        At present, fertilizer distribution comprises the main part of
AIC trading and the Corporation estimates that it handles one third of the
State fertilizer trade. Agro service centers are automatically appointed
as AIC agents for seeds, pesticides and fertilizers. AIC owns 10,000 tons
fertilizer storage capacity with at least one store per district. This
is considered adequate for present circumstances when due to shortages,
there is no need for lengthy storage. However, looking ahead, AIC is
considering increasing their storage capacity. AIC is opening block level
godowns in West Dinajpur district which is lagging behind other districts
due to poor communication system.
7.        Services.  AIC has established its own custom service centers at
21 locations for hiring out tractors, power tillers, pumpsets, sprayers,
and threshers to farmers.
8.        More important, however, is its recent scheme of assisting indi-
vidual entrepreneurs (mainly unemployed agricultural/engineering graduates)
in setting up agro-service centers in rural areas, which combine customs
services and fertilizer distribution. The entrepreneurs are selected by
it and given training in GOI Tractor Training Centers at Budni or Hissar
for four months. On completion of their training, AIC arranges for bank
loans to them for purchase of farm machinery and fertilizers; it also
appoints them as its agents for input distribution. Initially, it recom-
mends modest investment a mounting to Rs 80,000 for purchase of power
tiller/tractor, pumpset, power sprayer, thresher and working capital for
distribution of fertilizers, etc. Under an arrangement with GOl, AIC
also provides subsidy for a period of three years towards interest payable
in excess of 5% by agro-service center operators. Many of the agro-
service centers also undertake construction of shallow tubewells and sale
and servicing of pumpsets. Many of the agro-service center operators are
agriculture graduates who provide advisory services to their customers and
some centers provide complete crop protection services for a fixed fee.
The scheme was started in 1972 and so far AIC has assisted 210 entrepreneurs
to set up agro-service centers while another 250, who have completed training,
are expected to be established soon. The agro-service centers have made an
impact on the rural communities where they have been established and are
also financially successful (see tables 1 and 2).
9.        Under the present  project, it is proposed to assist in establishing
200 agro-service centers in the project area in the first two years, with a
financial involvement of Rs 16 million for loans for purchase of equipment.



ANNEX 5
Page 3
10.       Establishment of agro-based industries:  AIC is collaborating in
the manufacture of 5 hp diesel pumpsets, sprayers and power threshers and
is operating an expanding cold storage enterprise. Other projects for which
feasibility studies have either been carried out or authorized include:
Fruit processing, seed production and processing,
sisal and ramie production and processing, cigar and
cheroot manufacture, corn cultivation and processing,
slag grinding, compost processing and fertilizer
manufacture.
Of these, seed production and processing and cold storage development would
have particular relevance to the project and together with expansion of
fertilizer storage capacity may form components of the follow up project
(see chapter IV, main text) under preparation by GOWB.
11.       Financial results:  Except during 1970-71 when it incurred a loss
of Rs 0.28 million, AIC has been making small profits. The net profit for
1971/72 is Rs 0.14 million. The turnover in 1972/73 (Rs 86 million) has
shown a fourfold increase over that of 1971/72 and a trading profit of about
Rs 2.0 million has been estimated.



ANNEX 5
INDIA
WEST BENGAL AGRICULTURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Table 1: Estimated Operating Revenues
and Expenses of aTypical Agro-Service Center
(Rupees Thousands)
Revenues
A. Customer Service
Power Tillers                                     25
Pumping Plant                                      5
Sprayer                                            3
Thresher                                           3
Sub-Total                                     36
B. Input Distribution (net)                             6
Total   (1)                               42
Expenses
Salaries (including owner's)                      15
Fuel for Equipment                                 5
Rent                                               2
Miscellaneous                                      1
Total   (2)                               23
Profit before interest
and depreciaticn                                 19
November 25, 1974



ANNEX 5
INDIA
WEST BENGAL AGF'TCULTURAL DEVELOPMFENT PROJECT
Table 2: Cash F'low Projections and Rate of Return
for a Typical Agro-Service Center
(Rtpees thousands)
I. Cash Flow Projects   Year: 1         2      3       4      5       6      7
Cash Outflow
Investment Cost-(l)         80       _-         -      -       -          -
Debt Service b/ (2),        16      16     16      16     16     15      16
Operating Expense£/ (3)    23       23     23      23     23     23      23
Outflow total (4)      119     39      39     39     39      39     39
Cash Inflow
Loan gl 75)                 76       -      -       -      -      -       -
Equity   (6)                 4       -      -       -      -       -      -
Total Revenue (7)           42      42     42     42      42     42      42
Inflow total (8)       122     42      42     42      42     42      42
Net Cash Flow                3       3      3      3       3      3       3
Cumulative Net Cash Flow    3       6       9     12      15     18      21
II. Financial Rate of Return
Net Benefit Stream         (61)    19      19      19     19      19     19
Rate of Return:            21%
a! Annex 6.
b/ Seven years repayment in equal annuities; interest rate 11% p.a.
c/ Before interest and depreciation (Annex 5, Table 1)
d/ 95% of investment cost.
November 26, 1974



ANNEX 6
Page 1
INDIA
WEST BENGAL AGRICULTURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Cost Estimates
A. MINOR IRRIGATIDN
1. Shallow Tubewell 1/
(a) Electrically Operated
Item                     Local        Foreign         Total
~~~-R------     -
(1) Drilling                      350           -              350
(2) Screens and Casings         2,250           -            2,250
(3) Pump and Motor              2,150          350           2,500
(4) Water connection              400           -              400
(5) Pump Housing                1,500           -            1,500
(6) Wiring                        375           25             00
Sub Total         7,025         375           7,400
(7) Electric Connection         2.975        2,525           5'5°q} 
Total Costs        10,0,9000
(b) Diesel Operated
Item                     Local        Foreign         Total
(1) Drilling                      350           _              350
(2) Screens and Casings         2,250           -            2,250
(3) Pumps and Motor             3,750          750           4,500
(4) Water Connection             1400                          400
Total Costs         6,750          750          7Z.50
%/Estimated distribution: 75% electrically operated and 25% diesel operated.
2/ Of this, Rs 600 is a non returnable deposit payable by the farmer.
The balance would be provided to the State Electricity Board by the
Rural Electrification Corporation, which has about Rs 30 million
committed for this purpose, or by the project, at no cost to the
farmer. (para 4.15).
March 19, 1975



ANNEX 6
Page 2
2.  Deep Tubewell on Loam Soil
Item                        Local        Foreign         Total
(1) Drilling                         19,500          _           19,500
(2) Casing and Screening            19,500           -           19,500
(3) Pump and Motor                  17,000         3,000         20,000
(4) Pump House                       5,000           -            5,000
(5) Site Preparation                 1,000           -            1,000
(6) Water Connection                  2,500           -           2,500
(7) Electric Connection              13,600       11,400         25,00G 2
(8) Water Distribution              ?°7°00           -           70,000
Total Costs        148,100            00       162.500
3.   p  Tubewell on Clay Soil
Item                        Local        Foreign         Total
(1) Drilling                        26,000           -           26,000
(2) Casing and Screening            25,500           -           25,500
(3) Pump and Motor                   17,000        3,000         20,000
(h) Pump House                       5,000           -            5,000
(5) Site Preparation                  l,000          -            1,000
(6) Water Connection                 2,500           -            2,500
(7) Electric Connection             13,600        11,400         25,000 2/
(8) Water Distribution              4l,500           -           4l,500
Total Costs        132,100        14,400       146,500
j   Estimated distribution: 65% on clay soil and 35% on loam soil.
2/ Of this, Rs 3,500 is a non returnable deposit payable by the final
borrower. The balance would be provided to the State Electricity
Board by the project at no cost to the final borrower (para 4.15).
March 19, 1975



ANEEX 6
Page 3
I.  Riverlift on Loam Soil 1/
Rs.
(1) Shore Installation and Intake                   20,000
(2) Water Distribution System                      175,000
Total                 195,000 L
5. Riverlift on Clay Soil 1/
(1) Shore Installation and Intake                   20,000
(2) Water Distribution System                      114,000
Total                 134,000 2/
1/ Estimated sunk investments by GOWB are Rs 45,000 in engines and pumps
and Rs 20,000 in shore installation and intake (50% completed); distribution:
50% on loam soil and 50% on clay soil.
No foreign exchange component.



ANNEY. 6
B. TECHNICAI. ASSISTANCE AND_ZQUIPMENT
1. Equipment and Technical Assistance to State Water Board
(a) Equipment                                      Local       Foreign       Total
---------s '000-_ --  __ 
(1) General Equipment
Field transport                              650           150         800
Survey and monitoring equipment              800           600       1,400
Field laboratory and office equipment        900           350       1,250
Sub Total     2,350         1,100       3,450
(2) Experimental Drilling Equipment            1,800         1,200       3,000
(3) Contract Work                                100           400         500
(4) Reference Library                            100           150         250
Total     4,350         2,850       7 200
(b) Technical Assistance
(1) Fellowships (15 man years)                   -           1,100       1,100
(2) Consultants (4 man years)                    300         1L800       2,100
Total       300        2 900        3 200
2. EauiDment and Technical Assistance to D2epartment of Agriculture for the Enzineerinz
Dlrectorate
(a) Equipment                                      Local       Foreign       Total
----~--Es ' 000__ ___ ____ 
(1) Workshop equipment for headquarters          360            90         450
(2) 6 district-level workshops                 2,560           640       3,200
(3) 12 mobile workshops                        1,260           340       1,600
(4) Transport (20)                               640           160         800
(5) Misc. (office)                               220            30         250
Total     5,040         1,260       6.300
(b) Technical Assistance
(1) Consultants (short-term)                     100           200         300
100          200         300



ANNEX 6
Page 5
3. Equipment and Technical Assistance to Department of Agriculture
for Extension Services
Local       Foreign         Total
_ __------Rs '000-       -~-~ 
(1) Equipment and Vehicles               2,400          600           3,000
(2) Extension Staff                     24,000            -          24,000
(3) Training                             l,OOO            -           1,000
(4) Other Recurrent Costs                 4,000           -           4,000
Total                        31,400          600         32,000
NOTE: Allocation to different expenditure categories may change after
detailed plan for reorganizing extension services has been prepared
(para 4.12). All expenditure would be incremental to present cost
of extension services.
X4. Technical Assistance to Department of Agriculture for Project Preparation
and Studies
Rs 000
(1)  Technical Assistance and Studies                     2,000j
2,000
No foreign exchange component.
November 20, 1974



ANNEX 6
Page 6
C.  MARKET DEVELOPMENT
Capital Cost of a Typical Market 1/
Local       Foreign         Total
- ___--Rs 'O00-----
(1)  Roads                                  100           -              100
(2)  Auction Platforns                      300           -             300
(3)  Jute Sheds                             210           -             210
(h)  Traders Shops/Godown                   500           -             500
(5)  Godowns                                910           -             910
(6)  Parking Area                           200           -             200
(7)  Utilities                              200           -             200
(8)  Administration Building                130           -             130
(9)  Bank, Post Office & Canteen            340           -             3h0
(10)  Rest House                              90           -               90
(11)  Equipment                              100           -             100
(12)  Land Preparation                        70           -               70
(13)  Construction Supervision               100           -             100
(14)  Miscellaneous                           90                          90
3,340          -            3,340
(15)  Physical Contingencies 5%              160                         160
3,500          _             .0
1/ For Katwa the costs will be about two-thirds of those shown here since
it is a smaller market.



ANNEX 6
Page 7
D. AGRO-SERVICE CENTERS DEVELOPMENT
Cost of a Typical Agro-Service Center
Year                               Local        Foreign       Total
- _____ _        -----Rs  '000- -- -~---
(1)  Power Tiller (2)               30             8           38
(2)  Pumpset                         3             1            4
(3)  Thresher                        2             -            2
(4)  Sprayer                         1             -            1
(5)  Miscellaneous                   8             2           10
(6)  Permanent Working Capital                    - _          25
Total                                                80
November 20, 1974



ANNEX 7
INDIA
WEST BENGAL AGRICULTURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Schedule of Estimated Disbursements
IDA Fiscal Year           Disbursement         Cumulative Disbursement
and Quarter            During Quarter           at End of Quarter
-____$___---- US ; 000 ---------__________
1976
March 31, 1976                 600-                        600
June  30,11976               1,000                       1,600
1977
September 30, 1976           1,100                       2,700
December  31, 1976           1,200                       3,900
March     31, 1977           1,900                       5,800
June      30, 1977           2,000                       7,800
1978
September 30, 1977           2,000                       9,800
December  31, 1977           2,700                      12,500
March     31, 1978           3,300                      15,800
June      30, 1978           2,900                      18,700
1979
September 30, 1978           2,400                      21,100
December  31, 1978           3,400                      24,500
March     31, 1979           4,500                      29,000
June      30, 1979           3,400                      32,400
1980
September 30, 1979           1,600                      34,000
March 18, 1975



ANNEX 8
Page 1
INDIA
WEST BENGAL AGRICULTURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Financial Analysis
1.        The analysis includes farm budgets (table 6) showing incremental
income for each of 10 farm models which have been prepared, and estimates of
the financial rate of return (tables 7 and 8) for the models. The assump-
tions that have been made are included in the text below.
The Models
2.        The models are derived from the combination of the two types
of irrigation pump to be installed -- STW and DTW, the two main soil groups
of the project area, clay and loam, the two types of power to drive pumps,
diesel and electricity, and two types of investors, farmers groups and
individual farmers.
(a) Six models are for groups operating a STW or DTW
and using all the water pumped for crop production on land
farmed by members, and four models are for individuals
owning a STW who irrigate their own land and sell surplus
irrigation water.
(b) The type of cropping and rotation would be mainly determined
by soil type and is shown in table 1. On clay soils boro
would be followed by aman paddy with a cropping intensity
of 200%, and on loam soils wheat and vegetables (including
potatoes) would be followed by aus paddy, jute and aman
paddy with a cropping intensity of 190%. Five of the models
show the effect of project investments on clay and five of
investments on loam.
(c) Area irrigated per pump has been calculated in Annex 2
(section D and tables 4 and 5) taking into account the
interaction of crop water requirements, soil permeability,
peak pumping requirements per day and difficulty in
organizing command areas. Based on these factors, the
following assumptions for command areas and annual pumping
requirements were made for the models.
Loam                        Clay
Command   Annual Pumping    Command    Annual Pumping
Area     Requirements        Area       Requirements
Structure              Ha         Hours             Ha           Hours
STW                5.0         1,250            3.0           1,500
DTW               50.0          1,700          35.0           2,150



ANNEX 8
Page 2
(d)  Assumptions for individual STW owners who sell water (see
2a above) were that the average STW owner would farm and
irrigate 2 ha of clay or loam and sell enough water to
neighbors to irrigate 3.0 ha loam (750 hours pumping) or
1 ha clay (500 hours pumping).
(e)  DTWs are all driven by electric motors but one-fourth of
the STWs are assumed to be diesel powered and the remainder
electricity powered. Four of the models would be for
diesel powered STWs, the other six would be for pumps
with electric motors.
(f)  The combination of the factors described in paras (a) to
(e) above gives rise to the following 10 models:
Model 1: Farmers' group operating a diesel powered STW on
loam soil and irrigating 5.0 ha land;
Model IA: As Model 1 but with electricity powered pump;
Model 2: Individual farmer operating a diesel powered
STW, on loam soil, irrigating 2 ha of his own land and
selling enough water to neighbors to irrigate 3.0 ha;
Model 2A: As model 2 but with electricity powered pump;
Model 3: Farmers' group operating a diesel powered STW on
clay soil and irrigating 3 ha land;
Model 3A: As Model 3 but with electricity powered pump;
Model 4: Individual farmer operating a diesel powered
STW on clay soil, irrigating 2 ha of his own land and
selling enough water to neighbors to irrigate 1 ha;
Model 4A: As Model 4 but with electricity powered pump;
Model 5: Farmers' group irrigating 50 ha loam soil from a DTW;
Model 6: Farmers' group irrigating 35 ha clay soil from a DTW;
Prices
3.        Returns and costs per ha (excluding revenue from water sales
and pumping costs) are shown in table 1 and apply to all models. Returns
Lad costs (including revenue from water sales and pumping costs) for each
model are shown in tables 4 and 5. Crop and input prices and the
assumptions made for estimating the returns, costs and the financial rates
of return are given below:



ANNEX 8
Page 3
(a) 1973-74 farmgate prices at harvest in the project area were
used to estimate the benefits to farmers. They are:
Price in Rs per Ton
Wheat                   1,150
Paddy                   1,100
Jute                    1,350
Pulses                  1,200
Potato                    550
The farmgate price of wheat is derived from the GOI procure-
ment price of Rs 1,050/ton and the prevailing market prices
which have a ceiling of Rs 1,500/ton in wholesale. The
procurement price is that at which traders are required to
sell 50% of their purchases to the GOI. The price of
Rs 1,150/ton used in estimating benefits to farmers is
slightly below the projected 1980 world prices (CIF India)
of wheat. The paddy farmgate price of Rs 1,100/ton is
derived from the GOWB levy price of Rs 700/ton and the
prevailing market prices. The GOWB levy prices applies
to only a small portion (about 15%) of the output of
farmers. Farmers are free to sell the remainder of their
output at market prices, which have averaged about
Rs 1,300-1,400 per ton in 1973-74 in West Bengal. The
paddy price of Rs 1,100/ton is at the same level as the
projected 1980 world prices (CIF India). In view of the
likelihood of continued tight supplies of foodgrains in
India over the next few years, the wheat and paddy prices
are not expected to fall below those used in this report.
The jute, pulses and potato prices used in the report are
the averages of 1973 and 1974 harvest prices. For wheat
and paddy an allowance of Rs 250/ha for value of by-products
has been made;
(b)  October 1974 fertilizer prices were used as follows:
N:         Rs 4,400/ton (US$550 ton)
P 0        Rs 4,900/ton (US$612 ton)
2 5
K:         Rs 2,100/ton (US$262 ton)
These prices are well above the IBRD forecast 1980 world
prices, used in the economic analysis (Annex 9).  The IBRD
projections of fertilizer prices show a decline over the
next six years. Thus, the fertilizer prices assumed fully
account for the impact of high fertilizer costs on the farm
budgets in the initial years of investment;



ANNEX 8
Page 4
(c)  Operating and maintenance costs of pumping are shown in
tables 2 and 3. Electricity rate of Rs 0.22/KW hour
(raised from Rs 0.19/KW hour effective December, 1974) for
agriculture was used. The diesel fuel price has been
taken at Rs 1.20/1, the October 1974 price in rural West
Bengal;
(d) The cost of farm labor (hired only) was taken at the
prevailing average wage rate of Rs 4/man day over the
production cycle;
(e) Short-term credit was assumed for 50% of production costs
(including hired labor) at the rate of 12% (current short
term agricultural credit rate) for six months;
(f) Water sales charges for models 2, 2A, 4 and 4A were assumed
at Rs 3.0/hour. This rate represents the average total
unit cost (including interest and debt redemption) of water
from a diesel pumpset and is higher than the cost of water
from an electric pumpset (Annex 2). It was assumed that
farmers who buy water would pay a uniform rate for water
supplied from either diesel or electric pumpsets. Based
on marginal cost pricing, the Rs 3.0/hour water rate is
profitable for the seller;
(g) Crop development following construction has been projected
as follows:
Year
1       2       3        4
Shallow Tubewells       33.3%   66.7%   100%
Deep Tubewells            -      33.3%    66.7%   100%
(h)  October 1974 investment costs (Annex 6) have been used.
A 14 year life has been assumed for STWs with the pumps
and engines replaced after seven years. A 20 year life
has been assumed for a DTW with the motor replaced after
15 years. The salvage value of DTW motor has been
disregarded in the rates of return calculations.
Rates of Return and Sensitivity Results
4.        Based on the models and assumptions outlined above, the (internal)
financial rates of return for the various types of investments were
estimated and are shown in tables 7 and 8. The farmers' returns to
investments range from 31% to over 50%. The sensitivity of these rates
of return to a high 25% decline in net incremental income (before water
cost) was tested. The results indicate rates of return ranging from 19%
to over 50%.



INDIA
WEST BENGAL AGRICULTURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
FINANCIAL ANALYSIS
Table 1: Cropping Pattern, Yields, Costs and Returns per Hectare
Loam Soil
CROP               AREA SOWN      YIELD TONS/HA   GROSS PRODUCTIONI CROP PRODUCTION   NET PRODUCTION   INCREMENT
VALUE          COSTS   7         VALUE 1             I
Without   With   Without   With   WithoutrWith   Without   With   Without   With
Project          Project           Project           Project           Project
-----HA------    ----TONS-----    ----------------------RS------------------------
Aus Paddy         o.4      o.4      1.5     1.8       760     890       310     330      450      560       110
Jute              0.3      0.3      1.3     1.5       525     605      250      265      275      340         65
Aman Paddy        0.2      0.2      2.0     2.3       490     555       195     200      295      355         60
Pulses            0.2       -       0.7      -        170      -        90       -        80       -         (80)
Wheat             0.4      0.9      0.8     2.5       470  2,810        305   1,745       165   1,065        900
Potatoes/Veg.      -      0.1        -     15.0        -      825       -       525       -       300        300
TOTAL             1.5      1.9                      2,415   5,685    1,150   3,o65    1,265   2,620       1,355
Clay Soil
Aman Paddy        1.0      1.0      2.0     2.3    2,450   2,780        980   1,010    1,470   1,770        300
Boro Paddy         -       1.0       -      4.0        -    4,65o        -    2,320        -    2,330     2,330
TOTAL             1.0     2.0                       2,450   7,430      980   3,330    1,470   4,100       2,630 .
Does not include irrigation water cost.
November 7, 1974



INDIA
WEST HENGAL AGRICULTURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
FINANCIAL ANALYSIS
Table 2: Farmers' Annual Costs of Operating Shallow Tubewells
1)   Diesel Powered on Loam Soils (1,250 Pumping Hours)         Rs
Maintenance        400
Operator          156
Fuel            1 875 (1,250 liters at Rs 1.20/1 + 25% for lubricants)
Total
2)   Diese'l Powered on Clay Soils (1,500 Pumping Hours)        Rs
Maintenance       00o
Operator          188
Fuel            2,250 (1,500 liters at Rs 1.20/1 + 25% for lubricants)
Total           2,838
3)   Electricity Powered on Loam Soil (1,250 Pumping Hours)  Rs
Maintenance        200
Operator            78
Power           1,031 (1,250 hours x 3.75 Kw x 0.22 per Kw Hr)
Total           1,309
4)   Electricity Powered on Clay Soils (1,500 Pumping Hours) Rs
Maintenance       200
Operator           94
Power           1,238 (1,500 hours x 3.75 Kw x 0.22 per Kw Hr)
Total
co
November 4, 1974



ANNEX 8
INDIA
WEST BENGAL AGRICULTURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
FINANCIAL ANALYSIS
Table 3: Annual Costs of Operating Deep TubeweIls
5)   Deep Tubewell on Loam Soil (1,700 Pnmping Hours)                         Rs
Maintenance                            3,000
Operators                              4,8 50
Electricity (1,700 hra x 12 KW x
0.22 per KW Hr)           4,500
Overheads                              3,000
15,350
6)   Deep Tubewell on Clay Soil (2A10 Pumping Hours)                          RS
Maintenance                            3,000
Operators                              4,850
Electricity (2,150 hrs x 12 KiW x
.22 per KW Hr)           5,7OO
Overhea4s                              3 000
16.b55
November 119 197k



INDIA
WEST BENGAJ. AGRICULTURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
FINANCIAL ANALYSIS
Table 4: Farm Models: Shallow Tubewells
AREA SOWN        GBOSS PRODUCTION VALUF   CROP PRODUCTION COSTS    NET PRODUCTION VALUE    TNCREMEMT DIESETL    INCREMENT ELECTRIC
(N1a)                (Es)                       (Rs)                    (Rs)              ENGIINE WELL          POWERED WELL
Without    With      Without      With         Without       With        Without      With
Project    Projeet   rrojuct      Project      Project       Project    Project       Project          (Rs)                   (Rs)
FAfM MODFL 1 ANDT IA FARMERS GROUP IRRIGATING  5 NA LOAM SOIL                     MODEL 1               MODEL LA
On Farm Operation                            7.5        9.5      1?,075        28,425       5,750        15,325       6,325       13,100          6,775                  6,775
Recuyrent Water Cost (1,250 Hrs Pumping)                                                                                                          2.431                   1309
Net incremental Return                                                                                                                            4,544                  5,466
FAWM MODEL 2 AND 2A PAIUSER IRRIGATING 2 liA LOAM SOIL SELLING WATR FOR 3 flA             MODEL 2               MODEL 2A
Dei Farm Operation                           3.0        3.8       4,830        11,370       2,300          6,130      2,530        5,240          2,710                  2,710
Add Water Sales (750 Hrs Pumping)                                                                                                                 2.250                  2,250
Sub-total                                                                                                                        4,960                  4,960
Recurrent Water Cost (1,250 Hrs Pumping)                                                                                                          2,431                  1.309
Net Incremental Return                                                                                                                            2,529                  3,651
FARM MODEL 3 AND 3A FARMES GROUP IRRIGATING 3 NA CLAY SOIL                       MODEL 3               ,MODEL 3A
On Farm Operation                            3.0        6.o        7,350       22,290       2,940          9,990      4,410        12,300         7,890                  7,890
Recurrent Water Cost (1,500 Hrs Pumping)                                                                                                          2,838                  1 532
Net Incremental Return                                                                                                                            5,052                  6,350
FARM MODEL 4 AND 4A FARMJ.R IRRIGATING 2 ITA CLAY SOIL SELLING WATER FOR 1 HA            MODEL 4               MODEL 4A
On Farm Operation                            2.0        4.0        4,900       14,860       1,960          6,660      2,940         8,200         5,260                  5,260
Add Water Sale (500 Hrs Pumping)                                                                                                                  1,500                  1 500
Sub-total                                                                                                                          t7                     m
Recurrent Water Cost (1,500 Hrs Pumping)                                                                                                          2,838                   1,532
Net Incremental Return                                                                                                                            3,922                  5,228
NOTE (1) Water sales rates of Rs 3/hour pumping have been assumed.
NOTE (2) Area sown, costs arid returns based on Table 1 and computed by mlaltiplying the relevant total of Table I by the irrigated area of the model; e.g.: Model 1,
net production value with project _ Rs 2,620 x 5 = Rs 13,100.
NOTE (3) Pumping costs from Table 2.
November 8, 1974



INDIA
WEST BENGAL AGRICULTURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
FINANCIAL ANALYSIS
Table 5: Farm Models: Deep Tubevells
AREA SoWN        GROSS PRODUCTION VAUJE  CROP PRODUCTION COSTS    NET PRODUCTION VALUE    INCREMENT
(Ha)                  (Rs)                      (Rs)
Without     With      Without        With      Without        With       Without      With
Project     Project   Project        Project  Project         Project    Project      Project
FARM MDDEL 5 IRRIGATION GROUP IRRIGATING 50 HA LOAM SOIL (DEEP TUBEWELL)
On Farm Operation                           75           95      120,750        284,250    57,500       153,250      63,250      131,000     67,750
Recurrent Water Cost (1,700 Hrs Pumping)                                                                                                     15 350
Net Incremental Return
f"     it        "if  Per Hectare                                                                                                            1,048
FARM MODEL 6 IRRIGATION GROUP IRRIGATING 35 HA CLAY SOIL (DEEP TUBEWELL)
On Farm Operation                           35           70       85,750        260,050    34,300       116,550      51,450      143,500     92,050
Recurrent Water Cost (2,150 Hrs Pumping)                                                                                                     16 550
Net Incremental Returnn
it "                  Per Hectare                                                                                                           2,160
NOTE (1) Area sown and farm costs and returns based on Table 1.
NOTE (2)  Pumping costs from Table 3.
November 21, 1974
Ii



INDIA
WEST BENGAL AGRICULTURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
FINANCIAL ANALYSIS
Table 6: Estimated Ferm Budgets Before and After Irrigation
Shalloaw                Shallow                Shallow                 Shallow
Tubewell and            Tubewell and           Tubewell and            Tubewell and
Diesel Engine           Diesel Engine          Electric Motor          Electric Motor          Deep Tubewell
Farm Model NO.              1        2              3         4            A        2A            3A        hA             5             6
Soil Type           LOAM      LOAM           CLAY      CIAY         LOAM      LOAM         CLAY       CLAY          LOAM          CLAY
Type of Operator          Group    Indivi-        Group     Indivi-      Group     Indivi-       Group     Indivi-       Group         Group
dual                     dual                   dual                    dual
Irrigated Area (Ha)
On Farm                     5          2            3            2         5           2           3            2         50            35
Off Farm                    -          3            -            1         -            3          -            1           -            -
Total                       5          5            3            3         5            5          3            3         50            35
Investment Coot (Rs)      7,500      7,500        7,500       7,500      8,000       8,000       8,000        8,000     70,500-/      62,500!!
Net Income (Rs)
At Present              6,325      2,530        4,410       2,940      6,325       2,530       4,410        2,940     63,250        51,450
At Full Development   11,419       5734            62       7112    12.541         6,031      10,768        7,868    115.650       126.950
Increment               5.094      3.=          5,052      _4.172      6,216       3,501       6.358        4.928     52.400        75.500
Debt Service
(Principal & Interest) 1,280       1,300        1,280       1,300      1,205       1,300       1,205        1,300      9,100         o,OOO
Increment after Debt
Service                3,814      1,9O4        3,772       2,872      5,011       2,201       5,153        3,628     43,3008/      67,55OOt/
Percent Increment         60%        75%          85%          98%       79%          87%       117%         123%         68%         131%
a/ 50% of estimated costs. The remaining 50% contributed by GOWB as capital subsidy.
b/ If farmers' groups were to receive no capital subsidy, the increments after debt service would be reduced to Rs 35,200 for a
deep tubewell operated on loam soil and to Rs 60,300 for a deep tubewell operated on clay soil.
NOTE (1) Investment costs from Annex 6.
NOTE (2) Irrigated area, not income and increvcnt from Tableos b and 5. Off farm irrigated area in irrigated with water
cold by thc pump owner and nct incomc from Models 2, h, 2A and hA incluC^-- revenue from water sales but not
the, incomo derived from -"itivation of "Off' Farm Irrigation".
NOTE (3) Full development three yrars after punmp installation.
NOTE (4) Debt service in annuities with rates based on Schedule A of the main text; for group loans, small farmers, lending terms
assumed to be applicable (Schedule A).
November 22, 1974



INDIA
WEST BENGAL AGRICULTURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
FINANCIAL ANALYSIS
Table 7: Financial Rates of Return to Farmers Operating
Shallow Tubewells
Year:    1 ,        2         3-7         8         9-14
Model 1 Diesel Powered Pumpset Operated by Farmers Group on Loam Soil Irrigating 5 Ha
Capital Investment                       7,500                            4,5oo
Net Value of Incremental Production         1,450      2,890      4,340      4,340       4,340
Net Incremental Flow                       (6,o50)     2,890      4,340       (160)      4,340
Financial Rate of Return: over 50%
Model 2 Diesel Powered umpset Oprated by an Individual Far-mer on Loam Soil Irrigating 2 Ha
of His Own Land and Selling Water for 3 Ha off Farm Irrigation
Capital Investment                       7,500                            4,500
Net Value of Incremental Production           840      1,690      2,530      2,530       2,530
Net Incremental Flow                       (6,660)     1,690      2,530      (1,970)      2,530
Financial Rate of Return:      31%
Model 3 Diesel Powered Pumpset Operated by Farmers Group on Clay Soil Irrigating 3 Ha
Capital Investment                       7,,500                           4,500
Net Value of Incremental Production         1,680      3,370      5,050      5,050        5,050
Net Incremental Flow                       (5,820)     3,370      5,050         550       5,o50
Financial Rate of Return: over 50%
Model 4 Diesel Powered Pumpset Operated by an Individual Farmer on Clay Soil Irrigating 2 Ha
of His Own Land and Selling Water for 1 Ha off Farm Irrigation
Capital Investment                       7,500                            4,500
Net Value of Incremental Production         1,300      2,600      3,900       3,900       3,900
Net Incremental Flow                       (6,200)     2,6oo      3,900       (600)       3,900
Financial Rate of Return:  over 50%                 2          3
co
NOTE (1) Capital investment includes initial investment (Annex 6) and replacement of
pump and engine in year 8 (cost from Annex 6)
NOTE (2) Net value of incremental production from Table 4 (rounded). For Models 2 and 4
it includes revenue from water sales.
November 21, 1974



INDIA
WEST BENGAL AGRICULTURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
FINANCIAL ANALYSIS
Table 7 (continued): Financial Rates of Return to Farmers
Operating Shallow Tubewells
Year:         1          2          3-7        8         9-14
Model 1A Electricity Powered Pumpset Operated by Farmers Group on Loam Soil Irrigating 5 Ha Land
Capital Investment                           8,000                             2,500
Net Value of Incremental Production             1,820       3,640      5,470      5,470      5,470
Net Incremental Flow                            (6,180)     3,640      5,470      2,970      5,470
Financial Rate of Return: over 50%
Model 2A Electricity Powered Pumpset Operated by an Individual Farmer on Loam Soil Irrigating 2 Ha
of His Own Land and SElling Water for 3 Ha off Farm Irrigation
Capita'l Investment                          8,000                             2,500
Net Value of Incremental Production             1,220       2,430      3,650      3,650      3,650
Net Incremental Flow                            (6,780)     2,430      3,650      1,150      3,650
Financial Rate of Return:       46%
Model 3A Electricity Powered Pumpset Operated by Farmers Group on Clay Soil Irrigating 3.0 Ha Land
Capital Investment                           8,000                             2,500
Net Value of Incremental Production             2,120       4,240      6,360      6,360      6,360
Net Incremental Flow                            (5,880)     4,240      6,360      3,860      6,360
Financial Rate of Return: over 50%
Model 4A Electricity Powered Punpset Operated by an Individual Farmer on Clay Soil Irrigating 2 Ha
of His Own Land and Selling Water for 1.0 Ha off Farm Irrigation
Capital Investment                           8,000                             2,500
Net Value of Incremental Production              1,740      3,490      5,230      5,230       5,230
Net Incremental Flow                            (6,260)     3,490      5,230      2,730       5,230
Financial Rate of Return: over 50%
NOTE (1) Capital investment includes initial investment (Annex 6) and replacement of pump and engine
in Year 8 (costs from Annex 6)
NOTE (2) Net value of incremental production from Table 4 (rounded).  For Model 2A and 4A it includes                          m
revenue from water sales.
November 21, 1974



INDIA
WEST BENGAL AGRICULTURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
FINANCIAL ANALYSIS
Table 8': Financial Rates of Return to Farmers Groups
Operating Deep Tubevlls
Year
1             2              3            4-16            17           18-21
Model 5 Farmers Group Operating Doep Tubewell on Loam Soil Irrigating 50 Ha Land
Capital Investment              70,500  /                                                 19,500
Net Value of Incremental Pro-
duction  /                        -           17,450        34,950         52,400         52,400        52,400
Net Incremental Flow               (70,500)
Financial R.te of Return:        51% s/       17,450        34,950         52,400         32,900        52,1400
Model 6 Farmers Group Operating Deep Tubewell on Clay Soil Irrigating 35 Ha Land
Capital Investment             62,500                                                    19,500
Net Value of Incremental Pro-
duction V                         -           25,140        50,360         75,500         75,500        75,500
Net Incremental Flow               (62,500)
Financial Rate of Return         76% _V       25,140        50,360         75,500         56,000        75,500
a/ 50% of initial investment costs (Annex 6).  The remaining 50% contributed by CEWB as capital subsidy.
1  From Table 5 (rounded).
c/ Without the 50% capital subsidy, the financial rate of return would be 29%.
j/ Without the 50% capital subaidy, the financial rate of return would be 44%.
November 21, 1974



ANNEX 8
Appendix 1
Page 1
INDIA
WEST BENGAL AGRICULTURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Guidelines for Revising Water Rates
1.        GOWB would set up a standing committee of all concerned departments,
ARC and the Planning Board, to devise a water rate structure and to adjust
water rates from time to time. The immediate objective of the committee
would be to devise a rate structure which would permit the recovery of
operating and maintenance costs of GOWB minor irrigation facilities and
would encourage:
(a)  enlargement of command area of each facility; and
(b)  more efficient water use.
2.        To achieve these ends the committee would need to:
(a)  carry out a review of existing command area sizes and cropping
patterns from information available in operators' records;
(b)  check a reasonable sample of facilities by field inspection;
(c)  study water rates and rates structure of other states;
(d)  ascertain the cost of water of different types of facilities:
(i) on different soil types;
(ii) in different areas; and
(iii) with different command area sizes;
(e) consider such alternatives or combination of alternatives to
the existing water rates structure as:
(i) a rental for each facility to recover a significant
portion of fixed costs;
(ii) cemmand area levies; and
(iii) a charge to individual beneficiaries for water
actually supplied;



ANNEX 8
Appendix 1
Page 2
(f)  consider a different level of water charges for facilities
according to main soil types (e.g., pervious lobar and
impervicus clays), and lower charges for small farmers
as defined in Schedule B.
3.        Since existing water charges are at very low levels, GOWB needs
to take care that new charges do not give rise to severe resistance from
farmers which would discourage water use.
4.        In the longer term GOWB aims at a phased increase in water charges
to recover part or all of the capital cost, as well as operating and
maintenance costs. For this purpose and to allow the committee to advise
GOWB on the need to adjust water rates from time to time, GOWB would establish
a unit in its Bepartment of Agriculture, which would conduct continuous
field studies to:
(a) examine command area sizes for a representative sample of
deep tubewells and riverlifts with particular attention to
isolating the causes of prevalent smaller-than-optimum
command areas and-recommending ways to enlarge them;
(b)  investigate the cropping patterns on irrigated lands with
a view to determining to what extent the potential maximum
benefits from irrigation are being realized;
(c)  collect data on farmers' incomes on both irrigated and non-
irrigated lands with the objective of measuring the size of
benefits accruing to farmers from irrigation under current
practices;
(d)  assess the ability of the farmers to pay water charges based
on both the level of farm family incomes and the incremental
returns from irrigation; and
(e)  measure the extent to which farmers receive less than the
economic value of their crops due to price ceilings and
levies at lower than market prices and are thereby implicitly
taxed. Concomitantly, any other significant types of taxes
on and subsidies to farmers should be measured.



INDIA
WEST BENGAL AGRICULTURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Table 1: Assumptions for Deep Tubevell Cost Recovery
--------Loan Soil---------       ------Clay Soil---------------
Command Area (Ha):                                     500                  30           35        28        21
(1) Annual Increments!! (Rs/Ha)                               1,355      1,355     19355        2,$630    2,630     2,630
(2) Annual Debt ServiceV  (Rs/Ha)                               344        430       574          434       543       724
(3) Annual Operating & Maintenance Costs (Rs/Ha)                307        384       512          473       591       788
(4) Total OkM Costs and Debt Service (Rs/Ha)                    651        814     1,086          907    1,134      1,512
Line (4) as % of (1)                                          48%       6          80%       _34J 43%
Plan I  : Annual O&M Costs +50% of Debt Service (Rs/Ha)   479          599        799          690      863      1,150
:As % of Annual Increment                            35%        44%       59%          26%      33%    ,144%
~~~~~   -~~~~   -.k
Plan II : Annual O&M Costs +30% of Debt Service (Rs/Ha)   l1o          513        684         603       754     1s005
tAs % of Annual Increment                                       38%         %          2
Plan III: Annual O&M Costs +20% of Debt Service (Rs/Ha)   376          470        576         560       700        933
:As % of Annual Increment                            28%        35%       43,          21%       27%    -
Plan IV : O&M Costs as % of Annual Increment                  23%     _28          38%         1Q%       22%        30%
Present Revenue (Rs per DTWe-')  1600
a/  Incremental net production before water costs (Table 1. Annex 8)
b/  Based on repayment periods of 7 years for engines and Pampe and 15 years for the tubewells; interest rate
10.5% p.a..
c/  The average for DTWa on loam and clay soils.  The present conmand areas are estimated to be 25 ha on loam soils
and 20 ha on clay soils.
December 12, 1974                                                                                                       tio
H1



ANNEX 9
Page 1
INDIA
WEST BENGAL AGRICULTURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Economic Analysis
1.        The internal economic rates of return have been estimated for
eight types of minor irrigation investments and are shown in tables 1 and 2.
The following crop and input prices and assumptions have been used in
estimating the rates of return.
(a)  1980 projected world market prices (expressed in constant
1974 prices) CIF India have been used for wheat, paddy
and jute. For pulses and potatoes, the 1973-74 average
prices (same as those for financial analysis) were used.
They are:
Price in Rs per ton
Wheat                1,200
Paddy                1,100
Jute                 1,350
Pulses               1,200
Potato                 550
(b) current costs, net of excise and sales taxes, have been
used for investments (Annex 6);
(c)  1980 projected world market fertilizer prices (expressed
in constant 1974 prices) CIF India were used as follows:
Price in Rs per ton
N                    2,550
P205                 2,800
K                    1,350
(d)  Farm labor has been given the following imputed wage
rates according to seasonal demand:
(i) a wage rate of Rs 5.0 per worker for labor
required during peak periods; and
(ii) a wage rate of Rs 2.0 per worker during the
remainder of the year when there is a labor surplus;



ANNEX 9
Page 2
(e)  Electricity is estimated to have an economic cost of
Rs 0.40/KW hour, which may be high given that agricultural
use takes place during off-peak hours (see Annex 2, para
27). The cost of diesel fuel, exclusive of taxes, has
been taken at Rs 0.70/liter;
(f)  For the remaining farm inputs, current prices were used; and
(g)  Crop development patterns and estimated useful lives of
investments are the same as those in financial analysis
(Annex 8) with the DTW assumptions applying to RLIs
as well.
2.         The economic rates of return estimated for riverlifts are based
on the assumption that they currently irrigate only 10% of the command area
which will be irrigated at completion. The rates of return are also
calculated with the sunk costs included (Note 3, Table 2).
3.         Sensitivity of the economic rates of return shown in tables 1
and 2 to a number of key underlying assumptions was tested with the following
results:
Rate of Return (%)
Loam Soil                 Clay Soil
STW   STW   DTW   RLI   STW   STW   DTW   RLI
Sensitivity Test        D      E                  D      E
Gross Product Value -15%   51    38    21    23    49    34    29    51
Investment Cost       +15%  >50   >50    30    42   750   >50    38  >50
Recurrent Costs       +15%  750    48    25    39  7'50    43    34  750
Irrigated Area        -15%  750   >50    27    40  750    47    35  '>50
Fertilizer            -33%)  50    44    23    35    48    33    28    50
Gross Product Value -20%)
N.B. D = Diesel
E = Electric



_u__A                                           ANNIX 9
WEST BENGAL AGRICULTURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Table 1:  Economic Rates of Return-Shallow Tubewells
A. Investment: Diesel Powered Pumpset on 5 Ha loam Soil Year        1        2         3-7         8       9-14
(1) Investment                                              6,600                               -
(2) Replacement                                                 -          -         -     3,800          -
(3) Operation & Maintenance                                 1,650      1,650     1,650     1,650      1,650
(4) Crop Production Costs                                   2,880      5,770     8,650     8,650      8,650
(5) Gross Production Value                                  5,610    11,230    16,850    16,850    16,850
Economic Rate of Return: over 50%
B. Investment: Diesel Powered Pumpset on 3 Ha Clay Soil
(1) Investment                                              6,600          -         -         -          -
(2) Replacement                                                 -          -         -     3,800          -
(3) Operation & Maintenance                                 1,900      1,900     1,900     1,900      1,900
(C) Crop Production Costs                                   2,270      4,540     6,810     6,810      6,810
(5) Gross Production Value                                  4,980      9,960    14,940    14,940    14,940
Economic Rate of Return:   over 50%
C. Investment: Electric Powered Pumpset on 5 Ha Loam Soil
(1) Investment                                              7,300                               -
(2) Replacement                                                 -          -         -     2,100          -
(3) Operation & Maintenance                                 2,150      2,150     2,150     2,150      2,150
(4) Crop Production Costs                                   2,880      5,770     8,650     8,650      8,650
(5) Gross Production Value                                  5,610    11,230    16,850    16,850    16,850
Economic Rate of Return: over 50%
D. Investment: Electric Powered Pumpset on 3 Ha Clay Soil
(1) Investment                                              7,300          -         -          -         -
(2) Pe-7acen"nt                                                 -          -         -     2,100          -
(3) Or^rato- n NTaintenance                                 2,540      2,540     2,540     2,540      2,540
GL) Cron -rodict:or Costs                                   2,270      4,540     6,810     6,810      6,810
(5) Gror-- P-oduction Value                                 4,970      9,960    14,940    14,940    111,910
Economic Rate of Return:  over 50%
NOTE:  Gross production value and crop production costs are incremental values.
November 26, 1974



INDIA
ANNEX 9
WEST BENGAL AGRICULTURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Table 2: Economic Rates of Return-Deep Tubewells and Riverlifts
E. Investment: Deep Tubewell on 50 Ha Loam Soil  Year: 1         2         3        4-16        17      18-20         21
(1) Investment                                  132,000         -          -         -
(2) Replacement                                       -         -          -         -    16,600          -
(3) Operation & Maintenance                           -    19,000    19,000    19,000    19,000    19,000    19,000
(4) Crop Production Costs                             -    28,810    57,690    86,500    86,500    86,500    86,500
(5) Gross Production Value                            -    56,110   112,390   168,500   168,500   168,500   168,500
Economic Rate of Return:      33%
F. Investment: Deep Tubewell on 35 Ha Clay Soil
(1) Investment                                  115,000                                         -
(2) Replacement                                       -         -          -         -    16,600          -          -
(3) Operation & Maintenance                           -    21,200    21,200    21,200    21,200    21,200    21,200
(4) Crop Production Costs                             -    26,460    52,990    79,450    79,450    79,450    79,h50
(5) Gross Production Value                            -    58,040   116,250   174,300   174,300   174,300   174,300
Economic Rate of Return: 42%
G. Investment: Riverlift on 100 Ha Loam Soil
(1) Investment                                  187,000               -         -               -         -          -
(2) Replacement                                       -         -                    -    38,500          -          -
(3) Operation & Maintenance                           -    17,000    17,000    17,000    17,000    17,000    17,000
(4) Crop Production Costs                             -    51,900   103,800   155,700   155,700   155,700   155,700
(5) Gross Production Value                            -   101,100   202,200   303,300   303,300   303,300   303,300
Economic Rate of Return:       48%
H. Investment: Riverlift on 70 Ha Clay Soil
(1) Investment                                 :128, 000                                        -
(2) Replacement                                       -         -          -         -    38,500          -          -
(3) Operation & Maintenance                           -    19,500    19,500    19,500    19,500    19,500    19,500
(4) Crop Production Costs                             -    47,600    95,400   143,000   143s000   143,000   143,000
(5) Gross Production Value                            -   104,400   210,100   313,700   313,700   313,700   313,700
Economic Rate of Return: over 50%
NOTE (1): Gross production value and crop producticn costs are incremental values.
NOTE (2): Operation and maintenance costs of riverlifts represent the difference between current operating
costs and those after completion.
NOTE (3): The economic rates of return of riverlifts with sunk investments included are 40% and 56% for
loam and clay soils, respectively.
November 26, 1974



,f.- '>  _m   1                                                a j%S  ~~~~~~~~~~I K K I M  2
AFGMAUI$hN.                 CHINA- ,~ /C H I N A                                                 ,_
-,   T, BET)
PAKISIAY)           {T }                                N    E    P  A    L                                                        i    B  H   U  T A  N
PAKISTAN2                                                                                          ODARJEELIG G            _   t
t                      <                                                                           ! NNEPAt. / 
WMST
I N DIA                /1UMALAG                                                                                                            I
5 -'\ ! 4 k~~~~~~~~~~~~~~A  L P A  I G  U  R  I
A                                                                                                                                       --------- OOC
S20     0//Sd    d Sf,p'1 b                                                                                                                  C O O C H   B E H A RHE A
-26-  World BmLandir^sSfilLtv                                                                                                ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~\ 26"-
INDIA
WEST BENGAL
AGRICULTURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
N.ority A,es____________
Prordt Areo
Y   Pfloject Morkets
*    8ook Lotctoo s
.... Boudory betne  Goaehtic Alluoium (to the Eost)                 ____    __
onc Vindhyo All-oo- ( to the West)
---   Del.ohitiog Bonodory of Physicl feotores                      ______
O     Distict Heodcoorters                                       ,
-------- Distr-t B-ondoies
-.  -   Stote Bo-ndories
--- Internotol Boondortes                                                                                               0
B    /   ~H    A                  R 
B f k B ff~~~~~~~~~~ rn
(*'~~**.'   6                                                                                                                        2 i 
S.---.. ~ ~ ~ ~ ~     ~    ~     ~    ~ ~ -------
PU  R   U            L  I A
\ ~~~~~B A    NK  U  R 4A  §J
B/6 N '5,'.- MI DNA'P A                    REE
22,                   '2 4-                                                                                     20)
02                                         )                                                                                       22   *A*                MiCo6tto
0IOEESI0-                                                                                                                         Clpr          kLMTR             .



