CONFORMED COPY
CREDIT NUMBER 541 IN
West Bengal Agreement
(West Bengal Agricultural Development Project)
BETWEEN
THE STATE OF WEST BENGAL
AND
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
DATED APRIL 28, 1975


﻿WEST BENGAL AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT, dated April 28, 1975, between THE STATE OF WEST
BENGAL, acting by its Governor (hereinafter called West Bengal) and
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION (hereinafter called the
Association).
WHEREAS (A) by a development credit agreement of even date herewith
between India, acting by its President (hereinafter called the Borrower) and the
Association (hereinafter referred to as the Development Credit Agreement), the
Association has agreed to make available to the Borrower an amount in various
currencies equivalent to thirty-four million dollars ($34,000,000), on the terms
and conditions set forth in the Development Credit Agreement, but only on
condition inter alia that West Bengal agrees to undertake such obligations toward
the Association as hereinafter set forth;
(B)   by an agreement of even date herewith between the Association and
Agricultural Refinance Corporation, Agricultural Refinance Corporation has agreed
to undertake certain obligations in respect of the carrying out of the Project; and
(C)   West Bengal, in consideration of the Association's entering into the
Development Credit Agreement with the Borrower, has agreed to undertake the
obligations hereinafter set forth;
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
ARTICLE I
Definitions
Section 1.01. Wherever used in this Agreement, unless the context shall
otherwise require, the several terms defined in the Development Credit Agreement
and in the General Conditions (as so defined) have the respective meanings therein
set forth.
ARTICLE II
Particular Covenants
Section 2.01. (a) West Bengal shall carry out, or cause to be carried out,
the Project with due diligence and efficiency and in conformity with sound
administrative, financial, agricultural and engineering practices, and shall provide,


﻿4
or cause to be provided, promptly as needed, the funds, facilities, services and
other resources required for the purpose.
(b)   West Bengal shall take all action which shall be necessary on its part
to enable ARC to perform its obligations under the Project Agreement and shall
not take or permit any of its agencies to take any action which would prevent
or interfere with the performance of any such obligations of ARC or of Participating
Banks associated therewith.
Section 2.02. (a) Except as the Association shall otherwise agree, the goods,
works and services (other than consultants' services) for the Project to be financed
out of the proceeds of the Credit shall be procured in accordance with the provisions
of Schedule I to this Agreement.
(b)   West Bengal undertakes to insure, or make adequate provision for the
insurance of, the imported goods to be financed out of the proceeds of the Credit
made available to it by the Borrower against hazards incident to the acquisition,
transportation and delivery thereof to the place of use or installation, and for
such insurance any indemnity shall be payable in a currency freely usable by West
Bengal to replace or repair such goods.
Section 2.03. (a) In order to formulate designs and technical specifications
for riverlift installations included in Part B(i) of the Project, West Bengal shall
appoint a technical group in consultation with the Association under terms of
reference mutually acceptable to West Bengal and the Association.
(b)   In order to conduct economic evaluation and feasibility studies
included in Part B(ii) of the Project, West Bengal shall employ qualified consultants
acceptable to the Association upon terms and conditions satisfactory to the
Association.
(c)   Any other consultants required for assistance in carrying out the
Project shall be employed by West Bengal on terms and conditions satisfactory
to the Association.
Section 2.04. West Bengal shall entrust coordination of the Project to the
Sub-committee on     Long-term  Loans and ARC      Schemes of its state level
Coordination Committee established pursuant to its Resolution No. 441, dated
February 6, 1974.
Section 2.05. West Bengal shall, not later than December 31, 1975, or such
other date as the Association shall agree:


﻿5
(a)   cause the three secretaries of the Market Committees located at Samsi,
Karimpur and Katwa to attend the appropriate training course for market secretaries
at Nagpur or Poona Training Institutes;
(b)   prepare a plan for the reorganization of extension services in the Project
Area satisfactory to the Association; and
(c)   appoint competent      and  adequate   staff to  prepare   agricultural
development projects in accordance with a work program satisfactory to the
Association.
Section 2.06. West Bengal shall, pursuant to the provisions of the Act,
establish the Marketing Board in a form satisfactory to the Association.
Section 2.07. Except as the Association shall otherwise agree, West Bengal
shall fix, maintain and enforce uniform market fees to be levied by all Market
Committees of not less than 1% of the value of the agricultural produce marketed.
Section 2.08. (a) West Bengal shall, by December 31, 1975, or such other
date as the Association shall agree, select areas where construction and equipping
of deep tubewells shall be confined to Irrigation Groups during the implementation
of the Project.
(b)   West Bengal shall make available to Irrigation Groups, as a grant, at
least 50% of the capital cost of construction and equipping of deep tubewells.
Section 2.09. West Bengal shall, through the Water Board, establish technical
criteria for irrigation investments, including those relating to siting of wells and
riverlifts.
Section 2.10. (a) West Bengal shall, by December 31, 1975, or such other
date as the Association shall agree, implement a program satisfactory to the
Association for collection of water charges to recover the full operating and
maintenance costs of minor irrigation facilities owned by MIC and West Bengal.
(b)   West Bengal undertakes to increase water charges in respect of minor
irrigation to an extent sufficient to recover progressively a larger portion of capital
costs. To this end, West Bengal shall promptly commence continuous field studies
on terms and conditions satisfactory to the Association.
Section 2.11. (a) West Bengal shall cause MIC to prepare and implement
a staffing and financing plan satisfactory to the Association.


﻿6
(b)   To avoid duplication of staff and equipment when operating in the
same area, West Bengal shall cause MIC and the Engineering Directorate of its
Department of Agriculture to provide appropriate staff and equipment services for
each other on an agency basis.
Section 2.12. West Bengal shall ensure that an adequate quantity of seed
supplies is available to meet the requirements of the Beneficiaries in the Project
Area.
Section 2.13. West Bengal undertakes not to make any agricultural loans
directly to farmers in any Block of the Project Area in which Sub-loans are made
for minor irrigation.
Section 2.14. West Bengal shall: (i) provide the West Bengal State Electricity
Board beginning with fiscal year 1975/76 and thereafter with an annual subsidy
equivalent to the amount by which such Board's operating expenses (including
loan interest) in respect of rural electrification operations in the Project Area exceed
its revenues from such operations; (ii) in respect of electrification schemes to
connect shallow tubewells and deep tubewells to be constructed under the Project,
make arrangements for appraisal by December 31, 1975, of such schemes in a
manner satisfactory to the Association; (iii) cause its State Electricity Board to
act expeditiously in, and give priority to, the connection of electricity to tubewells
included in the Project; and (iv) give priority to agricultural users in the Project
Area for the allocation of fuel oil for operation of wells and riverlift installations.
Section 2.15. West Bengal shall, as early as possible, take all necessary action
to regulate ground water use in the State of West Bengal.
Section 2.16. Except as the Association may otherwise agree, West Bengal
shall cause all goods and services financed out of the proceeds of the Credit to
be used exclusively for the Project.
Section 2.17. West Bengal shall take or cause to be taken all such action
as shall be necessary to acquire, as and when needed, all such land and rights
in respect of land as shall be required for the construction of the Markets under
the Project.
Section 2.18. (a) West Bengal shall furnish or cause to be furnished to the
Association, promptly upon their preparation, the plans, specifications, reports,
contract documents and construction and procurement schedules for the Project,
and any material modifications thereof or additions thereto, in such detail as the
Association shall reasonably request.


﻿7
(b)   West Bengal: (i) shall maintain or cause to be maintained records
adequate to record the progress of the Project (including the cost thereof) and
to identify the goods and services financed out of the proceeds of the Credit made
available to it by the Borrower, and to disclose the use thereof in the Project;
(ii) shall enable the Association's representatives to visit the facilities and
construction sites included in the Project and to examine the goods financed out
of such proceeds and any relevant records and documents; and (iii) shall furnish
to the Association all such information as the Association shall reasonably request
concerning the Project, the expenditure of the proceeds of the Credit so made
available to it and the goods and services financed out of such proceeds.
Section 2.19. (a) West Bengal shall, at the request of the Association,
exchange views with the Association with regard to the progress of the Project,
the performance of its obligations under this Agreement and other matters relating
to the purposes of the Credit.
(b)   West Bengal shall promptly inform the Association of any condition
which interferes or threatens to interfere with, the progress of the Project, the
accomplishment of the purposes of the Credit, or the performance by West Bengal
of its obligations under this Agreement.
Section 2.20. West Bengal shall cause MIC to: (i) at all times manage its
affairs, maintain its financial position, and carry on its operation, all in accordance
with sound business and financial practices and under the supervision of experienced
and competent management assisted by adequate staff; and (ii) take all steps
necessary to acquire, maintain and renew all rights, powers, privileges and franchises
which are necessary or useful in the conduct of its business or in the carrying
out of any part of the Project.
Section 2.21. West Bengal shall cause MIC to take out and maintain with
responsible insurers, or make other provisions satisfactory to the Association for,
insurance against such risks and in such amounts as shall be consistent with
appropriate practice.
Section 2.22. West Bengal shall cause MIC and the Market Committees to
maintain records adequate to reflect in accordance with consistently maintained
al)propriate accounting practices their operations and financial condition.
Section 2.23. West Bengal shall cause MIC and the Market Committees to:
(i) have their accounts and financial statements (balance sheets, statements of
income and expenses and related statements) for each fiscal year audited, in
accordance with sound auditing principles consistently applied, by independent


﻿8
auditors acceptable to the Association; (ii) furnish to the Association as soon as
available, and, except as the Association shall otherwise agree, not later than four
months after the end of each such year, (A) certified copies of the financial
statements for such year as so audited and (B) the report of such audit by said
auditors of such scope and in such detail as the Association shall have reasonably
requested; and (iii) furnish to the Association such other information concerning
the accounts and financial statements of MIC and said Market Committees, and
the audit thereof, as the Association shall from time to time reasonably request.
ARTICLE III
Effective Date; Termination;
Cancellation and Suspension
Section 3.01. This Agreement shall come into force and effect on the date
upon which the Development Credit Agreement becomes effective. If the
Development Credit Agreement shall terminate pursuant to Section 10.04 of the
General Conditions, the Association shall promptly notify West Bengal of this event
and, upon the giving of such notice, this Agreement and all obligations of the
parties hereunder shall forthwith terminate.
Section 3.02. This Agreement shall terminate and all obligations of West
Bengal and the Association hereunder shall cease and determine on the date on
which the Project Agreement terminates in accordance with its terms.
Section 3.03. All the provisions of this Agreement shall continue in full force
and effect notwithstanding any partial cancellation or suspension under the
Development Credit Agremeent.
ARTICLE IV
Miscellaneous Provisions
Section 4.01. Any notice or request required or permitted to be given or
made under this Agreement and any agreement between the parties contemplated
by this Agreement shall be in writing. Such notice or request shall be deemed
to have been duly given or made when it shall be delivered by hand or by mail,
telegram, cable, telex or radiogram to the party to which it is required or permitted
to be given or made at such party's address hereinafter specified or at such other
address as such party shall have designated by notice to the party giving such
notice or making such request. The addresses so specified are:


﻿9
For West Bengal:
The Chief Secretary to the
Government of West Bengal
Writers Building
Calcutta - 1, West Bengal
India
Cable address:
CHIEFSEC
Calcutta
For the Association:
International Development Association
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Cable address:
INDEVAS
Washington, D.C.
Section 4.02. Any action required or permitted to be taken, and any
documents required or permitted to be executed, under this Agreement on behalf
of West Bengal may be taken or executed by a Secretary to the Government of
West Bengal or such other person or persons as West Bengal shall designate in
writing.
Section 4.03. West Bengal shall furnish to the Association sufficient evidence
of the authority and the authenticated specimen signature of the person or persons
who will, on behalf of West Bengal take any action or execute any documents
required or permitted to be taken or executed by West Bengal pursuant to any
of the provisions of this Agreement.
Section 4.04. This Agreement may be executed in several counterparts, each
of which shall be an original and all collectively but one instrument.
0


﻿10
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their
representatives thereunto duly authorized, have caused this Agreement to be signed
in their respective names and delivered in the District of Columbia, United States
of America, as of the day and year first above written.
THE STATE OF WEST BENGAL
By /s/ T.N.Kaul
Authorized Representative
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
By /s / M. L. Weiner
Regional Vice President
South Asia


﻿11
SCHEDULE 1
Procurement
A.    General Procedures
1.    Equipment and materials for shallow tubewells and agro-service centres may
be procured through normal commercial channels.
2.    Contracts for civil works, equipment and materials for the constructio, of
deep tubewells, and equipment and materials for the Water Board, MIC and the
Department of Agriculture of West Bengal shall be let on the basis of competitive
bidding advertised locally and in accordance with usual procedures of West Bengal.
3.    Contracts for civil works, equipment and materials for the Markets shall be
let under the following procedures:
(a)   Each Market to be constructed under Part A(iii) of the Project shall
be designed according to its site requirements and commercial needs. On behalf
of Market Committees and upon the request of the Marketing Board, West Bengal
shall prepare or cause to be prepared designs, plans and cost estimates in such
detail as shall allow appraisal by Participating Banks. After such appraisal, West
Bengal, upon request by the Marketing Board, shall prepare or cause to be prepared
detailed drawings, specifications, tender documents and construction contracts.
(b)   After approval of tender documents and construction contracts by a
Market Committee, the Marketing Board or the Participating Banks, West Bengal
shall call, or cause to be called, for bids through public tenders following established
procedure for governmental procurement in West Bengal. After appropriate bid
evaluation West Bengal, on behalf of Market Committees, and after approval of
bid award proposals by the Marketing Board, shall award contracts for construction.
(c)   Payments to successful bidders shall be approved by the appropriate
engineer to be nominated by West Bengal.
B.    Review of Procurement Decisions by the Association
I.    With respect to all contracts for equipment and materials estimated to cost
the equivalent of $50,000 or more:
(a)   Before bids are invited, West Bengal shall furnish to the Association,
for its comments, the text of the invitation to bid and the specifications and other


﻿12
bidding documents, together with a description of the advertising procedures to
be followed for the bidding, and shall make such modifications in the said
documents or procedures as the Association shall reasonably request. Any further
modification to the bidding documents shall require the Association's concurrence
before it is issued to the prospective bidders.
(b)   After bids have been received and opened, West Bengal shall promptly
furnish to the Association a list of all bidders together with the amount of each
bid,
(c)   After bids have been evaluated, West Bengal shall, before a final
decision on the award is made, inform the Association of the name of the bidder
to which it intends to award the contract and the reasons for the intended award
and shall furnish to the Association, in sufficient time for its review, a detailed
report on the evaluation and comparison of the bids received, together with the
recommendation for award and such other information as the Association shall
reasonably request. The Association shall, if it determines that the intended award
would be inconsistent with the provisions of this Schedule, promptly inform West
Bengal and state the reasons for such determination.
(d)   The terms and conditions of the contract shall not, without the
Association's concurrence, materially differ from those on which bids were asked.
(e)   Two conformed copies of the contract shall be furnished to the
Association promptly after its execution and prior to the submission to the
Association of the first application for withdrawal of funds from the Credit Account
in respect of such contract.
2.    With respect to each contract (except contracts awarded pursuant to
paragraph A.1 hereof) to be financed out of the proceeds of the Credit and not
governed by the preceding paragraph, West Bengal shall furnish to the Association,
promptly after its execution and prior to the submission to the Association of
the first application for withdrawal of funds from the Credit Account in respect
of such contract, two conformed copies of such contract, together with the analysis
of bids, recommendations for award and such other information as the Association
shall reasonably request. The Association shall, if it determines that the award
of the contract was not consistent with the provisions of this Schedule, promptly
inform West Bengal and state the reasons for such determination.


