CONFORMED COPY
CREDIT NUMBER 541 IN
Development Credit
Agreement
(West Bengal Agricultural Development Project)
BETWEEN
INDIA
AND
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
DATED APRIL 28, 1975


﻿CONFORMED COPY
CREDIT NUMBER 541 IN
Development Credit
Agreement
(West Bengal Agricultural Development Project)
BETWEEN
INDIA
AND
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
DATED APRIL 28, 1975


﻿DEVELOPMENT CREDIT AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT, dated April 28, 1975, between INDIA, acting by its President
(hereinafter called the Borrower) and INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT
ASSOCIATION (hereinafter called the Association).
WHEREAS (A) The Borrower has requested the Association to assist in the
financing of the Project described in Schedule 2 to this Agreement by extending
the Credit as hereinafter provided;
(B)   By an agreement of even date herewith between the State of West
Bengal, acting by its Governor (hereinafter called West Bengal) and the Association,
West Bengal has agreed to undertake certain obligations in respect of the carrying
out of the Project;
(C)   By an agreement of even date herewith between the Association and
the Agricultural Refinance Corporation (hereinafter called ARC), ARC has agreed
to undertake certain obligations in respect of the carrying out of the Project; and
(D)   The Association has agreed, on the basis inter alia of the foregoing,
to extend the Credit to the Borrower upon terms and condit-ons hereinafter set
forth;
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
ARTICLE I
General Conditions; Definitions
Section 1.01. The parties to this Agreement accept all the provisions of the
General Conditions Applicable to Development Credit Agreements of the
Association, dated March 15, 1974, with the same force and effect as if they were
fully set forth herein, subject, however, to the following modification thereof (said
General Conditions Applicable to Development Credit Agreements of the
Association, as so modified, being hereinafter called the General Conditions),
namely that paragraph 5 of Section 2.01 is amended to read as follows:
"5. The term Borrower means India, acting by its President".


﻿4
Section 1.02. Wherever used in this Agreement, unless the context otherwise
requires, the several terms defined in the General Conditions have the respective
meanings therein set forth and the following additional terms have the following
meanings:
(a)   "West Bengal" means The State of West Bengal, acting by its Governor,
a State of India, or any successor thereof;
(b)   "ARC" means Agricultural Refinance Corporation, a statutory
corporation established and organized under the laws of the Borrower;
(c)   "LDB" means West Bengal State Cooperative Land Development Bank,
Limited, a cooperative society established and organized under the laws of West
Bengal;
(d)   "West Bengal Agreement" means the agreement of even date herewith
between West Bengal and the Association, as the same may be amended from time
to time, and such term includes all schedules to the West Bengal Agreement;
(e)   "Project Agreement" means the agreement of even date herewith
between the Association and ARC, as the same may be amended from time to
time, and such ten-n includes all schedules to the Project Agreement;
(f)   "Primary Bank" means any Primary Land Development Bank which
is a member of LDB;
(g)   "Subsidiary Loan Agreement" means the agreement to be entered into
between the Borrower and ARC pursuant to Section 3.02(a) hereof, and all
schedules thereto, if any, as the same may be amended from time to time;
(h)   "Sub-Loan" means any loan made or proposed to be made to a
Beneficiary and to be financed out of the proceeds of the Credit;
(i)   "Beneficiary" means farmers, Irrigation Group, a cooperative society,
any owner of -an agro-service center, MIC or a Market Committee carrying out
activities relevant to the Project in the Project Area which is eligible to receive
a Sub-Loan;
(j)   "Participating Bank" means LDB, any branch of LDB or a commercial
bank which has entered into an agreement with ARC in accordance with Section
2.03(b) of the Project Agreement;


﻿5
(k)   "MIC" means West Bengal State Minor Irrigation Corporation Limited,
a company registered under the Companies Act, 1956, as amended;
(1)   "Banking Plan" means a plan to ensure adequate and suitable facilities
to support banking operations required under the Project;
(in)  "Act" means the West Bengal Agricultural Produce Marketing
(Regulation) Act, 1972;
(n)   "Marketing Board" means the West Bengal State Marketing Board, to
be established by West Bengal pursuant to the provisions of the Act;
(o)   "Market Committee" means a market committee established pursuant
to the provisions of the Act;
(p)   "Market" means a market established or declared as such under the
provisions of the Act:
(q)   "Water Board" means the West Bengal Stat- Water Board established
pursuant to West Bengal Resolution No. 7- Irrigation, dated January 2, 1974;
(r)   "Small Farmer" shall have the meaning assigned to it in Schedule 3
to the Project Agreement as such Schedule may be amended from time to time
by agreement between the Borrower, ARC and the Association;
(s)   "Irrigation Group" means an organization of farmers which undertakes
to develop, own and operate a deep tubewell 7.nder the criteria set forth in Schedule
2 to the Project Agreement and such term shall include the West Bengal
Comprehensive Area Development Corporation and any Anchal Panchayat of West
Bengal-
(t)   "Project Area" means the districts of Hooghly, Burdwan, Nadia,
Murshidabad, Malda and West Dinajpur in West Bengal; and
(u)   "Rs" means rupees in the currency of the Borrower.
ARTICLE II
The Credit
Section 2.01. The Association agrees to lend to the Borrower, on the terms
and conditions in the Development Credit Agreement set forth or referred to, an
amount in various currencies equivalent to thirty-four million dollars ($34,000,000).


﻿6
Section 2.02. The amount of the Credit may be withdrawn from the Credit
Account in accordance with the provisions of Schedule I to this Agreement, as
such Schedule may be amended from time to time, for expenditures made (or,
if the Association shall so agree, to be made) in respect of the reasonable cost
of goods and services required for the Project and to be financed out of the proceeds
of the Credit.
Section 2.03. (a) Except as the Association shall otherwise agree, the goods,
works and services (other than consultants' services) for the Project to be financed
out of the proceeds of the Credit, shall be procured in accordance with the
provisions set forth or referred to in Schedule I to the West Bengal Agreement.
(b)   With respect to any contract for the goods described in paragraph (a)
above, the Borrower shall make or cause to be made, allocations of any locally
produced materials which are subject to allocation, promptly and in such quantities
as shall be required for such contract.
Section 2.04. The Closing Date shall be March 3 1, 1980 or such later date
as the Association shall establish. The Association shall promptly notify the
Borrower, West Bengal and ARC of such later date.
Section 2.05. The Borrower shall pay to the Association a service charge
at the rate of three-fourths of one per cent (3/4 of I7) per annum on the principal
amount of the Credit withdrawn and outstanding from time to time.
Section 2.06. Service charges shall be payable semi-annually on May I and
November I in each year.
Section 2.07. The Borrower shall repay the principal amount of the Credit
in semi-annual installments payable on each May I and November 1 commencing
May 1, 1985 and ending November 1, 2024, each installment to and including
the installment payable on November 1, 1994 to be one-half of one per cent (1/2
of 1%) of such principal amount, and each installment thereafter to be one and
one-half per cent (1-1/2%) of such principal amount.
Section 2.08. The currency of the United Kingdom of Great Britain and
Northern Ireland is hereby specified for the purposes of Section 4.02 of the General
Conditions.
ARTICLE III
Execution of the Project
Section 3.01. Without any limitation or restriction upon any of its other
obligations under the Development Credit Agreement, the Borrower shall cause


﻿7
(i) West Bengal to perform in accordance with the provisions of the West Bengal
Agreement, and (ii) ARC to perform in accordance with the provisions of the
Project Agreement, all the obligations therein set forth; shall take and cause to
be taken all action, including the provision of funds, facilities, services and other
resources, necessary or appropriate to enable West Bengal and ARC to perform
such obligations, and shall not take or permit to be taken any action which would
prevent or interfere with such performance.
Section 3.02. (a) The Borrower shall enter into a subsidiary loan agreement
with ARC on terms and conditions (including inter alici those set forth in Schedule
3 to this Agreement) satisfactory to the Association for the purpose of relending
to ARC for relending to the Participating Banks funds equivalent to the proceeds
of the Credit allocated under Category (1) of the table set forth in Schedule I
to this Agreement.
(b)   The Borrower shall exercise its rights under the Subsidiary Loan
Agreement in suTh manner as to protect the interests of the Borrower and the
Association and to accomplish the purpose of the Credit, and except as the
Association shall otherwise agree, the Borrower shall not assign, nor amend, abrogate
or waive the Subsidiary Loan Agreement or any provision thereof.
(c)   In order to assist West Bengal iii carrying out Part B of the Project,
the Borrower shall make available to West Bengal funds equivalent to the proceeds
of the Credit allocated under Category (2) of the table set forth in Schedule 1
to this Agreement.
ARTICLE IV
Remedies of the Association
Section 4.01. For the purposes of Section 6.02 of the General Conditions,
the following additional events are specified:
(a)   West Bengal shall have failed to perform any of its obligations under
the West Bengal Agreement or ARC shall have failed to perform any of its
obligations under the Projuct Agreement or the Subsidiary Loan Agreement;
(b)   ARC, LDB or MIC shall have become unable to pay any of its debts
as they mature or any action or proceeding shall have been taken by ARC, LDB
or MIC or by others whereby any of the property of ARC, LDB or MIC shall
or may be distributed among its creditors;


﻿8
(c)   The Borrower or any other authority having jurisdiction shall have
taken any action for the dissolution or disestablishment of ARC, LDB or MIC
or for the suspension of the operations of ARC, LDB or MIC; and
(d)   An extraordinary situation shall have arisen which shall make it
improbable that (i) West Bengal will be able to perform its obligations under the
West Bengal Agreement or (ii) ARC will be able to perform its obligations under
the Project Agreement or under the Subsidiary Loan Agreement.
Section 4.02. For the purposes of Section 7.01 of the General Conditions,
the following additional events are specified:
(a)   any event specified in paragraph (a) of Section 4.01 of this Agreement
shall occur and shall continue for a period of 60 days after notice thereof shall
have been given by the Association to the Borrower and West Bengal or ARC,
as the case may be; and
(b)   any event specified in paragraphs (b) and (c) of Section 4.01 of this
Agreement shall occur.
ARTICLE V
Effective Date; Termination
Section 5.01. The following events are specified as additional conditions to
the effectiveness of the Development Credit Agreement within the meaning of
Section 12.01(b) of the General Conditions:
(a)   The West Bengal Agreement has been duly executed and delivered by
West Bengal and has been duly authorized or ratified by all necessary governmental
action.
(b)   The Project Agreement has been duly executed and delivered on behalf
of ARC and has been duly authorized or ratified by all necessary corporate and
governmental action.
(c)   The Subsidiary Loan Agreement has been duly executed and delivered
on behalf of the Borrower and ARC and has been duly authorized or ratified
by all necessary corporate and governmental action.
Section 5.02. The following are specified as additional matters, within the
meaning of Section 12.02(b) of the General Conditions, to be included in the
opinion or opinions to be furnished to the Association:


﻿9
(a)   that the West Bengal Agreement has been duly authorized or ratified
by, and executed and delivered on behalf of, West Bengal, and is legally binding
upon West Bengal in accordance with its terms;
(b)   that the Project Agreement has been duly authorized or ratified by,
and executed and delivered on behalf of, ARC, and is legally binding upon ARC
in accordance with its terms; and
(c)   that the Subsidiary Loan Agreement has been duly authorized or
ratified by, and executed and delivered on behalf of, the Borrower and ARC,
respectively, and is legally binding upon the Borrower and ARC in accordance
with its terms.
Section 5.03. The date July 31, 1975 is hereby specified for the purposes
of Section 12.04 of the General Conditions.
ARTICLE VI
Representative of the Borrower; Addresses
Section 6.01. Any Secretary, Additional Secretary, Joint Secretary, Officer
on Special Duty, Director or Deputy Secretary to the Government of India in
the Ministry of Finance of the Borrower is designated as representative of the
Borrower for the purposes of Section 11.03 of the General Conditions.
Section 6.02. The following addresses are specified for the purposes of
Section 11.01 of the General Conditions:
For the Borrower:
The Secretary to the
Government of India
Ministry of Finance
Department of Economic Affairs
New Delhi, India
Cable address:
ECOFAIRS
New Delhi


﻿10
For the Association:
International Development Association
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Cable address:
INDEVAS
Washington, D.C.
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their
representatives thereunto duly authorized, have caused this Agreement to be signed
in their respective narnes in the District of Columbia, United States of America,
as of the day and year first above written.
INDIA
By /s / T. N. Kaul
Authorized Representative
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
By /s / M. L. Weiner
Regional Vice President
South Asia


﻿I I
SCHEDULE I
Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the Credit
1,   The table below sets forth the Categories of items to be financed out of
the proceeds of the Credit, the allocation of the amounts of the Credit to each
Category and the percentage of expenditures for items so to be financed in each
Category:
Amount of the
Credit Allocated             % of
(Expressed in           Expenditures
Category                   Dollar Equivalent)      to be Financed
(1)   Loans for:                                         55% of loans dis-
bu rsed
(a)   Shallow                  1 1,400,000
tubewells
(b)   Deep tube-
wells
(i)        for MIC              1,000,000
(ii)       for Irri-            1,000,000
gation
Groups
(c)   Agro-service              1,000,000
centers
(d)   Markets                    600,000
(2)  (a)   Riverlift                 6,800,000           557 of local ex-
and deep tube-                               penditures
well irriga-
tion schemes
(b)   Equipment for             1,000,000          100   of foreign
the Water Board                              expenditures or
and Engineering                              55% of local ex-
Directorate                                  penditures
0


﻿12
Amount of the
Credit Allocated             % of
(Expressed in           Expenditures
Category                  Dollar Equivalent)       to be Financed
(c)   Improvement of            2,200,000          55% of local
agricultural ex-                             expenditures
tension services
(d)   Technical as-              700,000           100%
sistance and
training
(3)   Unallocated                    8,300,000
TOTAL         34,000,000
2.    For the purposes of this Schedule:
(a)   the term  "foreign expenditures" means expenditures for goods or
services supplied from, the territory, and in the currency, of any country other
than the Borrower; and
(b)   the term "local expenditures" means expenditures in the currency of
the Borrower, and for goods or services supplied from, the territory of the Borrower.
3.   The disbursement percentages have been calculated in compliance with the
policy of the Association that no proceeds of the Credit shall be disbursed on
account of payments for taxes levied by, or in the territory of, the Borrower on
goods or services, or on the importation, manufacture, procurement or supply
thereof; to that end, if any event occurs which shall affect the amount of any
such taxes included in the cost of any item to be financed out of the proceeds
of the Credit, the Association may, by notice to the Borrower, correspondingly
adjust the disbursement percentage then applicable to such item.
4.    Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph I above, no withdrawals shall
be made:


﻿13
(a)   in respect of expenditures prior to the date of this Agreement;
(b)   in respect of expenditures under Category (2)(a) until the technical
specifications for riverlift installations have been mutually agreed upon between
the Association and West Bengal;
(c)   in respect of expenditures under Category (1)(b)(i) until arrangements
satisfactory to the Association for staffing and financing in respect of MIC have
been made; or
(d)   in respect of expenditures under Category (1)(d) until the Marketing
Board has been established in a form satisfactory to the Association.
5.    Notwithstanding   the allocation of an amount of the Credit or the
disbursement percentages set forth in the table ii paragraph I above, if the
Association has reasonably estimated that the amount of the Credit then allocated
to any Category will be insufficient to finance the agreed percentage of all
expenditures in that Category, the Association may, by notice to the Borrower:
(i) reallocate to such Category to the extent required to meet the estimated shortfall
proceeds of the Credit which are then allocated to another Category and which
in the opinion of the Association are not needed to meet other expenditures; and
(ii) if such reallocation cannot fully meet the estimated shortfall, reduce the
disbursement percentage then applicable to such expenditures in order that further
withdrawals under such Category may continue until all expenditures thereunder
shall have been made.
6.    If the Association shall have reasonably determined that the procurement
of any item in any Category is inconsistent with the procedures set forth or referred
to in this Agreement, no expenditures for such item shall be financed out of the
proceeds of the Credit and the Association may, without in any way restricting
or limiting any other right, power or remedy of the Association under the
Development Credit Agreement, by notice to the Borrower, cancel such amount
of the Credit as in the Association's reasonable opinion, represents the amount
of such expenditures which would otherwise have been eligible for financing out
of the proceeds of the Credit.


﻿14
SCHEDULE 2
Description of the Project
The Project is the first phase of a program to assist West Bengal with
agricultural development in the Project Area and consists of:
Part A:     A four year program   for loans through the Participating Banks for:
(i)         construction and equipping of about 18,000 shallow
tubewells including, inter alia, land development and field
channels;
(ii)        construction and equipping of about 200 deep tubewells
for Irrigation Groups and about 100 deep tubewells for
MIC including, inter alia, land development and field
channels;
(iii)       construction of facilities (including, inter alia, roads,
fencing, go-downs, auction platforms and shops) and
acquisition of equipment for three Markets at Samsi,
Karimpur and Katwa; and
(iv)        acquisition and utilization of machinery and equipment
for the establishment of about 200 agro-service centers.
Part B:     A four year program  for:
(i)         completion  by   West Bengal of about 600       partly
constructed riverlift and deep tubewell schemes including,
inter alia, land development and field channels;
(ii)       technical assistance, scholarships for staff and acquisition
of equipment for the Water Board and the Engineering
Directorate of the Department of Agriculture of West
Bengal; training of secretaries of three Market Committees
located at Samsi, Karimpur and Katwa; completion of (a)
an economic evaluation of existing agricultural Markets
and the impact of the Markets on agricultural development
in West Bengal, with emphasis on the benefits to farmers,
based on the study of the three Markets financed under
the Project and selected similar Markets, and (b) feasibility


﻿15
studies for the establishment of further Markets in West
Bengal; and preparation of a second phase project; and
(iii)       employment of additional staff, acquisition of equipment
and materials, and staff training, for improvement of
extension services of the Department of Agriculture, West
Bengal.
The Project is expected to be completed by the end of September, 1979.


﻿16
SCHEDULE 3
Principal Terms of Subsidiary Loan Agreement
The following sets forth the principal terms and conditions under which funds
equivalent to part of the proceeds of the Credit shall be lent to ARC by the
Borrower:
(a)   In respect of ARC refinancing not exceeding 9 years:
(i)        interest rate of not less than 6-3/4% per annum less 1/4% for
prompt payment;
(ii)       repayment at the end of 9 years.
(b)   In respect of ARC refinancing in excess of 9 but not exceeding 15
years:
(i)        interest rate of not less than 7-1/4% per annum less 1/4% for
prompt payment;
(ii)       repayment at the end of 15 years.
(c)   The Borrower shall bear the foreign exchange risk.


