FILE CDPY
DOCUMENT OF INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
Not For Public Use
Report No. 23-MAG
APPRAISAL OF A
THIRD HIGHWAY PROJECT
MALAGASY REPUBLIC
December 1, 1972
Eastern Africa Projects Department
Transportation Division
This report was prepared for official use only by the Bank Group. It may not be published, quoted
or cited without Bank Group authorization. The Bank Group does not accept responsibility for the
accuracy or completeness of the report.



Currency Equivalents
Unit           = Malagasy Franc (FM)
US$1           = FMG 256
FIG 1          = US$0.0039
FMG 1 million  = US.$3,906
Fiscal Year
January 1 - Decemnber 31
System of -ieights and Measures:  Metric
Metric/British US Equivalents
1 meter (m)               = 3.28 feet (ft)
1 cubic meter (m3)        = 35.29 cubic feet (cu ft)
1 kilometer (Ica)         = 0.62 mile (mi)
1 square kilometer (kni2)= 0.386 square mile (sq mi)
1 hectare (ha)            = 2.47 acres (ac)
1 kilogram (kg)           = 2.2 pounds (lb)
1 metric ton (m ton)      = 2,204 pounds (lb)
i liter (1)               = 0.22 imperial gallon (Ig)
= 0.26 US gallon (gal)
Abbreviations and AcronymLs
BCEOM - Bureau Central d'Studes pour les Equipements d'Outre-Mer
DTP    - Direction des Travaux Publics
FAC    - Fonds d'Aide et de Cooperation
F3D    - Fonds Suropeen de Developpement
FFYP   - First Five-Year Plan (1964-68)
LNTPB - Laboratoire National des Travaux Publics et du 3atiment
IAT    - Ministere de l'Amenagement du Territoire
RN     - route nationale
SCT    - Service Central Technique
SFYP   - Second Five-Year Plan (1970-74)
SPC    - Service des Ponts et Chausees
vpd    - vehicles per day



MALAGASY REPUBLIC
APPRAISAL OF A
THIRD HIGHWAY PROJECT
TABLE OF CONTENTS
Page No.
SUMMARY AND CONCLUSIONS ............ ..................    i
I.   INTRODUCTION .........................................      1
II.   THE TRANSPORT SECTOR . ................. . .   ......... .   2
A.   General ..      ....................... .................    2
B.   The Transport Modes        .............................    2
C.   Transport Policy and Coordination ..      .............    4
III.  THE HIGHWAY SUB-SECTOR ............... ...............    6
A.   The Road Network and Its Traffic .............         6
B.   The Road Transport Industry        .....................    6
C. Highway Administration ...                              7
D.   Highway Planning and Financing ..............          8
E.   Highway Engineering and Construction o  ...........    9
F.   Highway Maintenance ....     .      ...............  10
IV. THE PROJECT. . .                                             11
A. General Description                .... il
B.  Construction ...... ..       .. ... ....       ..      il
C. Detailed Engineering...    il
D.   Improvement of Traffic Counts                         il
E. Execution .........12
F. Cost Estimates              ....13
G.   Financing and Disbursements                           14
V. ECONOMIC EVALUATION    ..14
VI.  AGREEMENTS REACHED AND RECOMMENDATION    . . .16
This report has been prepared by Messrs. G. de Navacerrada, E. Haker
(Consultant) and A. Delon (FAO/IBRD Cooperative Programme).



Table of Contents (Cont'd)
ANNEXES
A.   Memorandum of Understanding on Transport Policy and Coordination
B.   Execution of the First Phase of the Highway Master Plan
C.   Details and Economic Evaluation of Proposed Road Construction
TABLES
1. The Highway Network: 1972
2.  Development of the Primary Road System:0 1964-72
3. Motor Vehicle Registration: 1958-1971
4. Motor Vehicles in Circulation - Estimates by Main Type,
5. Fuel Consumption: 1960-1971
6.  Revenues from Road Users: 1964-1970
7. Highway Expenditures: 1964-1971
8. Highway Design Standards
9. Estimate of Construction Costs
10. Estimated Schedule of Disbursements
11. Vehicle Operating Costs on Flat Terrain
12. Traffic Data
13. Benefit to Investment Ratio and Economic Return Data
14. Sensitivity Analysis of Economic Returns
CHART
Organization of Highway Administration
MAP
Malagasy Republic Highway System



MALAGASY REPUBLIC
THIRD HIGHWAY PROJECT
SUMMARY AND CONCLUSIONS
i.        Development of an adequate transport system in the Malagasy
Republic is made particularly difficult by the rugged topographic and
geological conditions of the country. Growth of the system has been slow
and many regions have no reliable connection with the rest of the island.
In the light of the difficulty of transport development in Madagascar, the
Governnent is now giving increased attention to systematic planning of the
transport system, particularly to highway investments. Under the Bank Group's
first two lending operations for highways in Madagascar (Credit 90-MAG: US$10
million and Credit 134-MAG/Loan 570-MAG: US$8 million), about 290 km of pri-
mary roads representing key links in the island's inland transport system have
been reconstructed, and engineering and feasibility studies of additional
high priority sections have been undertaken. The construction work has been
virtually completed and the studies are scheduled for completion in mid-1973.
il.       This report appraises a third highway project for the construction
and detailed engineering of road sections which have high priority in the
Government's highway development plans. The road works will improve con-
nections between: (a) Antsirabe, an important industrial center, and the
agriculturally rich region of the Sakeny River valley and the port of
Morondava; (b) Tananarive, the capital, and Tsiroanomandidy, a vital market
town in the mid-west; and (c) the eastern and western regions of Lac Alaotra,
a flourishing agricultural production area. The project also makes provision
for the services of consultants to supervise road construction, as well as
to analyze and make recommendations for improving the traffic counting
system in the country.
iii.      The cost of the proposed project is estimated at about US$43.9
million equivalent, with a foreign exchange component of US$29.0 million
(66%).
iv.       Construction contracts will be awarded on the basis of interna-
tional competitive bidding in accordance with normal Bank Group procedures.
Execution of the project is expected to take about four years, and will
be the responsibility of the Ministry of Public Works (Ministere de
l'Amenagement du Territoire), assisted by consultants.
v.        The economic returns range from 15% to 29% for particular road
sections; for the project as a whole, the economic return is about 16%.
vi.       The project constitutes a suitable basis for Bank/IDA lending in a
total amount of US$30 million equivalent, consisting of a loan and a credit
of US$15 million each which will cover the foreign exchange expenditures of
US$29.0 million and US$1.0 million of the local costs. An appropriate loan
term would be 25 years with a ten-year grace period. The credit will be
made on the usual terms.






MALAGASY REPUBLIC
THIRD HIGWEAY PROJECT
I. INTRODUCTION
1.01      The Government of Madagascar has requested Bank Group assistance
to help finance a project comprising: (i) construction of about 417 km of
primary roads, and (ii) consulting services for supervision of construction,
for detailed engineering of about 200 km of primary roads, and for a review
of the traffic counting system.  The estimated project cost is about US$43.9
million equivalent, of which the Bank Group will finance US$30 million or
about 68% of the total; US$29 million, or 97% of the loan and credit, will
cover the foreign costs and the remaining US$1 million will be applied toward
the local costs.
1.02      The present project will be the third lending operation of the Bank
Group in the country's highway sub-sector. The (First) Highway Project (Credit
90-MAG, August 1966, US$10 million) provided for reconstruction of two sec-
tions (totalling 145 km) of the Tananarive-Majunga road. The reconstruction
has been completed satisfactorily. A surplus remained under the credit, part
of which is being used to finance engineering and feasibility studies of ad-
ditional high priority road sections (para. 2.16). These studies are expected
to be completed by mid-1973. The Second Highway Project (Credit 134-MAG/Loan
570-MAG, November 1968, US$8 million) helped finance reconstruction to paved
standards of two roads - Fanjakamandroso-Tsiroanomandidy (55 km) and Ambilobe-
Ambanja (91 km) - and construction of three major bridges - one near Ambanja
and two in the vicinity of Tamatave. Work under the second highway project
is almost complete. Changes in design, due to unexpectedly difficult mate-
rials problems on one road not revealed until the work was well underway,
have, however, resulted in a 27% increase in project costs over the original
estimate. The Bank Group is presently considering a Government request to
utilize the remaining savings under Credit 90-MAG to finance part of the
foreign exchange element of this overrun.
1.03      The only other Bank Group operation in the transport sector of
Madagascar has been a port project (Credit 200-MAG, June 1970, US$9.6 mil-
lion) which provides for extension of the Port of Tamatave, creation of the
Tamatave Port Authority, and technical assistance for management personnel
and for training. A first railway project is scheduled for appraisal in
early 1973.
1.04      This report is based on information obtained by Bank/IDA prepara-
tion missions, and on the findings of a mission composed of Messrs. G. de
Navacerrada (Engineer), E. Haker (Economist/Consultant), and A. Delon
(Agricultural Economist, FAO/IBRD Cooperative Programme), which appraised
the project in November 1971.



Il. THE TRANSPORT SECTOR
A.   General
2.01      The fourth largest island in the world (590,000 km2), Madagascar
lies in the Indian Ocean 400 km off the southeast coast of Africa. Phy-
sically the island can be divided into four distinct regions: the western
coastal plains, the high plateau in the center, the escarpment down to the
eastern shore, and the remote northern area. This physical pattern leads
naturally to a land transport system comprising a peripheral road, a north-
south central axis roughly bisecting the island, and a system of links con-
necting the axis and the coast. The land transportation system is already
developing along these lines. It is, however, at an early stage of devel-
opment and cannot yet fully serve Madagascar's needs.  The northern and part
of the western regions have no all-weather land connections with the rest of
the island; the links with the southern region are merely trails. This lack
of development of the transport system is due not only to a low population
density and the early stage of economic development of much of the island,
but also to high construction costs caused by the rugged topography and a
scarcity of construction materials.
2.02      The physical configuration also determines the pattern of economic
activity and population density, so that these are concentrated on the cen-
tral plateau and parts of the east coast. Population has been growing at
about 2.2% per annum over the past ten years, and presently stands at 7.4
million; of this total, 80% live in rural areas.
2.03      Agriculture is a key sector in the country's economy, and a satis-
factory growth rate of GDP and of exports is therefore heavily dependent on
a continuing increase in agricultural production - especially rice, tobacco,
meat and cotton. To achieve such an increase, it will be necessary to open
up new areas with high agricultural potential where development has until
now been severely hampered by the inadequacy of the transport system.
B.   The Transport Modes
(i) Highways
2.04      Details of the highway system and its administration are given in
Chapter III.
(ii) Railways
2.05      The railway system comprises four lines, totalling about 880 km; it
is owned by the Government and operated by the Regie Nationale des Chemins de
Fer Malgaches, a state enterprise under the supervision of the Ministere de
l'Amenagement du Territoire - MAT (para. 2.11). Most of the system was built
before 1920, and does not permit commercial speeds above 35 km an hour. Traf-
fic is unevenly distributed among the four lines, with the Tananarive-Tamatave
line (375 km) carrying about 70% of the freight traffic and about 50% of the



- 3 -
passenger traffic. Between 1962 and 1967, railway traffic did not grow sig-
nificantly; over the period annual freight traffic increased from about
550,000 tons to about 568,000 tons and passenger traffic, from about 2 mil-
lion to 2.3 million. Between 1967 and 1970, however there was a considerable
upsurge in railway activity and, in the latter year, 830,000 tons of merchandise
were carried and 2.4 million passengers. The increase in goods traffic, aver-
aging 14% annually, was primarily the result of the opening of a new chromite
mine near Vohidiala and has caused some congestion and delay on the already
heavily trafficked Tananarive-Tamatave line. The situation has been aggravated
by the fact that heavy truck traffic is restricted on the parallel road due
to its poor condition (para. 2.13).
2.06      Average costs on the railway are the equivalent of USe2.5/ton-km
for full wagonloads, making the systerm a rather expensive one, although costs
are comparable with other railways which operate in mountainous areas with
steep grades and sharp curves. The railways also enjoy preferential treat-
ment as a transport mode (paras. 2.13 and 2.14) and are financially very
successful. In 1970, they made net earnings of FMG 788 million out of total
current revenues of FIG 2,986 million.  Modernization and managerial reform
of the railways would lead to considerable reductions in overheads and, to
a lesser extent, in marginal costs.
2.07      The railways are well managed technically, but due to organiza-
tional problems, an uneconomic tariff structure, and a lack of financial
and commercial authority, they are ill prepared to face the road competition
which is expected to increase within the next few years. Bank Group ap-
praisal of a project to modernize the system, increase its capacity, and
reduce its operating costs is scheduled for early 1973.
(iii) Air Transport
2.08      Internal air transport is important in a country of Madagascar's
size with so many isolated regions; however, of the 63 airfields served by
regular flights, all but 17 have unpaved runways which sometimes have to
be closed during bad weather. Only the airports at Tananarive and Majunga
can handle long-distance jet aircraft.
(iv) Ports and Waterways
2.09      Inland water transport is limited by the lack of navigable water-
ways; the exception is the 200 km Pangalanes Canal along the east coast be-
tween Mahanoro and Tamatave which carries about 40,000 tons of agricultural
products annually. Coastal navigation is important as it is the only means
of transporting merchandise between many areas; this traffic amounted to about
300,000 tons in 1970. Coastal shipping has further scope for development, and
is expected to continue to play an important role in the transport system for
a long time, at least until the completion of the projected peripheral road.
2.10      There are 16 ports and roadsteads, four of which - Tamatave, Diego
Suarez, Majunga, and Tulear - handle 80% of the international traffic. The
Government has increasingly sought to rationalize coastal shipping and re-
lated port operations, to concentrate international trade in the four major



- 4 -
ports, and to confine coastal traffic to the smaller ones.  Under this policy,
some of the smaller ports would eventually be closed, resulting in savings on
overall port overheads. Extension of the port of Tamatave is presently under-
way with IDA assistance (para. 1.03), and the United Nations Development Pro-
gramme is financing a study to determine the feasibility of extending the port
of Majunga or finding an alternate location.
C.   Transport Policy and Coordination
2.11      Responsibility for transport coordination rests with the MAT which,
following recent extensive political and administrative changes in Madagascar,
replaced the former Ministere des Travaux Publics et des Communications. The
Ministry has been reorganized and given additional responsibilities, and now
has charge of urban affairs, housing and tourism as well as all transport
modes. The MAT has four Directorates, respectively responsible for public
works including highways, the railway, telecommunications, and transport
regulation (see Chart). The highway administration side of the Ministry
(para. 3.06 - 3.07) has not changed substantially although some details of
the reorganization are being worked out. The Transport Directorate is new;
it is responsible for preparing and implementing the Government's policy with
regard to the road transport industry, shipping, inland navigation, aviation
and meteorology as well as supervising such state-owned companies as Air
Madagascar. Investment planning and analysis is carried out by the Ministry's
Service Central de la Programmation.
2.12      The stage of development of the transport system is such that there
is currently little competition between transport modes.  For example, only a
few sections of the projected peripheral road have been completed, so that
coastal shipping is complementary to, rather than competitive with land trans-
port; the situation is likely to remain so for many years.  A similar rela-
tionship exists, in general, between land and air transport.  There is, how-
ever, potential competition between road and rail.
2.13      The Government has, in the past, tended to ignore modal coordina-
tion problems rather than to solve them. For example, road/rail competition
has been avoided in the Tananarive-Tamatave corridor by not maintaining or
upgrading the competing road to adequate standard. Its condition has been
made the reason for imposing physical regulation on trucks, which have, as
a consequence, been limited to a 2.5 or 5.5 ton gross vehicle weight depending
on the comodities being transported; since it is not economical to use small
trucks, road traffic in this corridor is currently less than 100 vehicles
per day (vpd).
2.14      The results of this policy are also evident on the railways, which
have been able to establish tariffs without competition and without due regard
to costs or economy. Tariffs have been determined largely by what the traffic
would bear - which may have been far above costs - and by Goverament's velfare
policy - which may have led to tariffs below marginal costs. Under such con-



- 5 -
ditions there has been no incentive for the railway to reduce substantial
excessive labor or other costs. In total, this policy has probably had a
high economic cost, although it has not been quantified.
2.15      Government's attitude to the problem of modal coordination is,
however, changing and there is a growing realization that a policy which
fosters protection and creates a dependence on one mode of transport exacts
a price in unnecessary economic costs. This lesson has been learned par-
ticularly from the case of the Tananarive-Tamatave corridor, where an in-
crease in traffic in the past three years has, at times, caused congestion
on the railway.   Since the railways are now facing the need for substantial
renewal and capacity investments, it is all the more important that effective
coordiination between modes be pursued.
2.16      An example of the Government's changed attitude has been its will-
ingness to commission a study, now in progress and financed under IDA Credit
90-MAG (para. 1.02), to determine inter alia the feasibility of completing
the paving of the Tananarive-Tamatave road. The other roads being studied
under that credit (Tananarive-Fianarantsoa and Lac Alaotra-East Coast) also
have potential of competing with the railways. These studies are due to be
completed by July 1973. The Government has also made a beginning by easing
the restrictions on the Tananarive-Tamatave road for trucks carrying certain
agricultural commodities, but states that the physical condition of the road
does not allow further relaxing of such restrictions at this time.
2.17      A rational policy of transport coordination in Madagascar, leading
to an allocation of traffic between modes which would minimize total transport
costs, would imply the following:
(i) the upgrading and adequate maintenance of highways which
compete with the railways when economically justified;
(ii) the freeing of road transport from administrative restrictions;
(iii)  the establishment of a rational road pricing policy to
assure that trucks pay the maintenance costs of highways
which compete with railway traffic;
(iv) the introduction of managerial, organizational and tariff
reforms on the railway to enable it to reduce costs, and
to determine tariffs, employment and policies relating to
conditions of service in accordance with sound commercial
considerations; and
(v) the payment by the Government of "public service"
obligations imposed on the railways.
2.18      During negotiations, the Government indicated that it is prepared
to address itself seriously to the problems of modal coordination. To this
effect, a Memorandum of Understanding (Annex A), stating the Government's



- 6 -
intent with regard to the above measures, was agreed upon. While it is not
practicable, at this time, to define a timetable for implementing all the
points set out in the Memorandum, the Government indicated its intention
to maintain close contact with the Bank Group on the matter. During the
appraisal of the proposed railway project, provisionally scheduled for early
1973, the need for and feasibility of establishing an implementation schedule
will be reexamined.
III. THE HIGMHAY SUB-SECTOR
A.   The Road Network and Its Traffic
3.01      The highway network comprises about 32,000 km of roads of different
categories. Definitions of these categories and details of the network are
given in Table 1. Road density is relatively low in relation to area, and is
not uniform; large areas, such as those near Diego Suarez, Morondava and Fort
Dauphin, are not connected with the rest of the island by all-weather roads.
With the exception of about 1,500 km of asphalt-paved primary roads constructed
since 1964 (Table 2), road standards are generally low with bad alignments,
narrow pavements, and weak, often obsolete, structures.
3.02      The best evidence - albeit not very exact - on growth trends in
traffic is that offered by vehicle and fuel consumption statistics. Registra-
tion statistics show that there were about 80,000 vehicles in 1970 (Table 3);
but approximately 20,000 of these were registered before 1958, so that the
nuumber of vehicles in actual circulation is probably about 60,000 (Table 4).
On this assumption, it is estimated that the growth of the total active fleet
has been in the order of 7% per annum since 1958. Fuel consumption has grown
at an average of 8% per annum over the past ten years (Table 5).
B.   The Road Transport Industry
3.03      The road transport industry consists mainly of numerous, highly com-
petitive, small carriers. There are two important bus companies which comple-
ment the railways by offering regular service on the Antsirabe-Fianarantsoa
axis as well as other routes. In addition, eight transport cooperatives in
the Tananarive department run about 350 mini-buses. The largest trucking
company owns 28 vehicles with a total carrying capacity of 230 tons. A
number of truck cooperatives also exist, the most important representing about
60 - 80 vehicles.
3.04      As a whole, truck tariffs are close to costs, and profit margins
are low.  Over the past five years, however, tariffs have increased gradually
to meet rising input prices. Passenger tariffs vary between FMG 1 - 5 (about
USé 0.4 - 2.0) per pass-km depending on the terrain, the quality of the road,
and the bus. For goods traffic, tariff ranges are wider: for long-distance
trailer traffic they range between FMG 4.5 - 11 (about USJ 1.8 - 4.3) per
ton-km; for eight-ton trucks, the range is from FMG 12 - 40 (USe 4.7 - 15.6)
per ton-km depending on the state of the road and the terrain. The lowest



-7-
tariffs for both passenger and freight traffic compare favorably with rates
in other parts of the world.
3.05      Because of the lack of adequate roads and bridges, and to a certain
degree, the restrictive regulations on the Tananarive-Tamatave corridor, the
truck fleet is predominantly made up of very light vehicles with 1 to 2-ton
payloads. There are indications that these lighter trucks are presently
facing increasing difficulties in competing with heavier trucks on longer
hauls such as on the new road between Majunga and Tananarive. To offset these
difficulties the Government had been considering instituting a set of restric-
tive regulations on the trucking industry such as tariff controls, route
licensing, etc. During negotiations, the Government indicated, however, that
it will review all existing and proposed restrictions and will complete a plan
for removing those restrictions which have adverse consequences on the develop-
ment of road traffic and on the optimal allocation of traffic among modes.
C.   Highway Administration
3.06      The MAT is responsible for administration of the road network.
Prior to the recent reorganization, the Ministry had direct responsibility
only for those roads classified as primary roads (routes nationale - RN),
which comprise about 27% of the total network. Secondary roads (routes
provinciales) have been the responsibility of provincial and local author-
ities, while the Ministry provided technical assistance and equipment. This
sharing of responsibility has, however, proved inefficient and the secondary
road network has not been adequately maintained. To correct this, the
Government has recently decided to turn over responsibility for both the
primary and secondary roads to the MAT, and gave assurances during nego-
tiations that this will take effect within 18 months of signature of the
proposed loan and credit.
3.07      The MAT is generally well organized and the present staff is
competent. Within the MAT, responsibility for roads is entrusted to the
Directorate of Public Works (Direction des Travaux Publics - DTP), which
in turn has several central services in charge of engineering and construction
road maintenance, and equipment (see Chart). Works in the field are carried
out through six regional divisions.
3.08      The DTP relies heavily on expatriate staff, and currently has about
60 experts supplied by the French Fonds d'Aide et de Cooperation (FAC). The
policy, however, is to reduce dependence on expatriates, and accordingly,
the Government is taking measures to train nationals to fill positions cur-
rently occupied by foreigners. The Bank is participating in some of these
measures through an education project (Loan 510-MAG, August 1967, US$4.8 mil-
lion) which provides for expansion of a technical lycee to train middle-level
personnel in engineering, and in road and building construction. On completio
of this project, expected at the end of 1972, enrollment in the lycee will hav
tripled to about 700, with an annual output of about 145 technical personnel.
Also, FAC offers some training in France for high level personnel of whom
6 - 8 have participated annually.



-8-
3.09      Despite these efforts, MAT will not be self-sufficient in technical
expertise for some years to come, and in the interim, employment of expatriate
staff will continue to be necessary. During negotiations, the Government
gave assurances that a sufficient number of qualified and experienced
technical personnel will be made available to the MAT to ensure the
efficiency of the highway administration.
D.   Highway Planning and Financing
3.10      The Service Central de la Programmation, in cooperation with the
DTP, has charge of highway planning. Past investments in highways have been
made in accordance with certain criteria, e.g. that priority be given to the
more heavily-trafficked main roads, that new roads serving areas with good
development potential be constructed in preference to upgrading existing roads,
and that modal competition be restricted to some extent (para. 2.13).
3.11      Using these criteria, a highway master plan was drawn up in 1961 by
the Bureau Central d'Etudes pour les Equipements d'Outre-Mer (BCEOM, France)
in close cooperation with the Commissariat du Plan and the MAT. Called the
"Plan of the Year 2000", this master plan followed the basic concept of the
island's transport network (para. 2.01). The first ten-year phase of the
master plan, covering the period 1964-1973, was overly ambitious, calling for
the reconstruction to modern standards and paving of 3,000 km of primary roads
and 6,000 km of secondary roads. Although physical execution of the first
phase has fallen considerably short of objectives, many of the completed roads
are key links in the island's transport network. Details of progress under
the first phase of the master plan, and of the Bank Group's involvement, are
given in Annex B. It is now likely, following the recent changes in Government,
that a new plan will soon be drawn up. There are also indications that
greater consideration will be given to economic priorities and closer inter-
sectoral coordination in future transport investment planning. During negoti-
ations the Government indicated its intention to analyze future transport in-
vestment on a sectoral rather than a modal basis and to plan investments
accordingly.
3.12      Traffic data for detailed planning come from about 300 traffic
counting stations in the country; counts are made manually. At about 50
stations, counts are taken one day a month throughout the year; for the
remainder, one-week counts are generally taken three times a year: during
the rainy season, the dry season, and the harvest period. The reliability of
these counts is limited, however, because: (i) stations are often too close to
urban concentrations to measure inter-urban traffic; (ii) counts are in-
adequately supervised, especially at night; and (iii) seasonal variations
are not accurately reflected. The special counts made for the project roads,
for instance, showed seasonally-adjusted traffic volumes lower than those
obtained by regular counts; this was especially true for night counts. To
obtain a better basis for planning, provision is made in the proposed project
for technical assistance to review and make recommendations for improving
the present traffic counting system.



- 9 -
3.13      Road user reventues cover current expenditures and about half of
capital expenditures on highways (Tables 6 and 7). The two most important
sources of such revenues are taxes on gasoline of about USe1O per liter -
corresponding to a 110% ad valorem tax on the net pump-head price - and
taxes on diesel fuel, of about USi5 per liter. However, more than one-half
of these revenues is collected in the Tananarive municipal area, while over
90% of expenditures is for roads outside it. From the limited data available,
it is doubtful whether users of rural roads pay even total current road
maintenance costs. During negotiations, the Government agreed to complete,
by December 31, 1973, a study to determine the extent to which users of rural
roads pay for the use of the rural road system. This study should provide a
basis for determining future road pricing policies.
3.14      External financing for highways has been provided largely by the
Fonds Europeen de Developpement (FED), and to a lesser extent by the Bank
Group. There has also been some participation by the Goveruments of Italy
and the Federal Republic of Germany, who are now helping to finance projects
costing in total approximately US$8.8 million and US$16 million respectively.
E.   Highway Engineering and Construction
3.15      Within the DTP, the Service Central Technique (SCT) has responsi-
bility for the engineering, tendering and supervision of road construction.
It utilizes the services of the Laboratoire National des Travaux Publics
et du Batiment (LNTPB), a financially autonomous agency within the MAT, under
the management of the Centre d'Etudes du Batiment et des Travaux Publics
(France), an organization for construction studies and research. The SCT is
satisfactorily organized and staffed to carry out a substantial part of the
country's engineering and supervision requirements. For engineering work
beyond its capacity, it utilizes consultants, mainly foreign, some of which
(e.g. BCEOM and SETEC il, France) have established permanent local offices in
Tananarive.
3.16      Present design standards are modest and tailored to the terrain, and
are generally adequate at this early stage of development of the transport
system, particularly since rugged physical conditions result in high construction
and maintenance costs. Standards for individual projects are adjusted to fit
the particular economic requirements.
3.17      In view of considerable unemployment in towns and underemployment
in rural areas, the MAT and the Commissariat du Plan are presently studying
the possibility of executing road projects with more labor intensive methods.
The Governnent indicated during negotiations that it will keep the Bank Group
informed of any progress in this regard.
3.18      Contractors are generally used for construction work.  The six major
road contractors (each with capacity of over US$4 million equivalent per annum)
are subsidiaries of French firms; and even smaller contractors capable of
handling contracts of about US$1 million are mainly foreign. The local con-
tracting industry is not well developed partly due to scarcity of capital and
i/   Societe d'Etudes Economiques et Financieres



- 10 -
unavailability of credit facilities, and partly to lack of professional skills.
The Covernment is concerned about this problem and is considering several
measures to encourage the local industry, such as easing credit restrictions.
It is also considering establishing a Government-supported firm, although it
will take some time to build up substantial local contracting capacity.
3.19      Construction contracts are usually awarded on the basis of local or
international competitive bidding. Administrative procedures for bidding
and awarding of these contracts follow well-established regulations; work
specifications are comprehensive and precise. Bridge construction is usually
bid on a competitive design-construction basis. The DTP also operates a
small force account construction unit mainly to train personnel; its scope
is limited to minor works on earth roads.
F.   Highway Maintenance
3.20      Maintenance of the highway network is the responsibility of the
Service des Ponts et Chaussees (SPC) in the DTP. As mentioned earlier
(para. 3.06), the SPC has directly maintained only the primary network,
but will, in the future, have responsibility for the secondary network as
well. All routine maintenance of primary roads is mechanized to a large
extent, and is carried out by the SPC's own forces; heavy maintenance
and pavement surfacing are executed by contract. During 1966-1970, the highway
administration, with partial financing by FAC, undertook an equipment renewal
and extension program to intensify mechanization and to meet increasing demands
for road maintenance. As a result of this program, there is now US$10 million
worth of maintenance equipment - an amount adequate for present needs - under
the control of the Service des Parcs et Ateliers des Travaux Publics, a
Government organization which is financially autonomous and efficiently managed
under the DTP's authority. The organization has its headquarters and central
shop in Tananarive, and facilities throughout the country.
3.21      Under Credit 90-MAG, the Government agreed to increase its budget
for highway maintenance. The total budget for maintenance of primary roads
(comprising heavy maintenance by contract, resurfacing, and routine mainten-
ance) was accordingly increased by 100% over the period 1965-1971, but the
allocation specifically for routine maintenance increased by less than 30%,
which is low considering the 25% inflation in prices over the same period.
Actual expenditures for routine maintenance range generally between US$250-
350/km per annum, which is insufficient to cover needs; many roads are there-
fore poorly maintained while maintenance equipment remains under-utilized
(generally below 50% usage). During negotiations, the Government gave
assurances that the MAT will be provided with adequate budgetary allocations
for the routine maintenance of all roads for which it has responsibility and
agreed to consult with the Bank Group periodically so as to determine annual
minimum requirements.



- 1i1 -
IV. THE PROJECT
A.   General Description
4.01      The proposed project consists of:
(a) construction of about 417 km of primary roads.
(b)  detailed engineering of 200 km of primary roads; and
(c)  a review of the traffic counting system.
B.   Construction
4.02      The road sections Co be constructed under the proposed project are:
RN-44 : Vohidiala-Ambatondrazaka (24 km)
RN-1  ; Arivonimamo-Analavory (59 km)
RN-34 : Antsirabe-Betafo (21 km)
Betafo-Mandoto (81 km)
Mandoto-Miandrivazo (118 km)
Miandrivazo-Malaimbandy (114 km)
Details of these roads and the proposed works are provided in Annex C. The
geometric and structural standards are shown in Table 8.
C.   Detailed Engineering
4.03      Detailed engineering is included in the project for the 200 km
section of low standard road between Antsohihy and Ambanja at the northern
end of the island. The Antsohihy-Ambanja road is a part of the road link-
ing the capital with Diego Suarez, all other sections of which have been or
are being constructed to all-weather standard with either Bank Group finan-
cing, bilateral assistance from the Federal Republic of Germany or contractor
financing. A feasibility study, recently completed by BCEOM with FAC finan-
cing, indicates that construction of the Antsohihy-Ambanja section would be
both technically and economically feasible.
D.   Improvement of Traffic Counts
4.04      As indicated in para. 3.12, the Government's traffic counting sys-
tem is in need of improvement if it is to provide a sound basis for planning
of road investments. Technical assistance to the MAT will be provided under
the project to review the traffic counting system and to make recommendations
for its improvement.



- 12 -
E.   Execution
4.05      The MAT (through the DTP) vill be responsible for the execution
of the project. Consultants, provided under the project, vlll be employed
under terms and conditions satisfactory to the Bank Group: (a) to supervise
the construction of sections of RN-34, including the major bridges on the
Miandrivazo-Malaimbandy section, (b) to carry out the detailed engineering
of the Antsohihy-Ambanja road, and (c) to review the traffic counting sys-
tem.  Supervision of construction of the Vohidiala-Ambatondrazaka and
Arivonimamo-Analavory roads will be by the SCT, supported by the LNTPB
(para. 3.15). This practice has proved satisfactory under the First and
Second Highway Projects. During negotiations the Governnent gave assurances
that, in the event the Bank Group determines that the SCT is not satisfactorily
performing this task, consultants satisfactory to the Bank/IDA will be engaged
for supervision of construction of these roads also.
4.06      Construction contracts will be awarded on the basis of international
competitive bidding in accordance with the normal procedures of the Bank Group;
these procedures were discussed and agreed during negotiations. To take ad-
vantage of economies of scale through the use of larger contractors, and at
the same time to allow small firms to compete, construction works will, for
contract purposes, be divided into two packages. The first package will com-
prise two sections (Vohidiala-Ambatondrazaka and Arivonimamo-Analavory) and
is estimated to cost about US$8.5 million; the second package is for approxi-
mately US$25.4 million and will include five lots (four for the road sec-
tions on RN-34, and one for the major bridges on the Miandrivazo-Malaimbandy
section). The works in each package will be bid concurrently, and prequal-
if.ied contractors will be given the option of bidding for individual con-
tracts within each package, for any combination of works within the package,
or for the package as a whole. The sîzes of individual contracts for road
construction range from about US$1.0 million to about US$8.8 million; the
bridge contract is approximately US$5.5 million. The undeveloped state of
the local contracting industry (para. 3.18) suggests that bids can be ex-
pected only from foreign firms, and, in fact, this has already proved true
for the two sections included in the first package, in which no local firm
expressed interest. There will be opportunity for using labor in the
construction work, but contractors in Madagascar are generally equipment-
oriented.
4.07      The estimated period of project execution is four years.  The
Government intends to invite bids for construction as soon as possible,
so that work can start when the dry season begins, i.e., about April 1973.
Prequalification of contractors for the two contracts included in the first
package has been completed and approved by the Bank Group, and the contracts
will probably be awarded by about March 1973.
4.08      Detailed engineering for the roads was carried out by the French
consultants BCEOM, and the cost estimates vere updated by the SCT. The SCT
also revised the engineering of the Miandrivazo-Malaimbandy section which
had originally been designed to paved standards, but is now to be paved on
only 20 km of particularly difficult sections (Annex C).



- 13 -
F.   Cost Estimates
4.09      The total project cost is about US$43.9 million, with a foreign
exchange cost of US$29.0 million (66%). The tax element of construction
cost is about 15%. The construction cost estimates are detailed in Table 9,
and project costs are summarized below:
Foreign
FMG million           US$ million        Exchange
ITEM                 Local Foreign Total   Local Foreign Total  Component
(%)
I Construction
a) Roads (417 km)      2,487  4,798  7,285    9.71  18.74  28.45        66
b) Bridges /1            448    962  1,410    1.75   3.76   5.51        68
Subtotal          2,935  5,760  8,695   11.46  22.50  33.96        66
II Consulting Services
a) Supervision of                                                         /2
construction         185    238    423    0.72   0.93   1.65        56-=
b) Detailed engineer-
ing                   43    120    163    0.17   0.47   0.64        73
c) Review of traffic
counting system        7     23      30    0.03   0.09   0.12       75
Subtotal           235    381    616    0.92   1.49   2.41       62
III Contingencies
a) For I:
i) price: 10%  /3    293    576    869    1.15   2.25   3.40         66
ii) quantities: 10%
for (a) and 20%
for (b)  /4        338    671  1,009    1.32   2.62   3.94        66
b) For II:  10%           23      36     59    0.09   0.14   0.23       61
Subtotal            654  1,283  1,937    2.56   5.01   7.57        66
Total             3,824  7,424 11,248   14.94  29.00  43.94        66
/1   Twelve major bridges on Miandrivazo-Malaimbandy section of RN-34.
/2   Weighted average for supervision:  (i) by consultants, and (ii) by
the SCT.
/3   Based on expected increases in local and foreign costs of 5% per annum.
A4   To allow for the fact that estimates for the bridges are based only on
preliminary engineering.



- 14 -
4.10      The estimates for road construction are based on detailed engineering
prepared by consultants, updated to reflect in particular: (i) recent trends
in bid prices; (ii) reduction of standards for the Miandrivazo-Malaimbandy
road; and (iii) recent changes in currency exchange parities. Estimates for
major bridges on Miandrivazo-Malaimbandy section are based on preliminary
engineering and on costs for similar work in the country; bidding will be
on a design-construction basis. The foreign exchange component of supervi-
sion costs for those sections to be supervised by consultants is estimated
at 66% and for those sections to be departmentally supervised, this component
is estimated at a maximum of 26% (which corresponds to laboratory testing).
Cost estimates for detailed engineering are based on recent experience in
the country. Contingency allowances are provided to cover price and/or
quantity increases as shown in the preceding table.
4.11      The foreign cost component of road construction (66%) is based on
estimates calculated by the Service Central de la Programmation, modified
slightly by the Bank Croup. It reflects the probable use of foreign contrac-
tors for all works. This estimated foreign component is slightly less than
that utilized under previous Bank Group projects, reflecting recent increases
in the tax element.
G.   Financing and Disbursements
4.12      The Bank Group will finance US$30 million or 68% of total project
costs with a loan and credit of US$15 million each, thus covering all of the
foreign costs and about US$1 million of the local costs.  Disbursements will
be made first from the credit account and, after exhaustion of the credit,
will be made from the loan. Disbursements from both accounts will be made
on the following basis: (a) 69% of expenditures on road construction which
represents the total estimated foreign component as well as part of the local
costs, and (b) the actual foreign costs of consultants. The estimated
schedule of disbursements is shown in Table 10.
4.13      The Government will cover the remaining costs of the project,
totalling US$13.9 million equivalent, of which approximately US$6.3 million
represents taxes. Local funds have been provided satisfactorily for previous
projects.
V. ECONOMIC EVALUATION
5.01      More than 98% of the estimated cost of the project is for the road
construction and related services. Of the remainder, the greater part is for
detailed engineering, and the balance for technical assistance to help reor-
ganize the traffic counting system. This economic evaluation concentrates,
therefore, on the proposed road construction, although the case for the
detailed engineering is also provided.



- 15 -
Road Construction
5.02      The proposed construction is on three national roads:
(i) 24 km on RN-44 in the area of Lac Alaotra;
(ii)  59 km on RN-1, west of the capital; and
(iii)  334 km on RN-34 on the central plateau.
All the sections pass through areas of high agricultural production or poten-
tial; the section of RN-44, currently unpaved, is already carrying heavy traf-
fic volumes from local paddy production; the section on RN-1 leads to an area
with ranching potential in which the Bank Group is already involved; work on
the four sections of RN-34 ranges from reconstruction of one close to Antsirabe
already carrying about 600 vpd, to construction of a virtually new road in
the Sakeny River valley - one of the most fertile areas of Madagascar; devel-
opment in this latter area has been retarded so far largely because of lack
of efficient land transportation.
5.03      Benefits attributable to the investment arise from savings in
operating costs of existing and induced traffic, from developmental traffic,
from diverted traffic and (specifically, in connection with the opening up
of the Sakeny Valley) from the added value of agricultural production. There
will also be savings in road maintenance costs on part of the project roads,
but these would be offset by new maintenance costs over part of RN-34 where
the road at the moment is no more than a simple track. Traffic -- where it
exists on the project roads -- has been counted over the last few years as
part of the routine counts carried out by the MAT and these counts were sup-
plemented as necessary in 1971 at the request of the Bank. For economic
evaluation of the proposed investment, a normal rate of traffic growth of
7% has been assumed; this seems reasonable in light of the expected devel-
opment of ranching and agriculture in the areas served by the roads. Operat-
ing costs of vehicles have been based on the information for flat terrain
published by the Bank, adjusted by the "equivalent length technique" for
sections in hilly terrain. Maintenance benefits have been calculated on
the basis of the most recent data available from the study carried out by
the consultants BCEOM on a road in the north of the island.
5.04      The economic returns for all the work proposed -- with the work on
RN-34 considered as four separate sections -- taken over a period of 20 years
are generally 15-16%; an exception is on that section of RN-34 adjacent to
Antsirabe where an economic return of 29% is expected. The weighted economic
return is about 16%.
5.05      First year project benefits, as a percentage of investment costs,
have been calculated assuming an opening year of 1975 for all roads. This
simplifying assumption, made during project appraisal, was based on expected
completion of all six road sections between late 1973 and late 1975. The
first year returns were not recalculated when political changes in the
country delayed processing of the project, since they have only been in-
creased by the delay. Based on what is therefore a conservative assumption,
first year project benefits are generally in the range of 8-10%. It has



- 16 -
also been assumed in the evaluation that the induced traffic vould take three
years to build up - a third in each year - and the benefits have therefore
also been expressed as ratios of investment costs for the two succeeding
years (9-12% in 1976 and 9-13% in 1977). An indication of vehicle operating
costs used in the economic evaluation is given in Table 11.  Traffic data
and projections are given in Table 12; the projected benefits, economic
return and opening year benefits expressed as percentages of investment
costs are given in Table 13.  The effect on the economic returns of varying
sensitive parameters vas investigated and the results, shown in Table 14,
indicate that even under the m»st adverse assumptions, the lnvestment is still
justified.
Detailed Engineering
5.06      There are two major types of benefits associated with the construc-
tion of the Antsohihy-Ambanja road for which detailed engineering is proposed:
(i) traffic which vill be diverted from coastal shipping and from air trans-
port; and (ii) generated traffic. The volume of the generated traffic vas
established on the basis of a gravity model and in accordance vith the re-
sults of a survey made in 1969 in a neighboring region which covers essen-
tially the same traffic potential. About 130 vpd is predicted for 1978 com-
pared to a 1970 vpd of 30. This prediction appears reasonable in light of
the experience acquired on the RN-4 - Port Berge section further south, for
which vpd reached 150 in 1971 after being only 25 in 1965.
5.07      Based on the cost estimates currently available, the economic
return of the eventual construction vould be about 16%, vith annual benefits
expressed as a percentage of investment costs estimated at 10% in 1975, 11%
in 1976 and 12% in 1977. The investuent in detailed engineering i therefore
amply justified in terms both of economic justification of the proposed con-
struction and of the optimum timing of this construction. It la estimated
that the detailed engineering vill be completed by early 1975, but the open-
ing year of the road is not expected to be before 1978.
VI. AGREEKENTS REACHED AND RECOMMENDATION
6.01      During negotiations, the Goverument and the Bank Croup agreed that
there ls an emerging need for a comprehensive review of transport policy in
Madagascar and on various measures which should be taken to implement a
rational policy of modal coordination, including the easing of restrictions
and the establishment of rational pricing policies (paras. 2.17, 2.18, and
3.05 and Annex A).
6.02      The folloving principal points were discussed and agreed between
the Goverument and the Bank Group during loan/credit negotiations:



- 17 -
(a) the Government will turn over full responsibility for both
primary and secondary roads to the MAT within 18 months of
signature of the proposed loan/credit (para. 3.06); a
sufficient number of qualified and experienced technical
personnel will be made available to the MAT to ensure the
efficiency of the highway administration (para. 3.09);
the MAT will be provided with adequate budgetary allocations
for the routine maintenance of all roads for which it has
responsibility, and the Bank Group will be consulted
periodically so as to determine annual minimum require-
ments (para. 3.21);
(b)  a study, to be completed by December 31, 1973, will be under-
taken to determine the extent to which users of rural roads
pay for the use of the rural road system (para. 3.13); and
(c) should the SCT be unable to supervise adequately the con-
struction of the Vohidiala-Ambatondrazaka and Arivonimamo-
Analavory roads, consultants satisfactory to the Bank Group
will be engaged for this task (para. 4.05).
6.03      The project is suitable for Bank/IDA lending in a total amount
of US$30.0 million equivalent, consisting of a loan and a credit in equal
amounts of US$15.0 million each. An appropriate loan term would be 25
years with a 10-year period of grace. The credit will be made on the usual
terms.
December 1, 1972






ANNEX A
Page 1
MALAGASY REPUBLIC
THIRD HIGHWAY PROJECT
Memorandum of Understanding on Transport Policy and Coordination
International Bank for Reconstruction
and Development
International Development Association
1818 H Street
Washington, D. C.
Dear Sirs:
In connection with the negotiations for the proposed third high-
way loan/credit, representatives of the Government of Madagascar and the
Bank Group have exchanged views concerning the Government's transport policy.
We agree there is an emerging need for a comprehensive review of transport
policy in Madagascar, since investment plans, pricing, and other decisions
vital to the sector need to be made with a greater degree of coordination
instead of on an isolated modal basis. The heavy reliance of the economy
on the agricultural sector, together with limited government financial re-
sources and high costs of providing land transport caused by rugged terrain,
creates a special interest in providing an efficient system of transport in
Madagascar.
The Government recognizes the importance of adopting a transport
policy which will ensure rational allocation of resources in the transport
sector. The Government also recognizes that certain administrative restric-
tions on road and rail transport constitute a barrier to traffic development
and to an optimal allocation of traffic among modes, and thus intends to
review all restrictions, and to complete a plan for removing those restric-
tions which have adverse consequences.
The improvement/construction of three major highways is currently
being studied by SETEC (Moramanga-Tamatave; Lac Alaotra-East Coast and
Tananarive-Fianarantsoa). These improvements will require a coordinated
transport policy since the proposed highways will be competing with the
bulk of railway traffic, and because major investments in the railway sys-
tem are planned at the same time. The Government will ensure that invest-
ments in these highways will be formulated taking into account all invest-
ments required by the railway to enable it to operate at least costs.
The Government recognizes the importance of establishing a rational
system of user charges for all modes, to ensure sound development and better
utilization of all transport modes.



ANNEX A
Page 2
The Government intends to provide the railways' management with
sufficient flexibility to determine its rates so that they vlll reflect the
cost of services provided and the commercial environment in which the railways
operate, and to delegate to the railways the authority to hire and retire
personnel, and to modify operations so as to provide railway services in the
most efficient way.
It is understood that all future investment in the transport
sector will be analyzed on a sector basis rather than a modal basis, and
the Government vill prepare its development plans in accordance with this
policy. In addition the Goveroment will provide to the appropriate unit of
its Winistry of Public Works adequate resources to study and make recommen-
dations regarding the Government's policies affecting the transport sector
and to implement decisions taken in regard thereto.
The Government intends to maintain close contact with the Bank
Group on all the above measures.
December 1, 1972



ANNEX B
Page 1
MALAGASY REPUBLIC
THIRD HIGIHWAY PROJECT
Execution of the First (Ten-Year) Phase of the Highway Master Plan
During the period of the First Five-Year Plan (FFYP:1964-68), a
total of FMG 19.3 billion (approximately US$75 million) was invested in high-
way development (Table 7). As a whole, the shortfall in actual execution in
relation to the financial targets was small; but it was considerable in phys-
ical terms, because of increases in cost estimates.
Using criteria similar to those of the FFYP, work was started in
1968 on a Second Five-Year Plan (SFYP) for the period 1970-74, but the Plan
was never formally approved by the Government. A revision of the SFYP was
undertaken in 1971, more consideration being given to economic priorities.
This revised version of the Plan, of which the proposed project is part, was
also never formally approved; however, the project priorities set out in it
are, in general, being adhered to and implemented. The rate of implementation
has also, however, fallen behind target. Whereas the Plan proposed investments
of the order of US$32 million a year during the 1970-1974 period, actual
expenditures so far have averaged around US$20 million a year. These short-falls
can be partly explained by the overly ambitious nature of the Plan. The
recent political unrest is also responsible for delays and slippages.
It is now very likely that, following the recent changes in Government,
a new Plan will soon be drawn up. There are also indications that greater
consideration will be given to economic priorities and closer inter-sectoral
coordination in future transport investment planning. The Commissariat du Plan
is being strengthened and is expected to coordinate thereon. The Bank is alao
supporting further improved project selection by financing feasibility studies
under Credit 90-MAG and an improved traffic counting system under the pro-
posed Loan/Credit. Furthermore, during negotiations the Government indicated
that future transport investment will be analyzed on a sectoral basis rather
than a modal basis and that development plans will be prepared according to
this policy.
During the past nine years (1964-1972) which comprise approximately
the time span of the first phase of the highway master plan, only 1,500 km
of primary roads have been constructed as compared to the 3,000 km forecasted
for ten years. Notwithstanding the short-fall, considerable progress has
been made in improving Madagascar's road system. Many of the completed roads
do constitute key links in the island's network, e.g., the paving of the road



ANNEX B
Page 2
between Tananarive and Majunga (Credit 90-MAG), and the upgrading of RN-1
connecting Tananarive with the western central plateau, a region with sub-
stantial agricultural potential (joint financing by FED and Loan 570-MAG/Credit
134-i4AG).  This latter loan/credit operation is also helping to finance the
ongoing construction of the unpaved sections of the Tananarive-Diego Suarez
road which will open up the agriculturally rich northwestern Baibohos areas.
Some sections of the eastern portion of the peripheral road have also been
constructed with FED aid.
December 1, 1972



ANNEX C
Page 1
MALAGASY REPUBLIC
THIRD RIGHWAY PROJECT
Details and Economic Evaluation of Proposed Road Construction
(i) For each road:
-    proposed design standards are given in Table 8
-    estimated construction costa in Table 9
-    traffic data and projections in Table 12
-    estimated benefits and economic returns in Table 13
-    the sensitivity of the economic returns in Table 14.
(ii) Indicative values of unit vehicle operating costs are given
in Table 11;
(iii) The location of all project roads are indicated in red on
the map.
A.   Vohidiala-Ambatondrazaka (24 km)
RN-44 is the main road link between the Lac Alaotra region - called
the granary of Madagascar - and Tananarive, the nation's capital and main
economic center. The Vohidiala-Ambatondrazaka road is a 24-km section of
RN-44 at the south end of the lake. Currently this road is carrying about
300 vpd - about 15% heavy vehicles - but it is not paved, and becomes almost
impassable during the rainy season. Rice is the primary crop in the area,
and trucks carrying paddy to the mills constitute a large part of the heavy
traffic using the road. Development of rice in the area of Lac Alaotra is
expected to increase the yield of paddy by 40% during the decade 1970-1980.
The proposed work consists of construction of a paved road (to
standards set out in Table 8) generally following the existing alignment
for about half the distance, and on a new alignment in the area where the
existing road passes through difficult terrain. The new road will be about
1-1/2 km (i.e. 6%) shorter than the existing road. The detailed engineering
of the proposed work was carried out by the consultants SECM0 1/ (France) in
1968.
The benefits from the proposed construction would arise chiefly
from reduced vehicle operating costs (78% of the total benefits), from
savings on induced traffic (8%), and from a reduction in road maintenance
costs (14%). The economic return on the investment, with an assumed 20-
year life, is about 15% (Table 13). The economic return is satisfactory
when considered in the light of changes in magnitude of the sensitive vari-
ables (Table 14).
1/   Societe d'Etudes de Construction de Maisons et Ouvrages.



ANNEX C
Page 2
B.   Arivonimamo-Analavory (59 km)
RN-1 is the main route westward from the capital; it currently
runs as far as Tsiroanomandidy, an important marketing center in the fer-
tile mid-western region, and there are plans to extend it to the west coast
of the island. Reconstruction of the 55 km section between Tsiroanomandidy
and Fanjakamandroso, including extensive realignment and paving, has re-
cently been completed under the Second Highway Project (Credit 134-MAG/Loan
570-MAG).
Under the proposed project, the 59 km Arivonimamo-Analavory sec-
tion, closer to Tananarive, will be reconstructed. Traffic on this section
is currently some 350 vpd (about 28% heavy vehicles), but speeds are low -
for instance no more than about 45 km/h for cars - because the section is
narrow and winding, and hairpin bends are so numerous that large trucks
cannot use it. Moreover, much of the asphalt paving is badly deteriorated.
The construction proposed will follow the alignment of the exist-
ing road over half its length while an entirely new alignment over the rest
will result in a route shortening of some 20 km (or 25%). Detailed engineer-
ing for the proposed work has been carried out by consultants BCEOM (France)
under the (First) Highway Project (Credit 90-MAG).
The benefits for the proposed project have been calculated on the
basis of the "equivalent length technique" which takes into account three
separate factors: accelerations and slow-downs, grades, and curves. The
additional costs of poor surface conditions on the existing road have also
been taken into account. The new road will reduce travel distance by 25%
and travel time by 40%; vehicle operating costs will be reduced by about
45%. Additional reductions are expected in maintenance costs as a result
of the shorter length of the road.
The quantified benefits from the work would arise almost entirely
(93%) from savings in vehicle operating costs, these latter in turn coming
in large measure from the appreciable route shortening. In addition, there
would probably be considerable benefits accruing from the »vvement of cattle.
West of Tsiroanomandidy where RN-1 presently terminates, the Bank-financed
ranching project (Loan 585-IAG, February 1969, US$2.8 million) is expected
to produce about 15,000 head of cattle by 1975. With the hairpin bends
eliminated as a result of the proposed work, it will be possible to use
truck/trailer combinations, carrying 40 head of cattle at a time, to the
markets at Tananarive; without the projected work, the cattle would probably
have to move on foot for at least part of the way, resulting in weight loss
and additional expenditure on fodder. The benefits of the proposed con-
struction to the ranching project are expected to be significant; at this
stage, however, they are difficult to quantify, and the economic return
given in Table 13 (16%) is exclusive of these benefits.



ANNEX C
Page 3
C.   Antsirabe-Betafo-Mandoto-Miandrivazo-Malaimbandy (334 km)
Antsirabe is an industrial center some 150 km south of the capital;
it is also the focus for the agricultural production of the fertile areas to
its immediate west. Antsirabe is the starting point of RN-34, which then
passes through Betafo and Mandoto to Miandrivazo, some 220 km from Antsirabe.
At Miandrivazo, RN-34 turns south and runs up the Sakeny River valley - one
of the most fertile regions of Madagascar - to Malaimbandy. The northern
half of this latter section is only an earth trail with many unbridged river
crossings, and subject to periodic flooding; the remainder of the section is
no more than a track.
At Malaimbandy RN-34 joins RN-35 which runs eastwards, frequently
as an earth road open for only about eight months in the year, and then
joins the north-south road which leads again to Antsirabe. Thus RN-34 and
35 together form the greater part of a rectangular road system south and
west of Antsirabe, a system that because of its condition cannot adequately
serve the production of the agriculturally developing areas or provide
reliable access between Antsirabe and Morondava, one of the major ports on
the west coast of the island.
Government has now decided to improve the road system in this gen-
eral area, and is placing the emphasis on MN-34 - the more northerly of the
routes - not only because it has the advantage of passing through the Sakeny
River valley, but also because it is shorter and located in less difficult
terrain. Specifically, improvement of the whole route will have an impor-
tant effect on planned agricultural development in the Sakeny valley and in
the Morondava area. The first five-year phase of an agricultural development
program in the Morondava area is being financed by a recent IDA credit
(322-MAG, June 1972) of US$15.3 million. The scheme is expected to produce
chiefly paddy, groundnuts, tobacco and cotton; most of the tobacco, raw
cotton, cotton fiber and rice for the scheme will move down the reconstructed
RN-34 to the central area of the country.
The proposed project includes the improvement of RN-34 between
Antsirabe and Malaimbandy. Among the most obvious results of the proposed
improvement would be a reduction in travel time between Morondava port and
Tananarive from 18 to about 12 hours, with an expected saving in vehicle
operating costs of about 28%. Between the port and Antsirabe, travel time
would be reduced from 15-1/2 hours to about 9-1/2 hours, with an expected
saving in vehicle operating costs of about 30%.
There is a considerable degree of interdependence between the
benefits generated by each of the four sections since traffic generated by
one section inevitably spills over to an adjacent one. Diverted traffic
benefits are shared by all sections. The calculation of separate economic
returns is, therefore, arbitrary. However, since the incidence of each
of the benefit types varies widely among sections, a separate assessment
has been attempted.



ANNEX C
Page 4
(i) Antsirabe-Betafo (21 km)
The Antsirabe-Betafo section of RN-34 passes through the densely
populated and well-cultivated area immediately west of Antsirabe. The
existing road is paved, but it is narrow, and the pavement base is inade-
quate for present traffic (about 600 vpd, 10% heavy vehicles), and is break-
ing up. Moreover, bridges are weak. Unless the road is reconstructed, it
will deteriorate shortly into 'a bad gravel road difficult for traffic and
costly to maintain.
The work proposed will be generally on the existing alignnent,
but curves will be eased, drainage structures will be strengthened and one
weak bridge replaced. The pavement will be reconstructed and widened.
Detailed engineering of the proposed work has been carried out by the
consultants BCEOM (France).
The proposed reconstruction vill bring appreciable benefits in
road user cost savings and maintenance reductions on the section itself;
these constitute the greater part of the benefits considered in the eval-
uation of the investment, although there will be some induced and develop-
ment traffic from the planned agricultural development to the immediate
west.
(ii) Betafo-Mandoto (81 km)
From Betafo, RN-34 continues westwards to Mandoto as an earth
road. This 81 km section crosses areas of soil with high clay content
which are difficult for traffic in the rainy season. Traffic volume is
currently about 150 vpd with about 15% heavy vehicles.
The road is to be improved to paved standards, generally on the
existing alignment. Detailed engineering for the proposed work has been
carried out by the consultants BCEOM.
The benefits adduced to the proposed improvement are mainly from
vehicle operating cost savings in the early years, with the benefits for
induced traffic being taken into consideration also assumed to commence
about 1975.
(iii) Mandoto-Miandrivazo (118 km)
The present road is scarcely more than an earth trail which is
virtually closed to traffic for more than six months a year; even when it
is open, average speeds are no more than about 25 km/h for cars and 20 km/h
for trucks. Work by the MAT indicates that unit vehicle operating costs on
this section are about three times those on a well-engineered paved road.
Partly because of the state of the road, traffic is currently a low 60 vpd.
This section, however, would play a major part in, and would stand to gain
most in terms of proportionate increases in traffic from, the planned agri-
cultural developments to the west.



ANNEX C
Page 5
Under the proposed project, the section will be reconstructed to
paved standards, generally on the existing alignment. The detailed engineer-
ing has been carried out by the consultants BCEOM.
By 1975 (about the time of opening), induced and developmental
traffic will account for fully half of the total traffic projected for that
year (about 160 vpd), with further substantial increments in induced traf-
fic in the two succeeding years. Thus by 1975, half the benefits accruing
to the investment would arise from other than vehicle operating cost
savings, and the proportion would increase as the development impact of
the road develops.
(iv) Miandrivazo-Malaimbandy (114 km)
This section of RN-34 is, over the northern half of its length,
no more than a trail. In pre-independence days, tobacco plantations in the
Sakeny River area produced 2,000 tons p.a., but that figure was halved by
1968. Nowadays, tobacco produced is taken by four-wheel drive vehicles to
the riverhead at Miandrivazo and evacuated by river to the coast, and thence
by coastal craft to Majunga for export. Agricultural inputs use this route in
reverse. This transportation process is made even more difficult by the
variations in flow of the river at Miandrivazo, which limit navigability
there to six months in the year.
A reconnaissance survey carried out by SCET -/ in 1970 shows that,
in the region to be served by the proposed road, there are about 17,000 ha
of rich alluvial soils which would be suitable for growing tobacco and cotton.
In addition, there are 7,500 ha of land available for growing rice and fodder.
Existing privately-owned farms are expected to double their pro-
duction to 2,400 tons of tobacco and 1,600 tons of cotton by 1975. The de-
velopment schemes involving smallholders were started in 1970 with OFMATA 2/
and CFDT 3/ technical assistance, and are expected to produce about 300 tons
of tobacco and 400 tons of cotton by 1975. The 1975 production figures used
in the calculation are thus either firm plans or based on development schemes
whose execution has already started.  Furthermore, a FAC-financed feasibility
study is expected to start shortly to formulate a suitable project for reach-
ing annual targets of cotton, i.e., those projected under the SFYP (1970-1974).
1/   Societe Centrale pour l'Equipement du Territoire
2/   Office Malgache du Tabac
3/   Compagnie Francaise pour le Developpement des Fibres Textiles.



ANNEX C
Page 6
Under the project, the trail through the valley will be developed
on an engineered alignment; on particularly difficult sections (totalling about
20 km) an asphalt pavement will be provided. Twelve single-lane bridges vill
be built, including one of 450 meters over the Mania River, and one of 600
meters over the Sakenyv. Because of the relatively small traffic flows expected
initially (75 vpd in 1975), consideration vas given to providing ferries across
the rivers; they are not considered practical, however, because of the large
variations in river flows, and because of the strong and potentially
dangerous currents when the rivers are in flood. Detailed engineering
for the roads has been carried out by BCEOM. Technical feasibility of
the bridges has been satisfactorily proved through studies carried out
by the SCT, and standard preliminary engineering - to the extent required
for bidding on a design-construction basis - is complete for all the bridges.
Although production could be increased somewhat even with the
existing high-cost method of evacuation by river transport, it will not
be possible to reach planned production without the proposed road. For
this reason, net added value generated by most of the production should
be considered a benefit to be imputed to the project road, less whatever
share of investments in agriculture and cost ôf agricultural inputs are
required.  It is -d-ifficult to define that part of the InicrementaIÏrjoductIon
which could be achieved independently of the proposed road, and the following
procedure was therefore adopted in the economic evaluation: in the case of
rice for which additional production will be in areas now totally inacces-
sible, added value has been taken into account based on an ex-farm price of
paddy of FMG 15/kg (USJ9/kg). The gross value of the production is US$146
per hectare, from which the deductions totalling US$56/hectare were made to
arrive at a net added value of US$90/hectare. In the case of cotton and
tobacco, only reductions in transportation, spoilage and storage costs were
taken into account.
December 1, 1972



Table 1
MALAGASY REPUBLIC
THIRD HIGH'IAY PROJECT
The Highway NJetw<orkt 1972
(in 1cn)
Prirary ('National) Ropdsi/                    Secondary (Frovincial)Roads-
Earth
Asphalt                                  Ferries     Asphalt   and                   Other
Frovince             Paved     Gravel   Earth    Total        (units)      Paved     Gravel   Total    Roads
Diego Suarez           357        2         567      926        3           170       1,241    1,41l       )
Kajunga                720         -        511    1,231        2             45      2,928    2,973
Tamatave               461      221         661    1,343       19             87      1,849    1,936       )
SVanaxiarive           8I41      60         441    1,342                    l41       3,738    3,879
Fianarantsoa           779      103         926    1,800        8            48       3,726    3,774       )
2ulear                 344       19       1,582    1,945        8              _      5,80    5,080        )
3,502      405      4,68B-/  B,595        40           491     18,562   19,053     4,400-/
:L/ Roads fully under the responsibility of the MAT.
T! Roads for sshich the responsibility is presently shared by the MAT and the local authorities.
5/ 0f which aboat 85-% are classified as a-l-weather roads.
,/ Data per province not available. Total approximate.
Source:  MLinistere de l'Amenagement du Territoire, October 1972.
)ece-ber 1, 1972



Table 2
MAL&GASY REPBLIC
THIIRD HIGRVvIAY PROJECT
Development of the Primary Road System: 1964-72
(length in lkn)
Year                 Asphalt-Paved     Gravel    Earth      Total
1964                     2,096          1,028     4,932     8,056
1965                     2,167            962     4,927     8,056
1966                     2,271            903     4,997     8,171
1967                     2,490            865     5,008     8,363
1968                     2,510            865     4,988     8,363
1969                     2?560            815     4,988     8,363
1970                     2,9h42           490     4,953     8,385
1971                     3,336            412     4,832     8,580
1972*                    3,502            405     4,688     8,595
* As of October 1972
Source: Ninistere de l'Amenagement du Territoire, October 1972.
December 1, 1972



Table 3
MALAGASY REPUBLIC
THMD HIGi'AY -PROJECT
MIotor Veiicle Registration: 1958-1971
Private                                    Semi-trailers    Special
Year           Vehicles    Trucks    Pickups    Buses   and Trailers    Vehicles    Totals
1958             14,261    14,293       1,283       487        167             301      30,792
1959             15,981    15,667       1,414       529        253             338      34,182
1960             17,921    16,990       1,567       560        283             355      37,676
1961             20,080    18j287       1,677       559        303             366      41,272
1962             22,143    19,478       1,804       599        346             385      44,755
1963             24,488    20,613       1,888       629        375             413      48,406
1964             27,021    21,665       1,960       662        405             448      52,161
1965             29,5)O   23,034        2,063       737        443             466      56,283
1966             32,117    24,200       2,130       818       554             484       60,303
1967             34,992    24,824       2,123    1,626        594             531       64,690
1968             37,613    25,872       2,142    2,028        637             584       68,876
1969             40,544    27,538       2,381    2,446         693             660      74,262
1970             43,096    29,220       2,684    2,866         736             738      79,340
1971*            45,763    30,898       2,954    3,215         804             773      84,407
Growth rates in g
1958-1971            9.4       6.1         6.4     15.6      12.9              7.5         8.1
1966-1971            7.3       5.0        6.8      31.0        7.8             9.9         7.0
* Provisional data.
Source:  Ministere de l'Amenagement du Territoire, October 1972.
December 1, 1972



Table 4
MALAGASY RE-PUBLIC
THIP.D HIGIMTAY PROJOCT
Motor Vehicles in Circulation - Estimaates by MIain Type
Private                                  Semi-trailers Special
Vehicles    Trucks    Pickups    Buses  and Trailers  Vehicles   Total
1958 vehicle
registration           14,261    14,293      1,283       487         167       301     30,792
less those registered
in 1944 or before       1,541        905        36        28          38        76      2,624
Estinated 1958
circulation            12,720    13,388      1,247       459         129       225     28,168
1970 vehicle
registration           h3,096    29,220      2,68X     2,866         736       738     79,340
Less those registered
in 1955 or before       9,969    10,292        826       326         135       219     21,767
Estimated 1970
circulation            33,127    18,928      1,858     2,540         601       519     57,573
Annwil gro-th rate in
%  1958-1970              8.3        2.9       3.6      15.4        13.7       7.2        6.6
Source: Ministry of Finance, November 1971.
Decerber 1, 1972



Table 5
MA.LAGASY REPUBLIC
THI.D HIGIHAY PROJEOT
Fuel Consumption: 1960-- 1971
Year                               Petrol     Gasoil      Total
1960                               74,0OO     54,,000     128,000
1961                               75,500     50,108      125,608
1962                               76,500     54,900      131,400
1963                               78,000     59,000      137,000
1964                               83,000    66,000       149,000
1965                               84,000     70,100      154,100
1966                               88,000     80,000      168,000
1967                               90,400     91,000      181,400
1968                               99,000    117,000      216,000
1969                              102,000    137,000      239,000
1970                              104,600    153,400      258,000
1971                              111,350    181,750      293,100
Growth rates (in %)
1960-1971                             3.8       11.7          7.8
1966-1971                             4.8       17.8         11.8
Source: Ministere de 1'Amenagement du Territoire, October 1972.
Societe Malgache de Raffinage, October 1972.
December 1, 1972



MALAGASY REPUBLIC
TIPID HZ»U~&Y PROJEOT
Revenues from Road Userat  1964-1970
(iza mielions ef MG
196      1965       1966        1967        1968       1969      1970
Petrol, gas oil, lube oil                       2,306    2,459       2,566      2,955       3,h19      3,610    3,651
Vehicle Purchases - Y                             285      384         442        490         673         654      585
Spare Parts and Tires - 2                         339      3Q4         307        350         436         395       444
legiîtration Fee. -                                10         9          9          il         12          12       13
Turnover Tax Vehicles -                            63       54          61         81          81          88       92
Turnover Tax Spare Parti                           42       40          37         41          44          48       50
TOTAL                   3,0o45    3,250      3422       3,928       4,665      4J807 4.835
US$ Equivalent - (in '000)                     11,895   12,695      13,367     15,344      18,223      18,77?   18,887
i    Private cars 40% c.i.f. prices, buses 22%, tru¢ka 12-22% depending '  aise - provided that vehicles are
imported from Common Market countries. Rates for other sources are 50-300% higher.
Tires 27% and spare parts 31% provided that they are imported from Common Market countries.
3/'  Estimates based on rates and numbers of vehicles as provided by the Ministry of Finance.
Estimates based on the two percent turnover tax and customs revenue data provided by the Ministry of Finance.
Sources Ministry of Finance, November 1971.
December 1, 1972
Cr%



Table 7
.TA3 D   RY?lJ3LIC
1964    1965    1966    19e7    1968    1969    1970    1971
A. Current Ez»endituro3
1. Administrationl/                     695     748      666     918      969      949      986    1o010
2.  Prirarj Road M4aintenamnce
- maintenance by KAT forces        480      460     487      551      555      555     555       579
- resurfacinz                      120      100     247      360      380      4434    606       575
- equipnent rene. aæl               80       B5     272      258      282     282      132        80
Suototal                         Ut5      Mi   1          ,109 1%217   =,l    ,27 s9-31,3
3. Secondary Road Naintenance/
. mainteiance equipment             81     175      177     280      210      214      157       158
- other current expenses           287      272     211      204      290      424     307       278
Subtotal                         3        77       w        a        W       W 
Total Current Exponditures           1,7L13     81     200 2,    571 - 2,68L6   2,858   2,743    2,680
(of i.hich FAC assistance
for equipment pirchases)             (60)   (110)   (106)    (85)   (177)    (20)    (40)            (-)
B.  Investrent Esenditures2/             3,867   3,867   3,867   3,867   3,867   4,773   4,699    5,152
TOTAI. HIC-HJ,' E?DTRE;               5,10   5, 07   5,        6,92 38   6,L53   7,631   7,t42    7,832
1/  Includes all overijeads of KiAT.
É/ As sho:n on bu_-cts of provincial authorities.
S/ For years 1961- to 1968, figure ziven is yearly average of total investnents uinder FFYP,
since annuai brcs!io:rn not available.
Source:  "ir.istere de 1'Arnena-cgernt du Tcrritoire, October 1972.
Dccc-b3r 1, 1972



S~~~~~ -   .gXu                     o     ,       j  
Io  EgeX%%I  X   tl    o ~             .    o    t 
É1 gX S g -    'R  .  n3  -4  t         t   O  O I    t   t  
E%|~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~- II tr   C                        a
Pt~~~ ~  ut               UU
bH       :                       I ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~'    t t S 
j~r    ER>sSw  :                                i  f   
tEi       t-'           z § X t      2t ts Sc
g| ]1t  t         ta    5         I5  iiigi52 



Tabbls 9
MAIAGASY REPU3LIC
THIRD HIGHMAY PROJHCT
Estimate of Construction Costs
US$ Equivalent
Length         FMG (millions)               (millions)
Road Sections                 (lm)    Local   Forcign   Total    Local  Foreign   Total
Vohidiala-Arfbatondrazaka      24        240      471      711      0.94     1.84     2.78
Arivonimamo-AnalavorY          59        501      973    1,474      1.96     3.80     5.76
Antsirabe-Betafo               21         87      179       266     0.34     0.70      1.04
Betafo-Mandoto                 81        503      973    1,476      1.96     3.80     5.76
Mandoto-Miandrivazo           118        773    1,485    2,258      3.02     5.8O      8.82
Miandrivazo-Malaimbandy       114        383      717    1,100      1.49     2.80      4.29
Major Bridges (on last section)          44B      962    1,410      1.75     3.76      5.51
Total                  417       2,935    5,760    8,695    11.46    22.50    33.96
Source: Ministere de l'Amenagement du Territoire, October 1972.
Appraisal Ifission, November 1971.
December 1, 1972



Table 10
MAIAGASY REPUBLIC
THIRD HIGHWAY FROJECT
Estimated Schedule -of Disbursements2/
Bank/IDA Fiscal Year                    Cumulative Disbursement
and Quarter Ending                      at end of Quarter
1973/74   (US$1000)
1973/74
September 30, 1973                                500
December 31, 1973                                2,000
March 31, 1974                                   4,800
June 30, 1974                                   8,000
1974/75
September 30, 1974                             11,000
December 31, 1974                              13,500
March 31, 1975                                  15,800
June 30, 1975                                  17,500
1975/76
September 30, 1975                             19,500
December 31, 1975                              21,000
March 31, 1976                                  22,500
June 30, 1976                                  24,000
1976/77
September 30, 1976                             25,500
December 31, 1976                               27,500
March 31, 1977                                  28,000
June 30, 1977                                  29,600
1977/78
September 30, 1977                             29,600
December 31, 1977                              30,000
1/ This schedule is based on the following assumptions:  (a) that
construction work on two of the project roads vill start by about
April 1973, and that work on the other roads will start by about
June 1973; <b) that the construction period wilà be 14-18 months
for contracts of the ffrst package, and 24&-36 m9n*bs for contracts
of the second, plus Dne yearla liability for macLntummne- and (c)
that al  contingency allocations will be used.
Source: Appraisal Mission, October 1972.
December 1, 1972



Table 11
MALAGASY REPUBLIC
THIRD HIGRWIY PROJEGT
Vehiclë Operating Costs on Flat Terrainl/
(in USO per vehiTcTéfrk)
Truck +
Private   Pick-eup   Truck     Truck     Trailer
Vehicle    1 ton   3.5 tons   8 tons    18 tons
Paved Road
80 km per hour        5.6        -         -          -
72   t"                5.9      8.1      10.0       11.6       15.1
64    "               6.3       8.7      10.2       12.6       15.1
56         -          6.7       9.4      10.5      12.8        15.1
Gravel Road
72 km per hour        6.8       9.6      12.7        -          _
64    Nl              7.2      10.2      13.3       17.9       22.4
56    'i              7.7      11.0      14.0       18.4       22.9
48     n              8.4      12.0      14.7       19.2       23.5
40     "              9.1      13.5      15.5       20.0       24.5
Earth Road
56 km per hour        9.0        -        -          -          -
48    Il              9.8      15.1      20.8       27.2       37.1
40     n             11.0      18.1      21.8       30.1       38.3
32    o'             12.4      21.9      23.2      31.8        40.1
24    o'             13.8      23.7      24.8      33.8        42.1
IL! Benefits have been calculated on the basis of tkese coefficients
and on the "equivalent length technique".
Source: Basic data from de Weille, J., Quantification of Road User Savings,
Washington, DO: World Bank Occasional Paper No. 2, 196.
Adjusted for Malagasy 1971 input prices.
December 1, 1972



Table 12
MALAGAS! REPUBLIC
THIRD HIGNWAY PROJECT
Traffie Data
(in vpd)
(1)         (2)         (3)         (4)         (5)          (6)          (7)
Vohidiala- Arivonjiuamo Antsirabe- Betafo-    Mandoto-   Miandrivazo- Traffic which
Ambatondra- Analavory     Betafo     Mandoto   Miandrizazo  Malaimband' vould be
_aka                _                                                diverted to
3,4,5 and 6
Lexuith in km                                                                        Tere is no  frai RN-35
Old Road                  25           79         21          84         119            road     (from Banlk
New Road                  23.5         59         21          81         117.5         114        O'D Study)~
Base Year                1968          1967     1967-1969    f6f-1969       1969                       mi1
Base Year Traffic (vpd)
Private Vehicles          186           92        275          142          33                          13
vans, Pickups,minibuses    115         100        220          111          19                           3
Tracks  3.5T               14           33         18           8           14                          1
rrucks 8.0T                37           42          37          19          10                          13
otaæs           -                                             18W 7  i76                               30
970 Traffic               290          3114       543         157          61
1971 Traffic         1/                 352
971 World Bank Count-    266                                   10          58
1970 Traffic Base for     260          3B1         550     -  140           55                          30
Forecasts
975 Traffic Forecast
Normal Traffic            364          440        770          195          78
(7% growth)
iverted Traffic            -            -          hii 41      441 h41
evelopnental Trafficé      -            -           8           8           8            17
nduced Traffie 3/          73           29         51          39          31            15
(in a three year period) _           _           _     _
Potal 1975 Traffic        1437         469         670         283         158           73
1/ At the Bank's request, special traffic counts and an crigin-destination study vere made
on the Droject roads.
2/ Trucks with eight-ton carrying capacity.
3/ On the assumption that only one-third of the induced traffic potential vill be realized in
the first year, tle next ehird in the second year, and the last third in the third. year of
the econoniic l-fe of the roads.
Source:  Ninistere de l'Amenagemaent du Territoire and mission, November 1971.
Dece-ber 1, 1972



Table 13
MLAGA Sy R§P'JLIC
THIRD I1IGH,I.1Y P7.OJECT
Benerit to Invostrlent Ratio and Econo/ Return Date
Vohidiala-        AiivonJ rm.ao-    Antsirabe-    Betafo-  'Mandoto-      'iandrivazo-
Ambatondrazaka     Analavory      Betafo        Mandoto    Miandrivazo    Malairnbantr
Benefit (U, 'j'00)
Nornial Gro-.±h
TraffI.c               153.5              4l.6           lI6.4       417.9        327.2           32.0
Induced Traffic           15.4              16.1             4.9       .15.8         59.4           27.7
1/
Maintenance               27.6              25.O            67.6        10.0    (-) 35.4         (-)96.9
Develors.ental T.affic                        -                           -            -           506.0
Diverted Traffic            -                  -              -           -         L470.4
Added Value (rice)                                                                                 270.0
1975 Benefits            196.5             525.7          188.9        443.7        821.6          738.8
1976 Benetits            210.2             562.5           202.1       4714.8       879.1          790.5
1977 Benefits            226.0             604.6           217.2       510.3        941h.8         845.8
Investment Cost
(net of taxes) iiic2lding
quantity contingency    2,384.0          4,946.o          898.0      4,956.o      7,574.0        8,433.0
Benefit to investment ratios (-)
1975                 8.2              10.6            21.0         9.0         10.8            8.8
1976                 8.8    '1.3                      22.5         9.6         11.6            9.4
1977                 9.5              12.2            24.2        10.2         12.7           10.0
Internal Econordic Return (%)
(useful economic life for
investment - 20 yeare)    15                16             29          1!           16             15
1/ Maiintenance benefits have been calculated on the basis of the nost recent data available on Madagascar
as compiled by the BC3OM study on the Antzohi hy-.knbania road. According to the study, fixed maintenance
costs total about US$L20 p *r knz per annum for an earth-ç-rcvel road, and US$l,LiOo for an asphalt road
including resurfacing costs once every six >cars. In addition, there is a variable cost of US$6 per
vehicIe for an earth-zravel road, and USO0.5 for an aspnalt road.
Source: }ission Estinates, November 1971.
D;:co'-icr 1, 19Î2



Table 14
MALAGASI REPUBLC
THIRD HIGHWAY PROJECT
Sensitivity Analysis of Economie Returns
With Best   With Invest-    With Benefits Increased by 20%    With Benefits Decreased by 20%
Estimates     ment Costs       Vehicle   Mainte-   Agricul-.    Vehicle   Mainte-   Agricul-
of Benefits    Increased       ODerating   nance       tural      Operating   nance        tural
and Costs      by 10%           Costs     Costs   Production       Costs      Cos ts   Production
Vohidiala -
Ambatondrazaka      15%           13%             19%       16%         -            11%        14%
Arivonimano -
Analavory           16%           14%             18%       16%         -            14%        16%
Antsirabe -
Betafo             29%            24%            32%        35%         -            26%        22%
Betafo -
Mandoto             15%           13%             17%       16%         -            13%        14%
Mandoto -
Miandrivazo         16%           14%             17%       17%        17%           15%        15%       15%
Mlandrivazo -
Malaimbandy         15%           13%             15%       16%        18%           15%        14%       12%
Source: Mission estimates, November 1971



MALAGASY REPUBLIC
THIRD HIGHWAY PROJECT
ORGANIZATION OF HIGHWAY ADMINISTRATION
MINISTRY OF PUBLIC WORKS
(Min,stère de l'Aménagement
du Territoire - MAT)
Secrétariat Géneral
PLANNING
(Service Central de
la Programmation)
I
POSTAL S RVICE &
TELECOMMUNICATIONS                             PUBLIC WORKS                                            TRANSPORT                                   RAILWAYS
(Direction des Postes                        (Direction des                                        (Direction des                              (Direction des
et rWlécomnmunications)                   Travaux Publics - DTP)                                      Transports)                              Chemins de Fer>
CENTRAL SERVICES
DQIPISIN                         RODADRVROther Transport Divisions
Central Services  DIVISION                DIVISION        ~        ~       DIISIONTRANSPORT DIVISION                                           (Merchant marine,
Ports,  osiRig, Set c.>           (SerNice Central                (Service des Ponts               (Service des Parcs                 DService des Transports
Technique - SCT)               et Chaussëes-SPC)                des Travauxtelics                    Routiers and Fluviaux) Pbairpots, etcs
-Engineering of                     -Planning and control              -Equipment                        -Transport regulation
roads, ports and                   of road and bridge                -Workshops
airports                           maintenance                        -Stores
-Contract tendering                -Training
-Construction
supervisioti
REGIONAL DIVISIONS
TANANARIVE                        TAMATAVE                      FIANARANTSOA                         TULEAR                          MAJUNGA                        DIEGO SUAREZ
Subdivisions:                    Subdivisions:                   Subdivisions:                     Subdivisions:                   Subdivisions:                     Subdivisions:
Tananarive (north)               Tamatave                        Fianarantsoa                      Tuléar (north)                      Majunga                       Diigo Suarez
Tananarive (south)               Ambatondrazaka                  Ambositra                         Tuléar (s.utt()                     Antsoh,hy                     Ambanja
Antsirabe                        Brickaville                     Farafangana                       Fort Dauphin                        Maevatanana                   Antalaha
Miarinarivo                      Mahanoro                        Ihosy                             Morondava                           Maintirano                     Vohémar
Maroantsetra                    Manakara
Moramanga                       Mananjarv
world Ra,ik-7192






-4'2                     ~~~~4t4.                          416                                4t0                               *
t2                                                                                                                         4                                12
MALAGASY REPUBLIC                                                                                                      iegoSuarez
HIGHWAY SYSTEM
FIRST AND SECOND HIGHWAY PROJECTS
Construction                                          hi
.Feisibility study                                                                     NOShB-E            <   Arbidobe .
J Bridges                                                j1Heii-vi~~
THIRD HIGHWAY PROJECT                                      l                                         An 5 2 ,a  
-        Construction
-      Detailed engineering                                                                .'
EXISTING RoADs                                                                          %c   f       NSj ~             $                          4
Bituminous surfoced roods                                                              .Ç ;an,bow
All weother roads                                                                       F'
-Non permanent roods                                                          Ale non
Rcilrouds                                                                       so y                                          Antalha
All weother airports
Rivers                                                                                 r        Befand  ana
0           50        1IV          15
IIILES  -~- -<9Majovo    o          3          %é              X n ,onarr
KILOMEIERS                               it
Benalanrir   _,ot                 %     B-oean  S      N, 3
f   E      g Mcevotononaomotfly>,$°Tsoratanonà       v/ ~~~Soaruerana-lconn,go
- ;)\X-'» .Fenerive
Mozam bique                                     Moraferobe
KM 165                Vohkd.ala   Arborrdraaaka !j
Chanr'i  ,-°      k`onomondidy                >      <5                 net   4                  /riCka   n  d!  ra  n
C h a n n e/                                        Fnaa af                                            /ç
ArrlonSbe  V  Miaorandry
-20 tSo nssrdalrstxe  t    t                                                  Bett(                  AgMoWnnoro                      O   C ean 2n
Marorabe  k     MonOy                                 - k  Bearh  Oocsmoj
-22'                                        F.,t C.,l.P~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~2
%Inkazoabo           ik.       nh
\~ ~ ~~~~~~~~~~~~ooogn                                           brr o' mc ro cnar   dbotr  arrNo:Vn
< M~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~amp_  kh p-P d, -jannj
tao      reon   acc pance  by  tir
>  S  --      H             Fiananntsoa_                  /~~~~~~~oogredan
M,doogy-drr-Srrd                                                   rr/
C   /          °An~~ikozab           Ihs                            /Mnkt
24~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~4
\  4             /,            svoblbe  ~~~~~~) Vohipauphi
A~~~ ICA       PULI
T leor/9\             ietroka             <                               trotklSrtkantih=ffitCionet J/ALAOAs
Ampoihy                        4 lsAbuoy/                                                      X     *- g           Ido
MARCH 1972                                                                                                                                            IBRD-3897



