CONFORMED COPY
CREDIT NUMBER 351 MAG
Development Credit
Agreement
(Third Highway Project)
BETWEEN
MALAGASY REPUBLIC
AND
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
DATED JANUARY 17, 1973


﻿CONFORMED COPY
CREDIT NUMBER 351 MAG
Development Credit
Agreement
(Third Highway Project)
BETWEEN
MALAGASY REPUBLIC
AND
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
DATED JANUARY 17, 1973


﻿DEVELOPMENT CREDIT AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT,       dated  January   17, 1973,    between    MALAGASY
REPUBLIC     (hereinafter  called  the  Borrower)   and   INTERNATIONAL
DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION (hereinafter called the Association).
WHEREAS (A) The Borrower has requested the Association to assist in the
financing of the Project described in Schedule 2 to this Agreement by extending
the Credit as hereinafter provided;
(B)   The  Borrower has also    requested  the International Bank for
Reconstruction and Development (hereinafter called the Bank) to provide additional
assistance towards the financing of the Project and by an agreement of even date
herewith between the Borrower and the Bank (hereinafter called the Loan
Agreement) the Bank is agreeing to provide such assistance in an aggregate principal
amount equivalent to fifteen million dollars ($15,000,000) (hereinafter called the
Loan);
(C)   The Borrower and the Association intend, to the extent practicable,
that the proceeds of the Credit provided for in this Agreement be disbursed on
account of expenditures on the Project before disbursements of the proceeds of
the Loan provided for in the Loan Agreement are made;
WHEREAS the Association has agreed, on the basis inter alia of the foregoing,
to extend the Credit to the Borrower upon the terms and conditions hereinafter
set forth;
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
ARTICLE I
General Conditions; Definitions
Section 1.01. The parties to this Agreement accept all the provisions of the
General Conditions Applicable to Development Credit Agreements of the
Association, dated January 31, 1,969, with the same force and effect as if they
were fully set forth herein, subject, however, to the following modifications thereof
(said General Conditions Applicable to Development Credit Agreements of the
Association, as so modified, being hereinafter called the General Conditions):


﻿4
(a)   Section 2.01(9) is deleted and the following is substituted therefor:
"9. The term 'Project' means the project or projects or program or
programs for which the Credit is granted, as described in the Development
Credit Agreement and as the description thereof shall be amended from time
to time by agreement between the Borrower, the Association and the Bank."
(b)   Section 5.01 is deleted;
(c)   Section 6.02(b) is deleted and the following is substituted therefor:
"(b) The Borrower shall have failed to perform any other obligation
under the Loan Agreement or the Bonds (as such terms are defined in the
Development Credit Agreement), or the Development Credit Agreement."
(d)   Section 6.02(h) is deleted and Section 6.02(i) becomes 6.02(h);
(e)  Section 7.01(c) is amended to read as follows:
"(c) A default shall occur in the performance of any other obligation
on the part of the Borrower under the Loan Agreement or the Bonds (as
such terms are defined in the Development Credit Agreement), or the -
Development Credit Agreement, or under any other loan agreement between
the Borrower and the Bank, or inder any bond issued pursuant to any such
agreement, or tinder any other development credit agreement between the
Borrower and the Association, and such default shall continue for a period
of 60 days after notice thereof shall have been given by the Bank to the
Borrower, or the Association to the Borrower, as the case may be."
Section 1.02. Wherever used in this Agreement, unless the context otherwise
requires, the several terms defined in the General Conditions have the respective
meanings thercin set forth and the following additional terms have the following
meanings:
(a)   "Loan Agreement" means the agreement of even date herewith
between the Borrower and the Bank for the purpose of the Project, as such
agreement may be amended from time to time; and such term includes the General
Conditions Applicable to Loan and Guarantee Agreements of the Bank, dated
January 31, 1969, as made applicable to such agreement, all agreements
supplemental to the Loan Agreement and all schedules to the Loan Agreement;
(b)   "Loan" means the loan provided for in the Loan Agreement;


﻿5
(c)   "Loan Account" means the account referred to in Section 2.02 of
the Loan Agreement,
(d)   "Bonds" means the bonds provided for in the Loan Agreement.
ARTICLE II
The Credit
Section 2.01. The Association agrees to lend to the Borrower, on the terms
and conditions in the Development Credit Agreement set forth or referred to, an
amount in various currencies equivalent to fifteen million dollars (S15,000,000).
Section 2.02. The amount of the Credit may be withdrawn from the Credit
Account in accordance with the provisions of Schedule I to this Agreement, as
such Schedule shall be amended from time to time, for expenditures made (0r,
if the Association shall so agree, to be made) in respect of the reasonable cost
of goods and services required for the Project and to be financed IUnder the
Development Credit Agreement; provided, however, that, except as the Association
shall otherwise agree, no withdrawal shall be made on account of expenditures
in the territories of any country which is not a member of the Bank (other than
Switzerland) or for goods produced in, or services supplied from, such territories.
Section 2.03. Except as the Association shall otherwise agree. the goods and
services (other than services of consultants) required for the Project and to be
financed out of the proceeds of the Credit, shall be procured on the basis of
international competition Under procedures consistent with the Guidelines for
Procurement under World Bank Loans and IDA Credits, published by the Bank
in Ap:il 1972, as revised in October 1972, and in accordance with, and subject
to, the provisions set forth in Schedule 3 to this Agreement.
Section 2.04. The Closing Date shall be December 3 1, 1977 or such other
date as shall be agreed between the Borrower and the Association.
Section 2.05. The Borrower shall pay to the Association a service charge
at the rate of three-fourths of one per cent (3/4 of' 1'; per an num on the principal
amount of the Credit withdrawn and outstanding from time to time.
Section 2.06. Service charges shall be payable semi-annually on April 15 and
October 15 in each year.


﻿6
Section 2.07. The Borrower shall repay the principal amount of the Credit
in semi-annual installments payable on each April 15 and October 15 commencing
April 15, 1983 and ending October 15, 2022, each installment to and including
the installment payable on October 15, 1992 to be one-half of one per cent (1/2
of 1%) of such principal amount, and each installment thereafter to be one and
one-half per cent (1-1/2%) of such principal amount.
Section 2.08. The currency of the United States of America is hereby
specified for the purposes of Section 4.02 of the General Conditions.
ARTICLE III
Execution of the Project
Section 3.01. The Borrower shall carry out the Project with due diligence
and efficiency and in conformity with appropriate engineering, administrative and
financial practices and shall provide, promptly as needed, the funds, facilities,
services and other resources required for the purpose.
Section 3.02. (a) The Borrower shall employ consultants acceptable to the
Association upon terms and conditions satisfactory to the Association for the
following purposes:
(i)        for the supervision of construction under Parts A.3 and A.4 of
the Project; and
(ii)       to carry out Parts B and C of the Project.
(b)   Except as the Association shall otherwise agree, the supervision of
construction of the road segments on Route Nationale No. 44 and on Route
Nationale No. I (Parts A.1 and A.2 of the Project) shall be carried out by the
staff of the Borrower's Ministry of Public Works (Ministre de l'Amnagement du
Territoire); provided, however, that if the Association after consultation with the
Borrower determines that the said staff cannot satisfactorily carry out such
supervision, the Borrower shall for such purpose employ consultants acceptable
to the Association upon terms and conditions satisfactory to the Association.
Section 3.03. In carrying out Part A of the Project, the Borrower shall employ
contractors acceptable to the Association upon terms and conditions satisfactory
to the Association.
Section 3.04. (a) The Borrower undertakes to insure, or make adequate
provision for the insurance of, the imported goods to be financed out of the


﻿7
proceeds of the Credit against hazards incident to the acquisition, transportation
and delivery thereof to the place of use or installation, and for such insurance
any indemnity shall be payable in a currency freely usable by the Borrower to
replace or repair such goods.
(b)   Except as the Association shall otherwise agree, all goods and services
financed out of the proceeds of the Credit shall be used exclusively for the Project
until its completion.
Section 3.05. (a) The Borrower shall furnish to the Association, promptly
upon their preparation, the plans, specifications, reports, contract documents and
construction and procurement schedules, for the Project, and any material
modifications thereof or additions thereto, in such detail as the Association shall
reasonably request.
(b)   The Borrower: (i) shall maintain records adequate to record the
progress of the Project (including the cost thereof) and to identify the goods and
services financed out of the proceeds of the Credit, and to disclose the use thereof
in the Project; (ii) shall enable the Association's accredited representatives to inspect
the Project, the goods financed out of the proceeds of the Credit and any relevant
records and documents; and (iii) shall furnish to the Association all such information
as the Association shall reasonably request concerning the Project, the expenditure
of the proceeds of the Credit and the goods and services financed out of such
proceeds.
Section 3.06. The Borrower shall take all such action as shall be necessary
to acquire as and when needed all such land and rights in respect of land as shall
be required for carrying out the Project and shall furnish to the Association,
promptly after such acquisition, evidence satisfactory to the Association that such
land and rights in respect of land are available for purposes related to the Project.
Section 3.07. Except as the Association shall otherwise agree, the
construction included under Part A of the Project shall conform to the design
standards set forth in Schedule 4 to the Development Credit Agreement.
ARTICLE IV
Other Covenants
Section 4.01. The Borrower shall maintain or cause to be maintained records
adequate to reflect in accordance with consistently maintained sound accounting
practices the operations, resources and expenditures, in respect of the Project, of
the departments or agencies of the Borrower responsible for carrying out the Project
or any part thereof.


﻿8
Section 4.02. (a) The Borrower shall at all times adequately maintain and
repair or cause to be adequately maintained and repaired all roads for which the
Borrower has presently or will assume maintenance responsibility, in accordance
with appropriate engineering standards and with due regard to financial and
economic requirements.
(b)   The Borrower shall take such steps as shall be necessary to ensure
that the dimensions and axle-loads of vehicles using its highways shall be consistent
with the structural and geometric design standards of such highways.
(c)   The Borrower shall collect and record in accordance with appropriate
statistical methods and procedures such technical, economic and financial
information as shall be reasonably required for proper planning of maintenance,
improvements and extensions of its highway system.
Section 4.03. The Borrower shall at all times make available its Ministry
of Public Works (Ministre de l'AmMnagement du Territoire) a sufficient number
of qualified and experienced technical personnel required to maintain the efficiency
of its highway administration.
Section 4.04. The Borrower shall carry out or cause to be carried out a
study to determine the extent to which users of rural roads pay for the costs
associated with the use of such roads. The said study shall be completed by a
date not later than December 3 1 1973 or such later date as shall be agreed to
by the Association.
ARTICLE V
Consultation, Information and Inspection
Section 5.01. The Borrower and the Association shall cooperate fully to
assure that the purposes of the Credit will be accomplished. To that end, the
Borrower and the Association shall from time to time, at the request of either
party:
(a)   exchange views through their representatives with regard to the
performance of their respective obligations under the Development Credit
Agreement, the administration, operations, resources and expenditures, in respect
of the Project, of the departments or agencies of the Borrower responsible for
carrying out any part of the Project, and other matters relating to the purposes
of the Credit; and


﻿9
(b)   furnish to the other all such information as it shall reasonably request
with regard to the general status of the Credit. On the part of the Borrower, such
information shall include information with respect to financial and economic
conditions in the territories of the Borrower, including its balance of payments,
and the external debt of the Borrower, of any of its political subdivisions and
of any agency of the Borrower or of any such political subdivision.
Section 5.02. (a) The Borrower shall furnish or cause to be furnished to
the Association all such information as the Association shall reasonably request
concerning the administration, operations, resources and expenditures, in respect
of the Project, of the departments or agencies of the Borrower responsible for
carrying out any part of the Project.
(b)   The Borrower and the Association shall promptly inform each other
of any condition which interferes with, or threatens to interfere with, the
accomplishment of the purposes of the Credit, the maintenance of the service
thereof or the performance by either of them       of its obligations under the
Development Credit Agreement.
Section 5.03. The Borrower shall afford all reasonable opportunity for
accredited representatives of the Association to visit any part of the territories
of the Borrower for purposes related to the Credit.
ARTICLE VI
Taxes and Restrictions
Section 6.01. The principal of, and service charges on, the Credit shall be
paid without deduction for, and free from, any taxes imposed under the laws of
the Borrower or laws in effect in its territories.
Section 6.02. The Development Credit Agreement shall be free from any
taxes on or in connection with the execution, delivery or registration thereof,
imposed under the laws of the Borrower or laws in effect in its territories.
Section 6.03. The payment of the principal of, and service charges on, the
Credit shall be free from  all restrictions, regulations, controls and moratoria of
any nature imposed under the laws of the Bor .wer or laws in effect in its
territories.


﻿10
ARTICLE VII
Remedies of the Association
Section 7.01. If any event specified in Section 7.01 of the General Conditions
shall occur and shall continue for the period, if any, therein set forth, then at
any subsequent time during the continuance thereof, the Association, at its option,
may by notice to the Borrower declare the principal of the Credit then outstanding
to be due and payable immediately together with the service charges thereon and
upon any such declaration such principal and service charges shall become due
and payable immediately, anything to the contrary in the Development Credit
Agreement notwithstanding.
ARTICLE VIII
Effective Date; Termination
Section 8.01. The following event is specified as an additional condition to
the effectiveness of the Development Credit Agreement within the meaning of
Section 10.01(b) of the General Conditions, namely, that the Loan Agreement
has become effective in accordance with its terms.
Section 8.02. The date April 17, 1973, is hereby specified for the
purposes of Section 10.04 of the General Conditions.
Section 8.03. The obligations of the Borrower under Sections 4.01, 4.02,
4.03 and 5.02(a) of this Agreement shall cease and determine on the date on which
the Development Credit Agreement shall terminate or on a date twenty-five years
after the date of this Agreement, whichever shall be the earlier.
ARTICLE IX
Representacive of the Borrower; Addresses
Section 9.01. The Minister of Economy and Finance of the Borrower is
designated as representative of the Borrower for the purposes of Section 9.03 of
the General Conditions.
Section 9.02. The following addresses are specified for the purposes of
Section 9.01 of the General Conditions:
For the Borrower:
Ministre de l'Economie et
des Finances
Tananarive
Malagasy Republic


﻿11
Cable address:
MINECOFIN
Tananarive
For the Association:
International Development Association
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Cable address:
INDEVAS
Washington, D.C.
IN  WITNESS    WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through      their
representatives thereunto duly authorized, have caused this Agreement to be signed
in their respective names and to be delivered in the District of Columbia, United
States of America, as of the day and year first above written.
MALAGASY REPUBLIC
By /s/ Henri Raharijaona
Authorized Representative
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
By /s / Bernard R. Bell
Regional Vice President
Eastern Africa


﻿12
SCHEDULE I
Withdrawal of the Proceeds
of the Credit and of the Loan
1.   The table below sets forth the Categories of items to be financed out of
the proceeds of the Credit and of the Loan, the allocation of amounts of such
proceeds to each Category and the percentage of eligible expenditures so to be
financed in each Category:
Amount of the
Credit and of the
Loan Allocated             % of
(Expressed in          Expenditures
CategorY                   Dollar Equivalent)     to be Financed
I.   Civil works for                 23,300,000        69% of total ex-
Part A of the Proj-                               penditures
ect (including re-
lated laboratory
work)
II.  Consultants' Services                              100% of foreign
(including vehicles                               expenditures
and other equipment
required)
(a)   Supervision of              930,000
construction for
Part A of the
Project.
(b)   Detailed en-                470,000
gineering for
Part B of the
Project.
(c)   Study for improv-           100,000
ement of traffic
counting system
for Part C of the
Project.
III.  Unallocated                     5,200,000
TOTAL         30,000,000


﻿13
2.    For the purposes of this Schedule:
(a)   the term  "foreign expenditures" means expenditures for goods
produced in, or services supplied from, the territories, and in the currency, of
any country other than the Borrower; and
(b)   the term   "total expenditures" means the aggregate of foreign
expenditures and of expenditures for goods produced in, or services supplied from,
the territories of the Borrower.
3.    Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph I ibove, no withdrawals shall
be made in respect of:
(a)   expenditures prior to the date of this Agreement;
(b)   payments for taxes imposed under the laws of the Borrower or laws
in effect in its territories on goods or services, or on the importation, manufacture,
procurement or supply thereof. To the extent that the amount represented by
the percentage set forth in the third column of the table in paragraph I above
in respect of any Category would exceed the amount payable net of all such taxes,
such percentage shall be reduced to ensure that no proceeds of the Credit or of
the Loan will be withdrawn on account of payments for suLCh taxes; and
(c)  in addition, except as the Borrower, the Association and the Bank
shall otherwise agree, and until all amounts of the Credit shall have been withdrawn
or committed, no withdrawals shall be made from the Loan Account except under
commitments entered into by the Bank pursuant to Section 5.02 of tile General
Conditions referred to in Section 1.01 of the Loan Agreement.
4.    Notwithstanding the allocation of an amount of the proceeds of the Credit
and of the Loan set fortlh in the second column of tile table in palagraph I above:
(a)   if the estimate of the expenditures under any Category or subcategory
shall decrease, the amoult of the proceeds of the Credit and of the Loan then
allocated to such Category and no longer required therefor will be reallocated by
the Association and by the Bank or, after full withdrawal of all amnIlts of tile
Credit, by the Bank, by increasing correspondingly tile unallocated aIlount of the
proceeds of the Credit and of the Loan:
(b)  if the estimate of the expenditures under any Category or subcategory
shall increase, the percentage set forth in the third colunll of the table in paragraph


﻿14
1 above in respect of such expenditures shall be applied to the amount of such
increase, and a corresponding amount will be allocated by the Association and
by the Bank or, after full withdrawal of all amounts of the Credit, by the Bank,
at the request of the Borrower, to such Category from the unallocated amount
of the proceeds of the Credit and of the Loan, subject, however, to the requirements
for contingencies, as determined by the Association and by the Bank or, after
full withdrawal of all amounts of the Credit, by the Bank, in respect of any other
expenditures, and
(c)  if the Association or the Bank shall have reasonably determined that
the procurement of any item in any Category is inconsistent with the procedures
set forth or referred to in Section 2.03 of this Agreement and of the Loan
Agreement, no expenditures for such item shall be financed out of the proceeds
of the Credit or of the Loan and the Association or the Bank may, without in
any way restricting or limiting any other right, power or remedy of the Association
under the Development Credit Agreement or of the Bank under the Loan
Agreement, by notice to the Borrower, cancel such amount of the Credit or of
the Loan as in the Association's or the Bank's reasonable opinion, represents the
amount of such expenditures which would otherwise have been eligible for financing
out of the proceeds of the Credit or of the Loan.
5.    Notwithstanding the percentages set forth in the third column of the table
set out in paragraph I above, if the estimate of total expenditures under Category
I shall increase and no proceeds of the Credit and of the Loan are available for
reallocation to such Category, the Association and the Bank or, after full withdrawal
of all amounts of the Credit, the Bank, may, by notice to the Borrower, adjust
the percentage then applicable to such expenditures in order that further
withdrawals under any such Category may continue until all expenditures
thereunder shall have been made.


﻿15
SCHEDULE 2
Description of the Project
The Project consists of the following Parts:
A.   Construction of about 417 km of primary roads and bridges, consisting of
the following:
1.   about 24 km on Route Nationale No. 44, between Vohidiala and
Ambatondrazaka;
2.   about 59 km on Route Nationale No. 1, between Arivonimamo and
Analavory; and
3.   about 334 km on Route Nationale No. 34, between:
(a)  Antsirabe and Betafo (about 21 km);
(b)  Betafo and Mandoto (about 81 kin);
(c)  Mandoto and Miandrivazo (about 118 kn); and
(d)  Miandrivazo and Malaimbandy (about 114 km).
4.   twelve major bridges on the Miandrivazo-Malainbandy section of Route
Nationale No. 34.
B.   Detailed engineering for about 200 km on Route Nationale No. 6, between
Antsohihy and Ambanja.
C.   A study for improving the Borrower's traffic counting system.
The Project is expected to be completed by June 30, 1977.


﻿16
SCHEDULE 3
Procurement
With respect to any contract for civil works for Part A of the Project:
1.    Bidders shall be prequalified, and at least 45 days will be allowed for the
submission of prequalification documents. The Borrower shall, before qualification
is invited, inform the Association in detail of the procedure to be followed,
including the text of the notice of invitation to prequalify, and shall introduce
such modifications in said procedure as the Association shall reasonably request.
The list of prequalified bidders, together with a statement of their qualifications
and of the reasons for the exclusion of any applicant for prequalification, shall
be furnished by the Borrower to the Association for its comments before the
applicants are notified and the Borrower shall make such additions to or deletions
from the said list as the Association shall reasonably request.
2.    (a)   The civil works under the Project will be divided into seven lots,
corresponding to Parts A.1, A.2, A.3(a), A.3(b), A.3(c), A.3(d) and A.4 of the
Project. For bidding purposes, these seven lots will be formed into two Packages
as follows:
Package 1:        Parts A. I and A.2
Package 2:        Parts A.3(a), A.3(b), A.3(c), A.3(d) and A.4
(b)   All lots in each Package shall be bid concurrently, and prequalified
bidders shall be permitted to bid for any one or more lots or for all lots in a
Package, subject only to limitations imposed as a result of the prequalification
process. Contracts within each Package shall be awarded on the basis of the lower
of (i) the lowest evaluated bid for the Package as a whole or (ii) the lowest
combination of evaluated bids covering the whole of the works in the Package.
All contracts will be awarded on a unit price basis.
3.    Before bids are invited, the Borrower shall furnish to the Association, for
its comments, the text of the invitations to bid and the specifications and other
bidding documents, and shall make such modifications in the said documents as
the Association shall reasonably request. Any further modification to the bidding
documents shall require the Association's concurrence before it is issued to the
prospective bidders. A period of at least 90 days will be allowed for the submission
of bids.


﻿17
4.    Bids will be accompanied by a bid bond or bank guarantee amounting to
not less than 2% of the estimated contract value.
5.    After bids have been received and evaluated, the Borrower shall, before a
final decision on the award is made, inform the Association of the name of the
bidder to whom it intends to award the contract and shall furnish to the
Association, in sufficient time for its review, a detailed report on the evaluation
and comparison of the bids received, together with the reasons for the intended
award. The Association shall, if it determines that the intended award would be
inconsistent with the procedures set forth or referred to in Section 2.03 of this
Agreement, promptly inform the Borrower and state the reasons for such
determination.
6.    The terms and conditions of the contract shall not, without the Association's
concurrence, materially differ from those on which bids were asked.
7.    Each successful bidder will furnish a bank guarantee in an amount not less
than 10% of the contract price or a performance bond in an amount of not less
than 100% of the contract price, which guarantee or bond shall remain in effect
at least until provisional acceptance of the works provided for in the contract.
8.    Each contract shali include:
(i)         a price escalation clause;
(ii)        a provision for retention, for a period of at least one year after
provisional acceptance of the works by the Borrower, of not
less than 10X of the amount payable to the contractor on
monthly invoices, until the total amount retained shall have
reached not less than 5(' of the total contract price, and for
substitution at the option of the contractor of a bank guarantee
for the amount so retained, in a like amount and for a like
term; and
(iii)       a provision holding the contractor responsible for correcting
defects in construction for a period of at least one year after
provisional acceptance of the works by the Borrower.
9.    Two conformed copies of each contract shall be furnished to the Association
promptly after its execution and prior to the submission to the Association of
the first application for withdrawal of funds from the Credit Account in respect
of any such contract.


﻿18
10.  Tender documents shall clearly indicate the requirements for payment of
customs duties and other taxes.


﻿19
SCHEDULE 4
Design Standards
Antsirabe-
Vohidiala-  Arivonimnamo-     Betafo-       Mandoro- Miandrirazo-
Roads        Ambatondrazaka   AnalavorY         Mandoto    Miandrivazo Malaimbandy
Maximum design
speed (km/h)      50               60             50         50  (25)        60  (45)
Minimum radius for
horizontal
curves (m)       100 (60)          180  (80)     100 (60)   100  (60)       120  (60)
Minimum radius for
vertical
curves (m):
crest           1000 (750)        1000 (750)    1200 (800) 1200 (800)     1400 (750)
sag              750 (500)        550 (500)     700 (400)  700 (400)       750 (500)
Maximum grade
per  cent         8  (10)         8  (10)        10  (12)    10  (12)      8  (10)
Transversal slope
(percent):
pavement           3                3              3          3              3
shoulders          4                4             4           4              4
Pavement width
(m)                5.5              5.50(7.0       5.5        5.5            6.0
in ur-
ban
areas)
Platform width
(m)              min.7.0        min.7.0        min.9.0      min.8.8       9.3 (8.5)
Pavement design
axle load
(tons)               10              10              10        10               10
Type of pave-
ment       asphalt-paved  asphalt-paved   asphalt-paved   asphalt-paved   not paved (SST
with -rades
over 4':)
Bridges
Carriage-way
width (in)    3.5 and 7.0      7.0     3.5 and 7.0        3.5       3.5 and 7.0
Carriage-way
clearance
horizontal (in)     5.0         5.0        5.0             5.0              5.0
Sidewalks:
number    ---------one on each side of carriageway-- -
width (m)       0.75 to       0.75        0.75            0.5              0.5
1.0 (0.5
for one-
lane bridges)
Design load    --in accordance with "Cahier des Prescriptions Communes"---


