Report No. PID9791
Project Name                     Macedonia-Public Sector Management ...
Adjustment Credit
(PSMAC)
Region                           Europe & Central Asia (ECA)
Sector                           Poverty Reduction and Economic Management
Project ID                       MKPE66154
Borrower                         Government of Macedonia
Implementing Agency              Ministry of Finance
Dame Gruev, 14, 91000 Skopje
Macedonia.
Tel. No. 389-91-116-313
Fax No. 389-91-117-288
Environment Category             C
Date this PID Prepared           September 21, 2001
Projected Negotiations Date      November 15, 2001
Projected Board Date             December 18, 2001
Country and Sector Background
Since independence in 1991, Macedonia has experienced severe dislocations in
production, employment and social welfare. As in other transition economies,
the contraction in economic activity following independence shrunk the tax
base and revenues. At the same time, the deteriorating economic situation and
decline in real incomes led to unsustainable levels of social spending.
Expenditure on pensions, in particular, became a significantly growing burden
on the economy, reflecting generous entitlements and the explosive growth in
the number of workers that took early retirement in 1992-93.As a consequence,
the general government fiscal deficits steadily increased to 11 percent of
GDP in 1993.Inflation exceeded 1300 percent in 1992 and hyperinflation was a
serious threat. Much of the fiscal gap was financed by running arrears on
domestic and foreign debt and on domestic subsidies and programs. By 1995
GDP had contracted 20 percent and unemployment was over 30 percent. In
1994-95, a strong IMF exchange-rate based stabilization program was launched.
Fiscal adjustment became a key element in the Government's stabilization
strategy. To ensure financial discipline, monetary and fiscal policies were
henceforth anchored by a fixed exchange rate against the German mark.
The most serious challenge to fiscal and macroeconomic stability occurred
during the intensification of the Kosovo crisis in the first half of 1999.
In the event, the effects of the crisis were much less damaging than
anticipated. The surge of exports to Kosovo--led by reconstruction demand in
Kosovo itself--and import compression during the crisis corrected the
projected trade deficit. In the end, GDP growth for 1999 was 2.7 percent,
rather than contracting by nearly 4 percent as projected during the crisis
(although still well below the anticipated 5 percent growth expected prior to
the outbreak of the conflict). Unemployment, which had been expected to rise
to 36 percent, actually declined 34 percent. Moreover, both exchange
rate and price stability were maintained.



Despite these positive developments the crisis in Kosovo revealed important
vulnerabilities in the public sector. There were significant lapses in
expenditure management and control. This was largely reflected in increased
spending on wages and salaries associated with the hiring of new public
employees and other expenditures associated with the refugee influx.
After the crisis, the public sector employment and spending on wages and
salaries did not return completely back to pre-crisis levels. Fiscal
accounts have been kept in balance only through stepped-up efforts to
reduce tax evasion.
The Country's Adjustment Program
The GoM has recognized this and has accelerated the pace of reform. Critical steps in this
direction were taken in April 2000 with the VAT introduction and the sale of a majority
stake in Stopanska Bank, the country's largest commercial bank, to a Greek investor, the
IFC and the EBRD. This transaction, which has helped to improve the solvency of and
confidence in the banking sector. Greater commitment to structural reform is also
evident from recent FESAL/C (Board date : December 2000) and of a three-year
PRGF/EFF with the IMF (Board date : December 2000). In 2000 there has also been
considerable progress made on the preparation of a Poverty Reduction Strategy Paper. A
Public Expenditure and Institutional Review has been completed. The PEIR has been
discussed with the GoM and a broad agreement has been reached between the GoM and
the Bank on recommendations, and the action plan outlining the timetable for reforms.
These will form the basis of the Public Sector Management Adjustment Credit/Loan
The Proposed Credit
Based on the diagnosis and recommendations of the PEIR (May 2000), the objectives of
the PSMAC are :
improving fiscal sustainability and allocative efficiency;
strengthening overall management of the budget particularly towards enhancing
rationalization, transparency and accountability for resource use,
including in the off-budget funds;
Preparing and implementing civil service reform; and
Furthering reforms in the health and social protection sectors.
As in the PEIR, the PSMAC would seek to address the management of public
resources (including policies related to resource management) as well as
sector policy issues. The rationale for this agenda is that while it is
important to improve management of resources (efficiency, effectiveness,
and accountability), these reforms would be incomplete if they leave
existing policy distortions unchanged in key sectors (e.g., resources can
be well managed and accounted for while based on regressive policies). This
argument is particularly compelling in the health sector where serious policy
distortions still prevail in parallel with dismal resource management.
In the social protection sector, the focus would be largely on strengthening
policy reforms started under the Social Sector Adjustment Credit (SSAC).
Implementation of these reforms, particularly the laws on pension,
will require an overhaul in the management of pension administration.
The following weaknesses will be addressed under the PSMAC:
issues in budget and in human resource management in the center of
government towards increasing the policy focus of allocative decisions and
-2 -



transparency and accountability in budget and financial management;
improve budget and financial management 2 key sectors (health and
social protection) together amounting to about 70 percent of Government's
resources; and
Further policy reforms in the social protection sector, where reforms had
been started,notably under the SSAC but further progress is stalled due
to poor financial and budget management.
Benefits and Risks
The principle benefits of the program of reforms in the public sector will
be:
l.Through control of expenditure, to brighten significantly the macro and
fiscal stability of Macedonia, which is a key conditions to accelerate growth.
2. To improve Government's policy making and allocative efficiency, but
limiting waste and fund key programs for allowing the State to perform key
functions (e.g., in the health sector through contractual tools and
institutional capacity in the HIF and MoH to achieve measurable improvement
in performance of public financed health care).
3.To launch the foundation of a result-oriented, transparent and professional
management of public resources geared towards the needs of a market economy.
4.To enhance quality of service delivery. In health with contractual tools and
institutional capacity in the HIF and MoH to achieve measurable improvement in
performance of public financed health care. In the social sector, improved
coordination across social programs to reduce policy loopholes and wrong
incentives.
5.To strengthen governance, accountability and transparency, by making public
performance of the public sector.
6.To enhance the GoM's capacity for management of reforms.
Implementation risks which will need to be managed include the following:
l.Political instability : in the wake of the recent conflict, volatility of
the political situation remains high, the upcoming elections (January 2002)
may dampen the commitment to reforms. The next Government will be in charge
of the implementation of the framework agreement which is likely to be
costly and put
fiscal stability at risk.
2.Risk of delays in adoption of difficult measures due to political resistance
within the GoM and/or perceived political pressure from the constituencies,
including laws and by-laws. This risk should be compounded by close
monitoring and "hand-holding" throughout the process. Further, steps to
disseminate the reform agenda, and publicly hold the GoM accountable for
results should contribute to lessen the resistance.
3.A different risk requiring the same close monitoring, is the GoM's
inclination to take quick, half-baked actions, as evidenced by the
significant number of legislation adopted in Cabinet over the past 9 months.
These will need be monitored closely, notably with the assistance of the
Resident mission as well as the TA in the GoM.
The PSMAC measure aiming at costing new proposals will be key in assisting
the GoM in streamlining its legislative production.
4.Delays in the technical assistance. Most of the key measures will be
implemented with the support of TA. Delay in the implementation and/or
quality issues with the TA may result in delays or non compliance with
- 3-



measures. To compound that risk,flexibility in the assessment of compliance
with core conditionalities will be needed.
Contact Point:
Pascale Kervyn de Lettenhove
The World Bank
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
Telephone No.:(202) 473-5553
Fax No.:(202) 522-2755
For information on other project related documents contact:
The InfoShop
The World Bank
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington D.C. 20433
Telephone : (202) 458-5454
Fax: (202) 522 1500
Web: www.worldbank.org/infoshop
Note: This is information on an evolving project. Certain components may
not necessarily be included in the final project.
This PID was processed by the InfoShop on the week ending October 5, 2001.
- 4 -



