Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No. P-7515
REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION
OF THE
PRESIDENT OF THE
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
TO THE
EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS
ON A PROPOSED
PUBLIC SECTOR MANAGEMENT ADJUSTMENT CREDIT (PSMAC)
IN THE AMOUNT OF SDR 12.1 MILLION (US$15.0 MILLION EQUIVALENT)
TO
FORMER YUGOSLAV REPUBLIC OF MACEDONIA
March 6, 2002
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the perfornance of their
official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



FYR MACEDONIA - PUBLIC SECTOR MANAGENIENT ADJUSTMIENT CREDIT (PSMAC)
CURRENCY AND EQUIVALENT UNITS
(Exchange Rate Effective February 15, 2002)
Currency Unit = denar
MKD 1 = US$0.014
US$1 = MKD70.7
WEIGHTS.AND MEASURES
Metric System
ACRONYMS AND ABBREVIATIONS
ACS         Agency for Civil Servants             MoF         Ministry of Finance
CAS         Country Assistance Strategy           MoH         Ministry of Health
CFO         Chief Financial Officer               MoJ         Ministry of Justice
CIDA        Canadian International                NBRM        National Bank of the Republic of
Development Agency                                Macedonia
CM          Cabinet of Ministers                  OECD        Organization for Economic Co-
CPECS       Central Payroll and Employment                    operation and Development
Control System                        O&M         Operation and Maintenance
CRCS        Central Registry of Civil Servants    PARU        Public Administration Reform Unit
DFID        Department for International          PAYG        Pay-As-You-Go
Development (UK)                      PDF         Pension and Disability Insurance
EU          European Union                                    Fund
FESAL       Financial and enterprisesector        PEIR         Public Expenditure Institutional
Adjustment                                        Review
FA          Framework Agreement                   PERTAP       Pension Reform Technical
FYR         Former Yugoslav Republic                          Assistance Program
GDP         Gross Domestic Product                -PETS        Public Expenditure Tracking
GO          Government Office                                  Survey
GS          General Secretariat                   PHC         Primary Health Care
HIF         Health Insurance Fund                 PIT          Personal Income Tax
Hls         Health Institutions                   PRGF/EFF     Poverty Reduction and Growth
HR.M        Human Resource Management                          Facility/Extended Fund Facility
IAS         International Accounting Standards    PRO         Public Revenue Office
IBRD        Intemational Bank for                 PSNIAC       Public Sector Management
Reconstruction and Development                    Adjustment Credit
IDA         International Development              SAO        State Audit Office
Association                           SIDA        Swedish International Development
IFAC        International Federation of                        Agency
Accountants                           SRTAP       Social Reform Technical Assistance
IMF         International Monetary Fund                        Project
INTOSAI     International Organization of          SSAC       Social Section Adjustment Credit
Supreme Audit Institutions            SSP         Social Support Project
I-PRSP      Interim Poverty Reduction Strategy    TA          Technical Assistance
Paper                                 TSA         Treasury Single Account
MIGA        Multilateral Investment Guarantee      USAID       United States Agency for
Agency                                            International Development
MIS         Management Information System          VAT        Value Added Tax
MLSP        Ministry of Labor and Social           WDR        World Development Report
Policies                              ZPP         Zavod za Platen Promet (Bureau of
FISCAL Y'EAR                    Payments Operations)
January I to December 31
Vice President              Johannes F. Linn
Country Director           Christiaan J. Poortman
Sector Director              Pradeep Mitra
Sector Manager                Helga Muller
Task Team Leader        Pascale Kervyn de Lettenhove



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION OF THE PRESIDENT
OF THE INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
TO THE EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS
ON PUBLIC SECTOR MANAGEMENT ADJUSTMENT CREDIT (PSMAC)
TO FYR MACEDONIA
TABLE OF CONTENTS
I. INTRODUCTION .1
II.  RECENT ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENTS IN THE PUBLIC SECTOR ..................        ..2
A.   Macroeconomic Stability and Fiscal Discipline ...........................................................2
B.   Medium-Term Prospects and Fiscal Sustainability ......................................................4
III. AGENDA FOR REFORMS                                 .6
A.   The Government of FYR Macedonia's Medium-Term Institutional Reform Strategy 6
B.   The PSMAC and the First Generation of Reforms            .7
IV. BUDGET MANAGEMENT REFORMS                                .         .          8
A. Background and Issues                          .8
B. Strategy for Reforms and PSMAC Measures .10
V. BUDGET MANAGEMENT REFORMS IN THE HEALTH SECTOR                         .. 14
A.   Background and Issues .....................................................  14
B.   Strategy for Reforms and PSMAC Measures .....................................................   15
VI. BUDGET AND POLICY REFORMS IN SOCIAL PROTECTION ..                            17
A. Background and Issues .17
B.   Strategy for Reforms and PSMAC Measures .......................................  17
VII. CIVIL SERVICE REFORMS                 ..18
A. Background and Issues .18
B. Strategy for Reforms and PSMAC Measures .19
VIII. The IDA's STRATEGY .21
A. The CAS Objectives .21
B. Coordination with IMF .21
C. Coordination with Other Donors .22
IX. THE PROPOSED CREDIT ........................................                 22
A.   Poverty Implications ....................................... 22
B.   Arrangements for Implementation and Monitoring ........................ ............... 22
C.   Loan Administration ....................................... 23
D.   Benefits and Risks .......................................             23
X.   RECOMMENDATION .......................................                      25
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the
performance of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without
World Bank authorization.



Tables and Boxes
Table 1.  Key Macroeconomic Indicators, 1992-2000 ......................................................2
Table 2.  Economic Composition of General Government Revenue and Expenditure ...............4
Table 3.  Key Issues and Reform Strategies for PSMAC Priority Reform Areas ......................8
Box 1.    ZPP (Zavod za Platen Promet) ............9.........................................9
Annexes
Annex 1.  Donor-Financed Technical Assistance in Support of the Public Sector Management
Reforms
Annex 2.  Letter of Development Policy
Annex 3.  Status of Bank Group Operations (Operations Portfolio)
Annex 4.  Statement of IFC's Held and Disbursed Portfolio
Annex 5.  FYR Macedonia at a Glance Table
Annex 6.  Key Economic Indicators
Annex 7.  Key Exposure Indicators
Annex 8.  Central Govemment Expenditure
Annex 9.  General Government Expenditure
Annex 10. Background Issues in Health and Social Protection Sectors



FORMER YUGOSLAV REPUBLIC OF MACEDONIA
PUBLIC SECTOR MANAGEMENT ADJUSTMENT CREDIT (PSMAC)
CREDIT AND PROGRAM SUMMARY
Borrower:                FYR Macedonia
Amount:                   SDR 12.1 million, US$ 15 million equivalent
Terms:                    Standard IDA terms (with 35 years maturity and 10 year grace
period)
Objectives and description:  The proposed credit of US$15 million equivalent is a one-
tranche operation in  support of the medium-term reform
strategy of the Government in public sector management.
The PSMAC credit aims to set the basis for sustained economic
growth and improved service delivery in key social sectors. It
seeks to build key institutions and to strengthen accountability,
transparency and efficiency in the use of public resources while
sustaining macro-economic stability and fiscal discipline. The
PSMAC supports important initial steps in implementing the
Government's medium-term strategy for reforms in public
sector management along five key objectives and thematic
themes: (i) strengthened capacity at the center of government to
implement the reforms; (ii) strengthened and sustained fiscal
discipline within a strong accountability and transparency
framework; (iii) improved strategic prioritization within a fiscal
plan; (iv) better efficiency in program and service delivery in the
medium-term; and (v) a more meritocratic, performance-based
civil service capable of supporting the reform strategy.
The financial support under the PSMAC will assist the FYR
Macedonia in meeting its budget resource needs and balance of
payment gap.
Benefits:                The reforms supported through the PSMAC will support macro
and fiscal stability; i.e., these reforms will help ensure that
policy decisions will not yield fiscally unsustainable budget
commitments.    This will be   accomplished  through  a
combination of (a) new legal constraints on issuance of
guarantees by Government; (b) more contestable budget
preparation procedures; (c) more contestable policy formulation
procedures; (d) more transparent and accountable budget
execution systems; and (e) development of a depoliticized,
merit-based civil service, thereby providing the human resources
required to effectively implement these reforms.
The second major set of benefits of these reforms will be
i



enhanced accountability of policy and program execution,
particularly in the health sector. This will be accomplished by
introducing modem financial management practices in
conjunction with monitoring and publicizing key indicators of
policy and program outputs and impacts. These reforms are
designed to enhance scrutiny of policy and program
implementation, both by the executive branch and by the
citizenry.
Risks:                   Triggered by the 2001 security crisis, the Government finds
itself in a difficult and delicate position with respect to its efforts
to ensure macroeconomic and fiscal stability. In response to this
situation, the Government developed a stabilization program
which has been spelled out in its Letter of Intent and
Memorandum of Economic and Financial Policies, dated
December 24, 2001, for the purpose of a six-month IMF Staff
Monitored Program (SMP) that began on January 1, 2002.
Ongoing pressures for security expenditures, plus those
associated with implementing the Framework Agreement that
ended the conflict in August 2001, will test the Government's
capacity to implement that program.    The Framework
Agreement, for instance, mandates substantial increases in the
share of public employment to be held by ethnic Albanians;
while past efforts to keep the wage bill under control have
typically proven difficult.
The reforms that the Government is introducing to its policy and
budget formulation processes under this Credit aim to better
equip it to make and enforce such hard choices. But those
choices will never be easy, particularly in FYR Macedonia's
current delicate, politically tense and fiscally constrained
environment. It is precisely because of this that the PSMAC
lending strategy relies on a series of one-tranche operations.
This positions IDA support strategically to address the risks of
policy reversal by ensuring that each lending operation is taken
to the Board only once substantial prior actions have been
undertaken.  Moreover, it allows IDA's support to the
preparation of each of those succeeding operations to reinforce
the Government's commitment and focus its efforts to make
those tough choices. This same lending strategy is designed to
ensure that the Bank is well positioned to assist the Government
to address the resistance likely to be encountered from vested
interests as it deepens and broadens its institutional reform
effort.
Finally, limited institutional capacity of the Government poses
an important risk. This risk is mitigated both by the series of
IDA adjustment operations in support of these reforms, as well
as by implementing a substantial technical assistance program
financed by donors. The TOR for that program of TA have been
prepared with the assistance of the Bank, and oversight of a
substantial fraction of that assistance is Bank-supervised.
ii



Schedule of disbursement:   The full Credit is expected to be disbursed at effectiveness.
Poverty category:           Not applicable.
Rate of return:             Not applicable.
Project ID number:          MK-P066154-LEN
Map:
The task team includes: Pascale Kervyn de Lettenhove, Gary J. Reid (ECSPE), Loraine Hawkins,
Jean-Jacques de St Anoine, Xiaoqing Yu (ECSHD); William Dorotinsky (PRMPS); Rajna Cemerska,
Evgenij Najdov (ECCMK), Gord Evans and Serif Sayin (consultants).
Peer reviewers include: Helen M. Sutch, Nick Manning, Dana Weist (PRMPS); John Langenbrunner
(HDNHE), Hermann von Gersdorff (LCSFR).
The operation has benefited from quality control feedback from: John Hegarty, Sanjay Vani
(ECSSC); Johnson Appavoo (ECSSD); and Stefan Koeberle (OPCS). Processing assistance from
Dolly Teju is gratefully acknowledged.






REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION OF THE PRESIDENT
OF THE INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
TO THE EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS
ON A PROPOSED PUBLIC SECTOR MANAGEMENT
ADJUSTMENT CREDIT (PSMAC)
TO FYR MACEDONIA
1.     I submit for your approval the following report and recommendations on a proposed
Public Sector Management Adjustment Credit (PSMAC) to the formner Yugoslav Republic of
Macedonia (FYR Macedonia) for SDR 12.1 million, equivalent to US$15.0 million. The
proposed credit would be on standard IDA terms, with a maturity of 35 years, including a grace
period of 10 years.
I.     INTRODUCTION
2.     The proposed credit is a Structural Adjustment Credit in support of the FYR Macedonia's
medium-term institutional reform program. The PSMAC supports the medium-term reform
strategy of the Government on the first generation of institutional/public sector reforms. It
focuses on areas where reforms are needed to achieve fiscal stability and strengthen resource
management. Although the 2001 security crisis has constrained the Government's efforts to
implement its reform strategy, demonstrable progress has nonetheless been achieved. The current
macroeconomic, fiscal, and political challenges arising from the 2001 security crisis have, if
anything, intensified the need to implement these reforms.
3.     A Framework Agreement (FA) which encompassed constitutional changes towards
increased representation of ethnic Albanians was signed by the main political parties representing
ethnic Macedonians and Albanians in August 2001 and constitutional amendments were
approved in November 2001. The Framework Agreement sets out the terms and conditions under
which the security crisis ended. It includes resolutions that will bear on the overall fiscal
framework as well as public sector management. It includes in particular increased representation
of ethnic Albanians in the administration, strengthening of security forces, and decentralization of
several key central functions to the local level. Main functions to be decentralized are social
services, infrastructure, and other services'.
4.     The proposed Credit is a key element of the Transitional Support Strategy (TSS)
endorsed by the Board of Executive Directors in September 2001 which provides a framework for
rapid intervention in the post-crisis period. As part of the TSS, an US$15 million Emergency
Recovery Assistance Credit was approved by the Board in December 2001. Follow-up operations
will deepen the agenda set forth in the area of public sector management before the security crisis
while focusing on areas resulting from the Framework Agreement. Two follow-up operations are
currently under consideration in the area of public sector management reforms2 scheduled for
FY03 and FY04. Although this PSMAC is an IDA credit, subsequent operations would be IBRD
loans.3
While the law on Local Self-Governments was approved by Parliament on January 24, 2002, an
implementation plan for the law has not yet been prepared. The draft law on inter-governmental fiscal
relations is yet to be finalized. A preliminary costing has been completed for implementing the Framework
Agreement. The majority of related fiscal impacts are expected to occur over the medium term.
2PSMAL 2 and PSMAL 3.
3FYR Macedonia joined the IBRD and IDA on February 25, 1993, and MIGA on June 28, 1994
1



5.     The Govemment could not achieve, in part because of the security crisis, the objectives
of the International Monetary Fund's (IMF) three-year Poverty Reduction and Growth
Facility/Extended Fund Facility (approved November 29, 2000). In December 2001, the
Government and The IMF agreed on an IMF Staff Monitored Program for the period of January
to June, 2002.
II. RECENT ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENTS IN THE PUBLIC SECTOR
A. Macroeconomic Stability and Fiscal Discipline
6.     From independence in 1991 through 1995, FYR Macedonia experienced a severe decline
in economic activity. By 1995, GDP had contracted 20 percent with registered unemployment
well over 30 percent. A sharp reduction in the tax base accompanied unsustainable levels of
social spending; in particular, expenditure on pensions soared. With the Government unable to
control its fiscal position, fiscal deficits increased steadily to 11 percent of GDP in 1993, with
much of the gap financed by accumulating domestic and foreign payment arrears. Inflation
reached 1,700 percent at its peak in 1992.
7.    In 1994-95, the Government launched a comprehensive reform program comprising an
IMF stabilization plan, initial structural reforms in the enterprise and the financial sectors, and
price and trade liberalization. These reforms, along with the partial recovery in trade resulting
from the reopening of less costly transshipment routes, contributed to improved economic
performance. As of 1996, output began to recover, while the fiscal gap narrowed and inflation
declined to single digits. In 1999-2000, budget surpluses were achieved with negligible inflation
(notwithstanding the introduction of VAT and higher international oil prices in 2000) and the
current account deficit (including official transfers) had shrunk to 3.4 and 3.1 percent of GDP
respectively.
8.     Prior to the 2001 security crisis, the FYR Macedonia appeared on the verge of reaping the
rewards of years of sustained stabilization efforts. The economy had returned to growth, and the
fiscal accounts of general government registered a substantial surplus for the first time in 2000
(see Table 1). Although real GDP remained approximately 10 percent below its level of a decade
ago, 2000 was the fifth successive year of positive growth. With macro-stabilization firmly
entrenched and structural reforns progressing steadily, it seemed highly feasible that
improvements in the quality of fiscal adjustment would proceed as the next priority for
government action.
9.     The 2001 security crisis provoked a precipitate decline in economic growth (-6 percent of
GDP in the first three quarters of 2001 and an estimated -4.6 percent of GDP for the full year), a
significant increase in government expenditure (security-related expenditures reached 10.4
percent of GDP; overall expenditures are estimated to exceed 2001 budget by above 9 percent),
and a higher deficit (estimated at 6.1 percent of GDP for 2001 for general government).
10.   Notwithstanding commendable progress in achieving macroeconomic stabilization and
sustained GDP growth, the overall supply response of the economy has remained weak.
Unemployment continues above 30 percent of the labor force, with little or no improvement from
earlier years (although measurement problems raise some doubts about the true level of
unemployment). About 23 percent of the population lives below the national poverty line, a five-
fold increase since independence, although the distribution of consumption is fairly egalitarian by
2



regional standards, and less than 7 percent of the population lives in absolute poverty as measured
by international standards.
Table 1. Ke Macroeconomic Indicators, 1992- 2001
1992 1993   1994  1995  1996   1997   1998  1999 2000 2001[p]
in percent change
Gross domestic product     -8.2 -1.2  -1.8  -1.1    1.2   1.4    3.4    4.3   4.6   -4.6
Inflation "               1691 349.8  121.8  15.9   3.0   4.4    0.8   -1.1   5.8    5.5
in percent of GDP
Current account balance 4/ ..  ..  0.6  -5.7  -5.0  -6.5  -7.4  -9.9   -5.1  -5.6  -10.8
Foreign Direct Investment ..  ..  ..   0.7   0.2    0.3   0.4    5.0    0.7   4.9   13.2
Fiscalbalance2'            -8.7 -11.4  -2.7  -1.1  -1.4  -0.4   -1.7    0.0   2.5   -6.1
Revenue 31            35.0 36.3  43.1   37.9  35.7  34.8    33.3  35.4  36.8   34.6
Expenditure           43.7 47.7  45.8   39.0  37.1  35.1    35.0  35.4  34.3   40.7
1i/ Inflation is change in retail prices.
2/ Fiscal deficit is of general govemment.
3/ Revenue includes grants.
4/ excluding grants
Source: IMF.
11.    Implementation of the stabilization agenda was accompanied by poor quality fiscal
adjustment. During 1994 to 1997, the period of most significant expenditure cuts, reductions in
subsidies, capital expenditure, and pension payments accounted for over half of the total
expenditure cuts. Lower interest payments, after the restructuring of external debt in 1995 and
1996, also contributed significantly to expenditure cuts. At the same time, arrears increased to
well over 3 percent of GDP, and the Government substituted off-budget comrnmitments for
budgeted expenditures for loss-making banks and enterprises.   As a result of financial
restructuring in 1995, these commitments amounted to expenditures of 3 percent of 1999 GDP.
12.    The 1999 Kosovo crisis revealed the fragility of the fiscal adjustment achieved in the
mid-1990s. The ensuing influx of refugees exerted enormous pressure on government
expenditures. As 1999 spending quickly outstripped original budget allocations, the Government
was unable to make offsetting cuts. Instead, tax collection efforts were greatly strengthened, with
higher revenues and grants keeping the deficit under control. Although some tax reductions have
occurred (in personal income tax, agricultural inputs, and excises on oil), the chronically heavy
tax burden continues to serve as a disincentive for economic growth, investment, and job
creation.
13.    The high level of taxation supports a large and increasingly inflexible budget dominated
by transfers which has hovered around 38 percent of general government spending since 1994 (in
2001, this ratio is estimated to be at 30 percent). Although there have been significant reforms of
social programs (including pensions, health, unemployment, social assistance), pensions and
other social transfers remain high in comparison with other transition and middle-income
countries. The resulting budget inflexibility will become increasingly problematic as the tax
burden declines over the medium-term and leaves the Government with even less latitude to
respond to external shocks or other fiscal setbacks. The discretionary component of expenditure
is small and declining (about 15 percent of total spending in 2000, compared to almost 20 percent
in 1994)4. Until 2000, potentially destabilizing guarantees continued to be issued by the
Government without adequate control.
4 Bank estimate
3



14.    Control over the wage bill has represented an ongoing problem.5 In 2000, the
Government was able to rein in the general government wage bill to 7.2 percent of GDP (from
8.8 percent in 1999) and 20.9 percent of general govemment expenditures (from 24.8 percent in
1999). In 2001, although the wage bill rose slightly to 7.3 percent of GDP and declined to 17.8
percent of general expenditures, this occurred against a backdrop of soaring security-related
expenditures, declining revenues, and negative GDP growth. While the Government took drastic
steps in early 2001 to achieve an employment reduction of 4,500, in the end, the wage bill
exceeded the agreed IMF's PRGF/EFF 2001 targets. The wage bill still faces continuing pressure
owing to continuous control pressures and the FA's provision for new hiring into the civil service.
Moreover, FYR Macedonia's relative poverty accentuates wage bill costs relative to GDP. In
sum, in view of ongoing fiscal pressures and a relatively low GDP, the wage bill is higher than
either the public sector or the economy can comfortably afford.
Table 2. Economic composition of revenue and expenditure, 1993-2001
(General government, excluding special revenue accounts.)
1993   1994  1995   1996  1997   1998  1999   2000 2001[p]
Total Revenues and Grants  36.3   43.1  37.9   35.7   34.8  33.3   35.4  36.8     34.6
Total Expenditure          47.7   45.8    39   37.1   35.1  35.0   35.4  34.3     40.7
Current Expenditure        47.6  42.6   36.1   34.6  33.7   33.3  33.2   30.8    36.2
Goods and services       15.1   13.5   12.9  11.9   11.4  11.7   11.7   10.2    16.2
o/w wages and salaries  11.6  9.7   8.8    8.8   8.4    8.5   8.8    7.2     7.3
Transfers                  ..   17.8   15.6  14.6   14.1  13.5   12.7   12.8    12.3
o/w Subsidies            4.7   2.1    0.8    0.7   0.3    0.1   0.1    0.2     0.1
Social programs        ..   3.2    3.7   3.3    3.4   3.0    3.0   3.1      2.4
o/w unemployment     ..    0.4    0.9   1.2    1.1    1.1   0.8    0.8     0.8
benefits
Pensions              ..   10.9    9.4   9.2    9.1   9.2    8.6    8.2     8.6
Health                     ..    5.3    5.2   5.7    5.4   5.5    5.5    5.1     5.0
Interest                  4.7    3.5    1.6   2.0    2.2   1.9    1.5    1.8     1.9
Capital Expenditure         0.8   3.2    2.8    2.3   1.4    1.8   2.3    2.7     3.4
Balance                   -11.4   -2.7    -1   -1.4   -0.4  -1.7    0.0   2.5     -6.1
P: preliminary
Source: IMF.
B. Medium-Term Prospects and Fiscal Sustainability
15.    Given the profound changes FYR Macedonia is experiencing, it is premature to predict
economic performance in the medium term. Obviously pressures have been introduced as a result
of the security crisis. Prior to the security crisis, growth was expected to recover to 5-6 percent
GDP fuelled by export growth (rising to 10-15 percent), a competitive exchange rate, structural
reforms in the financial, enterprise and public sectors, positive domestic savings, and increased
investment rates (from 22.4 percent in 1999 to 24.4 percent in 2000 up to near 25 percent in
2003). Now, 2001 GDP is estimated to have declined 4.6 percent, compared with 6 percent
5 In 1999, the wage bill constituted 8.8 percent of GDP, outstripping nine Central and Eastern European
countries in gross terms. Furthermore, general govemrnent wage expenditures accounted for 24.8 percent
of total expenditures in 1999, again placing FYR Macedonia at the head of the nine-country sample.
4



growth expected at the beginning of the year. Investment collapsed to 19.3 percent in 2001 with
recovery back to previous levels expected in the medium term.
16.   Domestic demand management for the next few years will need to be consistent with the
nominal exchange rate anchor, although pressures for appreciation of the real exchange rate have
reversed since early 2001. Inflation reached 5.5 percent in 2001, down from 5.8 percent in 2000,
and is projected to decline further to 2.5 percent in 2002.
17.   Fiscal revenues had been expected to decline in 2001 as tax rates were reduced. This did
not happen since in response to a 4 percent revenue decline arising from the crisis, a tax on
financial transactions (equating to roughly 1.3 percent of GDP) was introduced and will be
continued in 2002. Despite substantial outlays for completing the transition reforms, public
expenditures were expected to decrease from 34.3 percent of GDP in 2000 to about 32.9 percent
in 2003. As mentioned in paragraph 9, the security crisis negated these projections. In 2002, with
improved revenue performance, and containment of current expenditure, the general govemment
deficit is projected to decline to 3.4 percent of GDP.
18.   The current account deficit (excluding grants) deteriorated in 2001 to -10.8 percent
(preliminary) of GDP from -5.6 percent in 2000. This is mainly due to the sharp drop in
transfers; private transfers for 2001 may only reach one-third of the 2000 level. As a result of the
crisis, imports are projected to have declined 16 percent in 2001, while exports have declined 10
percent. Prior to the crisis, eventual improvements in the current account were anticipated from
increasing competitiveness of exports, slower consumption growth, and continued growth in
workers' remittances. Financing was to increasingly shift in the direction of private flows,
particularly commercial lending and portfolio flows. Foreign direct investment, after a large one-
time inflow at the beginning of the year, faced a sharp decline in 2001, reaching approximately
one-third of 2000 levels in the second and third quarters. Fixed domestic investment also
declined by slightly less than a third. External indebtedness has remained moderate, with debt
being equivalent to 38.7 percent of GDP and total debt service ratios at around 19 percent of
exports of goods and services.
19.   On the basis of current projections for 2002, the current account deficit is estimated to
reach US$354 million (excluding official transfers). Debt amortization is projected to be US$110
million. In order to increase official reserves from 3.3 to 4 months/imports, total financing
requirements would reach US$512 million.  Foreign direct investment and other inflows
(including errors and omissions) would amount to US$197 million while official capital flows
and transfers would amount to US$141 million (excluding the PSMAC). For 2002, the financing
gap is estimated at US$163 million (excluding the PSMAC). The credit would finance somewhat
less than 10 percent of the gap in the balance of payments. It would finance 12 percent of the
general government budget deficit.
5



III. AGENDA FOR REFORMS
A. The Government of FYR Macedonia's Medium-Term Institutional Public Sector
Reform Strategy
20.    The Association's 2000 PEIR6 concluded that the existing public administration in FYR
Macedonia confronts significant, if not insurnountable institutional obstacles in creating an
affordable, modem public sector able to support the development of a robust private sector and
deliver efficient, quality services. To address these deficiencies, the Government held extensive
discussions with the Association, ultimately approving a wide-ranging medium-term institutional
reform strategy. The Stabilization and Association Agreement with the European Union in 2001
added momentum to the reform process.
21.    Five key objectives underpin the Government's medium-term strategy for institutional
reform:
* Build necessary capacity at the center of government to implement the reforms: The
Government's reform strategy commits to modemizing and streamlining those organizations
at the center of government that oversee the Government's decision-making, resource
allocation processes, and secure financial accountability.
* Strengthen and sustain fiscal discipline within a strong accountability and transparency
framework: The Government has committed to build on its laudable track record, beginning
in 1995, in achieving fiscal discipline. The medium-term objectives aim to entrench a
sustainable fiscal approach, where unaffordable political commitments are no longer made
and the size of the state is reduced to a level appropriate to FYR Macedonia's means.
Financial control over general government expenditures and the wage bill are being achieved
both in the budget planning and execution phases.  Financial accountability within
government is being considerably strengthened by creating a fully operational treasury and
significantly expanding external and internal audit. External transparency is being improved
with stronger monitoring systems, comprehensive budget information, more extensive
reporting to Parliament, and published audit findings. The current fiscal difficulties arising
from the security crisis highlight the importance of meeting this objective.
* Implement strategic prioritization within a fiscal plan: The medium-term strategy
recognizes that fiscal discipline must be accompanied by strategic prioritization. As part of
an improved annual budget process, policy trade-offs are being made within a medium-term
fiscal plan. Activities which are not essential to the public sector (i.e. non-core activities) are
being shed. Expenditure reductions are targeting low priority areas rather than imposing ad
hoc cuts that undermine economic objectives (e.g., public investment). All items scheduled
for review by Government are being accompanied by a full fiscal impact assessment.
* Improve efficiency in program and service delivery: The Government's medium-term
objectives reinforce affordable, incentive-based social (targeted to the poor where
applicable) and growth-oriented labor market policies with modern financial management.
Given that social programs (pensions, health, social assistance) constitute approximately 40
percent of public spending, these areas have been prioritized for reforms.
6 The Government endorsed the Public Expenditure and Institutional Review (PEIR) in 2000.. Public
Expenditure Institutional Review, World Bank, April 2000
6



* Create a meritocratic, performance-based civil service capable of supporting the reform
strategy: The medium-term objectives aim at entrenching a depoliticized, merit-based civil
service, enhancing the attractiveness of civil service employment through wage
decompression, and introducing government-wide performance management. The Agency
of Civil Servants is being strengthened to oversee the modernization process.
22.    The Government started implementation of the reform program in 2000 but progress
slowed during the security crisis. In the aftermath of crisis, it is now essential to regain lost
ground, and take into account the likely effects of the Framework Agreement on public sector
management. These are likely to affect follow-up operations. First, while costing of the fiscal
implications of the Framework Agreement is still preliminary and partial, it is already clear that
implementation of the Framework Agreement will put significant pressure on government's
resources. Second, decentralization policies, while still embryonic, will require significant
reforms in allocation, reporting and monitoring of local resources. The impact of the Framework
Agreement in some of the social sectors (e.g. health) still remains to be fully assessed.
23.    A prerequisite for this reform program is a satisfactory macroeconomic framework. A
satisfactory macroeconomic framework has been spelled out in the Government's Letter of Intent
and Memorandum of Economic and Financial Policies, dated December 24, 2001, for the purpose
of a six-month IMF Staff Monitored Program (SMP) that began on January 1, 2002. Under the
program, the Government projects 4 percent GDP growth, 2.5 percent inflation, and targets a
general government deficit equivalent to 3.4 percent of GDP in 2002. A 2002 budget that is
consistent with the SMP, a condition of Board presentation of the PSMAC, was approved by
Parliament in December 2001.
B. The PSMAC and the First Generation of Reforms
24.    The analysis undertaken by the PEIR showed that the budget system lacked any capacity
to link fiscal resources to policy decisions or program requirements; nor could wage bill
payments be linked to individual employees. Similarly, the health system had virtually no
capacity to undertake budget planning or expenditure control. The key social protection
programs remained on a fiscally unsustainable course that would crowd out other expenditures
required to facilitate economic growth. Finally, the civil service remained highly politicized, with
no performance incentives and no capacity to distinguish between core and non-core activities.
The Government recognized that bridging these gaps is fundamental to meeting its medium-term
objectives (see table 3). The PSMAC fully supports the reforms the Government has undertaken
to reach its medium-term objectives. It needs to be emphasized that these initial reforms have
been accomplished against an extremely challenging political environment.
25.    The foundation for the PSMAC derives from the government's medium-term strategy in
the areas of (i) general budget management, including in the health and social protection funds,
and (ii) civil service management. The rationale for including in the government's overall budget
reform sectoral reforms in health and social protection is the overwhelming importance of these
sectors to the government's general expenditures and their crucial impact on anti-poverty
measures. Expenditures from the three funds (pension, health insurance, and employment)
amounted together to 14.2 percent of GDP compared to the government's central budget at 21.8
7



percent of GDP in 20007. For the purposes of presentation, budget management reforms in health
and social protection are discussed separately.
Table 3. Key Issues and PSMAC Priority-Reform Areas
KEYISSUES                               RELATED REFORMIS
Budget Nlanagement
* Insufficient capacity in central agencies to  * Develop modem institutions for budget
deliver reforms                              management through adequate staffing and
reorganization
* Inadequate financial management and        * Strengthen fiscal discipline through financial
control, exacerbated by a weak accountability  management and control standards within a
framework, threaten fiscal sustainability    strong accountability/ transparency framework
* Inability to set policy priorities or make trade  * Implement strategic prioritization by setting
offs spreads resources too thinly            policy priorities within a fiscal plan and
focusing Government's activities
Health Sector
* Inadequate financial management and        * Strengthen fiscal discipline through financial
control, exacerbated by a weak accountability  management and control standards within a
framework, threaten fiscal sustainability and  strong accountability/ transparency framework
impede needed policy reforms
Social Protection'
* Poorly designed and administered programs,  * Strengthen fiscal discipline through
exacerbated by a weak accountability         improved program and financial administration
framework, threaten fiscal sustainability and  within a strong accountability/ transparency
inpede needed policy reforms                 framework
Civil Service Management
* High level of politicization of public     * Create a professional, politically neutral,
administration                               meritocratic civil service
* Weak accountability for achieving policy   * Strengthen accountability of the public
objectives                                   administration for achieving agreed policy
objectives
* Inefficient, unaffordable public sector wage  * Create a more competitive yet affordable
structure                                    public sector wage structure
IV. BUDGET MANAGEMENT REFORMS
A. Background and Issues
26.    Significant weaknesses in budget management pose a major risk both to fiscal stability
and successful institutional reform.  The Government identified budget reform  as a key
component of its medium-term strategy, supported by the PSMAC. Key budget management
issues (those specific to health or social protection are reviewed in their respective sections) that
drove the development of PSMAC reforms included:
7General Govermment budget includes central government budget and four off-budget funds. The Pension
Fund, the Health Insurance Fund, and Employment Fund respectively amounted to 8.2 percent, 5.1 percent,
and 0.8 percent of GDP in 2000 (see Table 2 and Annex 9).
8



27.    Insufficient capacity in central agencies to deliver reforms: The key central agency
functions that support budget management reform are found in the Ministry of Finance and the
General Secretariat inside government, and the State Audit Office outside government. At the
outset of launching the govemment's medium-term strategy, the Ministry of Finance's budget
department was severely understaffed, internal audit was non-existent, and the Treasury had only
recently been created. The General Secretariat served exclusively an administrative function.
Clearly, neither organization was in a position to provide leadership to budget reform. With
respect to external audit, the State Audit Office was unable to deliver its mandate because of
severe understaffing.
28.    Inadequate financial management and control, exacerbated by a weak accountability
framework, threaten fiscal sustainability: Since 1995, severe fiscal pressures were being
accumulated through unauthorized financial guarantees, arrears, and uncontrolled wage bill
management. The high number of budget users and the lack of budget information below the
ministry level further compromised financial management. Virtually no financial standards
existed at the line ministry level. Internal audit had yet to be instituted and external audit was not
operational. Plans to dismantle the Bureau of Payments Operations (ZPP) raised issues on
expenditure control as well as tax collection performance (see Box 1).
Box 1. ZPP (Zavod za Platen Promet)
The ZPP was the Payment Operational Service in the FYR of Macedonia. It operated about 100,000
separate giro accounts, of which 60,000 are active. Through its head office and thirty-two regional offices,
it handled from 60,000 to 80,000 transactions per day. When tax payments are due on the 5th and 15th of
the month, the number of transactions on those days could reach 120,000. All government and private
sector entities were registered and had accounts with the ZPP. Revenue deposits and payment orders were
processed in the morning and account balances were available by 4:00 p.m. each afternoon. The ZPP
acted as a clearinghouse for all transactions except for those involving foreign exchange. The ZPP has a
long history of operations, having developed from the former Yugoslav 'social accounting organization'.
It could operate as a preventative control for the public sector, in that the ZPP knew the number of
employees and their wage levels (based on the Law on Salaries), so under that system, it was unlikely that
unauthorized persons could be paid. No organization could spend more than it had in its account. Also,
transfers of funds from one account to another were not permitted. Because organizations were required to
submit reports to the ZPP, it was a very good central information repository.
Reforms of the ZPP led to the Law on the Transformation of the ZPP (2001). Under the law, the ZPP
completely disappeared after December 31, 2001. A clearinghouse for the banks has been created to
supersede the ZPP functions; Treasury has developed to take over ZPP payment functions; and the PRO
has also prepared an action plan for the collection and management of contributions previously collected
(withholding system) by ZPP. The reforms aim at increasing government's role in financial management
(e.g., revenue collection), and develop the banking system. The latter is a component of the IDA-supported
FESAL.
While the dismantling of ZPP is certainly beneficial in the long-term, concerns have been expressed that a
hasty dismantling would create risks, notably collection, enforcement and management of taxes and
contributions, loss of transparency in the payment system due to under-developed banking system.
29.    Inability to set policy priorities or make trade-offs spreads resources too thinly: A
disconnect existed between the policy and budget processes. The budget process remained open-
ended and incremental, with no aggregate or ministry expenditure ceilings established. Although
hundreds of legislative bills were planned, none were costed in advance. The trade offs that were
made, just prior to submitting the budget to Parliament, remained ad hoc without any sense of the
9



policy impacts of these actions. Expenditure reductions imposed during the year relied on quick
fixes, rather than advance planning to ensure that higher priority areas such as public investment
were protected.
30.    As a result, the Government was engaged in too many activities with too few resources.
The size and range of activities of the public administration exceeded FYR Macedonia's fiscal
means. This created two problems. First, the public administration wage bill has been more than
FYR Macedonia could afford. Additional wage bill pressures now exist from new hiring
commitments contained in the Framework Agreement. Failure to contain the wage bill shifts
funding away from priority areas such as O&M, capital expenditure, and other reform-related
measures'. Moreover, unless wage bill savings are found, it will be difficult to implement the
salary decompression that is required to address current problems in ensuring that the civil
service, a subset of the public administration, is able to recruit and retain quality candidates in
professional or managerial positions in future. Second, the spread of government activity across
such a wide range of functions has inhibited the development of the private sector. Fundamental
to addressing both of these problems is the "right-sizing" of the state to a core set of functions.
Until 2001, neither the basic information, organizational capacity, nor methodology existed to
determine whether a particular activity should be deemed core or non core.
B. Strategy for Reforms and PSMAC Measures
31.    The Government has moved quickly in many areas to begin the process of addressing the
institutional reform issues outlined above in the public sector. As noted above, the Government's
strategy focuses on four areas to improve budget management.
32.    Develop modern institutions for budget management through adequate staffing and
reorganization: To be able to deliver the Government's medium-term strategy, central agencies
will have to provide leadership to a multi-year budget process in which policy priorities are set
within a fiscal plan. As a first step this requires adequate staffing in these agencies. As part of
the Government's reform program, targets for staffing increases for priority functions (Treasury,
Budget Department, Internal Audit, State Audit Office, PAR Unit) have been met within the
agreed 2002 wage bill. Additional staffing targets will be identified for future years to meet
evolving central agency roles9.
33.    Reorganization at the center of government started in 2000. The General Secretariat and
Ministry of Finance prepared strategic plans to ensure that their organizations were equipped to
deliver a stronger policy and fiscal management role across government. As part of the
Government's reform program, the Minister of Finance has approved implementation of the
ministry's plan, and the Government has endorsed the shift in mandate and restructuring of the
General Secretariat for improving the quality of support for GOM's decision-making process and
policy management. The strategic plans built on the change in mandates for these organizations
reflected in the revised Law on Budget and Financial Management (approved in 2000) and new
"Rules of Procedure for the Operation of the Government of Macedonia" (approved April 2001).
Although the security crisis slowed the change process, the implementation of the plans has
8 Among those, the cost of financing public sector (including enterprise) reforms.
9 For example, the implementation of the General Secretariat's strategic plan will, in the medium term,
require a shift or addition of resources to functions such as policy impact assessment and European
integration. The Ministry of Finance will require a shift or addition of resources as it expands its financial
management function. The State Audit Office will need to review its staffing levels as it expands the
number of audits. This additional resourcing of priority areas is being offset by reductions in non-core
functions.
10



begun in 2002 in tandem with the introduction of an improved budget process. In the medium
term, full implementation will enable these two critical central agencies play a leadership and
coordination role
34.    Strengthen fiscal discipline through financial management and control standards
within a strong accountability! transparency framework: The govemment's program includes
ambitious measures to improve financial management and to strengthen financial accountability
mechanisms. Govemment guarantees and the wage bill are being more and more tightly
managed and controlled, financial management and practices are being made operational
throughout the govemment, and the procurement process will become more efficient and
transparent. In parallel, the Treasury is becoming fully operational, intemal audit is being
introduced, a State Audit Office (SAO) will regularly report to Parliament, and the Public
Revenue Office (PRO) is improving revenue collection. The following provides a summary of
which steps have been taken to date to achieve these goals.
35.    Strengthening control of the wage bill. The existence of timely, quality data is essential
if the wage bill is to be proactively managed. In the past, efforts to control the wage bill have had
mixed success.'0 In 2001, the Ministry of Finance initiated the compilation of a database on
employment and salaries by budget user" and position. As part of the reform program, the
database on employment and salaries was made operational, linking actual salary payments to
individual employees to a registry and profile of public employees by budget user, and serving as
a planning tool to ensure that minimal service disruptions accompanied cutbacks. As the treasury
system evolves, this will become a powerful financial management tool. Such a system will, in
the medium term, enable the Ministry of Finance to proactively plan (through forecasting,
scenario planning, impact assessment) and manage the wage bill.
36.    Strengthening management of guarantees. The Govemment plans, in 2002 and beyond,
to adhere to agreed ceilings on govemment guarantees and include guarantees with budget
documentation to Parliament. A statement on guarantees will also be part of the previous year's
final accounts. These measures will strengthen the management of guarantees to public
enterprises, thereby consolidating gains made under FESAL. The Government has initiated these
reforms by revising the Budget Law (May 2000) to forbid issuance of guarantees to the private
sector and require legal approval of guarantees to public entities. The GOM also drafted a
regulation on the issuance of guarantees to public enterprises. In 2000, the Govemment
established a registry for govemment guarantees with the assistance of the US Treasury. As part
of the Govemment's reform program, overall debt limits on foreign guarantees were determined
as part of the 2002 budget and provided to Parliament. The Govemment has agreed to present the
existing registry of guarantees to Parliament with the revised 2002 budget. Finally, a review
process has been launched to provide information on the public value and risks of the existing
loan portfolio.
37.    Development of Treasury functions. Progress in Treasury development started in 1999
with support from the IMF. Staffing has increased progressively and the department has made
significant progress in assuming ZPP's related functions, developing the general ledger,
10 Initial, unsuccessful efforts to reduce the wage bill through 1999-early 2000 included mandatory
retirement legislation (overturned by the Constitutional Court) and reclassifying the economic classification
(from salary & wages) of employees from organizations formally funded through special revenues.
Through 2000-2001, more successful efforts were implemented including a voluntary retirement program,
redundancies and freezing new hires. These resulted in cutting back administration employment by about 5
percent. However, the 2001 security crisis created new wage bill pressures. Ceilings on the first six months
of 2002 wage bill have been agreed with the IMF as part of the agreed Staff Monitored Program.
There are more than 1,100 budget users in Macedonia.
*11



integrating special revenue into the central budget, and establishing rules and procedures. As part
of the reform program, the Ministry of Finance finalized Treasury regulations and issued decrees
on Treasury procedures, closed special revenue account 788 (creating in its place four narrowly-
defined special revenue accounts which are now Treasury sub-accounts), implemented the
treasury single account, and began monthly reporting on arrears and aging of payables. A new
payment claim procedure was established. The medium-term objective of Treasury development
is to eliminate arrears and improve cash management based on IFAC accounting standards. Over
the next few years, the treasury single account will become fully operational and the treasury
information system will be completed. The Treasury will also improve reliability of arrears
reporting.
38.    Development of the external audit function. While the law creating the State Audit
Office (SAO) was passed in 1997, progress in its implementation has been slow as the office
comprised less than ten auditors for the first three years. This has now been addressed, as outlined
above. Moreover, the law had substantial gaps regarding the publication of audits. As part of the
reform program, amendments to the Audit law, ensuring independence of the SAO and clarifying
SAO's reporting requirements were approved by Parliament, and the SAO started identifying
main gaps in Macedonia's accounting standards in relation to standards promoted by IFAC.
Moreover, a code of conduct and INTOSAI audit standards were adopted in 2000 and 2001. The
SAO's medium-term plan will extend its audits over all organizations under its jurisdiction within
three years. In the next stage of its plan, the SAO will submit its opinion on public accounts of
the previous fiscal year (starting in 2002), important audit findings, and a study on IFAC
reporting requirements to Parliament, and institute appropriate follow up mechanisms on audit
findings. These measures will not only expand the audit function, but improve the Executive's
response.
39.    Strengthening tax collection. On the revenue side, the Government aims to complete the
ZPP reform and transfer its tax collection and management functions to the Public Revenue
Office (PRO), with no drop in revenue collection. In February 2001, the Parliament adopted the
law on ZPP transformation and the law establishing the authority of the Public Revenue Office
(PRO) for revenue collection. As part of the reform program, the PRO, the MLSP and the MOH
have been successfully assuming ZPP functions based on an agreed action plan12.
40.    Strengthening compliance of highest tax offenders. The PRO has undertaken an ambitious
plan to reduce arrears in VAT collection. The medium-term goal is that 90 percent of VAT
arrears will be discharged within six months. Performance ceilings will be achieved both for
VAT and non-VAT collection as the VAT initiative serves as the basis to extend these measures
to other taxes (e.g., PIT, profit, contributions). In the short term, the plan focuses on the highest
abusers; i.e., 138 taxpayers who accounted for roughly 61 percent of the total arrears. The
collection strategy is tied to the debtor's status'3 and involves aggressive collection techniques.
As part of the reform program, the PRO developed and implemented the above framework for
performance monitoring of VAT arrears collection.
41.   Implement strategic prioritization by setling policy priorities within a fiscal plan and
focusing Government's activities: The medium-term objectives of the Government's reform is
12 This includes: establishing a register of employers and employees; implementing systems for
collecting/monitoring PIT and employer/employee fund contributions (including a unique identifier for
tracking pension contributions); developing a classification of public revenues and liabilities; and
establishing electronic transfer of payment data (with Treasury, National Bank, private banks).
13 (a) insolvent; (b) in receivership; or (c)solvent
12



to develop a budget process within which meaningful policy trade-offs are made within a fiscal
framework. The steps taken to reach this goal are outlined below.
42.    Modernization of the budget process. In 2000, the GoM initiated reforms with a new
Law on Budget and Financial Management, leading to significant improvements in the quality of
budget information (e.g., incorporation of special revenues; improved budget circular). The
Government also approved budget process improvements that included formulation of the budget
within an explicit macroeconomic framework, with revenue and expenditure targets, spending
priorities, and hard budget ceilings for major budget users. Unfortunately, the security crisis
delayed progress on budget process reform, although an initial attempt was made in 2001 to set
policy priorities and develop a fiscal strategy. However, the Government has committed to
implement a budget process in 2002 (for the 2003 budget) that will meet these parameters. As
part of the reform program, Parliament approved a 2002 budget acceptable to IDA. The
Government also approved a process for the 2003 budget that includes the development of a
fiscal strategy, setting policy priorities and making trade offs within an explicit macroeconomic
framework.
43.   Implementation offiscal impact assessment. To ensure that priority planning is based on a
reasonable assessment of cost and to enable management of in-year pressures, fiscal impact
assessments have been introduced across government in 2001. As part of the reform program, the
Government implemented mandatory costing, with an approved methodology, of all policy
proposals (laws, regulations, resolutions) presented to the Government. A costing methodology
has been approved and line ministries have been trained in its application. The General
Secretariat and Ministry of Finance are responsible for ensuring ministry compliance. The initial
methodology is rudimentary and will be improved in 2002, so as to better assess multi-year and
wage bill impacts.
44.    Divestment of non-core activities. The Govemment has recognized that a modern public
administration needs to be focused, affordable, and effective. The Government's medium-term
vision envisages a much smaller public administration, which facilitates rather than hinders FYR
Macedonia's transition to a market-based economy through private sector growth. To find the
necessary fiscal savings, one important avenue that the Govemment intends to follow is
integrating its divestment strategy into the budget planning and priority setting processes.
45.    The initial efforts on divestment started in 2000. Progress was slow in the early stages, as
government restructuring was largely confined to collapsing the number of ministries (with no
significant employee reductions). However, in 2001, the Government took dramatic steps to
reduce the wage bill, notably through early retirement and redundancy measures and the
removing from the 2001 budget of roughly 170 small organizations (mostly cultural and sports
associations), resulting in about 4,500 departures. The Government has now turned to those
activities that clearly were non-core and could be eliminated altogether or divested without
developing an elaborate legislative framework.'4 The Government also adopted a methodology to
review prospective candidates to ensure that the business case was sound and that adverse service
impacts would be avoided. In the next stage of reform, the Government has committed to amend
divesture-related legislation as necessary.
'4 FYR Macedonia does not have any current legislation to govern complex divestments, such as creating
self-financing agencies or arms-length entities. At present, the majority of divestments require an
amendment to the Law on Organization and Operation of the State Administration, which requires a two-
thirds vote in Parliament as it is deemed to be Constitutionally linked.
13



46.    As part of the reform program, the Govemment approved the initial divestment plan for
non-core activities acceptable to IDA. A credible track record on implementing the divestment
plan has been established. The track record comprises: the necessary legislation and regulations
to divest three organizations: Court Expertise Service (30 positions); three non-core educational
institutions (391 positions), and select functions within the General and Common Services
Bureau (409 positions)'5. These divestments will be fully reflected in the 2002 budget outcome.
Finally, the Government has also approved an action plan for divesting additional entities
previously financed by special revenue.
47.    The work currently performed by nearly 900 public employees will either be performed
by the private sector or a fee will be imposed for service arrangements. Furthermore, work is
underway that could lead, in 2002, to the further divestment of functions for more than 500
employees: a feasibility study was completed indicating that roughly 300 positions in the State
Geodetic Office were suitable for divestment; a business case will be completed by April 30.
Finally, a feasibility study is being prepared for potentially divesting a wide range of commercial
functions provided in Ministry of Defense establishments. The Ministry of Finance has also
planned a second wave of divestments for 2002-2003.
V. BUDGET MANAGEMENT REFORMS IN THE HEALTH SECTOR
A. Background and Issues
48.    FYR Macedonia's public health system is primarily financed through the public sector
Health Insurance Fund (HIF), which receives earmarked payroll contributions constituting 90
percent of public health expenditures.  The HIEF in tum  allocates resources to healthcare
institutions (HIs), which are predominantly autonomous state-owned entities.
49.    Significant problems have arisen as a result of the overly complex and poorly
implemented health financing reforms attempted by the Govemment following independence.
Facing a 40 percent real decline in revenues, the health sector has cut wages and capital
expenditures, allowed shortages of pharmaceuticals and other consumables, and delayed
payments to suppliers. Further expenditure reductions have targeted preventative programs and
evidence exists that patients are now paying a rising share of health costs out-of-pocket. Access
to basic services in rural areas remains poor, while the network of hospitals and clinics is
duplicative and results in excessive referrals to costly tertiary health services. Primary care
doctors do not treat as many conditions as is typical in more cost-effective health systems in
OECD countries. The health sector continues to operate services that would not be considered
core businesses in OECD countries.'6 Public perceptions concerning the health care system are
very negative.'7
50.   Inadequate financial management and control, exacerbated by a weak accountability
framework, threaten fiscal sustainability and impede needed policy reforms: Prior to the
15The 409 total includes: telephone operators (18 positions); building maintenance (63 positions), building
security (107 positions) cleaning (127 positions), typing services (72 positions), catering (22 positions,
with 64 to be considered later).
16 These include provision of services which could be divested or decentralized (hospital transport;
maintenance; distribution of pharmaceuticals, equipment and consumables; diagnostic laboratory services;
retail pharmacies; and dentistry.
17 Over two-thirds polled in opinion surveys describe the level of health care services as "bad" or "very
bad".
14



approval of the Government's medium-term strategy, the health sector was suffering from severe
problems in basic fiscal management and control. The German-based, open-ended points system,
upon which invoicing was theoretically based, never did function in practice and produced a
sharp increase in reimbursement claims from the autonomous healthcare institutions (HIs). An
input-based allocation system evolved, which could control aggregate expenditures, but failed to
create any incentives for allocative or technical efficiency. Pharmaceuticals and a range of other
medical supplies were financed on an open-ended basis. Shortfalls tended to be addressed
primarily through building arrears. Although the HIF temporarily eliminated its cash deficit in
1999, arrears were not eliminated fully and, as of October 2001, over 1 billion denars in debts to
suppliers and commercial creditors had accumulated. Furthermore, HI's have continued to
accumulate debt. Commitment control was lacking and financial guarantees could be made
without Ministry of Finance approval. Problems cited earlier with respect to central government
budgeting and financial control existed equally or, in some instances, more intensely in the health
sector.
51.    Poor financial management and control mechanisms intensified many of the policy and
service delivery problems facing the health sector. From an institutional perspective, the
Government concluded that, in the medium term, it was not realistic to address problems in the
current system by integrating the Health Insurance Fund (HIF) into the central government
budget, given the particular problems in the health sector and the limited capacity in the Ministry
of Finance. Instead, it opted to strengthen the financial management and resource allocation
mechanisms within the HIF and the healthcare institutions (HIs) and strengthen the accountability
of the parallel HIF and the HIs paid by the HIF, through stronger accountability relationships and
better integration into the annual budget process.
B. Strategy for Reforms and PSMAC Measures
52.    Goals of the govemment's medium-term   strategy in the health sector include:
(a) improving the allocation of resources for hospital and specialist care to better reflect
population need and service outputs produced, rather than the historical allocation of inputs to
healthcare institutions; (b) creating incentives for hospitals to improve their efficiency, service
quality and the population's access to hospital and specialist care; and (c) providing better
information and analysis to support the Ministry of Health's (MoH's) responsibility for health
strategy, strengthening its focus on the needs of the uninsured and strengthening capacity of MoH
and HIF for monitoring health system performance and enforcing laws and contracts. The
approval in April 2000 of the new Health Insurance Law provides a framework within which
these reforms can be developed. Annex 10 provides background and describes the policy
challenges facing the health sector that are being addressed under other IDA-supported
projects."8
53.    Strengthen fiscal discipline through financial management and control standards
within a strong accountability/ transparency framework: The Government's medium-term
institutiona! reform strategy focuses on developing a stronger system of public expenditure
management in a sector for which public expenditure alone accounts for some 5 percent of GDP
(2000). Particular emphasis is placed on creating the institutional framework and capacity in the
HIF to enable it to achieve better control over public health expenditure, including commitments,
18 In particular, the ongoing Health Sector Transition Project, supported by IDA Credit No. 2889-MK
(closed March 30, 2002) has been supporting reform of primary health care and high priority basic health
programs, and is supporting improvements in the use of pharmaceuticals. Preparation for a proposed
second project is underway, focusing on improving hospital efficiency, improving information systems,
continuing primary healthcare reform, and building public health system capacity
15



in the HIF itself, and in state-owned and publicly-financed HIs. This will enhance transparency
and accountability by providing transparent data on health resource allocation and health sector
performance to the Government and to Parliament for the purposes of public accountability, and
by strengthening capacity for monitoring and analysis of health system performance.
54.    As part of the reform program, contracts were developed for all HIs for 2002, based on
transitional annual budgets, showing HIF revenue and other income, as well as baseline quantities
of a simple specification of hospital and specialist services. Performance indicators were
identified. Within defined limits, HIs will be permitted to reallocate resources between different
expenditure categories, to create some incentives for efficiency. They will also be permitted to
retain revenues from collection of statutory user fees. To achieve expenditure control and
accountability for the HIs in the medium-term, the HIF will be assisted to develop simpler but
more effective levers. The complex and uncontrollable system of invoicing will be abandoned.
histead, a system of global budgets for public hospitals, a simple specification of services to be
provided, and a set of performance monitoring indicators will be put in place. Health service
inputs as well as outputs will be monitored. Measures of quality, including patient satisfaction,
will be developed over time. These budgets and performance monitoring arrangements have
been documented in formal agreements (contracts) between the HIF and the legally autonomous
HIs. These agreements provide the critical control mechanism by which the HIF will achieve
expenditure control and accountability among publicly-funded health care providers.
55.    Expenditure control will be further improved through strengthening financial
management in the HIF. This will be achieved by enhancing forecasting of revenue and
expenditure, budget planning, and budgetary control systems. As part of the reform program, a
new structure to the HIF general ledger was agreed. In addition, guidelines for the presentation of
the HIF 2002 budget were adopted by HIF and agreed with the MOF. Furthermore, the HIF
provided formal written agreement to implement a new general ledger and budgetary control
system, adapting its existing information system in the short term. The HIF also developed by-
laws on budgeting, monitoring and financial reporting. In the medium-term, the budget planning,
reporting and control system will incorporate accruals on deferral of payment by HIs to finance
deficits. The HIF will be brought into the government's budget process, to increase transparency
and strengthen public accountability. The HIF's revenue will continue to be earmarked in a
separate fund, but its budget will be subject to review by the Government and Parliament as part
of the budget process. A benchmark to these improvements will be budgeting and financial
reporting based on the new bylaws adopted as a condition of the Credit, and including creditors
and receivables. As well, HIF staff and HI managers will be trained in the new financial
management and budgetary control mechanisms.
56.    Transparency will be increased and public accountability strengthened by developing
capacity and systems in the HIF for monitoring the financial performance and health service
delivery of hospitals and enforcing formal performance agreements. As part of the reform
program, the MoH has established a working group to monitor and analyze HIF and health sector
performance, and agreed on the skills to be hired into this working group'9. Performance
indicators and review methodology have been agreed in writing20; and HIF staff have been
trained in health finance and contracting. In parallel, the Ministry of Health will develop capacity
for supervising the HIF, under the provisions of the Health Insurance Law. The MoH will also
increase its capacity for analyzing sector performance and developing a health strategy. With this
19 At least two members of the working group would be MOH staff qualified in either economics,
management, statistics or public health.
20 The agreed methodology for health sector performance reviews includes analysis of the access of insured
and uninsured people to health services
16



in place, future initiatives will include the MoH publishing a health sector performance report
covering access to health services. This report would review the access of insurees and the
uninsured to health services, as a basis for assessing the extent to which the poor are able to
obtain essential, high priority health services.
VI. BUDGETING AND POLICY REFORMS IN SOCIAL PROTECTION
A. Background and Issues21
57.    FYR Macedonia's social protection system consists primarily of the public pension
system, unemployment insurance, social assistance, and child benefit programs. These programs,
which are administered as extra budgetary funds, account for roughly 40 percent of overall public
spending. Financing of the current pension and unemployment systems relies on a heavy social
tax (20 percent of gross wages for pensions; 1.5 percent for unemployment) that impedes
development of a competitive labor market and encourages the informal economy.
58.    Poorly designed and administered programs, exacerbated by a weak accountability
framework, threaten fiscal discipline and impede needed policy reforms. The PEIR demonstrated
how poorly-designed social protection programs were on a financially unsustainable track. The
pension fund has faced financial difficulties due to a decline in contributions, the large number of
beneficiaries with low retirement ages, a generous benefit structure, and demographics. In the
absence of reform, the state pension program would remain in a consistently growing deficit in
the long term. The unemployment fund expenditures are very high primarily because of the
generous benefit structure, rather than the high unemployment rate. Only 20-30 percent of the
fund's revenues come from the payroll tax; the remainder is funded as a central government
transfer. Poverty targeting of unemployment and the child allowance program is poor. Social
assistance reaches 78,000 beneficiaries, but does not properly take assets of beneficiaries into
account.
59.    Weak program and financial administration have resulted in added fiscal pressures.
Actual expenditures were chronically higher than budget allocations. Although theoretically self-
financing, the funds often relied on transfers from the central budget or extraordinary financing.
Inadequate monitoring has led to excessive inclusion rates in social assistance and weak
enforcement of exclusion criteria in unemployment. Unless these administrative weaknesses
were addressed, the impact of the policy reforms required to put these funds back on a fiscally
sustainable path would be compromised.
B. Strategy for Reforms and PSMAC Measures
60.    Transforming the basis of social protection programs from lifetime income security and
guaranteed employment to reducing income risk and providing basic protection to the poor and
vulnerable requires a major policy overhaul. The Social Sector Adjustment Credit (SSAC)
supported a series of policy reforms, the full extent of which will be realized in the medium to
longer term. Policy reforms in unemployment and child and disability benefits are included in the
government's medium-term institutional reform agenda and could be supported by follow-up
operations as summarized below.
21 See Annex 10 for a more complete discussion on Social Protection issues, including reforms supported
by other World Bank operations.
17



61.    Under SSAC, the unemployment benefit was reduced and additional measures introduced
to make hiring and firing decisions easier for employers. The government's medium-term
institutional reform strategy will improve targeting of unemployment benefits to make them
compatible with the development of a market economy. Supported by technical assistance, a
study will be undertaken to gauge the impact of the SSAC-related reforms, as well as how
structural reforms in the private and public sectors affect unemployment assistance and link to
other social protection programs. An amended Labor Relations Law would implement the
study's conclusions.
62.    To improve poverty targeting in social assistance, income and asset testing criteria were
revised and, to increase work incentives, a phased reduction of social assistance benefits was
introduced for extended-term beneficiaries. Further reform of social assistance will aim at
increasing its targeting efficiency and poverty focus within a stronger accountability framework.
For the child allowance, the Government plans future legislation that will improve fiscal
discipline, increase the program's poverty focus, and ensure that program administration is
rationalized. In the area of disability assistance, legislation will be adopted that takes into
account the program's financial implications and targets assistance more effectively to the
disabled.
63.    Strengthen fiscal discipline through improved program and financial administration
within a strong accountability/transparencyframework The transition to a multi-pillar system
is essential to ensure the financial sustainability of the pension system. This involves adopting
the legislation for mandatory-funded pensions, and a set of implementation regulations specifying
the requirements in the area of pension fund investment, supervision, licensing, marketing,
custodian services, guarantees, participation, and benefit payments. As part of the reform
program, the Law on Private Pension Funds (second pillar) has been presented to Parliament.
The critical path analysis has been adopted, identifying all major actions required to implement
pension reform. Implementation has started, including agreement with PRO on adopting a unique
payer ID to facilitate contribution collections. In the medium term, the Pension Supervision
Agency will be established and begin to license private pension fund managers22.
64.    To strengthen the effectiveness and accountability of the employment assistance program
administration, MLSP has prepared a multi-year action plan to create a policy basis for
implementing a more sustainable, accountable unemployment program. As part of the reform
program, substantial progress has been made on implementation of that action plan, which will
rationalize the unemployment registration system, improve fmancial management and internal
control, streamline benefit delivery to reduce duplicated functions, and develop a set of
performance monitoring indicators. In the medium term, amendments to the Labor Relations
Law and Law on Employment will be approved.
VII. CIVIL SERVICE MANAGEMENT REFORMS
A. Background and Issues
65.    The success of the Government's medium-term institutional reform strategy, as well as
FYR Macedonia's longer term pursuit of EU membership will depend, in part, on the successful
22 These reformns build on previous reforms initiated in March 2000 with the introduction of a series of
reforms to the State Pay-As-You-Go (PAYG) system. These reforms extended the pension, tightened
eligibility criteria, and reduced maximum pension benefits. See Annex 10.
18



transformation of the civil service into an organization able to develop and implement quality,
sustainable public policy. The prospect for resolving these issues has been advanced with the
creation of an arms-length Agency for Civil Servants.
66.    High level of politicization of the public administration: A recent survey of public
officials in FYR Macedonia found that over half of those interviewed believed that a non-trivial
fraction of managers are removed to positions of lesser importance or outside their department
when the political leadership changes, including 15 percent of respondents who believed that
more than half of all managers were subject to change when political leadership changes.23 Less
systematic interviews with public officials reinforce these findings, suggesting widespread belief
that politicization is the norm within FYR Macedonia's public administration.
67.    Weak accountability for achieving policy objectives: The general managerial culture in
the administration focuses on inputs and compliance with formal regulations rather than on
outputs or outcomes and the performance necessary to achieve them.24 With respect to human
resources management, certain standards (such as regulations regarding certain technical aspects
of recruitment) are prescribed centrally and compliance with these formal guidelines is reported
to be good. However, in practice, management of human resources is largely discretionary and
conducted without the guidance of dedicated capacities and specialized skills. With some limited
exceptions, no formal performance appraisals are conducted, although the new Law on Civil
Servants does now mandate their use.
68.    Related to this, institutional mechanisms to focus managers or, indeed, organizations as a
whole, on whether and how well their units are achieving their policy objectives are also absent.
The policy objectives of programs and organizational units are difficult to ascertain because little
exists in the way of systematic mechanisms to ensure agreement on such objectives. Not
surprisingly, in the absence of clearly defined organizational and program objectives,
performance indicators for departments or organizations are not generally collected.25
69.    Problematic public sector wage structure: The structure of public salaries is poorly
designed to attract the talents and skills most needed by the public administration. Pay levels in
the administration are severely compressed. Professional staff face weak financial incentives to
take on senior positions that carry greater responsibilities and require more advanced skills.
Compression ratios across organizations are small. Estimates from individual ministries indicate
that an undersecretary (one of the most senior posts) might eam roughly 2.3 to 3.1 times more
(net, including allowances) than the lowest-paid employee such as a cleaner. This compression
ratio is narrower than those found in some other post-communist countries which themselves
suffer from  compressed wage structures26.  Anecdotal evidence corroborates this picture,
suggesting that public sector wages are least competitive among the managerial ranks, and to a
lesser degree, the professional ranks
B. Strategy for Reforms and PSMAC Measures
23 The survey was financed by the World Bank and undertaken during 2000.
24 For example, Ministry of Justice's Administrative Inspectors monitor implementation of the Law on
General Administrative Procedures and related sector-specific regulations (particularly in urban planning
and construction). However, the focus is on narrow compliance with procedures and educational
requirements for staff, and does not in any way address productivity or similar issues.
25 This is the case, for example, in the Agency for Common Services which provides a wide array of
services to government bodies but has no formal mechanism for assessing its own performance.
26 For example, the Czech Republic, with a compression ratio estimated by the World Bank at between 4.4
and 5.1. See Czech Republic: Toward EUAccession, World Bank, 1999.
19



70.   In order to create a professional, politically neutral, meritocratic civil service, the
Government has undertaken two sets of actions. First, it established a legal framework supportive
of the creation of a professional, politically neutral, merit-based civil service. This measure
constituted a core condition and, owing to the political difficulties in addressing this issue,
required strong support by IDA. Included in the law was the creation of an arms-length
organization (Agency for Civil Servants) reporting to Parliament to oversee implementation of
the law. Second, to ensure that the necessary base for developing institutional capacity was
established, the Government secured adequate staffing for the Agency for Civil Servants (ACS)
and the Public Administration Reform Unit (PARU) in the Ministry of Justice. As part of the
reform program, a Law on Civil Servants satisfactory to IDA was passed by the Parliament and
published in the Official Gazette. Key elements of the secondary legislation were also issued. In
the medium, term, the ACS will produce the full range of secondary legislation required for
depoliticized, meritocratic civil service and will steadily improve that legal framework, based on
feedback on difficulties encountered during its implementation.
71.    Although efforts to strengthen human resources management capacities focused largely
on the ACS, efforts to strengthen accountability of the public administration for achieving
agreed policy objectives emphasize collaboration, primarily among PARU, the Ministry of
Finance, and the General Secretariat. To address the technical challenges of this task, PARU is
working closely with these organizations to: (i) develop and disseminate guidelines on clarifying
and reaching agreement on.policy and program objectives and monitoring the extent to which
they are being achieved; (ii) provide training and assistance to budget users in identifying and
reaching agreement on their policy and program objectives and means of monitoring the extent to
which they are being achieved; and (iii) monitor and publish evidence on the extent to which
policy objectives were met - such publication to be undertaken in ways designed to encourage (a)
two-way communication between public entities and intended beneficiaries of policies and
programs, and (b) continuous learning from experience by the public administration (both the
personnel and the organizations). Because of this measure's importance to transparency and
accountability, it was established as a core condition. The Government has committed to
publishing the results from 2001 and 2002 as a vehicle to obtain feedback from civil society. As
part of the reform program, an Administration Reform Monitoring System acceptable to IDA has
been established.
72.   In order to create a more competitive yet affordable public sector wage structure, the
Government committed to resolve two major pay and employment challenges: (i) restructuring
public employment so as to better match its skill mix with its skill requirements; and (ii)
restructuring its remuneration structure so as to enhance the competitiveness of salary packages
for those skills its public administration currently finds most difficult to attract and retain. These
measures will enable the Government to design fiscally sustainable improvements in the civil
service wage structure for the medium term. It must be noted that fiscal latitude in the near term
has been severely constrained by the pressures arising from the response to the security crisis. In
the initial stage after the PSMAC, the new civil service salary structure will be instituted within a
fiscally sound wage bill strategy. In the next stage, decompression will begin to be implemented
within a sustainable fiscal strategy. To make progress on these Board measures, the Government
has started developing the instruments for wage bill control and management (see also Budget
Management section). As part of the reform program, the Government has taken steps for
implementing salary restructuring mandated by the Law on Civil Servants within a fiscally sound
wage bill policy. Specifically the MOF has completed simulations on two scenarios for
decompressing the wage bill, to be discussed with the Government.
20



VIII. THE BANK'S STRATEGY
A. The CAS Objectives
73.    The main objectives of the CAS (discussed at Board on August 4, 1998) are to assist
FYR Macedonia to reduce poverty and achieve growth through implementing a structural reform
agenda with three key elements: (i) promoting private sector growth and job creation; (ii)
enhancing the efficiency of the state; and (iii) helping ensure the social sustainability of reforms
and reduce poverty. A CAS progress report was provided in June, 2000 to update the Board on
IDA's approach following the Kosovo crisis. The Transitional Support Strategy endorsed by the
Board in September 2001, reconfirmed the validity of the objectives of the CAS, while proposing
a framework for rapid IDA intervention in the post-conflict period.
74.    FYR Macedonia graduated from IDA at the end of FY01. However, the security crisis
prompted IDA access to be extended on an exceptional basis, but in part on hardened terms for
new operations in FY02. This permits (i) contributions to FYR Macedonia's financing gap
through an Emergency Recovery Assistance operation; (ii) the PSMAC27; and (iii) a small
Community Development Project.
75.    The Govemment completed an Interim Poverty Reduction Strategy Paper (I-PRSP) in
December 2000. The Paper recognizes private-sector led growth as key to long-term poverty
alleviation while it also lays emphasis on the need for improved public sector performance overall
and particularly in health, education and social protection. The PSMAC's first generation of
institutional reforms will support several key objectives of the I-PRSP. First the reform agenda
aims at laying out the institutional basis for improved efficiency of the public sector, in both
public financial and human resource management. Second, the PSMAC is geared towards
supporting poverty alleviation objectives embodied in the I-PRSP, including key service delivery
improvements in the health sector and improvements in the poverty targeting of social assistance
programs, while also aiming at removing distortions in the labor market, which are recognized as
a key condition for promoting growth and investment. Finally the I-PRSP approach to poverty
alleviation is based on wide consultation with the citizens and stakeholders. The publication of
the reform effort under the PSMAC will enhance the Government's sense of accountability to its
citizens.
B. Coordination with the IMF
76.   In November 2000, the Government agreed with the IMF on a new multi-year Poverty
Reduction and Growth Facility/Extended Fund Facility (PRGF/EFF) program. The program was
designed to support monetary, fiscal and exchange rate policies that would provide a stable
environment for public sector and private sector growth. The program was closely coordinated
with the Bank's Second Financial and Enterprise Sector Adjustment Credit/Loan in supporting
reforms in the financial and enterprise sectors and with the development of the PSMAC with
respect to reforms in fiscal management and the public sector. However, in part because of the
security crisis, the authorities were unable to meet the PRGF/EFF's objectives. The Government
has since requested staff monitoring of its program covering January 1 to June 30, 2002. This
program is expected to be succeeded by an upper credit tranche arrangement later this year.
27 PSMAC benefits from standard IDA terms as the operation was appraised before the end of FYO I.
21



C. Coordination with Other Donors28
77.    Given the scope of the Government's medium-term institutional reform strategy and the
institutional and capacity gaps in the Macedonian public administration, the achievement of the
reform strategy's objectives will require an extensive, well-coordinated technical assistance
strategy (see Annex 1). To be effective, the technical assistance strategy must reinforce the
critical success factors for the reform. This means focusing on capacity-building and process
improvements at the center of govemment to create the building blocks for sustainable reform
(notably PSMAC's first generation of reforms), providing compatible assistance in priority
sectors, and entrenching transparency and accountability at all stages.
78.    EU Phare provided initial support for public administration reform  and budget
modemization.  The IMF has provided assistance in establishing treasury operation and
implementing the VAT reform. Throughout, donors have exhibited a strong willingness to work
with the Association on program design to ensure compatibility with the comprehensive reform
program identified in the PEIR. Using the Government's medium-term reform strategy, based on
the PEIR, support for the proposed reforms was committed at the outset by several donors
including the Japanese Government (through a PHRD grant), the Dutch govemment (through a
Trust Fund), USAID, DFID, and possibly CIDA and SIDA (see Annex 1). To assist the MOF
achieve its medium-term goals, USAID has committed significant resources to a fiscal reform
project (operational in November 2001) that focuses support on treasury, budget, tax
administration, and special issues. This complements the already substantial support provided to
the Ministry of Finance through the Dutch Trust Fund.
IX. THE PROPOSED CREDIT
A. Poverty Implications
79.    The proposed PSMAC addresses poverty by supporting overall economic growth
objectives as well as measures to improve service delivery by the Government; e.g. reforms of
social assistance and health sector. By contributing to fiscal sustainability, the PSMAC helps to
prevent further erosion in the real living standards of the poor. Improvements in public
administration and resource management and more cost effective social programs will be
especially important for the poor.
B. Arrangements for Implementation and Monitoring
80.   Implementation Arrangements. The PSMAC's counterpart team is led by the Minister
of Finance who is in charge of overseeing implementation on a continuous basis. As part of the
overall reformn dialogue, the IDA assisted the Government in developing draft implementation
plans for the various areas to ensure that the reforms were implemented in a timely manner.
81.    Monitoring Arrangements. Through regular review, IDA has monitored the general
progress of the PSMAC reforms to ensure that the necessary foundation is laid for the
Government's medium-term strategy.
82.    Supervision. FYR Macedonia's medium-term reform program has set clear benchmarks
with expected outcomes in all areas. The PSMAC established appropriate measures and
28 See TA matrix in Annex 1.
22



monitorable results for the first generation of reforms. Future-year benchmarks do not relate to
future lending conditions (although such operations are currently under consideration), but serve
as guideposts to signal where the progress is anticipated if the Government is successful in
implementing its medium-term strategy.
C. Loan Administration
83.    Borrower and Credit Amount. The proposed PSMAC will be extended to the
Government of FYR Macedonia represented by the Ministry of Finance. The credit, which will
be released in a single tranche equivalent to US$15.0 million. The proposed credit would be on
standard IDA terms, with a maturity of 35 years, including a grace period of 10 years.
84.   Disbursement.  Upon approval of the Credit and notification by IDA of credit
effectiveness, the Government will submit a withdrawal application. The Ministry of Finance
will open and maintain a deposit account in the National Bank of Macedonia. The Association
will deposit the proceeds of the credit in this account at the request of the Ministry of Finance. If,
after deposit in this account, the proceeds of the Credit are used for ineligible purposes (for
example, to finance items imported from non-member countries, or goods or services on IDA's
standard negative list), the IDA will require the borrower to either: (i) return that amount to the
account for use for eligible purposes; or (ii) refund the amount directly to the IDA, in which case
the IDA will cancel an equivalent undisbursed amount of the Credit.
85.   Accounts, Auditing, and Closing Date. The deposit account will be audited no later than
four months after the date of the last withdrawal from the Credit Account. The closing date of the
credit will be September 30, 2002.
86.   Environmental Impact. The PSMAC will have no direct impact on the environment. In
particular, divestment of non-core activities would not target the environment authority's budget.
For the purpose of Operational Directives 4.01, it has been placed in Category C, which does not
require an environmental assessment. In the medium-term, the positive impact of public sector
reforms on economic growth may raise issues of environment management which would need to
be addressed.
D. Benefits and Risks
87.    The benefits of the reforms will include the achievement of macro and fiscal stability
through improved budget planning and financial control systems, including on the wage bill.
This will better equip FYR Macedonia to cope with external shocks and anticipate future
pressures. Moreover, by introducing priority-based budget reforms and focusing the activities of
government on its core functions, expenditures will be more effectively directed at priority
policies and programs. These reforms are also creating room for implementing the framework
agreement. Reforms in the civil service will enable the Government to develop and implement
sustainable public policy and more efficient public services. The introduction of modern financial
management practices, particularly in the health sector, are facilitating improving transparency
and accountability in the management of health resources. As inefficiencies in the sector have
been made apparent, significant effort is underway for improving targeting of services. Instituting
basic systems for transparency and accountability will enable the public sector to enhance public
scrutiny within a framework in which the quality of performance matters.
88.    The proposed PSMAC also entails political and implementation risks.  Although
progress has been achieved in implementation of the Framework Agreement the political climate
23



could once again deteriorate which could delay the implementation of the medium-term
institutional reforms. Moreover, momentum for the reforms will need to be ensured during the
upcoming election campaign. Additional pressure may arise from the negotiations over
implementing the Framework Agreement reforms, which are complex and far-reaching. This risk
will require dialogue with the Government to maintain the reform agenda on track, particularly
after a new government has been formed.
89.    Triggered by the 2001 security crisis, the Govemment finds itself in a difficult and
delicate position with respect to its efforts to ensure macroeconomic and fiscal stability. In
response to this situation, the Government developed a stabilization program which has been
spelled out in its Letter of Intent and Memorandum of Economic and Financial Policies, dated
December 24, 2001, for the purpose of a six-month IMF Staff Monitored Program (SMP) that
began on January 1, 2002. Ongoing pressures for security expenditures, plus those associated
with implementing the Framework Agreement that ended the conflict in August 2001, will test
the Government's capacity to implement that program. The Framework Agreement, for instance,
mandates substantial increases in the share of public employment to be held by ethnic Albanians;
while past efforts to keep the wage bill under control have typically proven difficult.
90.    The reforms that the Government is introducing to its policy and budget formulation
processes under this Credit aim to better equip it to make and enforce such hard choices. But
those choices will never be easy, particularly in FYR Macedonia's current delicate, politically
tense and fiscally constrained environment. It is precisely because of this that the PSMAC
lending strategy relies on a series of one-tranche operations. This positions IDA support
strategically to address the risks of policy reversal by ensuring that each lending operation is
taken to the Board only once substantial prior actions have been undertaken. Moreover, it allows
IDA's support to the preparation of each of those succeeding operations to reinforce the
Government's commitment and focus its efforts to make those tough choices. This same lending
strategy is designed to ensure that the Bank is well positioned to assist the Government to address
the resistance likely to be encountered from vested interests as it deepens and broadens its
institutional reform effort.
91.    Finally, the PSMAC deals with an institutional reform agenda which can only be
successful if over the medium-term capacity within the government is improved and reform
momentum is maintained over a longer period of time. The risks this entails will be mitigated
both by the series of IDA adjustment operations in support of these reforms (mentioned in the
previous paragraph), as well as by implementing a substantial technical assistance program
financed by donors. The TOR for that program of TA have been prepared with the assistance of
the Bank, and oversight of a substantial fraction of that assistance is Bank-supervised. On
balance, the benefits to be derived by creating a public sector which is capable of providing
public services efficiently, improving accountability and transparency, and maintaining macro-
economic stability are judged to warrant tackling the unavoidable risks posed by the difficult
Macedonian environment.
24



X. RECOMMENDATION
92.    I am satisfied that the proposed credit complies with the Articles of Agreement of the
Association and I recommend that the Executive Directors approve the credit.
James D. Wolfensohn
President
By Shengman Zhang
Washington, DC
March 6, 2002
25



Annex 1: DONOR-FINANCED TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE IN SUPPORT OF THE PUBLIC SECTOR MANAGEMENT REFORMS
Budget Management
Area           Measure                            Technical assistance                                               Counterpar period            Donor
Strategic      Design and implementation of new   Cabinet organization, strategic plan, and rulebook                GO              01-03        DFID
prioritization  Cabinet decision-making system
and            Prepare fiscal strategy for 2002-2003  Budget management, macro-fiscal forecasting, budget process    MoF            01-02         Dutch
institutional  and improve budget process                                                                                                        USAID
development    Develop and implement Strategic    Prepare and implement plan for MoF structure, management and capacity  MoF        01-02        Dutch -
plan for MoF                       building                                                                                        PHRD
Financial      Develop Treasury functions and     Budget software and training                                       MoF            01-02         IMF-
management     restructure ZPP                                                                                                                    USAID
and                        ________
accountability  Develop financial accountability in  Develop CFO function Design system. Training,                   MoF- LM        01-03        PHRD-
line ministries
Procurement reforms                Support to CPAR                                                    MoF-           01            USAID
Develop external audit             Training, developing awareness and professionalism, rules and guidelines  SAO     01-02         Dutch
Develop internal audit             Training                                                           MoF            01-03         Dutch
Social Protection reforms
Pension and    Assess and design business         Pension administration, contribution processing and information    MLSP/PDF       01-03        Dutch
Disability    /management processes and a         management design; Develop strategic and business plan; Improve financial
Fund           reformed information system;       management and internal control; improve communication; developing
administrative                                    accounting and auditing procedures; Training.
reform
UB, child and  Revisions of policies on           Provide policy advise to improve targeting of child benefit, disability, and  MLSP/Emplo  01-02  Dutch
disability     unemployment, child and disability  unemployment programs                                             yment Office
benefits       benefits
Unemployme     Develop and adopt an action plan to  Review and improve unemployment registration, benefit delivery,  MLSP/Emplo    01-02         CIDA
nt benefit     strengthen UB program              budgeting, information management within and across programs       yment Office
program        administration
administrative
improvement



Area          Measure                            Technical assistance                                             I Counterpar   period        Donor
Health Sector Reforms
Strengthen    bylaws and guidelines for          Budget guidelines, financial management-related HIF bylaws, new general  HIF, MoF  2001      PHRD
fiscal        presentation of HIF 2002 budget;  ledger
discipline    agree to new general ledger and
through       budgetary control system.
financial     HIF budget presentation for 2003,  Revised budget and reporting guidelines, implementation of financial  HIF, MoF,  2001-02     Dutch
management    and financial reports of HIFs and Hls;  management systems in HIF, standardized hospital costing methodology  Hls
and control    general ledger and budgetary control
standards     system; standardized cost
within a      classification and methodologies
strong        introduced for Hls to cost hospital
accountability  services.
/ transparency  HI staff trained in budgeting and  Financial management training for hospital staff.               His           2001-03      Dutch
framework     financial management.
contract monitoring and performance  Train staff; advise on performance indicators, methods of data gathering and  MOH, HIF  2001-02  PHRD
review capacity in HIF; establish  analysis, and processes for monitoring and reviewing performance; design                    Dutch
monitoring and analysis capacity in  and conduct patient
MOH
global budgets for each public    contract development for 2002 contracts between HIF and Hls for hospital  HIF, MoF  2001-02  Dutch
hospital                         -and specialist services.
improvement of hospital contracts  TA and training on refinement of contracting methods over time for hospital  HIF, MoF  2001-02  Dutch
and costing and allocation methods;  and specialist services
Hospital efficiency/rationalization  Study of hospital efficiency and development of rationalization plan  HIF, MOH,  2002     Dutch
plan                                                                                                 His
Civil Service Reforms
Create a      Revise CS law and prepare secondary  Assist MOJ in drafting legislation                              MOJ (PARU)    2001-02      DFID
professonal,  legislation
depoliticized,                                   Assess ZPP database for payroll and design HR management database               2001
meritocratic  Create CS management database                                                                        CSA           2002-03      PHRD
civil service
Strengthen    Development of a monitoring system  Assistance to PARU in designing mechanisms for collecting and    MOJ (PARU)    2001-03      DFID
accountability                                   dissemination of indicators
of the public
administration
Create a more  Revise Law on Civil Servants      Simulations of options for decompressing the salary structure     CSA           2001-03      Dutch
competitive   Establish 4-6 year salary adjustment  Support to legisalation
wage          strategy
structure
2



ANNEX 2
RICPUILIC OF MACIEDONI
MNTRY OF FINANCE
Marcb 01,2002
Slkopje
Public Sector Management Adjustment Credit
Letter of Development Policy
Dear ir. Wolfcnsohn.
In 2000, the Govenmnew of the forma Yugoslav Republic of Macedonia (FYRM) started
to embark on a broad range public secto resource managnen refom  program. The goal Ls to
strengthen the countries public secor institutions in order to be able to deliver sevces efficiently
and effectively and to support the substantive gains made on stabilizing the economy. ln 2000,
after years of sustained stabilization efforts, the country's economy returned to growth, and the
focal accounts of generl government registered a substantial surplus for the first time. While
real GDP remained about 10 percnt below its level of a decade ago, 2000 was the fifth year of
positive growth, and inflation condnues to be mode$L  With macro-stabilizviion firmly
established and with strucural reforms progressing steadily after a hiLaus during the 1999
Kosovo crisis, improvemcnts in the quality of flscal management and adjustment are the next
priority for govemment action.
The 2001 secuity crisis provoked a precipitate decline in economic growth, a significant
increase in govemment expenditure and a higher deficit (estimated at 6.8 percent GDP for 2001)
than projected. Projections for 2002 are for 4.0 percent GDP growth, a retwn to macroeconomic
stability and a general govemment budget deficit of 3.4 percent of GDP supported by an IMF
program. Constitutional changes based on the "Framework Agrcement" (FA) was ratified by
ParLament in Novembei 2001. The FA sets out the tams and conditions under which the security
crisis ended and involves decentralization of sevea key centl funcions to the local level- With
the end of the crisis, the Goverment is firmly mesuming its policy reform agenda
We bave now developed a broad ranged public sector resource management reform
program and consider It very important to obtain the support of the World Baik for the program
through a adtustment progrm wbich will consist of PSMAC, and possibly two subsequent loans
(PSMAL IT and TIl). We will explain in this lettr the different components of our overall
strategy, the actions we have taken and are intending to take over th coursc of the reform
program.
STRENGTIENING FYR MACEDONIA'S PUB:LIC SECTOR
The country has succeeded in its stabilization efforts, with a wackd rccord that now extends
for six yeas of reasonably well-managed macroeconomic policies. Dering 2000, we have tumed



to cWnpleion of needed structural reforms. aflcr a hiatus of almost two years driven by political
shifts and the interuption of the Kosovo crisis. Compledon of actions in social sector reform
and, most recetly, in fingncial and enterprise sector reform now allow the govermnent to tuID to
the key problems in the area of public sector managemet
The main challenge confronting tbe GoM is to deliver a second geneation of reforms that
will sustain ccoaomic growth over the longer term and create a public sector which provides the
enabling environment for tbe private secor and delivers public services efficiently. Therefore, a
comprehensive progam to reform critical govemnent institutions has bcen developed. The
reform program aims to puE in place the cornerstones of a modem, effective, transparent and
accountable public adminisration . By the end of the program, we expect to have implemented
the basic instittonal systems and capacity to plan, manage, and implement strategic priorities
and programs within a medium-tenn fiscal framework.
The roform program we are putting in place focuses on public sector resource management
regarding the overall budget, management of socW  expenditures and human resource
management AL the sectoral level, we have decidcd to pilot reforms on hcalth expenditure
programs and social protecon expenditures Siven the importance of these sectors to our poverty
alleviation objectives, and the very urgent need to introduce measures in these areas. We are
fully aware that financial management iaprovements might also be needed in the education
sector and will explore possibilities to widen the proam
We have to stress, we do not undertiate the complexity of implementig such reforms
and want to inplement a stage by stage refonn program which focuses on reforming institutions,.
decision making processes and builds capacity, Although we recogize the scope of the reforms
is challeaging , the countr/s chances for longer-tern success (C.g., 1U membership) can only be
achieved with a modenizd publie adminisraon model and cctral institutions. We consider
comprehensive reform of the public sector. as the most likely means to achieve longer-em
economic and social reforms.
RUFORMS IN BUDGET MANAGEMNT.
The Governmne's medium-term strategy to improve budget management focuses around
three broad areas: (i) development of. modem institutiorns for budget management;
(ii) strengthening fiscal discipline within a strong accountability and transparency fiameworl;;
and (iii) improving strategic prioritization withim a fiscal plan.
Develonment of Modera sm    Omtios for Bud artagement. The Goveinmet is aware
that the basic foundations of rasonably well-functioning organizairans need to be established at
the center of governmcnt in order to improve financial rnsource managemcnt and the delivery nf
pubJic services. For the General Secretariat(GS) of the Govenument and the Ministry of FiDance
(MoF), this wil entail the preparation and implexcn:ation of strategic plans geared at developing
key functions and capacities of these administrative catides. The preparation of these plans bas
been initiated in order to improve the quality of support for the govenuent's decision and policy
making and policy and fiscal management Within thc next year critical elements of these plans -
which will include a new orli.zational chart of the GS - will be implemented and we expect
that within two years the implementation of the plans will be completcd.
The Government will also stafT and xe-organize the core agencies to enable. them to
coordiatte policies and budget planning, implementation and audit We have taken active steps
to addrcss the currcnt understaffing of som critical functions (like in the budget department; the



Ireasury department, the state audit agency, the public administradon reform unit) and incease
staffing in thcse areas witlin agreed wage bMi targets. The 2002 budget (adopted in December
2001) provides for additional positions in the Badget an4d the Treasury Deparmens. In total 60
new positions bave beo  filled in 2001. In the netthree, years, wo will implement staffing
increases in core areas and this in the anna budget. All stafng increases will be done within
the agreed wage bill and off-setting savings will be found in lower priority areas.
In parallel, the GoM will complete the ZPP reibrm and transfer tax collection.and
rnanagement functions to the Public Revenue Officc (PRO). The law to transfor this finction
from the ZPP to the PRO has ben adopted by Parliament in 2001. Moreover. the PRO has
developed a performance framework for improving collection of VAT awrears by targeting the
main offenders in 2001. It bas also begun to develop non-VAT perfomnance indicators for the
Skopje region and wnll begin to develop measures for othe regions. Within a year, we envisage
that.the PRO will successfully manage all zevenue collections and performance ceilings will be
adhered to. We also expect that 90 percnt of the arrears are discharged within 6 montfs by 2004.
OveralL we envisage that the payments system will be trnsformed to intemational standards, tax
arrears will decline to less than 3 percent oftax revenues and arrears for social collections will be
less than 1.5 percent of revenues.
Strengthenim! Fiscal Discipline wirhin a strong transparency and accoimtabilitv
framewqrk. The medium-tcrm objective of the Government is to stengthen considerably the.
control over the wage bilL At the swne time, we will ensure that refonns in revenue collection
are managed without a decline in proceeds. In 2001, the Government achieved 4,500 deparures
in non-essential functions. We have also implemented tools for developing and implementing a
wage bill policy. Our goal is to avoid across the board wage bill cuts, to take policy and service
impacts into account, and to put coordination mechanisms in place within the GoM for
monitoring the wage bill. We have adopted a timo-bound action plan for divesting non-core
acdvities in the short and medium-term as one of the tools for targeting wage bill cuts in lower
priority areas (see below). The MOF has compiled data on employment and salaries based on
Treasury data. The MOF is now in a position to take over the management of the employmcat
and wage bill by budget user and by position. By 2003 we will have established a fully
functioning wage bill database system within the MOF for managing the wage bill.
We are implementing strict controls qn govemment guarantees in order to improve fiscal
discipline. ln 2000, we set up a database in order to control and limit government guarantees as
an instrument to support public enterprises. The organic budget law was revised in May 2000 in
order to forbid guarantees to the private sector and require Parliamentary approval of guamantees
to public enterprises. Regulations on the issuance of guarantees to the public enterprises have
bcen drafted and overall debt limits for the 2002 budget have been determined. Within two years,
the guarantees will be included in the budget documents and adherence to established ceilings
will be monitored. These measures will considerably streghen the managemeDt of guarantees.
Improving financial trcapaency and accountability is a crucial part of the program. Over
the course of the program the govenment intends to rationalize the number of fSrst-line budget
users, develop financial accountabiity mechanisms and implement and monitor standards and
guidelines for improved budgetary financial management and accounting pmctices in, linc
ministries. We consider development of the treasury to be critical to cnhance transparency in
budget ccecution. The Treasury is a key insment for disciplining the budget users to respect
credit ceilings and prevent misappropriation of ftmd; In the budget In this respwl, the MoF has
developed treasury regulations, closed special revenue account #788, creating in its place four
more narrowly defined special revenue accounts, which were moved into the general ledger. -t is
nOw lmplemecning a treasury single account system. Budgt users now submit monthy financial



statements identifyi  commitments and arrar and the MoF is preping monthly reports On
arrears by year and aging of payables. However, we will contim our efflrt to improve
reliability of av s reporting. Moreover, we have made sigmiicant progress in developing the
general ledger. Over the course of the program, the treasury wil be made fully operational which
will entail fAul operationalization of the single account system.
The gove11ment realizes that inta checks and balances need to be developed which will
require the establishnent of a new intenal audit function. An internal audit unit has already beer
established in the MoF in 2000. Witbin three ycars, it is expected that the itemal audit section in
the bodget systems law will be revised and the Maro will issue regulations on internal audit and
control. Moreover, internal audit wnits will be estblished in the line ministries.
We consider the development of an independent external audit an essential condiion for
strengthening the government's accountability to its citizens. The Government is implementing
measurcs to strengthen the extermal audit funcion considerably. Key are the amendments to the
extenal audit law which have bew adopted by Parliament in 2001 and remqire publication of the
audits. Il'c State Audit Orgnization (SAO) has also started to identifr the gaps between the
IFAC standards on govrment reporting requrnents and current practices in the country. in
Ithe redium-term, it is expect that the SAO will submit amnal audit opimons on public
aCcouats to Parliament and has instituted proper foliow-up mechanisms.
Anotier critical function which requires strengthening is the area of public procurement. A
Country Procurement Assessment Report has been prepared by the World Bank in January 2002.
Recommendations will be discussed and agreed with the World Ban. Trmplementation of the
agreed recommendations is expected to be well underway in 2003.
TImrovina Strat4gic Prioritization within a fiscal Vlan A very important component of the
program will be to improvc strategic prioritizafion. This applies both to the content of the
government program as well as to thc way decisions are made and programs and especially the
budget are developed. The GoM has started to takle measures to focus the goverfunent's activities
in key areas and to progresively privatize, .crporuize or abandon non-core or non-essential
.activities. We have set out criteria for defining non-core activitics, and we have identified a fint
wave of candidates witliin three state administrative bodies to divest in 2002,' including acdvities
fnanced from special revenue. We have prepared and adopred business plaza ror eleven functions
and institutions wiftiin these three state adminiswative bodies. These plans have been drawn up
under consideration of potential policy And -servicc delivery impacts. The firsi wave of
divestnents should be completed and reflected in the 2002 budget (in total 800-900 positions) To
suppozt the divestiture effort, we will amcnd divestiture-related legisladon as necessary. Over the
course of the program the impact or the divestitures will be monitored and evaluated especially
regarding its effects on service quality.
Thc GoM has also initiated measures to improve te overall decision making process and
especially the budget process in order to be able to decide on meaningful policy nade-offs within
a fiscal framework. In the short term, we have prepared and adopted a 2002 budget whicb
conforms to the objectives defined with the INS, notably for wage bill targets and reform
measures. We have also developed capacity and mechanisms for policy costing and setting the
mechanisms for policy review at the level of the MoF and the Govenmment. A government rale
book has been finalized in April 2001. The rule book reflects improved decision-making
The first wave comprises elovcn function and insitutions within three swe adlnistrative bodles: Court
Expatise Service, Lhree non-core eductional inxttutionT (Ministry of Educiln), and seven functions
within the Gencral and Common Serviocs Bureau;



procedures and calls for streamlining govenment commissions, improved screening of proposals
and monitoring of decisions. Moreover, the G6vernment is enforcing mandatory costing of all
policy proposals since July 2001, and a methodology for fiscal impact assessment was adopted in
October 2001. We will also develop more detailed guidelines for preparation and assessment of
economic and social impacts of policy proposals presented to the government
Important steps have been taken to improve lthe overall budget process. The budget
circular was substantially improved in 2001 and requires now to provide information on special
revenues and off-budget funds in order to increase budget canprehensiveness  Moreover, the
government has adopted improvements in the 2003 budget preparaton process. In 2003, the MoF
will also present its initial fiscal srategy for 2004 to Government including macrocconomic,
revenue and expenditure targets.
The alignmcnt of te budget process towards policy prioritizaton within an overall fiscal
strategy is intended to lead to shifRs in spending from low to high priority areas, improved
transparency, higher quality analysis prepared for the Govement sessions and more realistic
budgets In thc next two years, we will further improve budgct comprehensiveness and focus also
on improvements in the procss i.e. linking economic strategies with the budget and the release of
plans to the public. We intend to introduce a budget preparation manual which covers the off-
budget funds and we will revise legislation as required. Our medium-tcrm goal is to ensure that
fiscal impact of policies be assessed in the medium-term within a fiscal fiamework, and the
budget process be undexpinned by a fiscal stuegy. We expect that further efforts wiU lead to a
strategic planning system, with multi-year (at least three) planning.
BUDGET ANAGEMENT REFORMS IN THE HEALTH SECTOR
The Government considers improv=ments in financial management in the health sector an
important part of the reform program since major financial imbalances persist in the health
system. The health insurance fund (HIF) is lacking capacity for forecasting budget analysis,
financial monitoring and control, and tools for improving health service perfonnance. Ex;shng
flnancial management information systems have not been adequate. The 1TIF was in theory
obliged to pay health insttutions on the basis or invoices for services provided, classified
according to the German points system. The Government realizes that this system has not been
effective and the HIF was unable to control expenditure under this complex and opcn-ended
system.
The Governmnnt has started to implement a reforn program which is expected to
strungthen and simplify the financing system and make it more performance oriented.
Transitional global budgets have been developed for each public hospital showing IIIF revenues,
other incomes, and inpatient and outpaiiqnt activity. Performance indicators have been identified
for inclusion in the contracts. For the 2002 budget, we have contracted certain health institutions
based on tiese anual global budgets. The hospital contracts, costing and allocation mechanisms
will be improved further and by 2003 a first pbased plan for improving resource allocation and
performance indicators should be implemented.
Monitoring capacity in the Ministry of Health (MOH) and fll' has been strengthened and
staff will be trained in contract monitoring and performance management We expoct that over
the course of the program the TF will develop tho capacity for monitoring the new hospital
contracts. In parallel, the Ministry of Health will develop capacity for supervising the 4IF. under
the provisions of the Health Insurance Law. The MOM will also increase its capacity for.
analyzing sector performance and iD developing hapolicy and strategy.



The Government passed a new Health Insurance Law in April 2000, which creates a
clearer framework for public accountability for the IuF and the public health institutions. It
separat the tlIF from the MoIll giving the Moll responsibility for health policy and supenision
of the KIM. It gives the HIF power to monitor and oversee resource use by public health
institutions. Tt also provides a basis for clearly specirying services to bc provided by compulsory
social insurance, rationalizing patient co-payments, and improving provider payment
arrangemcnts.
In order to enhance transparency and accountability we will provide more transparent data
on health rscource allocaton and hcalth sector performance to Parliament. We have adopted
guidelines for dhe presentation of the liF revenue and expenditure plans in the 2002 budget.
These guidelines are consistent with the general budget law and the -1'F by-laws. The IUF's
revenue will continue to bc earmarked in a separate fund, but its budget will be subject to review
by the Govemnent and Parliamcnt as part of the budget process. According to these guiddelines,
the budget plan for 2003 will include all planned altdcations and self-financing revenues of the
HIF, and for the 2004 budget we intend to also include the outstanding receivables and payables.
In order to strengthen fiscal discipline in the health sector the Govemment will improve the
Institutional fianework and capacity in the HIF. Tbis wiil enable us to achieve better contrl
over public health expenditur  including commitments in the HIlF itself, and - via the IUF's
contracts - in health institutions. The HF has Adapted its accounting system to implement a new
general ledpr structure and budgetary control systems in 2001. Rcvenue and expenditure
forecasting, budget planning, and budgetary control systems in the KM will be enhanced over the
course of the program. The implementation of the accounting syswn will be complctod and staff
will be trained in financial management. The budget planning, reporting and comrol system will
incorporate accruals, and steps to reduce reliance on defenal of payments to suppliers by health
instiutions to finance deficits.
BUDGET AND POLICY REFORMS IN SOCIAL PROTECTION
The growing incidence of poverty and psistant high unemploymen during the transition
period increased the need for social protection in Macedonia. The main components of our social
protection system consist of the public pensiona.system, unemployment insurane, social
assistance, and child benefit programs.
Reforms in Pcps ions In pensions, while the multi-pillar pension framework has been
established, the legal and institutional infastructure critical for the new system is yet to be put in
place. Significant capacity building and investment is required.
In order to ensure sustainability of the state pension scheme, we will put the policy and key
legislation in place. ft will involve completing and adopting tho legisladion for mandatory funded
pensions, and a set of implemntation regulations rclat d to pension fund investment, supervision,
licensing, marketing, custodian servis, guaranees, participation, and benefit payment In this
respect, the law on private penion funds has been approved by the Govemment in 2001.
Approval by Parlianent and consequently drafWing of implementing regulations is expectod
during the upcoming year.
A tained authority to supervise private pension finds operations, provide Information to
the public, and in general ensure smooth iWtroductipn -f the new systcm, will be established soon
after the legislation on fimded pensions is adopted., We intend to establish  the Pension



Supervisory Agency and make it operational within a year. The organisation and opcetion of the
Public Pension and Disability Insurance Fund (PDF) will be adjusted so that it can take up the
enhanced responsibilitics in the new environment In the medium-term, we expect that the
Agency will license private pension fund managers, that the Parliameat adopts a law on da
registry and the Pension Fund completes the businss process desiga.
Refonns in Social _ssistance. la sociil assistance, futher analysis of targeting
mcclanisms and some capacity building inpoverty analysis are being carricd out with the support
of the Social Support Project (SSP). Stronger fnancia management and interrational accounting
standards will be introduced. To increase the efficincy of the social assistance program and
providc effective support to the needy, the Government will rcfine the means testing mechanism
and adopt necessary changes in practice. 'this work is ongoing and some modification to the
disability assistance legislation will be made in 2003. However, such program evaluadon and
modification will continue into the coming years. Moreover, policies regarding child allowance
and disability assistance will be reviewed to incrcasc the poverty focus. We expect to present to
Parliament reformed policies and legislation in ehild benefits to improve targeting to the poor by
the end of 2003.
Labor Mark-et and Unemployment Assistance. Unemployment is an important issue for the
GoM. Labor and unemployment program rcforms will focus on increasing cfficioncy of policies.
The Miistry of Labor and Social Policies has adopted and is staring to implenent an action plan
to rationalize the unemployment registration systeim, improve financial management and internal
control, stnamline benefit delivcy to reduce duplicated functions. and develop a set of
performance morituring indicators. Within a year, the MOLSP will submit to the governmcnt
revisions of rdevant legislalion based on the *findings of the labor market analysis. Moreover, the
Labor Relations Law will be amended to make.it more compatible with the development of a
market economy. This should be accomplished by the end of 2004.
Within a year, we plan to refonn labor legislation and the unemployment assistance
programs, as well as the cross program linkages, as to enhance workl incentives and reduce
constraints in labor market operation. Information management and bcnefit delivery across
various social benefit prograns will bestreamlined and improved over the program pcriod.
CIVIL SERVICE REFORMS
The civil service reform program of the Government focuses on enhancing accountability
and transparncy in hunman resource managemeat and development of incentives within the
adnilmistration ror delivering services cfficiernly.' These broad objectives are stupported by priority
actions aimed at addressing three broad areas: (i) the creation of a depoliticized civil service;
(ii) stengthening of accounLability to achieve policy objectives; and (iii) the creation of a more
competitive yet affordable public sectur wage structure.
In order to create a professional, politically neutral, meritocratic civil service, the
Govemment will undertake two sets of actions, First. we have estabLshed a legal framework
more supportivc of the creaton of a professiorial, politically neutWal, merit-based civil service.
The Law on The Civil Secvice has been amended in 2001 to include revisions in this respect and
the key elements of secondary legislatiun has been prepared. We expect that the remaining
secondary legislation will be prepared by 2003;. At.that time, we will also have make the Cental
Registry of Civil Servants functional which is.required by i-- Civil Service Law.



Secd, we will create the institutional capacity to ensure transparency and accountability
in the management of public sector human resources. Accordingly, we will secure adequate
staffing ror the CSA and the PARU throughoet the progam Recruitment procedures have started
in the PARU in 2002. Finally, we will gecte and publicize evidence on the implementation of
the law within 3 years.
The primary focus to strengthen human resource manageanent capacities will be on the
Agency for Civil Servants. Efforts to surngthe. accountability of the public administation for
achieving agreed policy objectives will focus on the Public Administration Reform Unit (PARU),
the MOF, the General Secretariat of the Govemment and the Ministry of Healtb. An effectivc
monitoring system has been established at the PARU. It involves three basic elemenrs: (i)
developicg and disseminating guidelines on clarifying and reaching agreement on policy and
progmm objectives and monitoring thc cxzcnt to which they are being achieved; (ii) providing
training and assistance to budget users in identifying and reacting agreement on their policy and
program objectives and means of monitoring th externt to which they are being achieved; and
(iii) monitoring and publication of evidence on the aetent to which policy objectives arc being
met - such publication to be undertake iA ways designed to encourage (a) two-way
communication between public entities and intended bcneficiaries of policies and progas, and
(b) continuous learning from expericnce by the public administration (both the personnel and the
organizations). The findings of thc monitoring systan put in place will be published for 2002 and
2003 and we will stage at lcast one forum to tcek fcedback from civil society.
In order to create a more compedtive yet affordable public sector wage strcture, we wiU
address two major pay and employment challenges: (i) restructuring public employment so as to
better match its sidll mix with its skill mqurements; and (ii) restructuring its remuncration
structure so as to enhance the compedtiveness. of salary packages for those skills the public
administration currently finds most difficut to auiact and cetain To achieve these ends, the GoM
has developed the instruments for wage bill contol and managemenL In addition, the
Govemnment has ensured that the revision of the-Law on Civil Servants noted above will include
changes required to facilitate a beter linkage between civil service and domestic private sector
rcmuneration, while ensuriag fiscal sustainabiity. Finally, the Government will make fiscally
sustainable improvements in tXe civil service wage structure in 2003 and 2004.
TECRHNXCG 4SS$ANCE PROGRAM
Given the scopc-of the reforms and the.ins, utional and capacrty gaps in the Macedonian
public administration, a critical succss factor.for comprehensive reform is an extensive, well-
coordinated technical assistance srategy. To be effctive, the technical assistance strategy must
iaforce the other critical success facors for the reform. This means focusing on capacity-
builting and process improvements at the center of governmnct; efforts to create the building
blocks for sustainable reforn; providing compatible assistance in priority sectors; and
entrenching tnsparency and accountability at all stagges,
The donor community largely supports this effort. EU Phare provided initial support for
public administration reform and budget modernization. The IMF has provided assistance in
establishing a teasury operation and the PRO. Support for the proposed reforms has been
committed by several donors including the Japanese Government (through a PITRD grant), the
Dutcb government (through a Tnrst Fund), USAID, DFID, and possibly CIDA and SIDA.



?roga, Coordimation
To facilitate the pgram's implementation, ulhe authonties have decided to keep in place
the PSMAC counterpart team which was established during the prepration of the project The
counterpart team will continue to be led by the Minister of Finance and as such he will be in
charge with overseeing the impletnentation on a continuous basis, As pan of the overall reform
didogu, the World Bank ha asilittd the Government in do lzg dk nplentatiou plam
for the vaious peas to see t the reforms can b-implemented in a timely fahdon. Through
regular reviews and in the context of the prmpaaion and supervision of sibsequent PSMIAs, the
World Bank has agreed to monitor the genertal progress of the reform program, and more
particularly the implementation of the agreod bnclunar. We have r ested the World Bank to
support the implementation of the reform prograr-through monitoring led by the PSMAC
team-as    well   as   techica    iisWtae,    policy   workshops   and   training.
We look forward to continuous supporI from the World Bank in our reform eflrts
towards this important goal. Refonms to achieve a more efficient management of public
resources. and a transpa4  accountable adiumistration are criticd in enhancing growth
perspectives   in     the    countiry   atd     achieve     porerty    aleviation.
Sincerely Y
Nilcob



ANNEX 3
Macedonia, form
Operations Portfolio (IBRDtDA and Grants)
A. Of Date o1t3at2ff
Closed Projects      10
IBRDOOA '
Total Dtsbursed (Aa,-)       76 30
of vhich has been nepaid  0 00
Tolal Dasbtrsed (Cosed)      340 60
of rhlch has been repaid  4.80
Total Disbursed (Ative * Closed)  421.00
of whhh hes beesn rpaid  4.81
Total Und,sb-sed (Active)    148093
Totai Undisbrwsed (Cosed)    0 00
Total Undisbursed (Active. Closed)  148.93
Active Prolects                                                                                                                                                               Difference Between
Last PSR                                                                                                        Expected and Actual
Supervision Rating                                         Oriainal Amount In USS Millons                            Disbursements
Project 10                   Project l:ame             Develooment    Implementation    Fiscal Year            IBRD              IDA         GRANT            Cancel.   Undlsb.     Orig. Frm Rev'd
pb-Cldv-es       Proamss
P073483                     CHILD/YOUTH DEVT LIL    S                      S              2001                                   2.5                                       2.5
P063577                      COMM DEVT S CULT LIL S                        S              2001                                    5                                        5.1       0.3
P076192                      EMG ECN RECV           S                      S              2002                                    15                                      11.7       0.1
P042400                      FESAL 2                S                      S              2001                 30.3              20                                       39.4      19.8
P036089                      HEALTH SECT TRANSTN S                         S              1996                                  16.9                                       1.9       3.3
P038399                      IRRIGREHAB-MK          S                      S              1998                  7.5               5                                          7       4.1       3.2
P058056                      PENSION REF TA         S                      S              1999                                    1                                        0.1       0.1
P042399                      POWER                  S                       S             1998                   35                                              0.6       21        8.7
P010001                      PRIV FARMER SUPPORT S                         S              1996                                   7.9                                       1.3         2       0.6
P034609                      PSD II                 S                      S              1998                   25                                                        5.8       8.5
P066221                     SOCIAL SUPPORT          S                      S              1999                                   10                                        3.4       2.3
P070089                     TRADE & TRANS FACIL lIt S                      U              2001                                   9.3                                       8.3      -0.5
P050589                      TRANSPORT              S                       S             1999                   32                                                       12.2      17.9
P038395                      WATER UTIL IMPV        S                       S             2001                 16.2             13.1                                      29.2         1
Overall result                                                                            Result                146            105.7                             0.6     148.9      67.7       3.8
a. Intended disbursements to date minus actual disbursements to date as projected at appraisal.



Annex 4
Macedonia, former Yugoslav Republic
Statement of IFC's
Held and Disbursed Portfolio
As of 10/31/2001
(In US Dollars Millions)
Held                  Disbursed
FY Approval Company          Loan Equity Quasi Partic Loan Equity Quasi Partic
1999 Alkaloid             0     0   7.82    0     0     0   3.78    0
2001 Komercijalna       4.49     0    0     0   1.62     0     0    0
1998 MacedoniaTelcom   11.41  11.31   0    15 11.41  11.31    0    15
1997 Makedonija        2.41     0     0     0  2.41     0     0     0
1997 Nikol-Fert         3.8     0     0     0   3.3     0     0     0
1999 SEAF Macedonia       0    2.5    0     0     0   0.99    0     0
1997 SEF Masinomont    0.64     0     0     0  0.64     0     0     0
1997 SEFTeteks         0.61     0     0     0  0.61     0     0     0
1998/00/01  Stopanska Banka      0   0.55    0     0     0      0     0    0
Total Portfolio:      23.36  14.36  7.82   15 19.99  12.3  3.78    15



Macedonia, FYR at a glance                                                               10/11/01
Europe &    Lower-
POVERTY and SOCIAL                             Macedonia,    Central  middle-
FYR       Asia   Income      Development diamond
2000
Population, mid-year (millions)                       2.0       475     2,046                 Life expectancy
GNI per capita (Atlas method, US$)                  1,630     2,010     1,140
GNI (Atlas method, US$ b/llions)                      3.3       956     2,327
Average annual growth, 199440
Population (%)                                        0.7       0.1       1.0
Labor force (%)                                       1.2       0.6       1.3     GNI         ,'                 Gross
per                   -       prmary
Most recent estimate (latest year available, 199440)                              capita                     enrollment
Poverty (% of population below national poverty line)
Urban population (% of total population)               62        67       42
Life expectancy at birth (years)                       73        69       69
Infant mortality (per 1,000 live births)               16        21       32
Child malnutrition (% of children under 5)          ,   6         ..      11           Access to improved water source
Access to an improved water source (% of Population)   99        90       80
Illiteracy (% of population age 15+)                              3       15
Gross primary enrollment (% of school-age population)  99       100       114           Macedonia, FYR
Male                                                100       101      116               Lower-middle-income group
Female                                              98         99      114
KEY ECONOMIC RATIOS and LONG-TERM TRENDS
1980     1990      1999      2000
Economic ratios'
GDP (US$ billions)                            ..       ..       3.5       3.6
Gross domestic Investment/GDP                  ..    19.0      21.4                              Trade
Exports of goods and services/GDP              ..    25.9      41.5                              Ta
Gross domestic savingstGDP                     ..     8.9       7.1
Gross national savings/GDP                     ..      ..      17.3
Current account balance/GDP                   ..       ..      -4.0      4.5      Domestic
Interest payments/GDP                          ..      ..       1.9       1.8                                Investment
Total debVGDP                                  ..      ..      41.5      37.9     savings
Total debt service/exports                    ..       ..      31.3      13.1
Present value of debVGDP                       ..      ..      36.7
Present value of debt/exports                 ..       ..      86.5
Indebtedness
1980-90  199040      1999      2000   200044
(average annual growth)
GOP                                   ..    -0.3      2.7       5.1                         Macedonia, FYR
GDP per capita                       ..     -0.9      2.1       4.6        ..               Lower-middle-income group
Exports of goods and services        ..      3.1      2.5
STRUCTURE of the ECONOMY
1980     1990      1999      2000     Growth of investment and GDP I%)
(% of GDP)                                                                        *o
Agriculture                                   ..      8.5      11.6      11.8
Industry                                      ..     46.7      35.2      33.1     2-
Manufacturing                               ..       ..         ..     21.0
Services                                       ..    44.9      53.2      55.1      a__
9 93  97   98 N-93    00
Private consumption                           ..     72.1      73.8        ..    -20-
General govemment consumption                        19.0      19.0                              GDI      t*GDP
Imports of goods and services                 ..     36.0      55.7
1980-90  199040       1999     2000      Growth of exports and Imports (%)
(average annual growth)
Agriculture                                          -0.4       0.7        *     45.
Industry                                      ..     -4.7       0.4        ..    30-
Manufacturing                               ..                                  15
Services                                      ..      01        47
Private consumption                                   0.7       3.3                                 or 97  to       00
General govemment consumption                        -0.3      10.1               s
Gross domestic investment                     ..      2.2     -16.5        ..               -   xports    t-Imports
Imports of goods and services                 ..      7.2      -2.8        ..
Note: 2000 data are preliminary estimates.
The diamonds show four key indicators in the country (in bold) compared with its income-group average. If data are missing, the diamond will
be incomplete.



Macedonia, FYR
PRICES and GOVERNMENT FINANCE
Domestic prices                             1980     1990      1999     2000     Inflation (%)
(% change)                                                                       200
Consumer prces                                                 -1.1              150
Implicit GDP deflator                         ..       ..      -0.3     14.7     10o
Government finance                                                                so
(% of GDP, includes current grants)                                               0 -       !1>
Current revenue                               ..       ..      37.9              -so.    ss  s9r     97   9s     99    Do
Current budget balance                        ..       ..       2.5       ..                   GDP deftator  *CPI
Overall surplus/deficit                       ..       ..       0.0       ..
TRADE
(US$ millions)                              1980     1990      1999     2000      Export and import levels (USS mill.)
Total exports (fob)                           ..    1,113     1,192        ..    2.500
Raw materials                                ..       ..       50               2.000
Food                                         ..      21        68
Manufactures                                  .       ..      867         ,.    1   -00
Total imports (cif)                           ..    1,531     1,796        .     lero
Food                                         ..     136       208
Fuel and energy                              ..     215       158         . 
Capital goods                                        98       366         ..      o   L     L_l 11_ll_l                l
94   95   9fi  97   98   99   00
Export price index (1995=100)..                         .         ..       .
Import price index (1995=100)                 ..       ..        .,        .                    Exports    t Imports
Terms of trade (1995=100)                     ..       .._.._..
BALANCE of PAYMENTS
(US$ millions)                              1980     1990      1999     2000      Current account balance to GDP (%)
Exports of goods and services                  ..   1,192     1,440     1,617     o
Imports of goods and services                  ..   1,630     1,925    2,233                                        o
Resource balance                              ..     -438      -485     -616
Net income                                    ..      -55       -44       49                  I     I   I1X 
Net current transfers                         ..       84       392      548
Current account balance                       ..     -409      -137      -19     -10
Financing items (net)                          ,      393       280
Changes in net reserves                        .       16      -143        ..    -15
Memo:
Reserves including gold (US$ millions)        ..
Conversion rate (DEC, localWUS$)               ..      ..      56.6      65.9
EXTERNAL DEBT and RESOURCE FLOWS
1980     1990      1999     2000
(USS millions)                                                                    Composition of 2000 debt (USS mill.)
Total debt outstanding and disbursed          ..       ..     1,433     1,354
IBRD                                        ..       ..       110      116                      s8  116
IDA                                          ..      ..       223      249
Total debt service                             ..      ..       458      212
IBRD                                        ..        .        10       11           356                     249
IDA                                          ..      ..         1        2
Composition of net resource flows
Official grants                             ..       ..       176                                             8
Official creditors                          ..       ..      -179       30                           -     7
Private creditors                            .        ..       21      -43                               /
Foreign direct investment                   ..       ..        30
Portfolio equity                            ..       ..         0                          307          177
World Bank program
Commitments                                 ..       ..        92       60     A - IBRD                    E - si ateral
Disbursements                               ..       ..        57       51      B - IDA  0 - Other multilateral  F - Private
Principal repayments                        ..       ..         3        3     C - IMF                     G - Short-term
Net flows                                    ..      ..        54       48    .
Interest payments                           ..       ..         9        9
Net transfers                               ..       ..        45       39
ECSPE                                                                                                            10/11/01



ANNEX6
Page 1 of 2
Macedonia, FYR - Key Economic Indicators
Actual               Estimate             Projected
Indicator               1997    1998    1999     2000    2001    2002     2003    2004    2005
National accounts (as % of GDP)
Gross domestic producta                 100     100      100     100     100      100     100     100      100
Agriculture                             13      13      13      12       11      12       11      11      10
Industry                               35       34      33      33       31      33      34       34      36
Services                               53       53      55      55       58      55      55       55      54
Total Consumption                        93      93       90      93      95       92      90      90       89
Gross domestic fixed investment          17      17       17      19      13       15      17      17       18
Govemment investment
Private investment                      ..      ..       .       ..      ..
Exports (GNFS)b                          37      41      42       45      41      44       44      45       45
Imports (GNFS)                           51      56      52       62      56       58      58      59       60
Gross domestic savings                    7       7       10       7       5        8      10      10       11
Gross national savingsc                  14      14       19      21       9       12      15      15       16
Memorandum items
Gross domestic product                 3735    3571    3673     3573    3426     3410    3653    3818     3999
(US$ million at current prices)
GNI per capita (US$, Atlas method)     2120    1920     1830    1820    1710     1720    1770    1830     1940
Real annual growth rates (%, calculated from 1996 prices)
Gross domestic product at market prices  1.4   3.4     4.3      4.6    -4.6      4.0     4.0     4.5      5.0
Gross Domestic Income                  0.6     3.0     5.5      4.6    -4.6     4.0      4.0     4.5      5.0
Real annual per capita growth rates (%, calculated from 1996 prices)
Gross domestic product at market prices  0.5   2.7     3.8      4.1    -5.1     3.5      3.5     4.0      5.0
Total consumption                      2.9     2.6     3.3      6.1    -3.0      0.6     1.4     3.5      4.1
Private consumption                    0.6     2.5     3.1     10.4   -10.5      5.2     3.7     4.5      5.2
Balance of Payments (US$ millions)
Exports (GNFS)b                       1365    1424     1440    1618    1416     1502    1613    1710     1812
Merchandise FOB                     1237    1311     1191    1319    1155     1225    1316    1395     1478
Imports (GNFS)b                      1898     2015    1925    2230     1910    1994    2136     2265    2388
Merchandise FOB                     1623    1711     1584    1875    1580     1643    1773     1885    1997
Resource balance                      -533    -591    -484     -613    -494     -492    -523    -555     -576
Net current transfers                  312     277      389     551     203      229     258     285      311
Current account balance               -276    -346     -125    -108    -345     -339    -333    -333     -329
Net private foreign direct investment   16     118      32      176     445       71      77     101      120
Long-term loans (net)                  189     139      82       34     -96       27      88     109      103
Official                               80     332     110       74     -25      41       54      51       49
Private                               109    -193     -28      -40     -71      -14      34      58       54
Other capital (net, incl. errors & onmissions)  84  133  153    133      83      288     157     157      158
Change in reservesd                    -13     -44    -142     -236     -87     -47       11     -34      -52
Memorandum items
Resource balance (% of GDP)            -14.3   -16.6   -13.2   -17.1    -14.4   -14.4   -14.3    -14.5    -14.4
Annual growth rates ( US$)
Merchandise exports (FOB)              7.8     6.0     -9.2    10.7    -12.4     6.1     7.4      6.0     5.9
Primary                               1.7   -13.3      3.8     3.7       ..      ..      ..
Manufactures                         10.9     15.1   -13.7    13.7       ..      ..      ..
Merchandise imports (FOB not GF)       9.3      5.4    -7.4    18.4    -15.7     4.0     7.9      6.3     5.9



ANNEX 6
Page 2 of 2
(Continued)
Macedonia, FYR - Key Economic Indicators
(Continued)
Actual               Estimate             Projected
Indicator               1997    1998    1999     2000    2001    2002     2003    2004     2005
Public finance (as % of GDP at market prices)'
Current revenues                      34.7     33.2    35.3     36.6    34.4    33.6     34.1    33.5     33.0
Current expenditures                   33.7    33.2    33.1     31.6    37.2    33.1     29.6    28.5     27.0
Current account surplus (+) or deficit (-)  1.0  0.0    2.2      5.0    -2.9     0.4      4.5     5.0      6.0
Capital expenditure                     1.4     1.8     2.3      2.7     3.4     4.0      4.5     5.0      6.0
Foreign financing                       0.3     0.7     2.1      1.5    -1.9     4.1      3.5     3.6      3.6
Monetary indicators
M2/GDP                                 9.6     10.2    12.7     13.2    14.5    14.6     15.0    17.0     17.0
Growth ofM2(%)                        -23.8    11.1    33.5     17.5     8.5     7.4      9.7    21.4      7.6
Private sector credit growth /        113.2   176.2     2.9    -49.8   -23.3   214.4     65.0    72.0     78.0
total credit growth (%)
Price indices( YR96 =100)
Merchandise export price index        69.9     74.9    31.4     39.3      ..      ..
Merchandise import price index        83.1     68.9    62.2     49.4      ..      ..       ..
Merchandise terms of trade index      84.1    108.8    50.5     79.6      ..      ..       ..
Real exchange rate (US$/LCU)f         82.2     72.3    76.7     78.1      ..      ..       ..
Real interest rates
Consumerprice index (%change)          4.4      0.8    -1.1      5.8     5.5     2.5      2.0     2.0      2.0
GDP deflator (% change)                4.0      1.4     2.8      7.7     3.8     2.8      2.5     2.5      2.5
a. GDP at factor cost
b. "GNFS" denotes "goods and nonfactor services."
c. Includes net unrequited transfers excluding official capital grants.
d. Includes use of IMF resources.
e. General government.
f. "LCU" denotes "local currency units." An increase in US$/LCU denotes appreciation.



Annex 7
Annex 7 - Key Exposure Indicators - Macedonia
As Of Date 01/3112002
Actual                         Estimate
illditu-                      1994    1995    1996   1997    1998    1999   2000    200i
Total debt outstanding and   1,104   1,277   1,818   1,234  1,481   1,438   1,465  1,435
disbursed (TDO) (US$m)a
Net disbursements (US$m)a     -15      74     186    146     170     63      47     -58
Total debt service (TDS)      156      32      59    120     158     159    161     196
(US$m)2
Debt and debt service indicators
(%)
TDO/XGSb                    86.7    89.3    130.6  86.6    98.0    93.7   84.0    96.4
TDO/GDP                     32.6    28.7    41.1   33.0    41.5    39.1   41.0    41.9
TDS/XGS                     12.3     2.2     4.3    8.4    10.5    10.4    9.3     9.2
ConcessionalrTDO             4.6     8.2     8.3   16.1    17.2   21.2    23.1
IBRD exposure indicators (%)
IBRD DS/public DS           99.1    94.7    40.7   12.6    9.4     13.3   14.4     9.8
Preferred creditor DS/public  ..     ..      ..     ..     ..      ..
DS (%)C
IBRD DS/XGS                 10.7     1.9     1.5    0.8    0.6     0.7     0.6     0.8
IBRD TDO (US$m)d             93      97      78     85     108     110     116     117
Of which present value of
guarantees (US$m)
Share of IBRD portfolio (%)   ..     ..      ..     ..      ..     ..
IDATDO (US$m)d               42      84     125     146    181     223    249     254
IFC (US$m)                     ..     ..      ..      6      36      52      55      59
Loans                                                6     31      36      36      29
Equity and quasi-equity P                            0      5      17      20      31
MIGA
MIGA guarantees (US$m)
a. Includes public and publicly guaranteed debt, private nonguaranteed, use of IMF credits and net short-
term capital.
b. 'XGS" denotes exports of goods and services, including workers' remittances.
c. Preferred creditors are defined as IBRD, IDA, the regional multilateral development banks, the IMF, and the
Bank for Intemational Settlements.
d. Includes present value of guarantees.
e. Includes equity and quasi-equity types of both loan and equity instruments.
Template created on 3/8/2002



ANNEX 8
Central Government Operations
Actual                     Estimate
as%of GDP at market prices          1996     1997     1998     1999     2000     2001
Total revenue and grants            22.8     20.7     20.4     22.6     24.5     22.3
Tax revenue                       21.4     19.1      18.9     20.0     21.7     20.4
Individual income and profit taxes  6.3   5.4       5.6      6.1      5.8      4.4
Domestic taxes on goods and service  11.3  10.7     9.8      9.9      12.6     11.9
Non-tax revenue                    1.3      1.6      1.5      1.3      1.3       1.5
Capital revenues                   0.0      0.0      0.0      0.1      0.2      0.2
Grants                             0.1      0.0      0.0      1.2      1.4      0.2
Total expenditures                  23.5     21.9     21.2     21.8     21.9      28.6
Current expenditures              20.9     20.5      19.9     20.6     18.6     23.8
Goods and services               11.3     10.7     11.0     11.0      9.5      15.5
Wages and salaries              8.6      8.6      9.0      10.1     9.2      9.3
Transfers                        7.8      7.7      7.1       7.0      7.1      6.2
Pension fund                    1.9      2.2      1.9      1.6      1.5       1.7
Social programs                 3.8      3.8      3.9      4.3      4.1      3.1
Capital expenditures               2.5      1.3      1.3      1.4      2.4      3.1
Balance                             -0.7     -1.2     -0.8      0.8      2.7      -5.8
Financing                           0.7       1.2      0.8     -0.8     -2.7      6.6
Domestic                           0.3      0.9      0.0      -2.0     -5.0     -3.3
Foreign                            0.4      0.4      0.2      1.2      1.2      -1.0
Privatization receipts              0.0      0.0       0.6      0.0      1.1      10.9
source: IMF



ANNEX 9
General Government Operations
Actual                      Estimate
as % of GDP at market prices          1996     1997      1998     1999      2000      2001
Total revenue and grants              35.7     34.8      33.3      35.4     36.8      34.6
Tax revenues                        33.8      32.2     30.9      31.8      33.1     32.1
Individual income and profit taxes  6.3      5.4      5.6       6.1       5.8      4.4
Domestictaxesongoodsandservice     11.7     11.1      10.1     10.2      13.0      12.2
Socialinsurancecontributions       11.8     12.2      11.1     11.0      10.7      10.9
Non-tax revenue                      1.8      2.5       2.3      2.3       2.0       2.1
Capital revenue                     0.0       0.0       0.1      0.1       0.2       0.2
Grants                               0.1      0.0       0.0      1.2       1.4       0.2
Total expenditures                    37.1     35.1      35.0     35.4      34.3      40.7
Current expenditures*               34.6      33.7     33.3      33.2     30.8      36.2
Goods and services                 11.9     11.4      11.7     11.7      10.2      16.2
Wages and salaries               8.8       8.4       8.5      8.8       7.2       7.3
Transfers                          14.6     14.1      13.5     12.7      12.8      12.3
Social programs                  3.3       3.4      3.0       3.0       3.1      2.4
Pensions and disability payments  9.2      9.1       9.2      8.6       8.2       8.6
Interest                           2.0       2.2      1.9       1.5       1.8      1.9
Capital expenditures                 2.3      1.4       1.8      2.3       2.7       3.4
Balance                              -1.4      -0.4      -1.7      0.0       2.5      -6.1
Financing                             1.4       0.4      1.7       0.0      -2.5      6.1
Domestic                             1.1      0.1       0.2      -2.2     -5.1      -2.7
Foreign                              0.3      0.3       0.7      2.1       1.5      -1.9
Privatization receipts                0.0       0.0      0.9       0.1       1.1      10.6
*/ The figures presented in this table to not match the figures in Annex 5 and 6 due to different definition of categories.
Source: IMF



ANNEX 10
BACKGROUND AND POLICY ISSUES IN THE HEALTH SECTOR AND SOCIAL
PROTECTION
A. HEALTH SECTOR
Problems Facing the Health Sector
1.    Following independence, Macedonia's health system struggled to deal with a sizable real decline
in GDP and an associated decline in public revenues for health (around 40 percent in real terms in the
early 1990's). The socialized health system had shown limited ability to adapt to changes in demand,
changes in technology or exposure to increased market pressures in markets for inputs.
2.    Initial piecemeal reforms - the introduction of financing by social insurance contributions from
the payroll, and of payment of providers on an open-ended German-style "points system" of paying fees
for health services - were selected without adequate consideration of which policy altematives were most
suited to Macedonia's circumstances. The implementation issues a country is facing with very limited
public sector capacity were also neglected. Reliance on payroll tax contributions has eroded the financing
base as formal sector employment, particularly in larger former state enterprises, declined. Loss of
expenditure control led to abandonment of the fee-for-service system and reversion to the traditional
system of paying public sector health care providers on the basis of reimbursement for the costs of inputs
(wages, consumables, utilities, etc), largely on the basis of historic expenditure with some adjustment.
This input-based system of allocation is reasonably effective at achieving aggregate control over cash
expenditure, but fails to create incentives for allocative or technical efficiency.
3.     The Health Insurance Fund (HIF), which is responsible for allocation of over 90 percent of public
health expenditure, has faced persistent cash deficits, by 1998 equivalent to 19 percent of revenues. The
HIF and public sector health provider institutions accumulated significant debts to suppliers and
commercial creditors, of some 3.5 billion denars at the end of 1998. Financial pressures on the HIF have
generally been accommodated by cuts in real wages and capital expenditure and by shortages of
pharmaceuticals and other consumables in the public health system, resulting in significant out-of-pocket
payments on private supplies. It is clear that major financial imbalances remain.
4.    In spite of rapid expenditure growth in 1996-1998, with public health expenditure reaching over 7
percent of GDP in 1998, the health system does not appear to have offered improved access to basic
health services. Over two thirds of Macedonians polled in regular opinion surveys over this period report
the level of health care services as "bad" or "very bad", and these reports have remained constant.
Resource distribution is slanted towards secondary and tertiary care in Skopje, while peripheral areas and
primary health care are relatively under-served. Access to basic services in some rural parts of the
country is limited and of very poor quality. There is no reliable data base to indicate what the effects of
sharp HIF expenditure cuts in 1999 have been on the quantity or quality of health care delivered.
5.     Private out-of-pocket spending on health accounted for approximately 38 percent of total health
expenditure in 1999, and accounted for a rising share of household expenditure (rising from 4.2 percent to
5.8 percent between 1995 and 1999). Official co-payments accounted for less than five percent of public
health expenditure, and a relatively small share of private spending on health. The level of informal
payments is not known, but is reported to be widespread for surgery and other hospital procedures.
Payments by the uninsured, payments for private prescriptions (common where public pharmacies and
1



hospitals report shortages of subsidized drugs) and other payments for private health services appear to
account for much of the private expenditure on health. The proportion of the population which is
uninsured is not known. While the health insurance system provides mechanisms for coverage for all
residents and citizens in theory, in practice, some population groups lack insurance coverage. Employees
of loss-making enterprises can lose insurance coverage if their employers fail to make HI contributions on
their behalf. Compliance with HI contributions and hence HI coverage appears to be rather low among
farmers and self-employed.
6.     Although there is very little systematic information or research, there are some indicators of
inefficiency, poor clinical effectiveness and inequity in the Macedonian health system. In PHC, there are
at least 700 surplus doctors and 400 surplus dentists, relative to typical EU ratios to population. Doctors
in PHC on average see one quarter or less of the number of patients per day seen by average PHC doctors
in EU countries with well established PHC systems. Prices paid for many pharmaceuticals by the HIF or
in the private wholesale market in Macedonia exceed twice the prices obtainable by international
competitive procurement of generic supplies. The network of hospitals and PHC clinics exhibits
fragmentation and duplication - the result of past decentralization of financing and management.
Average length of stay in hospital of around 14 days remains markedly higher than in EU or OECD
countries. Patterns of prescribing in PHC are characterized by excessive use of antibiotics, inappropriate
use of injectable drugs, and inappropriately broad indications for a number of powerful drugs (including
insulin, and psycho-tropic drugs). Infant mortality remains twice as high as the CEE average, and high
risk populations have infant mortality rates of 40 or more. Age-standardized death rates for cardio- and
cerebrovascular diseases are 20-40 percent higher than in wealthier neighboring countries (Greece and
Italy).
Issues of Institutional Capacity
7.     The Ministry of Health (MOH) is small, and has not adapted its capacity to the requirements of a
national level ministry since independence. The Ministry lacks a stable core of professional staff,
hampered by the lack of appropriate civil service hiring, remuneration and performance requirements.
Extensive up-skilling of staff is needed in the MOH, HLF and healthcare provider institutions (HIs),
particularly in financial management, analysis and policy disciplines, to address these shortcomings and
create capacity to implement reform and improve system performance. Currently, the HIF lacks capacity
for forecasting, budget analysis and financial monitoring and control. Existing financial management
information systems are not adequate. On the revenue side, the key problems for the HIF appear to be
weakness in collection of contributions from farmers and self-employed, which is the responsibility of
district HIF offices; and lack of timely and accurate information about the "self-financing revenues" of
public HIs. Management capacity and systems are weak throughout the health system. Management of
healthcare provider institutions is unstable due to the practice of political appointments at multiple levels
of the system. Frequent changes in the ruling coalition lead to frequent rounds of management changes.
Few have management training.
8.     Mechanisms of public accountability are not well developed in the publicly financed and
provided health system. Transparent, publicly available reports of the financial performance and other
aspects of performance of the HIF and the public HIs are not mandatory. The MOH does not have
capacity or access to the information needed to supervise the HIF. State audit functions are under-
resourced to carry out their responsibilities in the health sector.
2



Health Reform Plans and Progress
9.     Macedonia has been slower to undertake health reform than most CEE countries. A new Health
Insurance Law (enacted in April 2000) was developed and enacted with the support of the ongoing Health
Sector Transition Project (HSTP) and the Social Sectors Adjustment Credit (completed successfully in
FY2000). The new law provides a foundation for some, but not all, of the reform needed, and represents
a commitment by the GOM to reform. The Law separates the HIF from the MOH, giving the MOH
responsibility for health policy and supervision of the HIF. It provides a framework for enhancing budget
processes, financial management and public accountability of the HIF and the public HIs. It also provides
a basis for clearly specifying basic services to be assured by compulsory social insurance, rationalizing
patient co-payments, and improving provider payment arrangements. However, more detailed policies
need to be developed in the form of bylaws and administrative procedures. This task and the task of
implementing the bylaws is a very major one, which will require technical assistance, and development of
capacity and systems in the MOH, HIF and HIs.
10.   To date, the Macedonian authorities have developed bylaws and other sub-legal acts goveming:
*   patient copayments (introducing free primary health care - PHC- consultations, and a stop-
loss limit to protect sicker and poorer patients from excessive out-of-pocket costs, in place of
a widely-abused system of poorly targeted exemptions from copayments);
*   national priority programs which are exempt from copayment and subsidized from the State
Budget to ensure access for the whole population;
*   a new payment mechanism for PHC doctors based on per capita payments for all registered
patients, modified for patient characteristics, and accompanied with incentives for additional
services.
11.   Implementation of the new financing mechanism for PHC doctors has begun with private doctors,
who are now free to contract with the HIF to provide services for patients who choose to register with
them. The Macedonian authorities have made progress in preparing for a range of other reforms to
primary health care, including measures to improve PHC clinical education, and development of draft
legislation to permit privatization of public sector PHC doctors, dentists and pharmacists. The PHC
reforms have been supported by the HSTP.
12.   Other areas of health sector reform to date include development of a new pharmaceuticals law
(supported by HSTP) and national drug policy (supported by WHO), development of matemal and child
health services (supported by UNICEF and HSTP), and development of selected other priority public
health services (tuberculosis control, HIV/AIDS prevention, mental health services). In the main, these
reforms are not yet fully implemented.
Reforms to be Supported by the PSMAC and Follow-up Operations
13.   The PSMAC and associated donor-financed technical assistance provide appropriate instruments
for motivating and supporting phased implementation of reforms related to financial management and
accountability of the Health Insurance Fund and public sector HIs, and for building capacity in the MOH,
HIF and HIs related to these functions.
14.   As well as the need for appropriate implementation of the financial management and
accountability framework envisaged in the HIL, there is a need for some additional measures the reform
program to fully address the problems of the health sector, both in the short and medium term. The
payment mechanism, regulatory environment and accountability arrangements for public hospitals and
3



other specialist health care facilities need to be strengthened. Reform to date has focused on PHC and
basic health services, but the largest efficiency problems appear to be located in the hospitals sector.
15.   The following reforms will be supported by the PSMAC:
*  Enhancing budget processes, financial management and control and accountability in the
HIF.
*  Developing a financial management information and control system in the HIF, similar to
that developed by MOF for first line budget users, to give the HIF timely and accurate
information about expenditure, revenue and commitments (accruals); the accounting
classifications in the system should be compatible with the general budget classifications.
*  Developing capacity in the MOH to supervise the HIF and analyze and report on the
performance of the whole health system, including the health and health care access of the
uninsured.
16.   These areas of reform have been selected for support by the PSMAC because they form part of a
program of strengthening budget processes, financial management, accountability and related capacity
development across the public sector. These reforms in the health sector will be carried out in a
consistent and coordinated way with parallel reforms in budget-financed agencies and other separate
funds.
17.   Developing new resource allocation, payment and contracting mechanisms for hospitals and
specialist services will increase incentives for efficiency, and foster more equitable access to services,
while retaining capacity for control of aggregate health expenditure.
18.   Provider-payment and contracting reforms will be supported because they provide the mechanism
by which the HIF will achieve expenditure control, improved performance and accountability among
publicly-funded health care providers. These reforms will complement the PHC reforms already
undertaken and supported by the HSTP.
B. CONTAINING COST AND IMPROVING EFFICIENCY IN SOCIAL PROTECTION
PROGRAMS
Overview
19.   The growing incidence of poverty and persistent high unemployment during transition increased
the need for social protection in FYR Macedonia. Along with a public pension system, unemployment
insurance and social assistance programs were developed to provide protection against the loss of income
due to old age, disability, sickness, unemployment, and the loss of bread eamer in the family.
20.    These programs are costly.  Total expenditures on social insurance (including pensions,
unemployment and health insurance) and social assistance programs consume nearly a third of GDP and
comprise over two-thirds of public spending. State pension expenditure alone accounts for more than 10
percent of GDP in recent years. While transition economies in general inherited and subsequently
4



developed large social protection program, comparing with countries at similar income level, FYR
Macedonia stands out even in this selected group'.
21.    The Govemment has difficulty financing these programs. While pension and unemployment
benefit are in theory self sustained insurance programs financed by the payroll tax, in reality, more than
70 percent of the unemployment fund expenditure had to rely on the general budget transfer.
22.    The execution of the budget also shows that the actual amount of expenditure has consistently
been higher than the original budgeted level. At the same time, payment arrears have been persistent in
the unemployment and social assistance programs. These phenomenon may be the result of several
factors: (i) the budget estimate does not adequately anticipated the economic development in the coming
year at both the macro and microeconomic levels; (ii) the budget negotiation process does not result in an
agreement that fully recognized the need to implement the social program commitment; (iii) the policies
are not properly implemented and benefits went to ineligible recipients; and (iv) the financial
management of the social programs is weak and there exists fraud.
23.    The efficiency of the social sector programs and their impact on overall economic growth is
dubious. The financing of the programs (especially pensions) relies on a heavy payroll tax, hindering the
development of a competitive labor market. High payroll tax also contributes to a growing informal
economy that likely employs a significant share of the officially registered unemployed.
24.    The effectiveness of social assistance system in targeting the poor is also in question. The
Poverty Assessment (1999) concluded that while the means-tested social assistance system has been
improved significantly in recent years, some problems still need to be addressed. The payment of social
assistance benefits has experienced continuous delay, and the inclusion errors are high. Child allowance
benefits are not well targeted at the poor. The institution and administrative capacity to implement and
monitor social protection policies is weak.
25.    The Govemment recognized the need to contain overall cost, to rationalize expenditure so that
limited resources can reach the most needy, and to strengthen institutions to effectively deliver social
protection services. Some measures have been taken to reform the system. However, reforms in this area
are complicated and difficult. Much remains to be done to implement the reforms.
The Pension System
Problems Facing the Sector
26.    The pay-as-you go (PAYG) public pension system aims at protecting workers and their families
from loss of income due to old age, disability, or loss of bread earner in the family. As in many countries,
a combination of factors contributed to the overall financial difficulty of the Pension Fund in the first part
of the 1990s. This includes (i) significant decline in contribution base, due to high unemployment, large
non-taxed informal economy, early retirement policy adopted during structural change; (ii) increased
number of beneficiaries, due to low retirement ages inherited from the old system, early retirement, and
rapidly aging demographics; (iii) generous benefit structure and eligibility conditions, including high
replacement rate and relaxed length of contribution requirement, etc. To cope with the deteriorating
financial position, the govemment adopted a series of parametric reform measures in the late 1990s.
' Unemploymnent expenditure in Slovenia, Poland, Slovak Republic, Hungary, Romania, Bulgaria, Czech Republic
are less than 1.5 percent of GDP, against about 2 percent on average in Macedonia; Pension expenditure in Hungary,
Czech and Slovak Republics, Romania, Bulgaria and Albania are below 10 percent of GDP.
5



27.    Pension Fund expenditure in 2000 reached about 22.9 billion Denars, or about 10.7 percent of
GDP2. Pension expenditure is financed by a payroll tax of 20 percent of gross wages, transfers from the
state budget to pay for special pensions3, and some other sources of income. Faced with deteriorating
financial prospects for the pension system, the Government amended the Law on Pension and Disability
Insurance in March 2000. The law specified several measures to downsize the PAYG pension scheme
starting in 2000 and established the framework of a multi-pillar pension scheme. Although the
introduction of the multi-pillar pension scheme has been delayed the table below serves to illustrate the
fiscal gains of the introduction of the system.
Table 1. Comparison of the PAYG System
(Balance as percentage of GDP)
2000       2010       2020        2030
Without 2000 PAYG rationalization       -1.1        0.0       -0.6       -1.1
With 2000 PAYG rationalization          -1.1        1.8        2.0        2.0
Source: "A financial plan for the transition to a two-pillar pension system", MLSP, 2000.
Further Reforms Envisaged
28.    To rationalize and downsize the PAYG system, measures will become effective:
*   Continuing the increase of pension age. Pension age will be increased to 64 for men and 62 for
women. Currently, men's retirement age has already been increased to 63, while women's
retirement age is being increased to 60 by year 2003.
*  Enforcing age exclusive retirement conditions. The amendment of the pension law stipulates that
one can only claim retirement pensions after reaching the retirement age and when the length of
contribution is no less than 15 years. This eliminated the pension right currently granted to those
with more than 40 (men) and 35 (women) years of contribution record regardless of age, as well
as the pension right granted to those above 65/63 years old with 15 to 20 years of service record.
*   Changing pension indexation rule. Pensions are currently linked to the average wage of the non-
economic sector, which in turn has been frozen in recent years. The Law stipulates that when the
law on wage payment is terminated, pension benefit will be adjusted twice a year, according to 80
percent of the changes in the cost of living index and 20 percent of the changes in the average net
wage in the economy.
*  Redefining minimum pensions. Like regular pensions, minimum pension is currently calculated
as percentage of the non-economic sector wage5. When the law on wage payment is terminated,
the minimum pension will be fixed at that nominal level and adjusted following the same pension
indexation rule.
*  Reducing the replacement rates of disability pensions. A reduction schedule is specified for
disability pensions over the coming decades.
2 Among these expenditures, 9.1 percent of GDP was used to pay for various pension items, whereas 1.3 percent of
GDP was transfers to the Health Fund on behalf of pensioners.
3 According to various government regulations and legislation, general budget transfer finances special categories of
pensions (e.g. military pensions, minimal agricultural pensions, and some favorable pensions to freedom fighters,
employees in the judicial system, etc. These categories were established prior to the pension reform). The total
expenditure in these 7 categories was 3.27 billion denars in 1999, about 16 percent of total program expenditure.
4These were initiated under the Social Sector Adjustment Credit (SSAC)
5 The percentage varies according to the length of service.
6



* Reducing the replacement rate. The PAYG pension scheme will be further downsized along with
the introduction of the funded pillar6. For individuals who choose to remain in the PAYG
pensions scheme, the replacement rate (linked to the length of service) will be reduced. For a
worker with 40 (men) or 35 (women) years of contribution history, the replacement rate will be
reduced from 80 percent to 72 percent of net wage gradually in the next 40 years.
29.    Developing mandatory funded pensions aims at achieving the following long term objectives:
financial sustainability, higher old age income, minimal distortion to labor market, and contribution to
overall economic growth and capital market development. Developing into this new system requires
changes in the role of the state, from the sole provider of old age pensions to a partial provider, regulator,
supervisor, and to certain extent, a guarantor. In the reformed system, individuals will assume more
responsibilities in managing their income and investment.
30.    The Govemment has taken a major step towards the establishment of a funded privately managed
pension system. The Law passed in March 2000 outlined the main elements of the multi-pillar system.
The key features of the multi-pillar scheme are the following:
*  Participation. Participation in the multi-pillar scheme will be mandatory for all new entrants to
the state mandatory pension system, and voluntary to all existing contributors by the
commencement date.
*  Contributions. For participants of the multi-pillar scheme, 7 percent of the gross wage will be
diverted into individual accounts and invested. The other 13 percent payroll tax remains in the
PAYG scheme.
*  Second Pillar Pension Fund. Contributions accumulated in individual's account will be managed
and invested by the private Pension Fund Management companies. Key regulations on capital
requirements, investments, marketing, accounting standards, etc, as well as the supervisory
agency overseeing these pension fund companies will be developed.
*  Pension Benefit. Pensions for the participants will consist of two parts: (i) pensions from a
downsized PAYG (PSt) pillar, calculated according to defined benefit principle. The replacement
rate from this pillar would be about 30 percent for a worker with 40 (men) and 35 (women) years
of service7; (ii) old age pension from the funded (2nd) pillar, determined according to defined
contribution principle. The amount of pension will depend on the level of accumulated
contribution and the investment retum.
31.    Transition to the multi-pillar system will place some fiscal pressure on the PAYG system. The
level of deficit in the PAYG scheme will likely be less than I percent of GDP in the initial year of reform
and decline to zero in a few years. The Govemment chose a relatively slow transition towards the funded
pillar, characterized by (i) only mandating new labor force entrants to participate, and (ii) discouraging
current workers older than age 40 to switch to the new scheme. (The replacement rate from the period
prior to the commencement date is capped at a relatively low level, equivalent to a maximum of 5 years
accrued right). These choices were based on the consideration of fiscal capacity to finance the transition,
depth and maturity of the financial market, and the principle of risk diversification.
6~~~~~~~~~~~
6This measure will become effective from January 1, 2004, according to the draft Law on Mandatory Fully Funded
Pension Insurance.
7For current workers opting for the new scheme, the accrual factors were specified to account for the years prior to
the commencement date of the funded pillar. The replacement rate for this period, however, is capped at 11.65
percent and 13.0 percent for men and women, respectively.
7



Table 2. Projection of the Pension System Balance, Percent of GDP)8
(Using Narrow Definitions9)
Difference between
contributions and pensions
Year              in PDF                II pillar contributions  IH pillar assets
2004               -0.9%                        0.8%                   0.8%
2005               -0.7%                        0.9%                   1.5%
2006               -0.1%                        0.9%                   2.4%
2007                0.2%                        1.0%                   3.3%
2008                0.3%                        1.1%                   4.4%
Source: MLSP projection, December 2001.
Reforms to be Supported by the PSMAC and Follow-up Operations
32.    The successful implementation of a fundamental reform of the pension system depends on a
series of factors, including a healthy macroeconomic environment, sound financial sector, adequate
institutional infrastructure and strong administrative capacity, as well as a conducive political
environment. A few steps are important for the implementation of the reform.
*  Complete the second pillar pension legislation and implementation regulations. The Law on
Mandatory Fully Funded Pension Insurance has been drafted to support the implementation of the
new pension scheme. The law stipulates the supervisory structure for private pension funds and
institutional arrangement. Detailed regulations regarding collection, record keeping, investments
rules, custodian services, audit requirement, disclosure and accounting standards, etc. will need
to be issued after the Law is approved.
* Establish supervisory agency for private pension funds. Based on the evaluation of the existing
supervisory authorities of the financial market, the organizational structure of the supervisory
agency for private pension funds has been designed. Substantive capacity building would be
required so that the Agency can acquire necessary skills, develop regulations, and be adequately
equipped. The supervisory agency needs to be in place shortly after the Law on Private Pension
Funds is approved.
*  Further develop financial market and deepen public debt market. Financial markets in FYR
Macedonia are far away from the adequate depth and performance. Treasury securities are non-
existent; stock market is shallow and volatile; real estate market is in its infancy; and insurance
sector is in its early stage of development. The banking system could accommodate all pension
fund assets during their first few years, but this sort of portfolio placement would be imprudent in
the long run. The best option for FYR Macedonia seems to be (i) to allow fairly liberal
intemational diversification of the pension assets in order to ensure safety and liquidity of these
assets from day one; (ii) allow wide ranges of maximum investment limits of the pension funds,
thus providing the supervisors with discretion and flexibility to set the most appropriate targets on
different investment classes in the early months/years of the reformed system; and (iii) to resort to
the extent possible to international tenders for pension asset managers in the initial stage. In the
8 This projection assumes high growth macroeconomic scenario. Furthermore, it assumes that male current workers
younger than 35 and female current worker younger than 31 would choose to switch to the new scheme, and that
most of the switching would take place starting in 2002.
9 This presentation follows the narrow definition used by the pension reform steering committee in their report to the
Government. That is, revenue includes contributions based on wage, income, and that from private sector and
farmers; Pension expenditure includes old age, disability and survivor pensions, and some other special pensions
mandated by the government.
8



meantime, the government is advised to start issuing T-bills and bonds in due course, to develop
the primary and secondary markets of these securities. Government papers would serve to set
benchmarks for pricing of private securities and maybe to partially finance the transition to the
funded pension scheme.
*  Strengthen the administrative capacity of the public Pension and Disability Insurance Fund
(PDF). The PDF will assumed an enhanced responsibility in the reformed system in contribution
collection and processing. It needs to redesign its business process and develop its IT capacity so
that contribution and benefit information is recorded and managed efficiently at individual level,
and is maintained in a harmonized information system accessible by various social programs and
government agencies. Such individual information should be used to improve contribution
collection, project benefit expenditure, and prepare higher quality budget.
*  Financial management and accounting should also be part of the integrated MIS system where
benefit recipients are cross-referenced through their unique ID numbers. As the EU report
indicates, there is a need for key duties and responsibilities to be divided or segregated among
different people to reduce the risk of error or fraud. This would include separating the
responsibilities for authorizing transactions, processing and recording them, reviewing the
transactions, and handling any related assets. In addition, a systematic audit trail needs to be
developed so that periodic comparisons of resources with the recorded accounts can be made to
help reduce the risk of errors, fraud, misuse, or unauthorized alteration.
*  Continue the public information campaign. Public information campaign was initiated to support
the passage of the framework law. This work will need to be expanded to further communicate
the reform and educate the public regarding their rights and responsibilities in the reformed
system.
* Develop staff skills for organizations involved in the implementation of the pension reform and
expand the technical team. This should be a continuous process.
Unemployment Insurance Program
Problems Facing the Sector
33.    The labor market has been depressed in FYR Macedonia for an extensive period of time, and has
yet to see signs of improvement. Unemployment is locked at a rate exceeding 30 percent.'0 In addition,
there is a significant number of "discouraged workers" who ceased looking for jobs because of the lack of
job opportunities." The labor force in FYR Macedonia has declined by 2.5 percent since 1998. Further
layoffs are expected in connection with planned closures of large loss-making enterprises, and the
downsizing of public administration. Administrative record of the National Labor Office indicates a
major jump in the number of registered unemployed during 1999, the number has reached 354,864 in
October 200 1.
34.    The unemployment insurance program, administered by the Employment Bureau, provides income
support to qualified registered unemployed. Of the registered unemployed, about 10.3 percent received
unemployment benefit in 2001. The eligibility for unemployment benefit and benefit duration depends on
individual's continuous work record. The level of unemployment benefit depends on the replacement rate
and individual's average wage prior to unemployment. In addition to providing unemployment benefit, the
Employment Fund also makes transfers to Health Fund and Pension Fund to pay for insurance contributions
' According to the Labor Force Survey the unemnployment rate was 32.1 percent in 2000.
" The number of discouraged workers is estimated at 17-18 thousands (Statistical Office's data).
9



on behalf of the registered unemployed. The number of registered unemployed receiving health benefits
increased by 23.5 percent from 1997 to 2000.
35.    The Employment Fund has experienced serious financial difficulties in meeting its commitment and
cannot function as a self-sustained insurance program. In 2000, the total expenditure accounted for about
5.1 billion Denars, out of which 2.1 billion was associated with unemployment benefits, while 3 billion was
transferred to the pension and health funds. As a whole, it accounted for 2.4 percent of GDP. The
Employment Fund is financed by a payroll tax at 1.5 percent of gross wage plus general budget transfer that
supported over 75 percent of the total program expenditure.
36.    Based on the macroeconomic assumptions and the current replacement rate, the expenditure level
of the unemployment program was estimated (Table 3.). It is obvious that the level of expenditure
depends crucially on the unemployment and GDP assumptions. While robust macroeconomic recovery
and growth will ease the pressure, one cannot underestimate the potential impact of major restructuring.
The low case scenario may maintain for a period of time.
Table 3. Unemployment Program
(2002-2005, thousand Denars)
2002         2003           2004          2005
Unemployment benefit expenditure
High case               1,487,844    1,404,814      1,320,519    1,224,129
Lowcase                 1,713,137    1,711,228      1,711,234    1,702,433
Total Expenditure (including transfer to PF and HF)
High case              3,365,665     3,177,841     2,987,158     2,769,112
Low case               3,875,300     3,870,983     3,870,998     3,851,088
Total Expenditure as percent of GDP
High case                 1.4           1.2           1.0           0.9
Low case                  1.8           1.7           1.6           1.6
Reforms to be Supported by the PSMA C and Follow-up Operations
37.    The focus of the short term should be to examine the impact of the earlier reforms and identify
measures to contain the fiscal cost of the program and strengthen work incentives. Efforts should also be
made to strengthen unemployment benefit program administration to increase its efficiency.
* Conduct policy analysis of labor market development and unemployment benefits. The study
would focus on the constraints in employment creation and in particular the constraints imposed
by labor market policies that hinders job generation and weakens work incentives. Regarding
unemployment benefit policy, the analysis would examine the fiscal and social implication of
further tightening the unemployment benefit, including reducing the maximum duration of benefit
from the current 18 months to 12 months, further reducing the replacement rate, and further
restricting benefit duration for special categories"2.
12 The Government has tightened the eligibility requirement for the special categories in 2000 so that only those
above age 55 and with more than 15 years of service can receive unemployment benefit until retirement. However,
such a provision still allows individuals to remain as unemployment beneficiary for almost ten years. Data shows
that by the end of 2000, more than 85 percent of the cash beneficiaries are such long term beneficiaries. Such
benefit structure provides poor work incentive and significantly burdens the program which is supposed to provide
10



*  Examine benefit coordination across social welfare programs. The strong incentive for people to
register as unemployed is largely due to the fact that this will qualify them for other benefits, such
as health and social assistance. As a result, many that never worked and are not actively seeking
jobs are registered as unemployed. One option is to register only those with formal job
experience. This will reduce unemployment benefit expenditure and provide work incentive.
However, such change would disqualify a significant portion of current social assistance and
health beneficiaries. A comprehensive review of the linkage between different benefit programs
should be initiated.
*  Improve the administration of the unemployment benefit program, by streamlining the registration
process and enforcing the job search requirement to exclude from the registrar those who are not
actively seeking for jobs, developing a budget model and introducing regular expenditure
monitoring, examining the organizational structure of various social programs to reduce
duplicated functions, and developing an integrated information system to strengthen management,
reduce potential abuse and improve service quality.
36. In the medium term, the Government need to adopt measures to further rationalize the
unemployment benefit policies based on the analysis. In addition, it should focus on the following
two issues.
*  Reform the Labor Relations Law to make it more compatible with the development of market
economy. The current Labor Relations Law was developed in the early 1990s. Since then many ad
hoc changes were introduced as contradiction and limitation of this legislation became obvious.
Many aspects of the law and the underlying policies (e.g., order of dismissals, regulation of labor
relations in small firms in particular collective bargaining, etc.) require rethinking in the context of
the new environment. The Government would need to consider developing a new labor relations
legislation in the next three years;
*  Adopt measures to improve business environment.  To increase labor market flexibility, the
Government has taken measures to reduce termination conditions and decentralize collective
bargaining to firm level. It needs to continue simplifying the requirement for hiring and firing
workers. The government needs to consider reducing the required maximum severance pay from the
current 12 months of wage to about 3 months'3.
Social Assistance Programs
Problems Facing the Sector
38.    The means-tested social assistance program provides cash benefit to households whose income
(subject to an asset test) is below a guaranteed minimum. The minimum guaranteed level is linked to a
poverty line that is detennined according to household size. Since the inception of the program in 1992,
the number of households eligible for cash benefits has increased significantly, from 8,000 in May 1992
to 78,747 in 2001. Social assistance expenditures increased to about 1.4 percent of GDP in 2001. After
the phased reduction of benefit became effective in April 2000'4, the total expenditure level dropped. The
short term insurance rather than long term income support. It should be further tightened by narrowing the
difference between the minimum eligible age and the retirement age.
13 Instead, in 2000 the Govermment introduced generous severance pay policy for the public sector by granting every
laid-off public sector employee the maximum duration. This is fiscally costly and is not justified.
14 Starting from April 2000, the benefit for those who have been receiving social assistance benefit for two
consecutive years were reduced to 70 percent of its original level. This measure was introduced in the 1998 Social
Assistance decree to encourage long term beneficiaries to return to the labor market.



economic disruption due to Kosovo crisis and the complexity in monitoring and verifying claims have led
to difficult financial positions of the social assistance program.
39.    The situation of the social assistance program in the next few years will be closely linked to the
growth prospect and the employment situation. Using per capita consumption as the key variable that
determines the number of people under poverty line, preliminary estimation shows that the expenditure on
social assistance will be between I and 1.5 percent of GDP, and will gradually decline as the economic
situation further improves (Table 4).
Table 4. Social Assistance Expenditure in Two Scenarios
(2002-2005)
2002        2003       2004        2005
High case      3003       2938        2870        2801
Low case      3166        3154        3137        3121
(% of GDP)
High case      1.2        1.1         1.0         0.9
Low case       1.4        1.4         1.3         1.3
Note: Year 2000 figure is based on IMF projection.
Reforms to be Supported by the PSMAC and Follow-up Operations
40.    Rationalizing Expenditure to Target the Poor. FYR Macedonia's social assistance program faces
several policy and administrative issues to be addressed in the short to medium term.
*  Eligibility for social assistance needs to be tightened to improve targeting. The Govemment is
exploring ways to tighten asset testing criteria and improve inspections to reduce inclusion error. In
the meantime, the benefit structure was modified in the 1998 social assistance decree to encourage
individuals to leave welfare program and return to labor market. This includes reducing the social
assistance benefit by 30 percent for those who have received benefits for two consecutive years, and
then further reducing that level to 50 percent of the original'5. Furthermore, according to the 1998
decree, individuals will lose the benefit right for two years after receiving the benefit for four
consecutive years.
*  Child allowance program has not been a program targeted at the poor. The new Law on Child
Protection adopted in 2000 introduced significant changes to the benefit structure of child allowance
without fiscal and poverty analysis. It also creates a separate means testing scheme that would
duplicate the means-tested social assistance scheme. Both the policy and administration of this
program require analysis and modification.
*  Developing Social Investment Fund type of programs which encourages community participation is
another approach to assist the poor. In many transition countries, this type of programs have
contributed directly to the stimulation of employment opportunities through the use of private sector
contractors, public workfare, and micro-financing programs.
*  Program administration and benefit delivery. The lack of adequate inspection to enforce income and
asset testing, the weak budgeting and financial management, and the lack of data communication
among relevant social programs and government agencies have led to very inefficient program
management. This calls for significant administrative change, enhanced IT capacity, and close
monitoring at both the central and local levels.
5 In April 2001, the Government decided to delay the scheduled reduction given the political and civil conflict.
12






FED. REP. OF               J                                                                         FORMER YUGOSLAV
YUGOSLAVIA             K                             7                                                    REPUBLIC
~*7           '      ~    ~1                       ;@@.z:.v- t ,,_ ' 'eSV4 1 - - r > 4                                  -~    ~/OF MACEDONIA
KRPIVA 
2  \  n  | g  1  JIKUAANOVO  '4 PAANfS - F  BULGARIA
/8 ,_g/ t 216 ( F 91 ~~~~~~~~~Kumanglivo , 
C- l          --     -- 2- -vx>              FT *->, 8  besiezKnr KRA Oi t\,$
1-1p              --2,000
'1                            OPJE                  .--J;1,*r -                                             t ^ - I  -> 9 * \ ! !;ran,.n'.JW' KOCAM  ,0,12000
i-r- (tt         tton~  i                           - *t 4-. v-                  0       |      S                      Eek-lidS-n
<PROM/SUP. K      '* 2o ,01-2,000
Koejem                              .  2~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~01-2000
4            hS7t*At  b  RD= I D H13AR /s |: PRiii '-' tKAVADARC~~~~sv  I                          k.-~_1 f 
L X   CC  0At;d1 E /-r?rovo '? :  ;_   *                                        iSKOP E  OLE  0|  A
A-\I'!                                                  R  FS I  \                   2Spot Elevations in Me/9 ters Eea-   - ft,
A>  LBA   (N d ~ t I' I \Gvu-a 1   i!  , -    -  -  'E                                  9V @:                             Mao Cities \'  HNAR   \
>           j~~~s > HKenen~p.c                          V  SRAI RMNICAC
f ),,  -,         -                                       6    ::a: :Cities
(  II                BR-X 3  >s< 1-*-_2C,1V-W~Z         b                      ,            K,j-ODI               Airports
-i-h  040-----ih-  O .t Railrod..ds
~~lDE8AR  *  , A  -~~~~~~~--                                                                     44----i-* ~I  JElecrified Railroads
'/  T        1,                                                   ISTRUM    ;4-A-~Rvr
It  tKRLIS~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~/O  ,                                      -------  O~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~pstino Bosedaries
:r        M0s -            '-              i6p1                                 .                                 :r- 
RID                  'i               ,KVAt '                                                                      .' " '=  ',;DARCI  -
L9      ri                                                                                        -SLGVAK R     P.C- V\  UKRAINE
L  9                                                                                      sI ~~~~~~~~~~~~BioAUSTRIA 4-" -S'
HUNGARY/
-  ~ ~  ~    ~   ~    ja   j..s'~~~~~~                                                  SLOVEf41A~ e' &     ROMtANIA 
7%..                                                                5"~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~CROA11A \
Edbeesa                                    ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~N.*,
Florisa                                                 \JIERZEGGV1NIA(  ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~FED. REP
C'  BULGARIA
Mi-pr                                                             e ljssalonikci              -.1
-6,  .6- ~~~~~~~~~~~~~d                                                                                            J    -~~~~~~$TAEE&CEOIAPnpFY&
4-   .Koe                           -   _ __ _ _- , .- 



