                                                                                         32635
                                          FYRMacedonia
              PublicSector ManagementAdjustmentLoan(Loan No. 4734-MQ

                           SecondTranche Release -FullCompliance

                                        I. Backmound

RecentEconomicDevelopments

 1.    FYR Macedonia was the least developed republic of the Socialist Federal Republic of
Yugoslavia,.    By the time of independence in 1991, FYR Macedonia's economy had been
contracting for more than six years. This contraction accelerated during the first years o f
independence. Between 1991 and 1994, GDP declined by about 20 percent. The recession was
 accompanied by hyper-inflation and budget deficits that reached 13 percent o f GDP. The
 Government launched an impressive stabilization program in1994, centered on a sharp fiscal
 adjustment and de facto pegged exchange rate, which succeeded in bringing inflation down to
 single digits by 1996 and reducing the budget deficit to moderate levels.            The decline in
economic activity leveled out in 1994 andmodest economic growth resumedin 1996.

2.     Duringthe periodof 1996-2000, the Government maintainedmacroeconomic stability and
undertook a number o f modest structural reforms. Inflation averaged about 2 percent per annum
during this period and the budget was balanced. However, the current account deficit remained
highat about 7.5 percent of GDP untilthe Kosovo crisis in1999. Marketpressures forced a 15.5
percent devaluation o f the denar in mid-1997, but otherwise the de facto peg was maintained.
The Government embarked on a modest structural reform program which included enterprise
privatization (albeit largely to insiders), trade reforms, and the first hesitant steps towards labor
market reform. Following the collapse o f a significant pyramid scheme in 1997, financial sector
reforms were also begun.

3.      Despite the modest nature o f the reform effort, economic growth gradually picked up,
with each year inthis periodregisteringa higher growthrate thanthe previous year. In1999 and
2000 real GDP growth reached 4.5 percent. However, growth remained narrowly based on a few
key industries (steel and textiles) and the investment to GDP ratio remained fairly low by
regional standards (21 percent in FYR Macedonia versus 28 percent in fast growing Central
European countries) while the unemployment rate remained high at over 30 percent through-out
thisperiod.

4.      The civil conflict in 2001 disruptedthis positive economic momentum. InAugust 2001,
an internationally mediated cease fire, the Ohrid Agreement, led to an end o f hostilities. While
direct conflict damage was limited, output contracted by 4.5 percent.            Investment activity
markedly dropped and defense-related expenditures pushed the budget and current account
deficits to 7 percent o f GDP. The effects o f the conflict were still clearly felt in 2002 as GDP,
investment and export growth remained sluggish while the budget and current account deficits
remained high.

5.      A new Government was elected inNovember 2002 and was confrontedby a deteriorating
current account deficit following a surge in imports concurrent with sluggish export growth. In

2002, the current account deficit reached 8.5 percent of GDP and internationalreserves fell to 3.8
months o f imports. In April 2003, a new IMF Stand-by Arrangement was approved. The
program focused on fiscal adjustment to reverse transient expenditures associated with the
conflict in2001 and the pre-election spendingin2002. The budget deficit was abruptly cut from
5.6 percent o f GDP in 2002 to 0.1 percent o f GDP in 2003, more than one percent o f GDP less
thanthe IMFprogramtarget. The program calledfor a slight relaxation of fiscal policy in2004
relative to the 2003 outcome, but in the end the Government tightened further. The overall
balance shifted to a surplus o f 0.8 percent o f GDP. While the tight fiscal policy helped reduce
the current account deficit to about 3.5 percent o f GDP in 2003 a number o f one-off factors
contributed to a deterioration to 8 percent o f GDP in 2004. Also low capital inflows led to a
reduction inthe import coverage o f international reserves which fell to about 3 months by end-
2004. The exchange rate anchor has been maintained throughout this period, but the falling
international reserve cover forced the National Bank o f Macedonia to tighten monetary policy
even as growth slowed in 2004 and even as the official consumer price index declined,
registeringan average deflation o f 0.3 in2004 and 2.0 percent at end-December.

6.      The economic recovery in 2003 and 2004 has been somewhat disappointing. Real GDP
rose to about 3 percent in 2003 and 2004. Such growth rate places Macedonia among the
slowest growing economies in ECA. Also, the recovery remains narrowly based on a few key
sectors andthe unemployment rate remains over 30 percent.

7.      The Government has reached an agreement in principle with the IMF on a new 3 year
Stand-by Arrangement. The program envisages a moderate fiscal expansion in 2005 to a deficit
o f 0.5 percent o f GDP. Growth appears to be picking up with the reopening o f steel mills under
new ownership and is now projected to increase to 3.7 percent in 2005. Steel exports are also
projected to contribute to a reduction in the current account deficit to 6.5 percent o f GDP in
2005. The debt service ratio i s projected to fall below 10 percent in2005 while the debt to GDP
ratio will remain under 40 percent. A resurgence in the privatization program i s expected to
boost privatization revenues which are projected to contribute to a build o f reserves to more
comfortable level o f 4 months o f imports in2006.

8.      Overall, the macroeconomic framework inFYR Macedonia i s satisfactory as per Section
2.02 (d)(B) o f the LoanAgreement.

ProgressApainst Tranche ReleaseCriteria

9.      The following report presents actions taken by the Government o f FYR Macedonia to
meet the specific conditions for release o f the second tranche o f the PSMAL. These conditions
are referred to in paragraph (d) o f Section 2.02 and specified in Schedule 3 o f the Loan
Agreement. The first tranche (US$ 10 million) was disbursed on August 17, 2004 following
loan effectiveness. An audit found the use o f the proceeds satisfactory. The second and final
tranche i s ready to be released now that the conditions specified in the Loan Agreement have
been satisfactorily hlfilled.

10.     The Government of FYR Macedonia has made satisfactory progress in carrying out the
program o f reforms in the Letter o f Development Policy and all the conditions for the second




                                                 2

tranche release referred to in paragraph (d) o f Section 2.02 and specified in Schedule 3 o f the
Loan Agreement have been met as follows:

Pursuant to the Memorandum of Understanding the Borrower has adopted new practices for
procurement of pharmaceuticals, exceptpharmaceuticals from the list agreed with the Bank,
and new supply contracts sufficient to meet the requirements of the Health Insurance Fund
(HIF)and healthcare institutionsfor pharmaceuticalsfor at least ayear have been concluded
by HIF.


 11.    The Government has complied with the procurement process specified in the
Memorandum o f Understanding (Annex 4A o f the Program Document). Bank-approvedbidding
documents were issued in November, 2004. On March 1, 2005, the Health Insurance Fund's
(HIF) Public Procurement Commission completed the bid evaluation process and informed all
bidders ofthe results. The Bank has reviewedthe Commission's report and found it satisfactory.

 12.    While the HIF achieved a savings o f 17% (e 8.57 million) compared to the previous
tender, the process was not as competitive as had been hoped. The number o f items receiving
multiple bids was considerably smaller than expected. Out o f a total o f 729 items subject to
tender, only 268 (37%) received multiple bids-either as part of complete lots or (inthe case o f
lots with fewer than two complete bids) on an item by item basis. A total o f 309 received only
one bid. 152 received no bids at all. Virtually all the savings achieved through the tender are
attributable to the competitive bids. Items receiving multiple bids declined inprice by a total o f
8.48 million. The net price reduction on items receiving a single bidwas only 66,000.

13.     Underthe FYRMacedonianprocurement law, items receivingless than two bids mustbe
retendered. Only after a second tender fails to produce additional bidders can negotiations with
the original bidder proceed. With the Bank's concurrence, the Ministry o f Finance has waived
this condition in order to allow immediate direct negotiations for items receiving only one bid.
The HIF's discretion in negotiating these bids is limited. The Procurement Complaints
Commission has ordered the HIFto accept the initial prices o f all bidders who have an exclusive
right to market the item in question inFYR Macedonia. Prices can only be negotiated in cases
where more thanone supplier has a marketingauthorization.

14.     Onthis basis, the HIFhas now signed contracts with 19 o f the 20 winners o f competitive
bids i.e, those on which multiple bids were received. (The remaining contract has been delayed
for technical reasons.) The total value o f these contracts i s 14.2 million or 31% o f the total
value o f the intemational tender. The HIF has also signed 16 contracts for items with a single
bidder and a single marketing authorization, with a total value o f  12.6 million. Contracts for
the remainingbids inthis category are inthe final stages of preparation and signing. The HIFis
preparingto rebidthe remainingitems; i.e. those that have more than one authorized supplier in
FYR Macedonia but received only one bid in the recent tender. This group consists of seventy
items with a total estimated value o f 2.6 million. On this basis, the condition i s considered
satisfied.




                                                3

 The HIFfinancial control systems audit has been completed and accepted by the Borrower's
Government and an actionplan based on audit recommendations satisfactory to the Bank has
been approved by the Government of the Borrower.

 15.     The HIF financial control systems audit has been completed and an action plan
satisfactory to the Bank and based on its findings has beenprepared. The action planprovides a
time-bound schedule for: (1) establishing an appropriate policy base for the reforms to the FYR
Macedonian health care system; (2) imposing fixed budget ceilings on health care institutions
(HCIs); (3) improving controls over HCI budget execution, reporting, reforecasting and the
treatment o f arrears; (4) establishing a preliminary set o f financial and service performance
indicators for all HCIs; (5) strengthening internal and external audit. The Government adopted
the audit and the actionplan inits May 12,2005 session. The condition i s considered satisfied.

 The Borrower has achieved satisfactory progress in the implementation of the wage
decompression time-bound actionplan agreed with the Bank.

 16.    The Government has complied with the actions listed in the wage decompression plan,
included as Attachment 5 o f the Agreed Minutes o f Negotiation. As specified inthe Plan, wage
decompression was to be implemented in equal installments over a 24 month period, ending in
April 2006. The Government is in full compliance with this timetable. The condition is
considered satisfied.

A state administration bodyfor public procurement, without a status of a separate legal entity
has been established within the Ministry of Finance and is fully operational with staf$
resources and terms of reference satisfactory to the Bank.

17.     A Public Procurement Board within the Ministry of Finance, responsible for drafting
legislation and regulations and overseeing procurement in 2,500 Government departments,
municipalities, extra budgetaryfunds and state-owned enterprises i s fully staffed and operational.
The conditionis considered satisfied.


                                            Conclusion

18.     Inview ofthe overall performance andprogress with the implementationo fthe program
supported by the Loan, and in compliance with the specific conditions o f release referred to in
paragraph (d) o f Section 2.02 and listed in Schedule 3 o f the Loan Agreement, the Bank has
informed the Borrower o f the availability o f the second tranche in the amount o f US$ 19.85
million.




                                               4

