                          Document of
                      The World Bank




                                                         Report No: 29426

            IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
                 (TF-24367 TF-26287 IDA-36280)

                             ON A

                            CREDIT

IN THE AMOUNT OF SDR 12.1 MILLION (US$15.0 MILLION EQUIVALENT)

                            TO THE

         FORMER YUGOSLAV REPUBLIC OF MACEDONIA

                            FOR A

    PUBLIC SECTOR MANAGEMENT ADJUSTMENT LOAN (PSMAC)




                          June 24, 2004

                               CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS

                         (Exchange Rate Effective February 3, 2004)

                                 Currency Unit = Denar
                                       1 Denar = US$ 0.02
                                         US$ 1 = 48.69 Denar

                                       FISCAL YEAR
                                  January 1    December 31

                           ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS




ACS       Agency for Civil Servants
BRM       National Bank of the Republic of Macedonia
CAS       Country Assistance Strategy
CFO       Chief Financial Officer
CIDA      Canadian International Development Agency
CM        Cabinet of Ministers
CPECS     Central Payroll and Employment Control System
CRCS      Central Registry of Civil Servants
DFID      Department for International Development (UK)
EU        European Union
FA        Framework Agreement
FESAL     Financial and Enterprise Sector
GO        Government Office
GS        General Secretariat
Hls       Health Institutions
HIF       Health Insurance Fund
IAS       International Accounting Standards
IDA       International Development Association
IFAC     International Federation of Agency Accountants
IMF      International Monetary Fund
INTOSAI  International Organization of Supreme Audit Institutions
I-PRSP   Interim Poverty Reduction Strategy Paper
MIGA     Multilateral Investment Guarantee Agency
MIS      Management Information System
MLSP     Ministry of Labor and Social Policies
MoF       Ministry of Finance
MoH       Ministry of Health
MoJ       Ministry of Justice
OECD      Organization for Economic Cooperation and Development
PDF       Pension and Disability Insurance Fund
PEIR      Public Expenditure and Institutional Review
PERTAP    Pension Reform Technical Assistance Program
PETS      Public Expenditure Tracking Survey
PHC       Primary Health Care

PIT     Personal Income Tax
PRO     Public Revenue Office
SAO     State Audit Office
SIDA    Swedish International Development Association
SRTAP   Social Reform Technical Assistance Project
SSAC    Social Section Adjustment Credit
SSP     Social Support Project
TA      Technical Assistance
TSA     Treasury Single Account
USAID   United States Agency forAgency International Development
VAT     Value Added Tax
WDR     World Development Report



                              Vice President:   Shigeo Katsu
                           Country Director     Orsalia Kalantzopoulos
                            Sector Manager      Cheryl Gray
          Task Team Leader/Task Manager:        William Dillinger

                  MACEDONIA, FORMER YUGOSLAV REPUBLIC OF
                                            PSMAC


                                         CONTENTS




                                                                              Page No.
1. Project Data                                                                    1
2. Principal Performance Ratings                                                   1
3. Assessment of Development Objective and Design, and of Quality at Entry         2
4. Achievement of Objective and Outputs                                            2
5. Major Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcome                            11
6. Sustainability                                                                12
7. Bank and Borrower Performance                                                 13
8. Lessons Learned                                                               14
9. Partner Comments                                                              15
10. Additional Information                                                       20
Annex 1. Key Performance Indicators/Log Frame Matrix                             21
Annex 2. Project Costs and Financing                                             22
Annex 3. Economic Costs and Benefits                                             24
Annex 4. Bank Inputs                                                             25
Annex 5. Ratings for Achievement of Objectives/Outputs of Components             26
Annex 6. Ratings of Bank and Borrower Performance                                27
Annex 7. List of Supporting Documents                                           288

Project ID: P066154                                                  Project Name: PSMAC
Team Leader: William R. Dillinger                                    TL Unit: ECSPE
ICR Type: Core ICR                                                   Report Date: June 24, 2004


1. Project Data
                   Name: PSMAC                                                    L/C/TF Number: TF-24367; TF-26287;
                                                                                                     IDA-36280
   Country/Department: FORMER YUGOSLAV REPUBLIC OF                                        Region: Europe and Central Asia
                            MACEDONIA                                                                Region

        Sector/subsector: Central government administration (74%); Compulsory pension and
                            unemployment insurance (13%); Health (13%)
                  Theme: Debt management and fiscal substainability (P); Administrative and
                            civil service reform (P); Other accountability/anti-corruption (S);
                            Public expenditure, financial management and procurement (S)


  KEY DATES                                                                  Original               Revised/Actual
           PCD: 09/22/2000                                     Effective:
     Appraisal: 09/14/2001                                         MTR:
      Approval: 04/09/2002                                      Closing:



    Borrower/Implementing Agency:          FYR Macedonia/Ministry of Finance, Ministry of Health, Civil Service Agency
                      Other Partners:

STAFF                           Current                                        At Appraisal
Vice President:                 Shigeo Katsu                                   Johannes Linn
Country Director:               Orsalia Kalantzopoulos                         Christiaan Poortman
Sector Manager:                 Helga W. Muller                                Helga Muller
Team Leader at ICR:             William Dillinger
ICR Primary Author:             William Dillinger
William Dillinger
2. Principal Performance Ratings

(HS=Highly Satisfactory, S=Satisfactory, U=Unsatisfactory, HL=Highly Likely, L=Likely, UN=Unlikely, HUN=Highly Unlikely,
HU=Highly Unsatisfactory, H=High, SU=Substantial, M=Modest, N=Negligible)

                           Outcome:        S
                      Sustainability:      L
   Institutional Development Impact:       SU
                 Bank Performance:         S
            Borrower Performance:          S


                                                      QAG (if available)             ICR
                                  Quality at Entry: S                                S
                     Project at Risk at Any Time: Yes

3. Assessment of Development Objective and Design, and of Quality at Entry

3.1 Original Objective:
The credit of US$15 million equivalent was a one- tranche operation in support of the medium-term reform
strategy of the Government in public sector management. The PSMAC credit aimed to set the basis for
sustained economic growth and improved service delivery in key social sectors. It sought to build key
institutions and to strengthen accountability, transparency and efficiency in the use of public resources
while sustaining macro-economic stability and fiscal discipline. These objectives were appropriate in the
context of country needs and consistent with the CAS.

3.2 Revised Objective:
The objectives were not revised

3.3 Original Components:
The PSMAC had three principal components:
Budget Management: Under this component, the project aimed to (1) improve strategic prioritization by
assisting the MOF to formulate the budget within an explicit macroeconomic framework, (2) strengthen
fiscal discipline and transparency by replacing the existing fragmented tax collection and government
payment system with a single treasury account and a modernized system of tax collection, while improving
the quality of management data, and (3) reduce unnecessary expenditures by divesting non-core activities.
To ensure these reforms would be sustained, the project also supported the restaffing and reorganization of
certain units of the Ministry of Finance (Treasury, Budget, and Internal Audit Department), the State Audit
Office, the General Secretariat and the Public Revenue Office.

Social sectors The PSMAC also focused on budget management issues in certain sectors. In the health
sector, it sought to create institutional capacity in HIF to help it better control public health expenditure.
This included improvements in budget planning and control (e.g., new guidelines for the presentation of the
HIF budget and the adoption of a new HIF general ledger) and a shift in the system for funding public
hospitals from one based on fixed allocations of inputs to one based on performance. In the social
protection sector, the PSMAC supported longer term measures to improve the targeting of unemployment
benefits and social assistance, and to ensure the fiscal sustainability of the pension system.

Civil service management reforms: This component aimed to establish the legal framework for a
professional, politically neutral, merit-based civil service, by creating an Agency for Civil Servants;
requiring Parliamentary enactment of Law on Civil Servants satisfactory to IDA; restructuring public
employment so as to better match skills with skill requirements, and restructuring the system of
remuneration to enhance the competitiveness of salaries.
3.4 Revised Components:
The components were not revised.

3.5 Quality at Entry:
Quality at entry was satisfactory. The PSMAC was specifically cited in the 1998 CAS, and directly
addressed the CAS objective of enhancing the efficiency of the state. The design of the project was based
on a thorough Public Expenditure and Institutional Review (completed in draft in 2000) which was
extensively discussed with the Government. Implementation risks were adequately assessed during
preparation In light of that assessment, PSMAC reforms were intended as an initial step in the
implementation of the PEIR recommendations, with the understanding that additional reforms would be
supported under follow-on operations.




                                                       - 2 -

4. Achievement of Objective and Outputs

4.1 Outcome/achievement of objective:
Overall, the project achieved many of its objectives. Improvements in treasury operations and tax
administration are particularly notable. While proposed reforms in budget formulation, civil service, and
health sector management were not fully implemented, the legislation and organizational changes put in
place under the PSMAC laid the groundwork for improvements that are being implemented under the
follow-on adjustment operation.Thus the project was rated satisfactory.

         The aims of PSMAC were fairly modest. While the PEIR identified a wide ranging reform agenda,
political and economic conditions during project preparation limited the extent of the Government's policy
freedom. Shortly after the Public Expenditure and Institutional Review was prepared, a civil conflict broke
out. This absorbed the Government's attention and made it difficult to undertake politically sensitive
measures. Once the conflict ended, the task of implementing the peace agreement then moved to the
forefront of the political agenda. The run up to new parliamentary elections in September 2003 further
disrupted policy reforms. Economic setbacks also limited the Government's policy freedom. GDP declined
4.5% in 2001 and grew by an anemic 0.9% in 2002.

                Table 1. Chronology of Major
                       PSMAC-Related Events
April 2000         Draft PEIR completed
September 2000    PSMAC concept review
October 2000      PSMAC begin preparation
July 2001         Civil conflict
September 2001    PSMAC appraisal
April 2002        PSMAC approved by Board
September 2002 Parliamentary elections
November 2002     Parliament approves new Govt
January 2003      Preparation of PSMAL begins
May 2003          PSMAC becomes effective
May 2004          PSMAL presented to Board


         At the time the project was prepared and appraised, its intent was therefore to support only initial
stages of reform. The Public Sector Management Adjustment Credit (PSMAC) was approved by the Board
of the World Bank on April 9, 2002. Due to the subsequent deterioration in the Government's fiscal
position, the Bank determined that Macedonia's macro framework was not satisfactory (as required by the
PSMAC conditions) and refused to sign the credit. Roughly one year later, the IMF signed a Standby
Arrangement with the Government (covering the 14 month period May 1, 2003- June 30, 2004). Largely on
that basis, the Bank determined that the Government was in compliance with the `satisfactory
macroeconomic framework' condition. The credit became effective May 16, 2003.

         Macroeconomic developments

         The macroeconomic program is broadly on track, and economic growth has been slowly
picking up since 2002. As shown in Table 2, GDP plummeted in 2001 as a result of FYR
Macedonia's civil conflict. Post-conflic recovery was slower than expected, though. Real GDP
grew by 0.9 percent as investment remained sluggish, and imports surged while exports remained
depressed. In 2003, growth intensified and registered at 3.1 percent, partly as a result of the
re-opening of large steel exporting companies and expansion in the service industry. FYR Macedonia



                                                    - 3 -

became a full WTO member in April 2003. The de facto peg to the euro continued to hold inflation to
low single digits. In 2004, real GDP growth is projected to further accelerate and reach four
percent. In addition to a positive fiscal stimulus that the 2004 budget is designed to provide, there
are also signs of recovery in Macedonian food and textile sectors.

         Assuming continuing improvements in regional and domestic stability and strong policy
performance, the medium-term outlook is positive. With progress in structural reforms and an
external environment conducive to improved trade and capital flows, economic growth is
projected to increase to 5 percent by 2007. There is a significant potential for growth in all
sectors, since the value added in 2003 was still below the level in 1990 and there is significant
underutilized capacity in production and labor. The industrial sector is expected to be the driver
for growth, though. Continuing with the current exchange rate regime and proper monetary and
fiscal policies will provide the necessary macroeconomic stability with average annual inflation
about 2-3 percent.

                   Table 2. FYR Macedonia Macroeconomic Indicators
                                                        1998 1999 2000 2001 2002 2003
Real GDP growth rate                                     3.4  4.3   4.5   -4.5  0.9   3.1
Gross domestic investment, as % of GDP                  22.3 19.7 21.4 18.3 19.7 21.8
Gross domestic savings, as % of GDP                      7.4  9.7   7.4   5.2   0.5   3.0
General Government revenues, as % of GDP                33.3 35.4 36.2 34.0 34.9 33.2
General Government expenditures, as % of GDP            35.0 35.4 34.4 41.1 40.5 34.9
General Government balance, as % of GDP                 -1.7  0.0   1.8   -7.2 -5.6 -1.7
Public debt, as % of GDP                                52.0 57.4 53.2 51.6 47.7 44.5
Unemployment rate                                       34.5 32.4 32.2 30.5 31.9 36.7
Current account balance, including grants, as % of      -7.6 -0.9 -2.0 -7.1 -8.6 -6.1
GDP
Inflation, annual average                                0.8  -1.1  5.8   5.5   1.8   1.2



4.2 Outputs by components:

Budget Management

Development of Budget Management Institutions. With respect to budget reform, the PSMAC aimed at
developing a budget process within which meaningful policy tradeoffs would be made within a fiscal
framework. The legislative basis for these reforms (a new Law on Budget and Financial Management and
new Rules of Procedure for the Operation of the Government of Macedonia) were enacted in 2000 and
2001, respectively. It was recognized that that implementation of these legislation would require
restructuring and adequate staffing in the agencies responsible for budget formulation. Prior to Board, the
Ministry of Finance and the General Secretariat prepared strategic plans designed to ensure that their
organizations would be equipped to deliver on the stronger policy and fiscal management role envisioned by
the new legislation. As a condition of Board presentation, the Minister of Finance was required to approve
the implementation of the ministry's plan. The Government was required to endorse a shift in mandate and
restructuring of the General Secretariat. Board conditions (i.e., actions required prior to presentation to the
Board) also committed the Government to increase staffing in key agencies, including the budget
department, treasury, internal audit, state audit office and the public administration reform (PAR) unit.




                                                      - 4 -

While the restructuring plans were approved, their implementation has lagged. The aide memoire of the
first post-election supervision mission (January 2003) noted that `the (General) Secretariat has regained
considerable momentum in transforming itself from a purely administrative to a more strategic and analytic
organization...However, the critical success factor for the organization will be the acceptance and
observance in practice by Government of the proposed planning system. This has been a gradual process.
While the General Secretariat was instrumental in defining the criteria for selecting new policy initiatives
for the 2004 budget, for example, its role in selecting the programs to be actually funded was secondary to
that of the MOF and the IMF.

Strengthening Control of the Wage Bill. The 2002 PEIR identified the public sector wage bill as an area
of potential high risk. At that time, wage expenditures from the general fund and from special revenues
routinely exceeded budgeted levels and had been resistant to expenditure reduction initiatives. Formal rules
exist to control wages and staffing levels government-wide, but in practice line ministries exercise
discretion in setting individual salaries, workforce composition, and levels. As a condition of PSMAC
Board presentation, the MOF was required to create and operationalize a data base on employment and
salaries, linking individual salary payments to a registry of public employees by budget user. This would
enable the MOF to monitor and track salary levels across all budget entities and to exercise appropriate
budgetary control at the aggregate ministry level. According to the CFAA, significant progress has been
made. The employee database now includes staff from all budget entity users and selected agencies. Under
recent legislation, Treasury must be given prior notification of all staff changes (recruitments, retirements,
long term disabilities, layoffs, and promotions) before salary payment orders can be processed.

Development of Treasury Functions. Efforts to improve budget execution were more successful. This
effort focused on the consolidation of the former bureau of payments operations (ZPP) into a single
treasury account within the Ministry of Finance. According to the Bank's recent CFAA , the Treasury
Department has made substantial progress since assuming responsibility for revenue recording and
payment processing from ZPP in January 2002. Sixteen district treasury offices now receive transaction
details from their designated budget entities, code these transactions and send them to the centralized
database in Skopje. Treasury then validates the requests against the monthly budget plans submitted by the
entity, checks that there are sufficient funds in the account to cover the payment, and then authorizes the
payment by the National Bank of Macedonia (NBM). Payment instruments include: payments to funds,
non-budgetary entities, other budget entities (internal settlements) and taxes; refunds to persons and
entities; and cash withdrawals. The Treasury system has a direct connection to the central bank's system.
All budgetary transactions, special revenues and donor funds now are deposited in the Treasury Single
Account. EBFs, some agencies and public enterprises do not use the TSA and use private sector banks,
however. This issue is being addressed under the PSMAL.

Development of External Audit Function. While a law creating the State Audit Office (SAO) was passed
in 1997, progress in its implementation was slow as the office was severely understaffed and vulnerable to
political pressure. As a condition of Board presentation, amendments to the Audit law, ensuring the
independence of the SAO and clarifying its reporting requirements were approved by Parliament.
According to the recent CFAA, staffing shortages persist. "With a staff of 46 at the beginning of 2003 (up
from 25 in January 2002), the SAO can audit approximately 10 percent of the audit universe annually.
This audit coverage is insufficient to audit the audit universe in any realistic number o f years, and the
SAO has stated in it s most recent report that this coverage does not permit it to express an opinion o f the
fairness o f the government's final budget execution report." SAO management indicated that they had
planned to double their staff complement in the current year through a combination of donor funds (10 new
staff) and budget increase (34 new staff). However, staff increases have been partially constrained by
budgetary and staffing restrictions imposed by MOF on all budget entities.


                                                       - 5 -

The more recent analysis suggests that what is now necessary is to focus the attention of the
SAO. While the SAO produces audits of sound quality, its mandate is extremely broad. The law requires
audits of 1,752 separate entities, of which 240 must be audited annually. As a result, the SAO's efforts are
spread too thin. A more risk-based approach to the choice of entities to be audited is required. Dutch Trust
Funds are now supporting efforts to improve the SAO's strategic planning, along with staff training,
development of audit manuals, and improvements in legislation governing financial reporting. As a Board
condition of the PSMAL, legislation permitting the State Audit Office to focus on budget entities that
present high fiduciary risks was enacted by Parliament on March 26, 2004.

Strengthening tax collection.      On the revenue side, the Government aimed to complete the ZPP reform
and transfer its tax collection and management functions to the Public Revenue Office (PRO. In February
2001, the Parliament adopted the law on ZPP transformation and the law establishing the authority of the
Public Revenue Office (PRO) for revenue collection. By Board presentation, the PRO, the MLSP and the
MOH had been successfully assuming ZPP functions based on an agreed action plan. The PRO also
planned to undertake an ambitious plan to reduce arrears in VAT collection. By Board presentation, the
PRO, MLSP, and MOH were to successfully assume the ZPP functions based on an agreed action plan.
The PRO was also to develop a performance monitoring system for both VAT and non-VAT collections.

According to the CFAA, the PRO has successfully established a sound tax revenue collection system. The
organization has approximately 1300 staff in headquarters and six regional offices across the country. The
collection and accounting system is modern and sophisticated, utilizing the banking sector for all
payments, and recording daily transaction details in the payment system. All enterprises in the country are
required to register with the registration court and with PRO, where they are assigned a unique business
registration number for all tax-related banking purposes. PRO collects no cash; all transactions are carried
out through the banks. Daily cash balances are transferred to the National Bank o f Macedonia and the
Treasury transfers the taxpayer information to PRO systems. Revenue control risk is thus minimized.
Treasury receipts are reconciled on a daily basis to PRO registers o f individual taxpayer payments to the
Banks. Adjustments to taxpayer accounts are approved at both the regional level, by the regional director
following prescribed procedures, and at headquarters.

Nevertheless , tax arrears continue to be a problem. They are of two types. The first relates to arrears of
ZPP that are administered by the Agency for Blocked Accounts. These arrears are for insolvent companies
that are undergoing bankruptcy proceedings in the courts, and for which some repayment is possible. The
second component is VAT arrears from companies undergoing current financial difficulties and who have
elected not to pay their VAT remittances. IMF has estimated the total 2002 arrears at 3.8 billion denars,
an increase of almost 100 percent over 2001 levels. PRO closely monitors these arrears, initiating
collections whenever conditions permit. From this perspective, it would appear that the procedural
improvement supported by the PSMAC have been successful--it is the willingness to enforce penalties
from the second category of delinquents that is lacking.

Modernization of Budget Process. Over the medium term, it was expected that these reforms would permit
the Government to implement budget process improvements, including the use of an explicit
macroeconomic framework for budget formulation, with revenue and expenditure targets, spending
priorities, and hard budget constraints for major budget users. At the time the PSMAC was appraised,
these were not expected to be reflected in the 2002 budget. (The PSMAC merely required an
`IDA-acceptable' budget for 2002.) At the time the operation was prepared, it was expected that they
would be incorporated in the 2003 budget. Although the 2003 budget process, begun in 2002, did



                                                     - 6 -

incorporate a number of the recommended improvements, it fell short in many respects. The Government
never approved a fiscal strategy. Specific budget user expenditure ceilings were not set. Budget users
disregarded the general expenditure guidelines that were provided in the budget circular. During budget
execution, moreover, many budget user exceeded their approved budget allocations Ministers made
unauthorized commitments, (particularly in the immediate post-election period. The new government,
which took office on November 1, 2002 did follow through on these reform, under pressure from the
follow-on PSMAL operation then under preparation. Formulation of the 2004 budget within an explicit
macroeconomic framework, with revenue and expenditure targets, spending priorities, and hard budget
ceilings for major budget users were explicit conditions of PSMAL Board presentation and were met.

Implementation of Fiscal Impact Assessment. PSMAC conditionality also required the Government to
adopt a methodology for costing all policy proposals (laws, regulations, resolutions). A process was put in
place at the end of 2001 whereby every proposal submitted to the Government had to be accompanied by a
fiscal impact assessment and, for those that were found to have fiscal impacts, an opinion by the Ministry
of Finance. This practice was ignored in the immediate post-election period, however and its application
continues to be sporadic. Items continue to be presented directly to the Government without prior analysis
or opinion by the Ministry of Finance. The January supervision mission, moreover, found that even when it
was applied, there was no evidence that it was producing accurate estimates of policy costs, or that its
findings had any impact on policy.

Divestment of non-core activities. As part of a strategy to close extraneous Government functions, the
PSMAC required the Government to approve a divestment plan for non-core activities. Despite extensive
functional analyses, few candidates emerged. This condition was met, primarily through the divestment of
catering and other common services functions. Initial evidence indicates that projected savings have not
materialized.

Budget Management in the Health Sector

Introduction of perspective global budget contracts for health institutions. The PSMAC included two
Board conditions aimed at improving budget management in the health sector. The first called for a shift in
the financial relationship between the Health Insurance Fund (HIF) and individual health institutions. The
HIF has until now reimbursed public health institutions for various input costs (wage bill, utilities bills, et
cetera), up to arbitrary limits determined by its cash constraint, and without agreed budget plans at the
outset of the fiscal year. In future, the HIF would provide funding on the basis of global budgets agreed in
contracts at the beginning of each fiscal year. These would allow health institutions some degree of
discretion over the allocation of spending across economic categories within limits, and in addition pay
modest performance bonuses, based on monitoring of agreed performance indicators. As a condition of
Board presentation, the HIF was to develop such contracts for all health institutions for 2002.

While the Government provided evidence of its compliance with this condition prior to Board presentation,
this information was not correct. The Letter of Development Policy sent by the GOM in March 2002 stated
that the HIF had completed the process of contracting health institutions on the basis of annual global
budgets, with performance indicators for each public hospital included in the contracts. In evidence, the
HIF supplied to the Bank a copy of a bylaw allegedly approved by the HIF board governing contracts with
HIs. In reality, the bylaw was not published in the Official Gazette and the contracts were not implemented
in 2002. Furthermore, although the HIF board did approve a bylaw on contracts with hospitals in April
2002, the Macedonian language bylaw approved by the HIF board is substantively different from the
version presented to the Bank as evidence, and contained a number of unacceptable and unimplementable
provisions. This issue was brought to the attention of the new Government during the first PSMAL


                                                     - 7 -

identification mission. Revised conditionality, requiring performance contracts for the seventeen largest
health care institutions, is incorporated in the PSMAL.

Budget Planning and Control. The PSMAC also aimed to improve budget planning and control in the HIF
and to integrate review and presentation of the HIF budget into the Government's budget process. As a
condition for Board presentation, the Health Insurance Fund (HIF) was to adopt new guidelines for the
presentation of its 2002 budget satisfactory to the Ministry of Finance and a new structure for its general
ledger satisfactory to IDA. The HIF did adopt acceptable guidelines for the presentation of its 2002 budget
and a new general ledger satisfactory to the MOF and IDA. The HIF's budget has been submitted to the
MOF and presented to Parliament alongside the general budget since 2002It used this chart of accounts for
the 2002 budget and for 2003 budget plans. However, the 2001 State Audit Office (SAO) report on the
HIF indicates that not all revenues and expenditures of the HIF were properly recorded in its accounts.
Moreover, the HIF has not taken steps to ensure actual expenditures are in line with its budget; and appears
to have accumulated increased arrears to the private sector. Extensive additional hiring of personnel
appears to have taken place in the public health sector in 2003 that is out of line with initial budget plans.

Budgeting and Policy Reform in Social Protection

Introduction of Second Pension Pillar. FYR Macedonia's national pension system is actuarially unsound,
due to the large number of pensioners retiring at a relatively young age and a generous benefit structure. To
increase the viability of the system, the PSMAC supported the creation of a second pillar, which would be
mandatory for new hires and voluntary for existing workers and would be defined- contribution-based and
privately managed. By Board presentation, a law on authorizing the second pillar was to be presented to
Parliament and a critical path analysis was to have been adopted. These actions were implemented. The
Law on Mandatory Fully Funded Pension Insurance was enacted in April 2002 and a Pension Supervisory
Agency was established the following August. A director was appointed and key regulations have been
issued, including the Statute of the Pension Supervisory Agency (PSA), and regulations regarding the PSA
organizational structure, organization of public tenders, custodian and marketing fees, investment,
evaluation, and conflicts of interest were approved.

Subsequent discussions within the Bank identified several important obstacles to the introduction of the
second pillar. The first was the financing of transition costs, as contributions to the first pillar will fall once
the second pillar is introduced. The second was identification of suitable investment strategies for the
second pillar, and the development of any necessary domestic financial instruments. The Bank informed the
Government of these essential preconditions in a letter from the country director. Further action on the
development of the second pillar has been put off until these preconditions are satisfied.

Employment Assistance Program. To strengthen the effectiveness of the employment assistance program
administration, MLSP prepared a multi-year action plan which would rationalize the unemployment
registration system, improve financial management and internal control, streamline benefit delivery, and
establish a set of performance monitoring indicators. By Board presentation, substantial progress was to
have been made on its implementation. While some progress was made, its impact has been negligible.
Employment Bureau staff are largely preoccupied with the administration of health insurance coupons to
the registered unemployed. Efforts to relieve them of this burden (through technical and procedural
reforms) are supported by the PSMAL.

Civil service reforms

In order to create a professional, politically neutral, meritocratic civil service, the Government undertook


                                                        - 8 -

two sets of actions. First, it established a legal framework for a professional, politically neutral,
merit-based civil service. This included the creation of an arms-length organization (Agency for Civil
Servants) reporting to Parliament to oversee implementation of the law and a new points system for
determining salaries, which would make systematic distinctions between position and structure
remuneration (particularly at higher levels of civil service) to enhance competitiveness of salaries.
Subsidiary legislation was put in place spelling out, among other things, the criteria, standards, and
procedures for the employment and selection of civil servants, as well as procedures and criteria for
evaluating the performance of individual civil servants. Enactment of the Law on Civil Servants was a core
condition of Board presentation.

While the legislative and regulatory framework for civil service reform was successfully enacted, some of
its core provisions were not implemented. The CSA did establish a "Books of Rules" for each ministry,
defining the organization charts and staffing requirements of each unit. But sectoral ministries and other
public institutions were still able to bypass the recruitment provisions of the Civil Service law, hiring staff
for civil service positions without competitive exams or review by the CSA, despite the provisions of the
law and its subsidiary legislation,. The new wage structure, moreover, was not implemented. Salary
decompression was originally scheduled to occur in 2002. Due to its fiscal consequences, the date was
postponed until 2003 and then until 2004, and then further postponed during budget negotiations with the
IMF.

These problems are addressed under the follow-on PSMAL operation. To enforce civil service recruitment
rules, the MOF is to introduce a screening process, under which staff recruited for civil service cannot be
added to the MOF payroll system unless the CSA has confirmed that the required recruitment procedures
have been observed. (This is a condition for PSMAL board presentation.) Implementation of the new wage
structure for civil servants is to begin in April 2004 and to be completed two years later.

Dutch Trust Fund

To assist in the implementation of PSMAC reforms, the Dutch Government provided a grant of USD 3.78
million to the Government. The Grant agreement was signed on December 19, 2000 with a closing date of
December 31, 2002. Within the broad framework of public sector reform, the Grant was intended to
provide both international and local expertise, necessary goods and services and training to the Ministry of
Finance (including the Treasury and Budget Departments), the Ministry of Health, the Health Insurance
Fund, the State Audit Office and the Pension and Disability Insurance Fund for the following activities:
The initial allocation to these categories is shown in Table 2. This allocation was subsequently revised,
with the concurrence of the Dutch government, to reflect the unexpected availability of additional donor
financing and the cancellation of a planned World Bank technical assistance project. In late 2001, the US
Government, through its agency for international development (USAID) committed a substantial amount of
funds to the Ministry of Finance for public sector reforms. These newly available funds required the
restructuring of the Dutch grant in order to avoid overlaps and duplication in the assistance provided by the
Bank and USAID. As shown in Table 3, Dutch trust fund allocations for the financial management
component were sharply reduced to accommodate USAID financing and reallocated to activities which
were to have been financed by a World Bank technical assistance program.




                                                       - 9 -

                       Table 3. Allocation of Dutch Trust Fund (US$) among Activities
                                                                                                  Initial         Re-
                                                                                                  Allocation      allocation
    1. Financial Management Information System and Budget reform                                        1,415,350    561,075
     a. Financial Management Information System (FMIS)                                                   654,250      93,375
     b. Budget process reform                                                                            674,100     365,700
     c. Project Implementation Unit (PIU) support                                                         87,000     102,000
    2. Public Pension Fund Administration                                                               1,040,750 1,000,750
    3. Health Reforms                                                                                    549,125     365,125
     a. Health insurance Fund reforms                                                                    385,125     365,125
     b. Public Expenditure Tracking Survey (PETS) in the Health sector                                   164,000           0
    4. Strengthening of the State Audit Office (SAO)                                                     650,135     603,410
    5. Activities carried over from the World Bank PSMAC TA                                                          940,000
     a. Health reform                                                                                                480,000
     b. Social protection                                                                                            180,000
     c. Financial management                                                                                         280,000
    6. New activities (budget reform)                                                                                185,000
    7. Unallocated ­ contingency                                                                         100,000     100,000
    TOTAL                                                                                               3,755,360 3,755,360

As of December 31, 2002, only $546,517 (14% of the grant amount) had been disbursed. The slow pace of
disbursements in part reflects the slower than expected progress in the reforms. The 2001 security crisis
and the 2002 elections also diverted Government attention from the program. Problems in the PIU were
another source of delay. PIU staff complained of the low level of wages and the unwillingness of the PIU
director to delegate responsibility for procurement and disbursement decisions. Six months prior to the
scheduled closing of the Trust Fund, all three PIU staff had quit. After the change in Government, a new
PIU director was appointed and new staff were hired. Work on defining terms of reference and contracting
consultants resumed. As of March 2004, eight tasks were under implementation, as shown in Table 4.


                          Table 4. Status of Major Activities Financed With Dutch Trust Funds
            Imple-
            menting
            agency                            Task                         Status as of March 2004
         MOF         Procurement reform                                    Contract signed, work underway
         MOF         Internal audit advisor                                Contract signed, work underway
         MOF         Financial management training center                  Government to draft TORs
         PDF         Financial management reform                           Contract signed, work halted
         PDF         IT procurement                                        Contract signed, work underway
         HIF         Pharmaceutical procurement                            Contract signed, work underway
         HIF         External systems audit                                Contract signed, work underway
         HIF/MOLSA Health insurance coupon administration                  Contract signed, work underway
                     Policy options to expand number of contributors and
                     contributions base for health insurance, pensions, and
         HIF/MOLSA other social insurance                                  Government to draft TORs
                     Equipment for training in hospital contracting and    Government procuring goods
         MOF PCU     revenue collection training
         MOF PCU     Public information campaign on contracting and        Government (HIF) redrafting TORs
                     pharmaceutical reforms
         HIF/MOH     Foreign consultant to advise on privatization of      Government drafting TORs
                     dentistry and pharmacy
         MLSP        Social protection beneficiary assessment              Government drafting TORs
         SAO         Organizational strengthening                          Contract signed, work underway




                                                                   - 10 -

4.3 Net Present Value/Economic rate of return:
NA

4.4 Financial rate of return:
NA

4.5 Institutional development impact:
While the PSMAC's immediate institutional development impact was modest, the operation provided the
legislative basis for more noticeable reforms to follow. As shown in Table 5, the most significant reforms
fully completed prior to the closing date of the PSMAC were the consolidation of Government financial
operations (other than those of the extra-budgetary funds) into a single treasury account and the creation of
a modern system for tax collection in the form of the PRO. PSMAC conditions did provide the basis for
major subsequent reforms in budget formulation, external audit, hospital contracting, and civil service
recruitment and wages, which are supported under the follow-on PSMAL operation. PSMAC-supported
reforms in the pension system may be supported under subsequent adjustment operations. In addition,
Dutch Trust Fund-supported technical assistance is supporting reforms in procurement (and
pharmaceutical procurement in particular), internal audit, external audit, collection and administration of
health and social assistance contributions, and the targeting of social assistance benefits.

                           Table 5. Summary of Impact of PSMAC Subcomponents
              Subcomponent                                               Impact
                                          Budget Management
                                        Mandate of General Secretariat expanded, but impact on budget
Development of budget institutions      formulation remains limited
Control of wage bill                    Wage and employment data base operational
Development of treasury function        Budgetary entities operations fully integrated into single treasury
                                        account
Development of external audit functions SAO law enacted, providing independence and clarifying reporting
                                        requirements, but SAO remains understaffed, unfocused
Strengthening tax collection            PRO, MLSP and MOH fully assume ZPP function; PRO fully
                                        functional, but tax arrears remain a problem
Modernization of budget process         Budget reforms delayed until 2004 budget
Fiscal Impact Assessments               Forms and procedures defined, but little impact on policy formulation
Divestment of Non-core Activities       Initial round of divestments completed with little fiscal benefits
                                       Health and Social Protection
Performance Contracts for health
institutions                            Enabling legislation enacted and contracts signed in mid-2003
                                        New budget format and general ledger adopted, but budget planning
HIF Planning and Control                remains weak and budget execution remains uncontrolled
                                        Laws enabling second pillar enacted, regulatory agency established,
                                        key regulations approved but key issues (transition costs, investment
Introduction of second pension pillar   strategy) remain unresolved.
Employment Assistance Program           Action plan formulated but not implemented
                                          Civil Service Reform
Implementation of new recruitment       Enabling legislation passed and CSA established but recruitment
procedures                              procedures widely evaded until enforcement mechanism introduced
Rationalization and decompression of
salaries                                New salary structure approved but not implemented until 2004




5. Major Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcome

5.1 Factors outside the control of government or implementing agency:
Outside factors generally adversely affected the project. An open conflict over ethnic issues which broke
out in the summer of 2001 absorbed the Government's attention and made it difficult to undertake
politically sensitive measures. Once the conflict ended, the task of implementing the peace agreement then
moved to the forefront of the political agenda. New parliamentary elections in September 2003 resulted in a



                                                                       - 11 -

change of Government, further disrupting policy reforms. Economic setbacks also limited the
Government's policy freedom. GDP declined 4.5% in 2001 and grew by an anemic 0.9% in 2002. The
September elections did, however, usher in a new Government which was pledged to fight corruption. With
this mandate, the new administration was able to implement several PSMAC reforms that had defied the
previous administration.

5.2 Factors generally subject to government control:
Government recalcitrance also contributed to the delays and failures to achieve project objectives. The
failure to introduce budget process reforms (until 2004) reflected the outgoing Government's preference for
more opaque methods of resource allocation. The failure to follow through on budget management reform
in the health sector was similarly deliberate, although it presumably reflects the influence of vested interests
which would be harmed by the reforms. By the same token, Government commitment largely explains the
successes. The successful transformation of the ZPP into a separate Treasury and Public Revenue Office
reflects the Government commitment to these two reforms, along with the fortuitous availability of a highly
capable senior staff and technical assistance provided by a US Treasury adviser, who helped the MoF to
develop a simple, computerized treasury system...

The successful enactment of civil service reforms is an exception to this pattern. Government commitment
to civil service reform was weak throughout project preparation. Success is instead largely explained by the
efforts of a senior civil servant, who spearheaded the reforms despite Government opposition. The key civil
servant resigned just before the civil service legislation was enacted, in part due to what she viewed as
dwindling Government support. The Bank was able to salvage her efforts through the PSMAC condition.
Ironically, discontinuity of staff actually contributed to the success of many of these reforms, as the staff
brought in by the new administration were generally more committed to the PSMAL reforms than those
they replaced. The staff person who spearheaded the Treasury reform is now the state secretary of finance;
the advocate of civil service reform is now the director of the civil service agency.


5.3 Factors generally subject to implementing agency control:
The PSMAC reforms were implemented by Government departments and agencies, rather than by separate
a separate implementing unit. The main interlocutors were the Ministry of Finance (budget and revenue)
and the Ministry of Justice (civil service reform). A separate PIU was established in the Ministry of
Finance PIU to administer the Dutch Trust Fund. Discontinuity of staff in the PIU did hamper the
operation of this unit. In virtually all cases, the process of completing terms of reference and contracting
consultants was paralyzed for six months after the departure of the PIU staff, and only resumed after the
new staff were in place. (The new team has performed excellently.) These problems in the PIU were not
decisive in determining the success or failure of individual reforms. It was Government commitment, rather
than technical assistance, that was the decisive factor.

5.4 Costs and financing:
The original credit amount was SDR 12 million, equivalent to USD 15 million. The credit was made on
standard IDA terms with a maturity of 35 years including a grace period of ten years.

6. Sustainability

6.1 Rationale for sustainability rating:
Project sustainability is rated as likely. Those subcomponents that were successfully implemented continue
to benefit from Government political support. Commitment to rapid EU accession--both by the
Government and the opposition--will sustain the pressure for improvement in public sector management,
even if domestic support for individual measures occasionally drops. This will be reinforced by conditions



                                                       - 12 -

imposed by follow-on adjustment operations.

None of the components is dependent upon one-time source of financing (whose absence might otherwise
constitute a sustainability risk). All implementing agencies are permanent Government entities, and are
therefore not subject to extinction once the project closes.

6.2 Transition arrangement to regular operations:
As noted above, none of the reforms are dependent upon extraordinary financing or temporary
governmental organizations. (The two-person PIU is supported by Dutch trust funds, but is not critical to
the sustainability of reforms once they are enacted.) Therefore, the issue of transition to regular operations
does not arise.

7. Bank and Borrower Performance

Bank
7.1 Lending:
As described earlier, quality at entry was satisfactory. The project was based on a thorough Public
Expenditure and Institutional Review (completed in draft in 2000), which was extensively discussed with
the Government. The project's ambitions were suitably modest, given the unsettled security situation that
prevailed during project preparation, and the unevenness of Government commitment to reform.

In retrospect, the Bank may have been too optimistic in judging the Government's commitment to reform in
the health sector. As discussed earlier, project conditionality required the HIF to adopt global budgets for
all health care institutions. The misleading documentation that the Government submitted to demonstrate
compliance with this condition indicates a fundamental lack of commitment to this subcomponent--and
perhaps insufficient skepticism on the part of the Bank.

From a technical standpoint, the Bank may also have erred in forcing the pace of pension reform. As noted
earlier, the PSMAC required the Government to adopt the legal and organizational underpinnings of a
second pension pillar. Subsequent analysis showed that the essential preconditions for a successful second
pillar were not yet in place and would not be for some time. The apparent reversal in the Bank's position
antagonized the MLSP as well as the donors that had championed the second pillar. No lasting damage was
done, however. As the second pillar remains a key element in restoring the actuarial soundness of the
pension system, the laws and organizations established under the PSMAC will eventually be put to good
use.

7.2 Supervision:
In the twenty month interval between Board approval and project closing, the Bank conducted five
supervision missions (all but one of which were combined with identification and preparation missions for
the follow-on PSMAL operation). There was nevertheless a hiatus in supervision between July 2002 and
January 2003, due to the change in Government. (Elections were held in September, 2002 and Parliament
approved the new cabinet in November. The first post-election supervision mission was in January 2003.
As a result, problems in implementing the reforms did not become apparent until well after the scheduled
date of project closing. (As discussed earlier, the project's closing date was eventually extended to the end
of December 2003.)

The Bank's decision to refrain from signing the credit created an anomalous situation during the months
following Board approval. The Bank's position was prompted by the Government's decision to
substantially increase public sector wages; an action which clearly threatened the country's macroeconomic
prospects. As all the Board conditions had ostensibly been met prior to Board presentation, the Bank's



                                                      - 13 -

decision was, in effect, retroactive--although entirely consistent with the terms of the loan agreement. Once
the country's economic situation improved, Bank management had to decide whether it would continue to
regard the Government's original compliance with the remaining Board conditions as binding, or whether
these should be reappraised. Despite some evidence of Government backsliding on the initial Board
conditions, Bank management chose the former route. This was justified on the grounds that (1) a failure to
sign would jeopardize relations with the new Government and (2) any backsliding could be addressed
through the follow on PSMAL operation. At signing, the Bank informed the Government that PSMAL
conditions would be designed to thwart backsliding (by requiring, for example, the enactment of legislation
rather than merely the approval of regulations) and would be strictly monitored.

7.3 Overall Bank performance:
Taking the above factors into account, overall Bank performance was satisfactory.

Borrower
7.4 Preparation:
The Government's contribution to preparation was uneven. This is partly explained by the political
conditions under which the project was prepared. As noted earlier, preparation occurred in the aftermath of
the 2001 civil conflict and shortly before Parliamentary elections. Implementing the peace agreement and
preparations for the campaign consumed much of the Government's attention. Political conflicts also
existed within the Government, particularly between two key ministries responsible for implement PSMAC
reforms: the Ministry of Justice (civil service reform) and the Ministry of Finance (budget and treasury
reform.) Support--both political and technical--therefore varied among subcomponents. It was strongest
for the treasury and PRO components, weaker for the civil service component, and all but absent for
reforms in the health sector.

7.5 Government implementation performance:
Implementation performance was equally uneven. The full implantation of reforms in the Treasury were
largely accomplished by Board presentation. Implementation of reforms in the PRO followed soon after.
But implementation of the new civil service and health sector reforms was delayed for nearly two years,
and only occurred after both reforms became Board conditions for the follow on PSMAL operation.

7.6 Implementing Agency:
Implementation of PSMAC reforms involved several different Government entities, including the Ministry
of Finance's treasury and budget departments, the Ministry of Justice, the General Secretariat, the State
Audit Office, Public Revenue Office, and the Civil Service Agency. Performance by the Treasury and the
PRO was highly satisfactory. Performance by the other entities was generally weaker, as noted earlier.
Implementation performance by the HIF was particularly poor.

Responsibility for managing the PSMAC's Dutch Trust Fund was assigned to a project implementation
unit. The PIU essentially disbanded six months prior to the scheduled closing of the DTF. It was revived
after the DTF was extended, and has performed excellently since that time.

7.7 Overall Borrower performance:
Taking into account the Government's performance in project preparation and implementation, the overall
Borrower's performance is rated as marginally satisfactory. It should be noted that this rating applies with
particular force to the administration that was in office until November, 2002. The performance of the new
administration is a considerable improvement.

8. Lessons Learned



                                                     - 14 -

    At first glance, the PSMAC experience would appear to confirm the familiar adage that Government
    commitment is essential to reform--and that reforms should not be attempted where Government
    commitment is lacking. The PSMAC experience also suggests that politically difficult reforms should not
    be undertaken in the aftermath of civil conflicts or during the run-up to elections.

    If these lessons had been observed the PSMAC would never have been attempted. No management reforms
    would have been discussed until at least January 2003 and the most politically controversial
    reforms--particularly in civil service and health care--would still remain off the reform agenda. The reform
    process would have suffered a hiatus of at least 18 month and would still be missing critical elements. This
    would have been unfortunate.

    In retrospect, the PSMAL experience suggests a more nuanced set of lessons. It suggests that while
    unanimous Government support for reform is desirable, Bank efforts should not be delayed until it exists.
    Within the Government, there were advocates for reform and opponents to it. Bank support to
    reformers--combined with the prospect of a substantial loan on IDA terms and a series of follow-on
    operations--appears to have been instrumental in advancing the reform agenda. (The enactment of the
    legislative framework for civil service reform is a conspicuous example of this.)

    The PSMAC also supports the case for programmatic adjustment lending. Although the follow-on
    operations (PSMAL, PSAL1 and PSAL2) are structured as independent operations, they provide a means
    to ensure that reforms introduced under the PSMAC are sustained and extended.


    9. Partner Comments

    (a) Borrower/implementing agency:




REPUBLIC OF MACEDONIA
 MINISTRY OF FINANCE
       S k o p j e


To:      The World Bank Resident Office in the Republic of Macedonia

Attn:    Ms. Sandra Bloemenkamp, Country Manager
         Resident Mission in Macedonia
         Europe and Central Asia Region

Fax:          3117-627




                                                         - 15 -

                                                                                June 18, 2004




      Re: Comments on the Draft Implementation Completion Report for the Public Sector
                                   Management Adjustment Credit




Dear Mrs. Bloemenkamp,

According to your letter dated May 17, 2004 we hereby send our input required in the Section 9,
Partner Comments on the Draft Implementation Completion Report for the Public Sector Adjustment
Credit:


Background and objectives: The proposed PSMAC (Public Sector Management Adjustment Credit)
credit in the amount of US$ 15 million was aimed to set the Public Administration Structural Reforms
mainly focused on improvement of the budget process through all fazes of the preparation, budget
completion and budget execution as a base for sustainable economic growth and improved service
delivery in the important public sectors. In order to strengthen the accountability, transparency and
efficiency in using the public resources for central government budget users, PSMAC reforms achieved
sustained macroeconomic stability and fiscal discipline. The Government of the Republic of Macedonia
successfully introduced modern financial management practice by achieving priority-based budget
reforms, focusing the activities on its core function by implementing the strategic priorities and
programs. With PSMAC reforms and the performance, public sectors resource management was
focused at giving importance to health and social sector expenditures and their influence on our
poverty alleviation objectives. The comprehensive public sector reform is the appropriate way to
achieve longer-term favorable outcomes in economic and social reforms agenda.

Ø Budgetmanagementreforms

The Government medium-term strategy based on the budget management reforms includes the
following areas:

1.   Development of modern institution for budget management
The preparation and implementation of the strategic plans by the Ministry of Finance and General
Secretariat resulted in bigger support for the Government decisions and policymaking. The
Government has increased capacity within the key MoF sectors and Government agencies including the
Budget Department, Treasury Department, Internal Audit Unit, State Audit Office and some
organizational and adjustments made in the strategic and analytic organization such as General
Secretariat. In parallel, the Government has completed the ZPP reform and transferred tax collection
and management functions to the Public Revenue Office. The Law on ZPP Transformation was
adopted by the Parliament in 2001. The PRO developed performance framework for improving VAT



                                                     - 16 -

arrears collection and now the PRO has more sustainable approach towards a sounder tax revenue
collection system.

    2. Strengthening fiscal discipline

With respect to the strengthening of the wage bill control, the Government created employment and
salaries database, linking individually salary payments to the registry of public employees by budget
users. The current employment database in the Ministry of Finance includes data on the staff from all
budget users and other agencies and the established wage bill database system is fully managed.

In order to control and limit sovereign guarantees and to improve fiscal discipline, database was set up
and the Organic Budget Law was revised in order to prohibit the extension of guarantees to the private
sector and guarantees to public enterprises require Parliament approval.


    3. Treasury system and operations

The treasury system and the Treasury Department are key instrument for ensuring discipline at the
budget users. The Treasury Department is fully operational which means fully developed financial
accountability mechanism and accounting practice.

The strengthening of the independent external audit and capacity of the internal audit units are essential
condition for improving government accountability. With the following operation, the PSMAL 2
arrangement, the Parliament enacted legislation, on March 26, 2004, permitting the State Audit Office
to focus on budget entities with higher fiduciary risks.

    4. Improving strategic prioritization within a fiscal plan

In order to enable sustained fiscal stability, the budget process was improved and mechanism for policy
costing and mechanism for policy review and monitoring were developed. This means that the
assessment of the fiscal impact was made and the plan for divestment of non-core activities was
approved. Thus, the Government measures were focused to setting new criteria for defining non-core
activities. The overall budget process was improved, as well as the budget circulars, resulting in
medium-term fiscal framework in terms of fiscal planning and fiscal strategy. The 2002 Budget was
approved by the Parliament with acceptable and satisfactory macroeconomic framework, as it was
previously agreed with the IMF and the World Bank.

Ø Budgetmanagementreformsinthehealthsector

Improvement of financial management in the health sector and budget planning in the HIF was made.

The HIF adopted acceptable guidelines for the presentation of its 2002 Budget and the new general
ledger. The institutional framework provided a sounder base in the HIF efforts of enabling better
control over public health expenditures, enhanced the transparency and accountability by providing
better health resource allocation, and set new system for monitoring and analysis of the health system



                                                      - 17 -

performance, which was partially reached. Under the new Health Insurance Law, the Ministry of
Health has promoted a new system for supervising the HIF and has accordingly increased its capacity
for analyzing sector performance and developing health strategy. The important control mechanism by
which HIF achieved expenditure control among health institutions has been documented in agreements
- contracts between the HIF and the health institutions, although the format and the provisions
stipulated in the contracts seamed to be week or there has been a lack of understanding between the
World Bank and the HIF officials in the process of identifying the core contract provisions that should
have benefited the process of increasing an overall control of the HIF over the Health Care Institutions.


The reforms initiated under the PSMAC arrangement serve as a base for ongoing structural reforms in
the public health sector supported by PSMAL 2 and Health Sector Management Project.

Ø Budgetingandpolicyreformsinthesocialprotection

In order to strengthen the social protection sector sustainability so as to establish multi-annual pension
framework, the Parliament adopted the Law on Mandatory Capital Funded Pension Insurance. The
employment program has been implemented throughout a multi-annual action plan based on a more
accountable unemployment program. Progress has been made regarding the improvement of financial
management and internal controls, and the development of performance monitoring indicators. In order
to improve targeting of social assistance program, income and asset criteria were revised. In order to
improve the fiscal discipline, the policies on unemployment, child and disability benefits were revised.
The reforms initiated under the PSMAC Arrangement serve as a base for the ongoing structural
reforms in the public health sector supported by PSMAL 2 and the Social Protection Implementation
Project.

Ø CivilServantManagementReforms

The civil sector reform program has been strengthened with legal framework by amending the Law on
Civil Servants and issuing secondary legislation as well. Primary focus was given to the Civil Servants
Agency that made efforts in achieving the agreed policy objectives with the Public Administration
Reform Unit, the Ministry of Finance and the General Secretariat being the main participants. As a
condition for Board presentation, Administration Reform Monitoring System, acceptable to IDA, has
been established.

In order to create more competitive yet affordable public sector wage structure, the Government has
resolved two major pay and employment challenges: (i) restructuring public employment so as to better
match its skill mix with its skill requirements; and (ii) restructuring its remuneration structure so as to
enhance the competitiveness of salary packages for those skills its public administration currently finds
most difficult to attract and retain. To make progress on these Board measures, the Government has
started developing the instruments for wage bill control and management. The Government has taken
steps for implementing salary restructuring, mandated by the Law on Civil Servants, within a fiscally
sound wage bill policy.

PSMAC credit has addressed poverty by supporting overall economic growth objectives as well as



                                                     - 18 -

measures to improve service delivery by the Government that has undertaken deep structural reforms
program. Institutional and structural reforms implemented under PSMAC can only be successful if
medium-term capacity of the Government is maintained over a long period of time and if the ongoing
reforms are supported with other similar programs as PSMAL 2, PSAL 1 and PSAL 2.

Coordination with other donors

Given the scope of the Government medium-term institutional reform strategy, the reform strategy
objectives have been achieved with additional support and well-coordinated technical assistance
programs.

EU Phare provided initial support for public administration reform and budget modernization. The IMF
has provided assistance in establishing treasury operations and implementing the VAT reform. So far,
donors have exhibited strong willingness to work with the IDA on program design to ensure
compatibility with the comprehensive reform program identified in the PEIR. Using the Government
medium-term reform strategy, based on the PEIR, support for the proposed reforms was committed at
the outset by several donors including the Japanese Government (through a PHRD grant), the Dutch
government (through a Trust Fund), USAID, DFID, CIDA and SIDA. To assist the MoF in achieving
its medium-term goals, USAID has committed significant resources to a fiscal reform project that
focuses the support on treasury, budget, tax administration, and special issues.

In respect to the achieving the gaols of the PSMAC and the following PSMAL 2 arrangement with the
World Bank the Dutch Government has provided a Grant to finance a reform activities within the
identified sectors and Central Government Agencies. The targeted institutions were Budget and
Treasury Departments within the MoF, Ministry of Labour and Social Policy and the Pension and
Disability Fund, Ministry of Health and the Health Insurance Fund and the State Audit Office. The
program of supporting this intensive reform agenda differ substantially but the final goals of the
program were creating effective, efficient, affordable and transparent institutions with capacity enabling
them to undertake the reform activities provided by the PSMAC and subsequently with the PSMAL 2
policy matrix and fulfil them in a proper manner.

It is our pleasure to say that we appreciate the strong support and efforts the World Bank extends to
the Government of the Republic of Macedonia. We are convinced the World Bank will continue to be
reliable partner on a long-term base and will support the forthcoming reforms in the public sector
management projects.

We would like to express out utmost appreciation for the overall cooperation with the World Bank.

Please accept the assurances of my highest consideration.




                                                                           Minister of Finance,




                                                     - 19 -

                                                           Nikola Popovski, MA




Prepared by: Kristina Pavlovska and Oliver Temelkovski

Controlled by: Goran Anceski

Approved by: Anita Angelovska-Bezoska, MA

    (b) Cofinanciers:


    (c) Other partners (NGOs/private sector):


    10. Additional Information




                                                 - 20 -

Annex 1. Key Performance Indicators/Log Frame Matrix


              Subcomponent                                              Impact
           Budget Management
Development of budget institutions      Mandate of General Secretariat expanded, but impact on budget
                                        formulation remains limited
Control of wage bill                    Wage and employment data base operational
Development of treasury function        Budgetary entities operations fully integrated into single treasury
                                        account
Development of external audit functions SAO law enacted, providing independence and clarifying reporting
                                        requirements, but SAO remains understaffed, unfocused
Strengthening tax collection            PRO, MLSP and MOH fully assume ZPP function; PRO fully
                                        functional, but tax arrears remain a problem
Modernization of budget process         Budget reforms delayed until 2004 budget
Fiscal Impact Assessments               Forms and procedures defined, but little impact on policy formulation
Divestment of Non-core Activities       Initial round of divestments completed with little fiscal benefits

       Health and Social Protection

Performance Contracts for health        Enabling legislation enacted and contracts signed in mid-2003
institutions
HIF Planning and Control                New budget format and general ledger adopted, but budget execution
                                        remains uncontrolled
Introduction of second pension pillar   Laws enabling second pillar enacted, regulatory agency established,
                                        key regulations approved but key issues (transition costs, investment
                                        strategy) remain unresolved.
Employment Assistance Program           Action plan formulated but not implemented
           Civil Service Reform
Implementation of new recruitment       Enabling legislation passed and CSA established but recruitment
procedures                              procedures widely evaded until enforcement mechanism introduced
Rationalization and decompression of    New salary structure approved but not implemented until 2004
salaries




                                                   - 21 -

Annex 2. Project Costs and Financing



  Project Component     Appraisal Estimate  Actual/Latest Estimate   Percentage of Appraisal
                          US$ million             US$ million
BOP/Budget Support            15.0                   15.0                    100%
Total Costs/Financing         15.0                   15.0                    100%
Required



Project Costs by Procurement Arrangements (Appraisal Estimate) (US$ million equivalent)
                                                                  1
                                           Procurement Method
    Expenditure Category          ICB          NCB                   2          N.B.F.      Total Cost
                                                               Other
1. Works                         0.00          0.00             0.00             0.00          0.00
                                (0.00)         (0.00)          (0.00)           (0.00)         (0.00)
2. Goods                         0.00          0.00             0.00             0.00          0.00
                                (0.00)         (0.00)          (0.00)           (0.00)         (0.00)
3. Services                      0.00          0.00             0.00             0.00          0.00
                                (0.00)         (0.00)          (0.00)           (0.00)         (0.00)
4. Miscellaneous                 0.00          0.00             0.00             0.00          0.00
                                (0.00)         (0.00)          (0.00)           (0.00)         (0.00)
5. Miscellaneous                 0.00          0.00             0.00             0.00          0.00
                                (0.00)         (0.00)          (0.00)           (0.00)         (0.00)
6. Miscellaneous                 0.00          0.00             0.00             0.00          0.00
                                (0.00)         (0.00)          (0.00)           (0.00)         (0.00)
   Total                         0.00          0.00             0.00             0.00          0.00
                                (0.00)         (0.00)          (0.00)           (0.00)         (0.00)


Project Costs by Procurement Arrangements (Actual/Latest Estimate) (US$ million equivalent)
                                                                  1
                                           Procurement Method
    Expenditure Category          ICB          NCB                  2         N.B.F.        Total Cost
                                                              Other
1. Works                         0.00          0.00            0.00             0.00          0.00
                                (0.00)        (0.00)           (0.00)          (0.00)        (0.00)
2. Goods                         0.00          0.00            0.00             0.00          0.00
                                (0.00)        (0.00)           (0.00)          (0.00)        (0.00)
3. Services                      0.00          0.00            0.00             1.44          1.44
                                (0.00)        (0.00)           (0.00)          (0.80)        (0.80)
4. Miscellaneous                 0.00          0.00            0.00             0.00          0.00
                                (0.00)        (0.00)           (0.00)          (0.00)        (0.00)
5. Miscellaneous                 0.00          0.00            0.00             0.00          0.00
                                (0.00)        (0.00)           (0.00)          (0.00)        (0.00)
6. Miscellaneous                 0.00          0.00            0.00             0.00          0.00
                                (0.00)        (0.00)           (0.00)          (0.00)        (0.00)
   Total



                                            - 22 -

                                           0.00               0.00              0.00             1.44              1.44
                                          (0.00)             (0.00)            (0.00)            (0.80)           (0.80)

    1/Figures in parenthesis are the amounts to be financed by the Bank Loan. All costs include contingencies.

    2/Includes civil works and goods to be procured through national shopping, consulting services, services of contracted staff
      of the project management office, training, technical assistance services, and incremental operating costs related to (i)
      managing the project, and (ii) re-lending project funds to local government units.



Project Financing by Component (in US$ million equivalent)
                                                                                                      Percentage of Appraisal
       Component                   Appraisal Estimate                  Actual/Latest Estimate
                               Bank        Govt.        CoF.         Bank         Govt.      CoF.       Bank     Govt.     CoF.




                                                          - 23 -

Annex 3. Economic Costs and Benefits

not applicable




                                      - 24 -

Annex 4. Bank Inputs

(a) Missions:
Stage of Project Cycle                   No. of Persons and Specialty                 Performance Rating
                                       (e.g. 2 Economists, 1 FMS, etc.)          Implementation Development
                    Month/Year  Count            Specialty                         Progress       Objective

 Identification/Preparation

               October 2001              14    TTL, 3 FMs, 2 Civil Service, 4
                                               Health, 2 Social Protection, 2
                                               Procurement

 Appraisal/Negotiation
               February 2001                   TTL
               October 2001                    TTL

 Supervision
               July 2002                       TTL                                    S               S
               January 2003                4   TTL, Health, Civil Service,            S               S
                                               Procurement
               March 2003                  4   TTL, Health, Civil Service,            S               S
                                               Budget
               May 2003                    4   TTL, Procurement, Audit, Health        S               S
               October 2003                6   TTL, Procurement, Audit, Civil         S               S
                                               Service, Health, Social Protection


 ICR




(b) Staff:

       Stage of Project Cycle                    Actual/Latest Estimate
                                    No. Staff weeks                    US$ ('000)
  Identification/Preparation               165.7                            442.8
  Appraisal/Negotiation           included above                  included above
  Supervision                              18.45                             51.8
  ICR
  Total




                                                - 25 -

Annex 5. Ratings for Achievement of Objectives/Outputs of Components

(H=High, SU=Substantial, M=Modest, N=Negligible, NA=Not Applicable)
                                          Rating
  Macro policies                        H        SU    M       N    NA
  Sector Policies                       H        SU    M       N    NA
  Physical                              H        SU    M       N    NA
  Financial                             H        SU    M       N    NA
  Institutional Development             H        SU    M       N    NA
  Environmental                         H        SU    M       N    NA

Social
           Poverty Reduction            H        SU    M       N    NA
           Gender                       H        SU    M       N    NA
           Other (Please specify)       H        SU    M       N    NA
  Private sector development            H        SU    M       N    NA
  Public sector management              H        SU    M       N    NA
  Other (Please specify)                H        SU    M       N    NA




                                                    - 26 -

Annex 6. Ratings of Bank and Borrower Performance

(HS=Highly Satisfactory, S=Satisfactory, U=Unsatisfactory, HU=Highly Unsatisfactory)


6.1 Bank performance                           Rating

   Lending                                       HS     S     U       HU
   Supervision                                   HS     S     U       HU
   Overall                                       HS     S     U       HU


6.2 Borrower performance                       Rating

   Preparation                                   HS     S     U       HU
   Government implementation performance         HS     S     U       HU
   Implementation agency performance             HS     S     U       HU
   Overall                                       HS     S     U       HU




                                                    - 27 -

Annex 7. List of Supporting Documents



Macedonia - Public expenditure and institutional review April 2002
Macedonia - Country Financial Accountability Assessment, March 2004
Macedonia - Public Sector Management Adjustment Credit (PSMAC) Project March 2002
Macedonia - Country assistance strategy August 2003




                                              - 28 -

- 29 -

