Page  1
The World Bank 
1818 H Street N.W. 
(202) 477-1234 
I
NTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
 
Washington, D.C.  20433 
Cable Address:  INTBAFRAD 
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
 
U.S.A. 
Cable Address:  INDEVAS 
 
CONFORMED COPY  
December 5, 2000 
Mr. Nikola Gruevski 
Minister of Finance 
Ministry of Finance 
Dame Gruev 7 
Skopje 
 
Re:  Dutch Grant for Strengthening Public Sector 
Performance 
 
Grant TF024367 
Dear Sir: 
 
I
am writing on behalf of the International Bank for Reconstruction and Development (the 
Bank) to indicate the Bank’s agreement, as administrator of grant funds provided by The 
Netherlands, to make a grant in an amount of three million seven hundred and fifty five thousand and 
three hundred and sixty Dollars ($3,755,360), not exceeding the amount of nine million seven 
hundred and sixty three thousand and nine hundred and thirty six Dutch Guilders equivalent (NLG 
9,763,936) to (the Grant) to your country (the Recipient). 
 
The Grant is made in response to the Recipient's request for financial assistance and for the 
purposes and on the terms and conditions set forth in the Annex to this Letter of Agreement.  The 
Recipient represents, by confirming its agreement below, that it is authorized to contract and 
withdraw the Grant for the said purposes and on the said terms and conditions. 
 
Please confirm your agreement with the foregoing, on behalf of the Recipient, by 
signing, dating, and returning to us the enclosed copy of this Letter of Agreement.  Upon receipt by 
the Bank of the copy of this Letter of Agreement countersigned by you, this Letter of Agreement will 
become effective as of the date of the countersignature. 
 
Very truly yours, 
 
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT 
 
By: /s/ Christiaan J. Poortman 
Country Director and Regional Coordinator 
for Southeast Europe 
Europe and Central Asia Region 
 
AGREED: 
RECIPIENT 
 
By: /s/ 
Nikolai 
Gruevski 
Title: 
Minister of Finance 
Date:  December 12, 2002
Page  2
ANNEX
Purposes, Terms, and Conditions of the Grant 
 
1. Purposes 
and 
Activities
The purposes of the Grant are to assist in the preparation of the Public Sector Management 
Adjustment Loan (PSMAL), which has as main objective
 
the carrying out of public 
administration and budget management reforms
 (the Project)
.
The activities (the Activities) for 
which the Grant is given are as follows: 
 
I. 
Financial Management Information System and Budget Reforms: 
 
(a) Financial Management Information System
 
(FMIS). 
 
Provide assistance in: (i) developing a strategic plan for the implementation of the FMIS; 
(ii) preparing specifications and procurement documents for budget execution and budget 
formulation of the FMIS; (iii) developing and implementing procurement procedures; (v) 
installing and implementing the FMIS as well as training Ministry of Finance staff. 
 
(b) Reform Budget Process.  
 
Provide assistance in: (i) defining  key measures for budget process reform; (ii) developing 
a
2001-02 plan for the reform of the budget process; (iii) restructuring of the budget reform 
process; (iv) s
trengthening the capacity of the Recipient’s Ministry of Finance to assess fiscal 
impact of new budget process reform proposals and monitor the implementation of budget; and 
(v) preparing seminars and training on budget process reform for key line ministries. 
 
(c) Provide technical assistance and goods to support the Project implementation unit (PIU). 
 
II. Public Pension Fund Administration. 
 
Provide assistance in: (i) carrying out proposed changes of functions of the Recipient’s 
central clearing house (ZPP) for pension contributions and transfers; (ii) developing financial 
management system and accounting for pension funds; (iii) developing and implementing an 
information management system for public pension administration; and (iv) provide training to 
enable public pension administration staff to use the new information and financial management 
system. 
 
III. Health 
Reforms. 
 
(a) Health Insurance Fund Reforms. 
Provide assistance in: (i) preparing standard price contracts for health services; (ii) 
including the health fund item in the central government budget; (iii) completing the 
implementation of the treasury management information system for Health Insurance Fund and 
public sector health provider institutions; 
 
(b) Public Expenditure Tracking Survey (PETS) in the Health Sector. 
 
Provide assistance in: (i) analyzing and reviewing the laws, regulations, accounting plan 
and procedures applicable to the Health Insurance Fund; (ii) preparing and carrying out the 
survey on the PETS in the health sector; (iii) preparing reports setting out findings, conclusions 
and recommendations of the PETS in the health sector; and (iv) disseminate the findings of the 
PETS in the health sector. 
Page  3
IV. 
Strengthening of the State Audit Office (SAO). 
 
(i) develop awareness among the public on the SAO; (ii) train SAO staff and develop 
manuals and guidelines on SAO staff accountability; and (iii) increase SAO staff professionalism 
through seminars and training on audits.  
 
2. Implementation 
Generally 
2.1. 
The Recipient shall: (a) carry out the Activities with due diligence and efficiency; (b) 
promptly provide the funds, facilities, services and other resources required for that purpose; (c) 
furnish all information covering the Activities and the use of the proceeds of the Grant as the Bank 
shall reasonably request; (d) from time to time exchange views with the Bank's representatives on the 
progress and results of the Activities; and (e) take all necessary measures required to enable the Bank 
to visit the territory of the Recipient for purposes related to the Grant.  Without limitation on the 
foregoing, the Recipient shall, if the Bank shall so request, prepare and furnish to the Bank promptly 
upon completion of the Activities a report, in form and substance satisfactory to the Bank, on the 
results and impact of the Activities. 
 
3. Procurement
3.1. 
Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree, procurement of the consultants’ services and 
goods required for the carrying out of the Activities and to be financed out of the proceeds of the 
Grant shall be governed by the provisions of Attachment I to this Annex. 
 
3.2. The Recipient shall ensure that all imported goods to be financed out of the proceeds of the 
Grant shall be insured against hazards incident to the acquisition, transportation and delivery thereof 
to the place of use or installation, and that any indemnity for such insurance is payable in a freely 
usable currency to replace or repair such goods.  The Recipient shall ensure that any facilities 
relevant to the Activities are at all times operated and maintained in accordance with appropriate 
practices and that any repairs or renewals of such facilities are promptly made as needed. 
 
4. 
Withdrawal of Grant Proceeds
4.1. 
The amount of the Grant shall be credited to an account opened by the Bank on its books in 
the name of the Recipient (the Grant Account), and may be withdrawn therefrom by the Recipient in 
accordance with the provisions of this Section 4, for expenditures in respect of the reasonable cost of 
goods and services required for the Activities and to be financed out of the proceeds of the Grant. 
 
4.2. 
The expenditures for the following items may be financed out of the proceeds of the Grant 
and shall be used exclusively in the carrying out of the Activities: 
Page  4
Amount of the Grant 
% of 
 
Item 
Allocated (in Dollars)
Expenditures to 
 
Be Financed
(1) 
Consultants’ services 
2,472,310 
100% 
 
(2) Training 
341,500 
100% 
 
(3) 
Goods 
841,550 
100% of foreign expenditure 
 
100% of local expenditures 
 
(ex-factory cost) and 85% 
 
of local expenditures for 
 
other items procured locally 
(4) Unallocated 
100,000 
 
TOTAL 3,77,360
For purposes of this paragraph: 
 
(a) 
the term “foreign expenditures” means expenditures in the currency of any country other 
than that of the Recipient for goods or services supplied from the territory of any country other than 
that of the Recipient,  
 
(b) 
the term “local expenditures” means any expenditures that are not foreign expenditures; and 
 
(c) 
the term ‘training” means any expenditure incurred  by the Recipient in connection with the 
carrying out of training activities under the Project, including travel costs and per diem of the 
trainees, study tours, rental of facilities and equipment, and training materials. 
 
4.3. 
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 4.2 above: 
 
(a) 
No withdrawals shall be made from the Grant Account: (i) for payments made for 
expenditures prior to the date of signature of this Letter of Agreement by the Bank; (ii) on account of 
payments for any taxes levied by or in the territory of the Recipient; (iii) on account of expenditures 
in the territories of any country which is not a member of the Bank or for goods produced in or 
services supplied from such territories; or (iv) for the purpose of any payment to persons or entities, 
or for any import of goods, if such payment or import, to the Bank’s knowledge, is prohibited by a 
decision of the United Nations Security Council taken under Chapter VII of the Charter of the United 
Nations; 
 
(b) 
No withdrawals shall be made from the Grant Account after December 31, 2002 or 
such later date that the Bank shall establish by notice to the Recipient (the Closing Date). However, 
withdrawals may be made after the Closing Date for expenditures incurred prior to the Closing Date 
if the corresponding withdrawal application is received by the Bank within four months after the 
Closing Date, after which time any amount of the Grant remaining unwithdrawn from the Grant 
Account shall be canceled; and 
 
(c) 
If, in the Bank’s opinion, an amount of the Grant allocated to any of the items in the 
table in paragraph 4.2 above will be insufficient to finance the expenditures for such item, the Bank 
may, by written notice to the Recipient, reallocate to such item an amount of the Grant then allocated 
to another item which, in the Bank’s opinion, will not be necessary to meet other expenditures. 
Page  5
4.4. 
When the Recipient shall desire to withdraw any amount from the Grant Account, it shall 
deliver to the Bank a written application for withdrawal of such amount in the form specified by the 
Bank.  Withdrawal applications shall be: (a) signed on behalf of the Recipient by the Minister of 
Finance or such other person as he or she shall have authorized in writing; and (b) accompanied by 
such evidence in support of the application as the Bank shall reasonably request.  Authenticated 
specimen signatures of the person authorized to sign withdrawal applications shall be provided with 
the first application bearing his or her signature.  Each withdrawal application for an amount of the 
Grant and its supporting evidence must be sufficient in form and substance to satisfy the Bank that 
the Recipient is entitled to withdraw such amount from the Grant Account and that such amount is to 
be used in the carrying out of the Activities.  The Bank shall pay the amounts withdrawn by the 
Recipient from the Grant Account only to or on the order of the Recipient. 
 
4.5. 
The Bank may require withdrawals from the Grant Account to be made on the basis of 
statements of expenditure for expenditures under contracts for: (a) services of consulting firms under 
contracts costing less than US$100,000 equivalent; and (b) services of individual consultants under 
contracts costing less than US$50,000 equivalent; (c) goods under contracts costing less than 
US$50,000; and (d) training activities all under such terms and conditions as the Bank shall specify 
by notice to the Recipient.  
 
4.6. 
Withdrawals of the proceeds of the Grant shall be made in the currency of the Grant.  The 
Bank, at the Recipient’s request and acting as an agent of the Recipient, shall purchase with the 
currency of the Grant withdrawn from the Grant Account such currencies as shall be required to pay 
for expenditures to be financed out of the proceeds of the Grant.  Whenever it shall be necessary, for 
the purposes of this Letter Agreement, to determine the value of one currency in terms of another, 
such value shall be as reasonably determined by the Bank. 
 
4.7. 
To facilitate the carrying out of the Activities, the amount of the Grant shall be credited to an 
account opened by the Bank on its book in the name of the Recipient (the Grant Account) and may 
be withdrawn therefrom by the Recipient in accordance to the provision of this Section 4, for 
expenditures in respect of the reasonable cost of goods, services and training required for the 
Activities and to be financed out of the proceeds of the Grant. Deposits into, and payments out of, the 
Special Account shall be made in accordance with the provisions of Attachment II to this Annex. 
 
5. Accounts 
and 
Audits
5.1. 
(a) 
The Recipient shall maintain or cause to be maintained a financial management 
system, including records and accounts, and prepare financial statements in a format acceptable to 
the Bank, adequate to reflect in accordance with sound accounting practices the operations, resources 
and expenditures related to the Activities. 
 
(b) 
The Recipient shall: (i) have the records, accounts and financial statements referred 
to in subparagraph (a) above and the records and accounts for the Special Account for each fiscal 
year audited, in accordance with auditing standards acceptable to the Bank, consistently applied, by 
independent auditors acceptable to the Bank; (ii) furnish to the Bank as soon as available, but in any 
case not later than six months after the end of each such year, (A) certified copies of the financial 
statements referred to in paragraph (a) of this Section for such year as so audited, and (B) an opinion 
on such statements, records and accounts and report of such audit, by said auditors, of such scope and 
in such detail as the Bank shall have reasonably requested; and (iii) furnish to the Bank such other 
information concerning said records and accounts and the audit thereof, and concerning said auditors, 
as the Bank shall from time to time reasonably request. 
 
Page  6
(c) 
For all expenditures with respect to which withdrawals from the Grant Account 
were made on the basis of statements of expenditure, the Recipient shall: (i) maintain or cause to be 
maintained, in accordance with subparagraph (a) above, records and accounts reflecting such 
expenditures; (ii) retain, until at least one year after the Bank has received the audit report for the 
fiscal year in which the last withdrawal from the Grant Account was made, all records (contracts, 
orders, invoices, bills, receipts and other documents) evidencing such expenditures; (iii) enable the 
Bank’s representatives to examine such records; and (iv) ensure that such records and accounts are 
included in the annual audit referred to in subparagraph (b) above and that the report of such audit 
contains a separate opinion by said auditors as to whether the statements of expenditure submitted 
during such fiscal year, together with the procedures and internal controls involved in their 
preparation, can be relied upon to support the related withdrawals. 
 
6. Suspension 
and 
Cancellation
6.1. 
The Bank may at any time, by notice to the Recipient, suspend the right of the Recipient to 
make further withdrawals from the Grant Account if any of the following events has occurred and is 
continuing: (a) the Recipient has failed to comply with any of its obligations herein specified; or (b) 
the right of the Recipient, or any other entity to which the Bank has made a loan with the guarantee 
of the Recipient, to make withdrawals under any loan agreement with the Bank or any development 
credit agreement with the International Development Association shall have been suspended.  
 
6.2. 
The Bank may, by written notice to the Recipient, terminate the right of the Recipient to 
make further withdrawals from the Grant Account: (a) at any time after the right of the Recipient to 
make withdrawals from the Grant Account shall have been suspended pursuant to the provisions of 
paragraph 6.1 above; or (b) if the Recipient shall have failed to take action, satisfactory to the Bank, 
within six months after the effective date hereof, to carry out the Activities; or (c) if the Bank has 
decided, at any time after consultation with the Recipient, to withdraw its support to the Project; or 
(d) if the Recipient has withdrawn its request for the Bank’s assistance in financing the Project. 
 
Page  7
Attachment I  
 
Procurement 
 
Section I
.
Consultants’ Services
Part A
:
General
Consultants’ services shall be procured in accordance with the provisions of the 
Introduction and Section IV of the “Guidelines: Selection and Employment of Consultants by 
World Bank Borrowers”, published by the Bank in January 1997 and revised in September 1997 
and January 1999 (the Consultant Guidelines), and the following provisions of this Section I. 
 
Part B
:
Quality- and Cost-Based Selection
Except as otherwise provided in Part C of this Section, consultants’ services shall be 
procured under contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions of Section II of the 
Consultant Guidelines, paragraph 3 of Appendix 1 thereto, Appendix 2 thereto, and the provisions 
of paragraphs 3.13 through 3.18 thereof applicable to quality- and cost-based selection of 
consultants. 
 
Part C
:
Other Procedures for the Selection of Consultants
1. 
Selection Under a Fixed Budget
Services for activities carried out under components I (b), II (ii) and III (b) of paragraph 
1.1 of this Agreement may be procured under contracts awarded in accordance with the 
provisions of paragraphs 3.1 and 3.5 of the Consultant Guidelines. 
 
2. Individual 
Consultants
Services for tasks that meet the requirements set forth in paragraph 5.1 of the Consultant 
Guidelines shall be procured under contracts awarded to individual consultants in accordance 
with the provisions of paragraphs 5.1 through 5.3 of the Consultant Guidelines. 
 
3.  
Least-cost Selection
Services for audit estimated to cost less than $40,000 equivalent per contract may be 
procured under contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions of paragraphs 3.1 and 3.6 of 
the Consultant Guidelines. 
 
Part D
:
Review by the Bank of the Selection of Consultants
1. Selection 
Planning
Prior to the issuance to consultants of any requests for proposals, the proposed plan for 
the selection of consultants under the Activities shall be furnished to the Bank for its review and 
approval, in accordance with the provisions of paragraph 1 of Appendix 1 to the Consultant 
Guidelines.  Selection of all consultants’ services shall be undertaken in accordance with such 
selection plan as shall have been approved by the Bank, and with the provisions of said paragraph 
1. 
Page  8
2. Prior 
Review
(a) 
With respect to each contract for the employment of consulting firms estimated 
to cost the equivalent of US$100,000 or more, the procedures set forth in paragraphs 1, 2 and 5 of 
Appendix 1 to the Consultant Guidelines shall apply. 
 
(b) 
With respect to each contract for the employment of individual consultants 
estimated to cost the equivalent of US$50,000 or more, the qualifications, experience, terms of 
reference and terms of employment of the consultants shall be furnished to the Bank for its prior 
review and approval.  The contract shall be awarded only after said approval shall have been 
given. 
 
3. Post 
Review
With respect to each contract not governed by paragraph 2 of this Part, the procedures set 
forth in paragraph 4 of Appendix 1 to the Consultant Guidelines shall apply. 
 
Section II
.
Procurement of Goods
Part A
:
General
Goods shall be procured in accordance with (a) the provisions of Section I of the 
“Guidelines for Procurement under IBRD Loans and IDA Credits” published by the Bank in 
January 1995 and revised in January and August 1996, September 1997 and January 1999 (the 
Guidelines); and (b) the provisions of  Section II. 
 
Part B
:
International Competitive Bidding
1. 
Except as otherwise provided in Part C of this Section, goods shall be procured under 
contracts awarded in Accordance with the provisions of Section II of the Guidelines and 
paragraph 5 of Appendix 1 thereto. 
 
Part C
:
Other Procurement Procedures
1. International 
Shopping
Goods estimated to cost less than $100,000 equivalent per contract, up to an aggregated 
amount not to exceed $100,000 equivalent, may be procured under contracts awarded on the basis 
of international shopping procedures in accordance with the provisions of paragraphs 3.5 and 3.6 
of the Guidelines. 
 
2. National 
Shopping
Goods estimated to cost less than $50,000 equivalent per contract, up to an aggregated 
amount not to exceed $100,000 equivalent, may be procured under contracts awarded on the basis 
of national shopping procedures in accordance with the provisions of paragraphs 3.5 and 3.6 of 
the Guidelines. 
 
Part D
:
Review by the Bank of Procurement Decisions 
1. Procurement 
Planning
Page  9
Prior to the issuance of any invitations to bid for contracts, the proposed procurement plan 
shall be furnished to the Bank for its review and approval, in accordance with the provisions of 
paragraph 1 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines.  Procurement of all goods shall be undertaken in 
accordance with such procurement plan as shall have been approved by the Bank, and with the 
provisions of said paragraph 1.   
 
2. Prior 
Review
(a) 
With respect to each contract for Part B of this section, the procedures set forth in 
paragraphs 2 and 3 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines shall apply. 
 
(b) 
With respect to the first contract for Part C of this Section, the procedures set 
forth in paragraphs 2 and 3 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines shall apply. 
 
3. Post 
Review
With respect to each contract not governed by paragraph 2 of this Part, the procedures set 
forth in paragraph 4 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines shall apply.  
Page  10
Attachment II 
 
Special Account 
 
1. 
For the purposes of this Attachment: 
 
(a) 
the term "eligible item(s)" means the item(s) set forth in the table in paragraph 4.2 
of the Annex to this Letter Agreement; 
 
(b) 
the term "eligible expenditures" means expenditures in respect of the reasonable 
cost of goods and services required for the Activities and to be financed out of the proceeds of the 
Grant; and 
 
(c) 
the term "Authorized Allocation" means an amount equivalent to US$750,000 to 
be withdrawn from the Grant Account and deposited into the Special Account pursuant to 
paragraph 3 (a) of this Attachment. 
 
2. 
Payments out of the Special Account shall be made exclusively for eligible expenditures in 
accordance with the provisions of this Attachment. 
 
3. 
After the Bank has received evidence satisfactory to it that the Special Account has been 
duly opened, withdrawals of the Authorized Allocation and subsequent withdrawals to replenish the 
Special Account shall be made as follows: 
 
(a) 
The Recipient shall furnish to the Bank a request or requests for a deposit into the 
Special Account of an amount or amounts which do not exceed the aggregate amount of the 
Authorized Allocation.  On the basis of such request or requests, the Bank shall, on behalf of the 
Recipient, withdraw from the Grant Account and deposit into the Special Account such amount or 
amounts as the Recipient shall have requested. 
 
(b) 
(i) 
For replenishment of the Special Account, the Recipient shall furnish to 
the Bank requests for deposits into the Special Account at such intervals as the Bank shall specify. 
(ii) 
Prior to or at the time of each such request, the Recipient shall furnish to 
the Bank the documents and other evidence required pursuant to paragraph 4 of this Attachment for 
the payment or payments in respect of which replenishment is requested.  On the basis of each such 
request, the Bank shall, on behalf of the Recipient, withdraw from the Grant Account and deposit 
into the Special Account such amount as the Recipient shall have requested and as shall have been 
shown by said documents and other evidence to have been paid out of the Special Account for 
eligible expenditures.  All such deposits shall be withdrawn by the Bank from the Grant Account 
under the eligible item(s), and in the respective equivalent amounts, as shall have been justified by 
said documents and other evidence. 
 
4. 
For each payment made by the Recipient out of the Special Account, the Recipient shall, at 
such time as the Bank shall reasonably request, furnish to the Bank such documents and other 
evidence showing that such payment was made exclusively for eligible expenditures. 
 
5. 
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 3 of this Attachment, the Bank shall not be 
required to make further deposits into the Special Account: 
 
Page  11
(a) 
if, at any time, the Bank shall have determined that all further withdrawals should 
be made by the Recipient directly from the Grant Account; 
 
(b) 
if the Recipient shall have failed to furnish to the Bank, within the period of time 
specified in paragraph 5.1 (b) (ii) of the Annex to this Letter Agreement, any of the audit reports 
required to be furnished to the Bank pursuant to said paragraph in respect of the audit of the records 
and accounts for the Special Account; 
 
(c) 
if, at any time, the Bank shall have notified the Recipient of its intention to suspend 
in whole or in part the right of the Recipient to make withdrawals from the Grant Account pursuant 
to the provisions of paragraph 6.1 of the Annex to this Letter Agreement; or 
 
(d) 
once the total unwithdrawn amount of the Grant shall equal the equivalent of twice 
the amount of the Authorized Allocation. 
 
Thereafter, withdrawals from the Grant Account of the remaining unwithdrawn amount of the Grant 
shall follow such procedures as the Bank shall specify by notice to the Recipient.  Such further 
withdrawals shall be made only after and to the extent that the Bank shall have been satisfied that all 
such amounts remaining on deposit in the Special Account as of the date of such notice will be 
utilized in making payments for eligible expenditures. 
 
6. 
(a) 
If the Bank shall have determined at any time that any payment out of the Special 
Account: (i) was made for an expenditure or in an amount not eligible pursuant to paragraph 2 of 
this Attachment; or (ii) was not justified by the evidence furnished to the Bank, the Recipient shall, 
promptly upon notice from the Bank: (A) provide such additional evidence as the Bank may 
request; or (B) deposit into the Special Account (or, if the Bank shall so request, refund to the Bank) 
an amount equal to the amount of such payment or the portion thereof not so eligible or justified.  
Unless the Bank shall otherwise agree, no further deposit by the Bank into the Special Account 
shall be made until the Recipient has provided such evidence or made such deposit or refund, as the 
case may be. 
 
(b) 
If the Bank shall have determined at any time that any amount outstanding in the 
Special Account will not be required to cover further payments for eligible expenditures, the 
Recipient shall, promptly upon notice from the Bank, refund to the Bank such outstanding amount. 
 
