RESTRICTED
Report No. PA- 120a
This report is for official use only by the Bank Group and specifically authorized organizations
or persons. It may not be published, quoted or cited without Bank Group authorization. The
Bank Group does not accept responsibility for the accuracy or completeness of the report.
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
APPRAISAL OF
AN AGRICULTURAL DEVELOPMENT AND
TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE PROJECT
LIBERIA
March 7, 1972
Agriculture Projects Department



CURRENCY
Currency Unit - United States dollar
WEIGHTS AND MEASURES
1 acre (ac)    -    0.405 (ha)
1 mile         -    1.61 kilometer (km)
1 square mile  -    640 acre - 259 ha
I ton          -    2,240 pound (lb) - 1,016 kilogram (kg)
ABBREVIATIONS
drc       -    dry rubber content
LBIDI     n    Liberian Bank for Industrial Development
and Investment
LPNC      -    Liberia Produce Marketing Corporation
INDP      -    United Nations Development Programme
USAID     -    United States Agency for International
Development
RSS       -    Ribbed Smoked Sheet
WARDA          West African Rice Development Association
FISCAL YEAR
January 1 - December 31



LIBERIA
APPRAISAL OF AN AGRICULTURAL DEVELOPMENT AND
TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE PROJECT
TABLE OF CONTENTS
Page No.
SUMMTARY AND CONCLUSIONS .................................i-i
I. INTRODUCTION .1
II. BACKGROUND.                                                  2
A. General.                                                2
B.   Agricultural Sector ................................  2
C. Agricultural Strategy.                                  5
III. THE PROJECT.                                                 6
A. Description.                                            6
B. Detailed Features.                                       7
IV.   COST ESTIMATES AND FINANCIAL ARRANGE MENTS .11
A. Project Costs .11
B. Proposed Financing .13
C. Procurement .13
D. Disburseent .14
E. Accounts and Audit .14
V.   ORGAN4IZATION AND MANAGENENT ............................. 14
VI. BENEFITS AND JUSTIFICATION .17
VII. RECOMMENDATIONS .18
This report is based upon findings of an appraisal Mission composed of
Messrs. A. Denness, M. Huas, and A. Cole.



-2-
ANNEXES
1.   Natural Rubber:  Trends and Outlook
2.   Investment Proposals for Integrated Agricultural Development
Projects - Draft Terms of Reference for Consultants
3.   Rubber Industry Survey and Investment Proposals - Draft
Terms of Reference for Consultants
4.   Rubber Pilot Scheme - Assumptions for Rehabilitation model
5.   Rubber Pilot Scheme - Assumptions for Replanting model
6.   Draft Terms of Reference for Rice Research Consultants
7.   Draft Terms of Reference for Ministry of Agriculture
Reorganization and Study
8.   Project Costs
9.   Credit Disbursements
M4AP



LIBERIA
APPRAISAL OF AN AGRICULTURAL DEVELOPMENT AND
TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE PROJECT
SUMMARY AND CONCLUSIONS
i.        This report appraises an agricultural project in Liberia for
which an II)A Credit of US$1.2 million equivalent is proposed. It would be
the Bank Group's first agricultural lending operation in Liberia.
ii.       Most economic activity in Liberia is of an enclave character
and associated with the operations of foreign owned mining, rubber planta-
tion, and timber companies. Little has been done by Government to provide
the physical and institutional infrastructure needed to permit the advance-
ment to a cash economy of the some 60% of the population living on subsistence
farming. Government now recognizes that rural services and facilities must
be improved and that this will require more effective Government planning
and investment in the non-enclave sector. Consequently it is giving priority
to planning rural development projects and has coordinated the work of
Government and technical assistance agencies to concentrate on collecting the
basic data required to prepare projects in subsistence farming areas.
iii.      In spite of the overall lack of development, some progress has
been achieved by a few Liberian rubber farmers, of whom there are a total
of about 5,000. The majority, however, are inefficient; and in the face of
declining world prices for natural rubber, their operations cannot remain
viable unless production and processing costs are reduced. Lack of accurate
data on Liberian rubber farmers, however, has so far precluded sound planning
of the industry.
iv.       The Government does not have sufficient experienced manpower to
collect and analyze data on the rubber industry or to prepare sound invest-
ment proposals for the agricultural sector and additional technical assistance
is required for these purposes. The Ministry of Agriculture is very weak,
due principally to poor planning and management capability, inadequate
finance, and the generally low caliber of its staff. Government needs
assistance to plan the reorganization of the Ministry so that it will be
capable of planning and implementing development projects.
v.        The proposed project, whiich would be carried out over a three
year period, would assist Government to implement its plans for agricultural
dlevelopment in three ways. First, investment proposals would be prepared
for two integrated rural development projects. These proposals would be
based on data collected by Government and would provide for agricultural
extension and credit services, agricultural inputs, marketing and processing
facilities, crop extraction and feeder roads, water supplies, and social
services. Secondly, a survey and study of the rubber industry, and a snall
rubber pilot scheme would determine means of improving the Liberian owned



rubber industry. Thirdly, the Ministry of Agriculture's researcih services
would be improved, and a study made of the Ministry to determine iLs
staff and financial requirements, and the organizational structure nleeded to
enable it to plan and implement future development projects.
vi.       Project costs are estimated at US$1.60( million.  T'rhe proposed
credit of US$1.2 wvould finance 75% of project costs, covering foreign
Exchange costs estimated at US$0.88 million, and 44% of local currenicy costs.
I'he balance of US$0.40 million would be met from Government budgetary aillo-
cat-ions, Consultant services valued at US$0.6 million would be the largest
single component of project costs and would be obtained in accordance with
the 1-jorld Sank Group guidelines.  Other goods and services, principally civil
works valued at US$0.25 million, w7ould be obtained under local competitive
bidding procedures as individual contracts would be too small to attract
international bids.  A sufficient number of construction and nanufacturing
agents exists in Liberia to ensure adequate competitive bidding.
vii.      The project would be carried out by the Ministry of Agriculture,
and an administrator would be appointed for the coordination of project
activities. The cooperation of Government Ministries and agencies associate d
with the project would ba effected through deputy Ministers or their
equivalents.
viii.     The justification for the project is that the pre-investment
activities are necessary to prepare sound rural development projects, wllich
will enable subsistence farmers to increase their cash incomes througih the
expanded production of food and export crops. Experience elsewhere in
Africa has shown that rural development projects can be successful and the
return from such investments satisfactory.
ix.       In the wake of declining world prices for natural rubber, the
Liberian owned rubber industry - producing about 30% of Liberia's rubber -
i! facing critical problems and the erosion of this key activity would
have serious consequences for the economy. The rubber industry survey,
study and pilot scheme would provide the basis for determining the most
economic ways of ensuring a viable future for Liberian rubber farmers.
Under the pilot rubber scheme the rate of return for rehabilitation would
be greater than 100% and for replanting about 9%.
x..       Although the project is unusual in that it is primarily limited
to pre-investment activities, it represents the best course of action to
develop a detailed agricultural strategy which can have a significant impact
on Liberia's economy. Otherwise subsistence farming will continue to
stagnate, and the contribution to the economy by rubber farmers may decrease
in view of the serious problems facing the rubber industry. A project of
this nature would normally qualify for UNDP financial assistance; however
the pipeline of UNDP projects in Liberia already has exceeded the funds
available under UNDP's Indicat;ive Planning Figure.
xi..      The project is suitable for an IDA credit of US$1.2 million to the
Government of Liberia.



LIBERIA
AGRICULTURAL DEVELOPMENT AND TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE PROJECT
I. INTRODUCTION
1.01      In May 1970 the Liberian Government asked IDA for financial help
to rehabilitate 24,000 acres of Liberian owned rubber. The project had been
prepared for Government by the Commonwealth Development Corporation under
contract to the Bank Group. An IDA mission appraised the project in
June/July 1970, but was unable to recommend IDA support because of the
low economic rate of return for replanting rubber. However, appraisal of
the project was made very difficult by the lack of reliable information on
the Liberian owned rubber industry, especially the extent and location of
rubber suitable for rehabilitation and replanting, yield potentials, and
production and processing costs; such information is a pre-requisite for
the effective planning of measures to assist this important industry.
1.02      At discussions held in Washington with Government in July 1971,
it was concluded that in order to develop Liberia's agricultural potential,
additional work would be required to study and prepare agricultural develop-
ment projects, and that Government agencies would need strengthening and help
both for planning and implementing such projects when implemented. It was
agreed, therefore, that IDA would examine the feasibility of assisting in
financing a composite project with the purpose of meeting these requirements.
Such a project was appraised in August 1971 and includes; (a) technical
assistance to the Ministry of Agriculture to prepare investment proposals
for two integrated rural development projects and for the Liberian owned
rubber industry, to improve rice research, to plan the needed reorganization
of the Ministry of Agriculture, and prepare a staff training program; and
(b) a pilot rubber rehabilitation/replanting scheme which, together with
the survey and study results, would provide the information required to
determine means of improving the Liberian owned rubber industry.
1.03      A project of this type normally would qualify for UNDP financial
assistance; however, the pipeline of UNDP projects in Liberia already has
exceeded the funds available under UNDP's Indicative Planning Figure.
1.04      This report is based on the findings of an IDA appraisal mission
composed of Messrs. A. Denness, M. Huas, and A. P. Cole.
1.05      The project would be the Bank Group's first agricultural lending
operation in Liberia.



- 2 -
II. BACKGROUND
A. General
2.01      Liberia has an area of about 43,000 square miles and a population
of about 1.5 million, which is growing at about 2.8% per annum. 1/ Estimated
GDP in 1969 was US$395 million and GNP US$311 million or US$207 per capita.
Mining is the most important sector accounting for about 30% of GDP, and of
the other major sectors, agriculture accounts for 21%, manufacturing 5%,
construction 5%, Government 10%, and trade and services 231.
2.02      The economy is dominated by foreign concessionaires engaged in
rubber, timber and iron ore production for export, and accounting for about
40% of GDP. Interest and profit remittances abroad mostly by these con-
cessionaires account for about 25% of GDP. Such remittances have contributed
to the balance of payments deficits which have occurred in most years since
1965.
2.03      From available data the average income of workers employed in
private industry and Government is about $1,100 or $290 per capita. However,
the average income of subsistence farmers whose families make up about 60%
of the population is estimated to be about $175 per family, equivalent to
$40 per capita. This unequal income distribution restricts the earnings
available for investment in subsistence areas for cash farming and rural
trades, and despite urban migration could result in continuing rural under-
employment. Although urban unemployment is not yet a serious problem, the
higher urban incomes attract migrants from the rural areas and over time
urban unemployment could increase.
B. Agricultural Sector
2.04      Liberia has a gently rolling coastal topography, which becomes
ncre rugged inland. The climate is tropical, and rainfall ranges from
165 inches/annum at the coast to 70 inches/annum inland. Most rain falls
between April and November. Wetter area vegetation is evergreen forest,
chlanging to deciduous and savannah forest in the drier areas. Most of
Liberia is well suited ecologically for cultivating rubber, oil palm,
cocoa and robusta coffee, but is unsuitable for the continuous cultivation
of annual crops because high rainfall and temperatures cause rapid soil
degradation. Consequently rice and other food crops are produced under a
system of shifting cultivation. The valley bottoms and swamps are fertile,
however, and with water control and fertilizers, can be used for continuous
cultivation. Government is concentrating its efforts to increase rice
pioduction on such areas.
1V   The Current Economic Position and Prospects of Liberia, June 1, 1971.
IBRD.



-3-
Agricultural Production
2.05      Agricultural production is dominated by the rubber industry, which
in 1969, produced 64,000 tons valued at about US$30.5 million, and accounted
for about 36% of total Liberian agricultural production, and 2.3% of world
natural rubber output.   While rubber production on Liberian farms increased
by 50% in 1965-1969, exports of coffee, cocoa and palm kernels, and the
production of subsistence crops, especially rice, have remained almost un-
changed. Annual domestic rice production of about 112,000 tons is used
mostly for subsistence consumption; urban requirements of about 37,000 tons
annually are imported at a cost of US$6-9 million.
The Rubber Industry
2.06      Most of the rubber industry is owned by foreign concessionaires.
In 1969, the latest complete year for which statistics are available, they
produced 47,000 tons (72% of total rubber production) of rubber from about
94,000 acres of tapped rubber, and employed 24,000 workers; this is about 14%
of the estimated national labor force in paid employment. The concessions
also own about 40,000 acres of untapped rubber, most of which is high yielding
material, planted during the past seven years and still immature.
2.07      Data on Liberian owned rubber farms are limited, and only a
general picture can be drawn. Production increased from about 12,300 tons
in 1965 to about 18,300 tons in 1969, valued at about US$8.5 million. On
all but a few of the larger farms, field management is poor and yields are
low, ranging from about 800 lb/acre on the best farms to 180 lb/acre on
the worst. About 45% of Liberian owned rubber is estimated to be untapped
at present; low yielding planting material, absentee landlords, poor farm
maintenance, inadequate tapper wages and incentives, high transportation and
processing costs, lack of capital to open up new farms, and declining world
prices, have all contributed to this situation. The exact measures required
to remedy this situation cannot be determined at this time because of the
absence of accurate data on the industry.
Subsistence Farming
2.08      About 200,000 farms are operated at near subsistence levels,
producing rice and food crops for their own consumption under shifting
cultivation, and coffee, cocoa and palm kernels for export. Subsistence
farming areas suffer from an almost complete lack of infrastructure; roads
are few and frequently unusable in the wet season; crop marketing and pro-
cessing facilities are insufficient; and educational, medical, and other
social services are poor. Farming methods are primitive; farm implements
are rudimentary, fertilizer use is very low, and disease and pest control
are virtually unknown.



-4
Agricultural Institutions
2.09      The Ministry of Agriculture is responsible for agricultural
research, extension and the administration of technical assistance
programs. Until 1969 its impact was insignificant, due principally to
poor planning and management capability, the wide dispersal of limited
funds - about US$1.3 million or 2.4% of total Government expenditure annually
between 1965-70 - the low caliber of staff, many of whom are unqualified
and were appointed for non-professional reasons, and lack of Government
interest in developing agriculture. Government is now aware of the need
to strengthen the Ministry.
2.10      Little useful agricultural research is carried out except for work
onL rubber by Firestone Plantations Ltd. The results of this work are avail-
able to Liberian rubber farmers, and provide a sound technical base for the
industry. During the 1950s the United States Agency for International Devel-
opment (USAID) developed the Ministry of Agriculture's rice and food crop
research station at Suakoko (map). The quality of research improved in this
period, but when USAID technical assistance was withdrawn, it degenerated
because of lack of Government support and a shortage of qualified Liberian
researclh workers. Consequently, there is little information concerning
varieties, fertilizer use, and pest control for rice and food crop production,
and additional adaptive research is required urgently if any rural develop-
ment projects are to succeed. No research has been carried out on cocoa,
coffee and oil palms, but the results of research carried out in other West
African countries with similar ecological conditions can be applied. Some
agronomic and economic research is carried out at the University of Liberia,
but this is limited generally to the requirements of a teaching program, and
has limited field application.
2.11      Adaptive research on rice and some food crops was renewed in 1970
at Suakoko as part of a four year United Nations Development Programme (UNDP)
project for the development of rice cultivation. The facilities, however,
are insufficient to support the project, and infrastructural improvements,
mainly road surfacing, housing, fencing, electricity, buildings and equipment
are required. In addition, better research direction is needed.
2.12      Exports of all agricultural products except rubber are handled by
the Liberia Produce Marketing Corporation (LPMC), which was established in
1962 under a ten year agreement between Government and a Danish trading
company. LPMC purchases export crops through five agents who operate through
their own sub-agents. Buying prices are fixed monthly by LPMC, but no
attempt is made to guarantee prices paid to farmers or to grade produce.
Agents receive a comission equivalent to 5% of the LPMC purchase price and
a payment of 10 cts per bag to cover handling costs. LPMC's purchase prices
are generally higher than those paid by marketing boards in neighboring
countries, mainly because it pays neither profit taxes nor export duties.
If agricultural exports are to be expanded, produce quality must be
improved, marketing costs and profit margins reduced, and adequate marketing
facilities provided for farmers.



-5-
2.13      Training in agriculture is provided by the University of Liberia
through agriculture and forestry courses, and short in-service courses for
extension aides. Of the 29 agricultural graduates since 1962 only 6 are
employed by the Ministry, the remainder are either teaching, or employed
in commerce where they can get better salaries than in Government service.
Only 16 extension aides have completed short courses.
2.14      Agricultural credit is extremely limited.  The only sources of
farm credit are commercial banks and the Liberian Bank for Industrial
Development and Investment (LBIDI). LBIDI has made about 30 loans to large-
scale rubber farms. Government is now considering ways of providing credit
to small scale farmers.
C. Agricultural Strategy
2.15      While past Governments have paid lip service to the importance of
agriculture, effective development has been confined to the activities of
the concessionaires. The present Government, however, is anxious to make a
real effort to assist both subsistence and rubber farmers, but its ability
to do so is restricted severely by the lack of well-designed plans and
qualified personnel. Consequently Government's desire to help will remain
only an expression of intention unless it obtains technical assistance to
prepare and implement sound investment projects.
2.16      In the past Liberia has received substantial technical assistance
for agriculture. This has come principally from USAID, UNDP, and China
(Taiwan). The value of most of this has been vitiated because Government
failed to develop viable projects to benefit from such aid. This failure
appears to be recognized by Government, and during the last year it has
encouraged Government agencies concerned with agriculture and rural develop-
ment to concentrate their efforts on the collection of basic data, with the
objective of preparing investment proposals for a series of development
projects in subsistence farming areas.
2.17      Government has selected the north of Lofa County for its first
rural development project (map), and is collecting basic physical and
human resource data on the area through soil and hydrological surveys and
socio-economic studies including labor availability, credit, marketing and
transportation requirements, land tenure systems and land use and farming
patterns. Such a project would provide (a) participating farmers with the
package of services-extension, credit, input supply, processing and marketing-
needed to permit increases in the production of rice and other food and
cash crops; and (b) improvements to the physical and social infrastructure
of the area. Lofa has been selected not only because of its agricultural
potential, but also because a proposed iron ore mine in the Wologisi
Mountains (map) would create a new urban population of 35,000, requiring
large quantities of food that could be produced locally.



2.18      Government has selected a second location for a rural development
project in Bong County (map). Studies and surveys of this area are expected
to begin by the end of 1972, when investigations in the Lofa County have
been completed.
2.19      Government wishes to increase the efficiency of rubber production
on Liberian farms through a credit program for replanting and rellabilitation.
So far, however, it has been unable to formulate sound investment proposals
because of deficiencies in the information available on the location of
rubber suitable for rehabilitation and replanting, yield potentials, pro-
duletion and processing costs, and importantly the likely response of rubber
growers to improvement programs. A further problem involves the processing
aiid marketing of rubber produced on Liberian farms. The four foreign owned
processing firms collectively establish common producer prices and processing
and marketing charges. In 1970 these charges were about 7.0 cts/lb from
factory gate to fob, compared with 3.2 cts/lb and 2.3 cts/lb respectively in
Ivory Coast and Malaysia. These high charges and the falling world market
prices for natural rubber (see Annex 1) have necessitated price support for
LiLberian farmers under a loan scheme financed by the processors and guaranteed
by Government. About US$350,000 was provided to farmers in 1971 under the
scheme, but with continuing low rubber prices Government has discontinued t;IL
scheme, and is examining alternative measures to assist rubber farmers
inclulding the reduction of processing charges.
2.20      Government's strategy for the development of subsistence farmers
through integrated rural development projects, and for the rehabilitation
and replanting of rubber on Liberian farms, if this is shown to be viable,
is sound.  However, the ongoing studies and surveys for rural development
will be wasted unless they are supported by well prepared investment pro-
posals. Also plans to assist Liberian rubber farms will not come to
fruition unless the basic problems of the industry can be identified and
solved. As Liberia does not have the capacity to collect and analyze the
necessary data and to prepare sound investment proposals, it will have to
obtain external assistance for this purpose, and to strengthen the Government
agencies responsible for project implementation.
III. THE PROJECT
A. Description
3.01      The project would assist Government to complete the surveys and
studies needed to establish plans for the implementation of its agricul-
tural strategy and, in addition, to prepare specific investment projects
within the context of these plans. The project would also help to
strengthen the administrative and research capacity of the Ministry of
Agriculture to permit it to implement the projects so prepared. The
project would be carried out over the three years 1972-1975 and would
include:



(a) making feasibility studies and preparing detailed
investment proposals for two integrated rural develop-
ment projects;
(b) carrying out a physical survey and detailed study of the
Liberian owned rubber industry to determine future
improvement programs;
(c) carrying out a pilot rubber scheme to provide Liberian
rubber farmers with credits for labor, fertilizers, tapping,
materials and high yielding clones, to rehabilitate 2,000
acres of untapped or poorly tapped rubber, and grants to
replant 500 acres of old, uneconomic rubber;
(d) preparing, on the basis of (b) and (c) detailed proposals
for any investments justified for improvement of the
Liberian owned rubber industry;
(e) improving rice research at the Suakoko central research
station;
(f) providing a specialist experienced in administration to
plan the future structure and organization of the Ministry
of Agriculture and to prepare a staff training program; and
(g) providing training for Liberians in preparing investment
projects, rice research, and in rubber farm management and
tapping.
B. Detailed Features
Feasibility Studies for Integrated Rural Development Projects
3.02      Government has selected two locations one each in the Lofa and
Bong Counties, to begin its rural development program (para. 2.17 and
2.18). Sufficient data on the Lofa area will be available by the end of 1972
to permit the preparation of an integrated rural development project, and
sufficient data for similar proposals in Bong County will be available in
1973. Both sets of proposals would contain measures to increase the incomes
of virtually subsistence farmers through the increased production of cash
crops for domestic consumption and export. The measures would include the
provision of agricultural extension and credit services, agricultural inputs,
marketing and processing facilities, crop extraction and feeder roads,
potable water supplies, and essential social services.
3.03      As Government does not have the staff to prepare such proposals,
the project would finance experienced international consultants for this
purpose. Draft terms of reference for the studies and the form of the
investment proposals are given at Annex 2.



- 8 -
Survey and Feasibility Study of the Liberian-owned Rubber Industry
3.04      Government would retain an experienced consultant firm to carry out
a study of the rubber industry in Liberia. The study, in addition to a
physical survey of Liberian-owned rubber farms and plantations, would
include:
(a)  an inventory of Liberian-owned rubber to determine the
present status of production through an examination of
the agricultural, financial, economic and social conditions
of Liberian rubber farmers;
(b)  an examination of existing transportation, processing, and
marketing facilities;
(c)  an examination of existing institutional and organizational
arrangements of the rubber industry; and
(d)  a review of the part played by the rubber industry in the
Liberian economy.
Pilot Rubber Scheme
3.05      The pilot rubber scheme would involve rehabilitating 2,000 acres
of rubber capable of sustained and economic future yield levels, slaughter
tapping and then replanting 500 acres of rubber close to the end of its
productive life. Slaughter tapping involves the use of tapping and latex
stimulation techniques designed to extract from the trees the maximum
amount of rubber latex. While these techniques destroy the future productive
capacity of the trees, they maximize returns, and are standard practice on
rubber due for replanting on well managed rubber plantations. The pilot
scheme would provide information, particularly on grower response the
organization of credit and supervisory services, yields, and production costs,
which would be used together with the results of the rubber study to determine
the future development of the industry.
3.06      Rehabilitation.  Untapped or badly tapped farms would be
rehabilitated only if test tapping indicated a yield potential of not
less than 700 lb/acre per annum and an economic life of not less than
10 years. Farmers carrying out rehabilitation would receive credits
for tapping equipment and chemicals, construction of tappers quarters,
and the labor required to open up untapped farms and for one month's
subsequent tapping (para. 5.04 and Annex 4). 500 acres would be rehabi-
litated in 1972/73 and 700 and 800 acres respectively in 1973/74 and
1974/75.
3.07      Replanting.  Farms selected for replanting under the project
would be required to show a potential yield of 900 lb/acre over a two
year period of slaughter tapping. Farmers carrying out replanting would



- 9 -
receive funds for opening up farms, tapping equipment, yield stimulants,
land clearing, and rubber seedlings, produced on centralized scheme nurseries
(para 5.04 and Annex 5).
3.08      The consultants engaged to carry out the survey and feasibility
study would analyse the results of the study and experience gained under
the pilot rubber scheme (para 3.05), and make recommendations on the feasibi-
lity of expanding rubber production by Liberian farmers. Emphasis would
be placed on the need for satisfactory farm incomes, and appropriate
financing arrangements for rehabilitation and replanting existing rubber
farms, and for new planting. Detailed investment proposals would be prepared
only after the consultants' recommendations had been reviewed and accepted
by both Government and IDA, and assurances to this effect were obtained
during negotiations.
3.09      The investment proposals would pay particular attention to the
need to provide for:
(a) an organization to manager rubber development, especially
the provision of credit and extension services;
(b) rehabilitation of existing rubber, replanting among all
categories of farmers, and new plantings on small farms;
(c) a reduction in processing, marketing, and export costs;
and
(d) the introduction of an industry cess or other taxation to
finance farmer support services and replanting.
Draft terms of reference for the proposed study and the form of investment
proposals are given in Annex 3.
Rice Research
3.10      Rice research is being carried out at the Suakoko research
station but it lacks permanent direction and adequate logistical support.
Direction is now provided by a well qualified expatriate agronomist under
the UNDP project described at para. 2.11. This arrangement however, does
not provide for rice research to continue at the end of the project, and
the time the agronomist can devote to rice research at Suakoko is restricted,
as he Is responsible also for determining the improved rice cultivation
techniques that will be employed in the proposed rural development projects.
3.11      At the present time, Liberia has neither the staff nor the resources
to carry out the research required to support agricultural development, and
Liberia's research needs would be served best by some form of research
cooperation with other countries, where the limited resources could be
pooled to common advantage. The West African Rice Development Association



- 10 -
(WARDA), which held its first governing council meeting in Monrovia in
September 1971 may coordinate research in future, but until a satisfactory
cooperative research program is established, Liberia requires assistance to
carry out adaptive research to support its plans for rice developinent. Thle
project would finance consultants to plan and monitor a rice research program
related to Liberia's needs, and an experienced rice agronomist to direct tile
program and improvement of facilities at Suakoko. Since the program would
consist mostly of adapting to Liberia's needs the results of researchi done
elsewhere, the consultants' services would be provided by an international
rice research institute.  The International Rice Research Institute, Los
Banos, Philippines, and the International Institute for Tropical Agriculture,
Ibadan, Nigeria are examples of institutions suitable for this purpose.
During negotiations, assurances were obtained that consultants and a
rice agronomist, acceptable to IDA, would be employed for the above purposes
under conditions of employment and witlh terms of reference satisfactory to IDA.
Draft terms of reference for the consultants are at Annex 6. The improvement
of facilities at Suakoko would include new and improved housing, paving about
one mile of the present gravel main road which runs adjacent to the swamp
rice experimental plots to prevent dust falling on the area during thie dry
season, a new electricity generator, and fencing to prevent tampering withi
researclh plots.
3.12      Reorganization of the Ministry of Agriculture.  The Ministry
of Agriculture is unable to plan and implement sound agricultural projects
and requires additional manpower and financial inputs (para 2.09). Under
the project, the Ministry's functions and organization would be reviewed
and, if necessary, revised, and a five-year staffing, training and financing
plan prepared. Consideration would be given also to amending existing
legislation and creating new legislation should this be required. The
reorganization plan and legislation would be prepared by an experienced
administrator. During negotiations an assurance was obtained that Government
would review his recommendations with IDA, and would formulate a program for
their implementation mutually acceptable to Government and IDA. Draft
terms of reference for the administrator are at Annex 7.
3.13      Training.  In view of the shortage of experienced Liberians to
prepare and implement an agricultural development program, tihe project would
provide training for graduate economists, agronomists and rice research
workers as well as for experienced rubber farm managers and for tappers. Thie
consultants retained by Government to conduct the feasibility studies for
the two proposed rural development projects and for the Liberian-owned rubber
industry would train the agronomists and economists, nine of whom would be
attached to the consultants during the study periods. Research fellowships
would be provided for four Liberians to receive training and experience in
rice research at international institutes prior to filling priority rice
research posts. Farm managers would attend short courses at the rubber pilot
scheme headquarters; and rubber tappers would receive training in the field
which will be followed by intensive field supervision. The project would



- 11 -
finance the capital cost of the training facilities. It is envisaged that
an expanded training program would begin on completion of this project based
on the staffing plan prepared for the Ministry of Agriculture by the
administrator (para 3.12).
IV. COST ESTIMATES AND FINANCIAL ARRANGEMENTS
A. Project Costs
4.01      Estimated project costs total US$1.60 million, with a foreign
exchange component of US$0.88 million or 55% of total costs. Costs are
detailed in Annex 8 and summarized in the following table:



- 12 -
Summary of Project Costs
US$'000
Local     Foreign      Total
Consultant Services
Investment proposals for Integrated Rural
Development Projects                         97         196         293
Rubber Survey and Feasibility Study             78         161         239
Aerial Photography                              22          44          66
Research Supervision                             9          21          30
Subtotal                              206         422         628
Rubber Pilot Scheme
Staff                                           93          30         123
Equipment                                       27          53          80
Services                                        12           6          18
On-farm Costs                                   82          27         109
Subtotal                               214        116         330
Research
Staff                                           26          36          62
Equipment                                       -            4           4
Infrastructure                                  74          81         155
Services                                         4           3           7
Subtotal                               104        124         228
Reorganization Ministry of Agriculture
Staff                                           41          50          91
Equipment                                        1           4           5
Services                                        11           4          15
Subtotal                                53         58         111
Training
Consultant Studies Counterpart Staff            43          -           43
Research Fellowships                            -           30          30
Subtotal                                43          30         73
Contingencies
Physical                                        19          16          35
Price                                           81         109         190
Subtotal                               100         125        225
Total Project Cost                               720         875       1?595
4.02      Project costs include a 5% physical contingency and a 5% per annum
price contingency on pilot rubber scheme, Ministry of Agriculture reorgani-
zation, rice research, and training costs; and a 20% price contingency on all



- 13 -
consultants' services. Estimates are based on up-to-date building costs;
recent quotations given by suppliers of vehicles and materials; farm input
and labor costs provided by the Ministry of Agriculture and private rubber
farmers; and consultants' charges for similar studies. Project costs do
not include taxes on imported goods and during credit negotiations Govern-
ment confirmed that payment of import taxes on goods imported under the
project would not be required.
B. Proposed Financing
4.03      Details of Project financing would be as follows:
Government        IDA             Total
US$'000   %   US$'000   %        US$'000   %
Consultant Services                  125.6   20    502.4   80         628.0  39
Farmers' Loans (rubber rehabi-
litation)                        11.2   20     44.8   80          56.0   4
Farmers' Grants (rubber replanting) 53.0  100         -     -          53.0   3
Civil Works                           35.0   20    140.0   80         175.0  11
Vehicles and Equipment                13.8   20      55.2   80         69.0   4
Salaries and Training Fellowships   70.0   20    179.6   80           349.6  22
Project Services                      39.0  100       -     -          39.0   3
Contingencies                         47.4   21    178.0   79         225.4  14
Total Project Costs and
Financial Requirement              395.0   25  1,200.0   75       1,595.0 100
4.04      A credit of US$1.2 million would be made to Government on stan-
dard IDA terms to meet 75% of total project costs. US$0.88 million or 73% of
the credit would cover project foreign exchange costs, and the balance of
US$0.32 (27% of the credit) would finance 44% of local currency costs. The
remaining 25% of project costs totalling US$0.40 million would be met from
Government budgetary allocations. During credit negotiations assurances
were obtained from Government that funds required for the project
would be made available two months in advance, and in block form in a bank
account to be used exclusively for all expenditures on goods and services
required for the project, on the basis of monthly estimates approved by the
administrator (para 5.07).
C. Procurement
4.05      Project procurement for goods and civil works totalling about
W)7)>no(l doiul(ld e administered by the administrator accord-ing to
procedures agreed by Government and IDA during credit negotiations,
which would ensure a satisfactory degree of completion.  Procurement



- 14 -
for goods and civil works would be by local competitive bidding since
individual contracts would be too small to attract international bids. A
sufficient number of construction companies and manufactures' agents exists
in Liberia to ensure adequate competitive bidding. Consultant services
totalling $628,000 would be obtained under the procedures described in the
World Bank Group guidelines. If procurements were made without IDA's
approval, corresponding sums in the credit account would be cancelled.
During negotiations, detailed procurement procedures were agreed and
assurances were obtained that subsequently these would be followed.
D. Disbursement
4.06      Disbursement of the credit would be against 80% of the cost of
consultant services totalling US$502,400; and of farmers loans, of civil
works, of vehicles and equipment, and of salaries and training fellowships
totalling US$519,600. An unallocated amount of US$178,000 would meet contin-
gencies. Disbursement of the proposed IDA credit by categories is detailed
in Annex 8, Table 1, and quarterly disbursements are shown in Table 2. Expend-
itures would be evidenced by contracts and certified records of expenditure.
Any savings would be subject to cancellation.
E. Accounts and Audit
4.07      The administrator (paras 5.01 and 5.07) would be responsible for
project accounts, which would be prepared by the accountant attached to the
pilot rubber project. Individual loan accounts for all farmers receiving
project credit and grants would be kept by the pilot rubber scheme management
unit. All accounts would be kept in accordance with established accounting
principles and with due regard to Government regulations. All accounts
would be audited by an independent auditing firm mutually acceptable to
Government and IDA. Such an audit would include a physical check of project
assets, and audited accounts together with copies of the auditor's report
would be submitted to IDA within four months of the closing of each financial
year.  During credit negotiations assurances to this effect were obtained
from Government.
V. ORGANIZATION AND MANAGEMENT
5.01      The project will be carried out by the Ministry of Agriculture as
it is too small to merit establishing a separate organization. The administra-
tor (para 5.07) would be responsible for coordinating all project activities
within the Ministry of Agriculture. The Deputy Ministers or their equiva-
lents in Government Ministries and agencies associated with the project
would be responsible for effecting the cooperation of their Ministries and
agencies in project implementation, and for reviewing and evaluating the



- 15 -
consultants' studies financed under the project. During credit negotiations
issur.uinces to this effect were obtained from GovernmenL.
Investment Proposals for Two Integrated Rural Development Projects
5.02      The two rural development project feasibility studies would require
a total of about 50 man months of professional services, including a team
leader, agronomist, economist, civil engineer, and specialists in public
health and education (details Annex 8, Table 2). The project for the Lofa
County would be prepared first and would require six to nine months to
complete. The preparation of investment proposals for the second area would
not start until the report on the Lofa County had been completed to the.
satisfaction of Government and IDA, and data from Government's human and
physical resource surveys available (para 2.17). The consultants would
submit their report to Government and IDA through the Ministry of Agricul-
ture. During credit negotiations assurances to these effects were obtained
from Government, and that the consultants, their terms of reference and
conditions of employment would be mutually acceptable to Government and
IDA. It would be a condition of disbursement against the two integrated
rural development project studies component that consultants had been
appointed.
Rubber and Industry Survey and Feasibility Study
5.03      The rubber industry survey would require about 30 man months,
and the preparation of investment proposals about 20 man months of pro-
fessional services, which would include a team leader, aerial photography
interpreter, surveyor, agronomist, accountant/financial analyst, economist
and rubber processing engineer (details, Annex 8, table 3). The consul-
tants retained by Government for the survey and feasibility study would
submit their report to Government and IDA through the Ministry of Agricul-
ture. During credit negotiations assurances were obtained from Government
that the consultants, their terms of reference and conditions of employment
would be mutually acceptable to Government and IDA. It would be a condition
of disbursement against the rubber industry studies component that consultants
had been appointed.
Pilot Rubber Scheme
5.04      The scheme's headquarters would be at Suakoko and the management
unit would be staffed with the following personnel: a manager, an assistant,
an experienced accountant, and five field officers (sector heads). During
credit negotiations assurances were obtained from Government that the
manager, 1-iis terms of reference and conditions of employment would be mutually
acceptable to Government and IDA, and it would be a condition of credit
effectiveness that a unit manager had been appointed. Government already
employs a rubber adviser qualified for this post. Project participants would
cover the full range of Liberian rubber farmers, but emphasis would be placed
on selecting smaller farmers; to qualify participants would either have to



- 16 -
reside on their farms or have a satisfactory manager. Rehabilitation loans
would be made for up to 100 acres for a maximum of $28.50/ac, made up of
$10.0 for tapping labor and $18.50 for equipment and materials (Aniiex 4), anld
would be repaid over 5 years and bear interest of 9%, the rate charged by
LBIDI for similar loans. No assurances are required on the use of credit
funds repaid by farmers as this is a pilot project and only $56,000 would be
involved, and the funds would be returned to Government revenue. A total of
$53,000 would be provided to farmers to replant rubber. Farmers would receive
$101/ac, to finance opening for tapping $12, buildings $14, and replanting
$75 (details Annex 5). Since only 500 ac would be replanted under the proj-
ect and the term of loans for such activity would have to be of some 15 years,
replanting of these 500 ac would be financed by grants. This does not pre-
suppose that any full scale replanting program that might emerge from thie
consultants studies would not be financed, at least in part, by long-term
loans.
5.05      Under the terms of their loan agreements, credit recipients would
undertake to sell rubber to a named processor, who would be authorized to
deduct such repayments as requested by the unit manager from the proceeds
of sales, and pay these deductions to the project management unit. Reci-
pients of grants and loans would undertake to carry out all instructions
given by project staff regarding the operation of their farms, and it would
be a condition of effectiveness of the credit that Government had agreed
with IDA the form of agreements for project loans and grants.
Rice Research
5.06      Arrangements for the improvement of the physical infrastructure at
the research station (para 3.11) would be made by the administrator
in consultation with officials of the Ministry of AgriculLure,
the rice research consultants and the rice agronomist. It would be a
condition of disbursement against the research component of the project
that consultants and the rice agronomist had been appointed.
Reorganization of the Ministry of Agriculture
5.07      The Ministry of Agriculture's reorganization would be planned
by an experienced administrator, who would be employed by Government for
three years. He would report to the Minister of Agriculture or his deputy,
and would be responsible also for project coordination (para 5.01). During
credit negotiations an assurance was obtained from Government that the
administrator, his terms of reference and conditions of employment would
be mutually acceptable to Government and IDA, and it would be a condition
of credit effectiveness that he had been appointed.
5.08      Training.  The administrator would be responsible for arranging
the selection and appointment of Liberian counterparts to the consultants'
studies. Candidates would be either suitably qualified Government officials
or recent graduates. The research consultants retained by Government would



- 17 -
assist the selection, and would prepare and supervise the training programs
of four research workers awarded rice research fellowships. Assurances
were obtained from Government during credit negotiations that thle
:ountAerparts and research fellows would be appointed to tie Mlnistrv of
Agrlc,1 turf nfl the satisfactory completion of their traifing programs.  Ttril-
Ing I-or rubber farm managers and tappers would be carried olut by tile ,pilot
rubber scheme manager. All managers of farms participating in the scheme
would attend short courses at headquarters, and tappers would be closely
supervised and given field instruction.
VI. BENEFITS AND JUSTIFICATION
6.01      The project's pre-investment activities would permit the Government
to develop detailed plans for the development of the subsistence farming
sector, and for improving the efficiency of Liberian rubber farmers. Govern-
ment agencies responsible for agriculture would be strengthened, through
the provision of technical assistance, and plans would be prepared for their
reorganization and staffing by qualified Liberians.
6.02      The project's pre-investment activities directed at the improvement
of the subsistence sector would ultimately lead to increased agricultural
production through the provision of a package of services and infrastructure
improvements in areas of relatively higher rural population density. The
increased production of cash crops would reduce the differences in incomes
between rural and urban areas. Without such programs, the rural sector
would be unable to benefit from developments in other sectors, such as the
proposed Wologisi iron ore mine and the new market that this will create for
farm produce. Existing mining operations, in particular the large Nimba
mine in the northeast, have had no discernable impact on adjoining rural
areasl as the food requirements for employees are mostly imported.
6.03      While rubber production on Liberian farms has almost doubled
since 1965, the industry is now facing critical problems because of falling
prices. Unless the efficiency of rubber farmers is improved and rubber
processing and marketing costs reduced, many producers will be forced out
of business, and exports and employment will be reduced. While natural
rubber prices are expected to stabilize by 1972 at about 16.5 cents/lb cif
New York, compared with about 19.0 cents/lb in 1971 (Annex 1), the application
of advances in technology made in recent years can make rubber production
viable even at this lower price.
6.04      The pilot rubber rehabilitation and replanting scheme would be
an adjunct to the studies of the industry. Rates of return have been
calculated separately for rehabilitation and replanting on the basis of the
costs detailed in Annexes 4 and 5. Processing and marketing is costed at
4 cents/lb. This is based on the known costs in other rubber producing
countries and is 3 cents/lb lower than the present rate charged by processors.
In view of the limited yield data for Liberian farms, the rate of return



- 18 -
has been calculated for a yield range of 700 lb/ac to 770 lb/ac for rehabi-
litated rubber, and a yield of 1,200 lb/ac to 1,320 lb/ac in years of peak
production for replanted rubber. On the basis of these costs, yields, and
a cif New York price of 16.5 cents/lb, and using a shadow price for farm
labor of 46 cents, (the estimated value of production of a man working in
subsistance agriculture), which seems justified because of the prospect of
unemployment (see para 6.03), the rate of return for replanting is 9%, and
that for rehabilitation over 100%. If full labor costs are used the rates
of return fall to 6% and 31% respectively. The rate of return for rubber
rehabilitation is high because no value is attributed to the costs already
sunk in trees to be rehabilitated; without the scheme they would not be
brought into production. The return, however, is very sensitive to small
changes in operating costs and benefits; for example, a 1% reduction in yield
would reduce the rate of return by about 10 percentage points. The
return for replanting is low and reflects the low yield estimate used.
Yields of 2,000 lb/ac can be achieved in Liberia, and replanted rubber can
be intercropped with food crops; a combination of these factors would result
in substantially larger returns. The principal purpose of the rubber
industry studies and the pilot scheme would be to determine whether Liberian
growers could be induced to use effectively the advanced technology needed
to make rubber growing a financially sound and economic enterprise.
6.05      Financial returns to farmers participating in the pilot scheme
would be satisfactory. Annual net returns for rehabilitation are estimiated
at $21/acre (Annex 4, Table 1), and would average $30/acre for replanted
rubber (Annex 5, Table 2). These net returns would be similar to the present
returns obtained by the best Liberian rubber farmers (about 5% of the total),
and would be a source of new income to most scheme participants whose
rubber would otherwise not be tapped. An analysis of the financial returns,
based on the production costs detailed in Annexes 4 and 5 shows that rubber
farming would not be viable at world market prices of 16.5 cents/lb, unless
yields are at least 700 lb/acre for rehabilitated rubber and 1,200 lb/acre
for replanted rubber.
6.06      The proposed project is primarily limited to pre-investment
activities because this is the best way to develop a sound agricultural
development strategy which can have a significant impact on Liberia's
economy. In the absence of developing and carrying out such a strategy
the subsistence farming sector will remain stagnant, and the contribution
of rubber farmers to the economy will fall. The project does not pre-
suppose that the Liberian-owned rubber industry can be placed on a firmer
economic footing, since without the actions proposed under the project this
cannot be determined. The importance of the industry is such, however, that
this determination is of the highest priority.
VII. RECOMMENDATIONS
7.01      During credit negotiations the following main assurances were
olbtained:



- 19 -
(a) detailed investment proposals for the Liberian owned
rubber industry would be prepared only after the consultants'
recommendations had been reviewed and accepted by Government
and IDA (para 3.08);
(b)  the research consultants, the rice agronomist, their terms
of reference and conditions of employment would be mutually
acceptable to Government and IDA (para 3.11);
(c) Government would review recommendations for the reorganiza-
tion of the Ministry of Agriculture with IDA, and would for-
mulate a program for their implementation mutually acceptable
to Government and IDA (para 3.12);
(d) funds required for the project would be made available two
months in advance, and in block form in a bank account to be
used exclusively for all expenditures on goods and services
required for the project, on the basis of monthly estimates
approved by the administrator (para 4.04);
(e) detailed procurement procedures agreed with IDA would be
followed (para 4.05);
(f) project accounts would be audited by an independent auditing
firm mutually acceptable to Government and IDA, and audited
accounts together with copies of the auditor's report would
be submitted to IDA within four months of the end of the
financial year (para 4.07);
(g) deputy ministers or their equivalents in Government Ministries
and agencies associated with the project would be responsible
for effecting the cooperation of their Ministries and agencies in
carrying out the project, and for reviewing and evaluating the
consultants' studies financed under the project (para 5.01);
(h) the preparation of investment proposals for the second integrated
rural development project would not start until the report on
the Lofa County had been completed to the satisfaction of
Government and IDA (para 5.02);
(i)  tthe consultants to prepare investments proposals for two integrated
ruratl development projects, their terms of reference and conditions
of employment would be mutually acceptable to Government and
IDA (para 5.02);
(j) the consultants for the rubber industry survey and study,
their terms of reference and conditions of employment would
be mutually acceptable to Government and IDA (para 5.03);
(k)  the pilot rubber scheme manager, his terms of reference and
conditions of employment would be mutually acceptable to
Government and IDA (para 5.04);



- 20 -
(1)  the administrator, his terms of reference and conditions
of employment would be mutually acceptable to Government
and IDA (para 5.07); and
(m)  the counterparts and research fellows would be appointed to
the Ministry of Agriculture on the satisfactory completion
of their training programs (para 5.08).
7.02      Conditions of credit effectiveness would be that:
(a)  the pilot rubber scheme unit manager had been appointed
(para 5.04);
(b)  Government had agreed with IDA the form of the agreements
for rubber rehabilitation loans and replanting grants (para
5.05); and
(c)  the administrator to plan the reorganization of the Ministry
of Agriculture had been appointed (para 5.07).
7.03      Condition of disbursement would be:
(a)  against the twointegrated rural development project studies
component that consultants had been appointed (para 5.02);
(b)  against the rubber industry studies component that consultants
had been appointed (para 5.03); and
(c)  against the reserch component that the consultants and rice
agronomist had been appointed (para 5.06).
7.04      The project is suitable for an IDA credit of US$1.2 million to
the Government of Liberia.
March 3, 1972



ANNEX 1
Page 1
LIBERIA
AGRICULTURAL DEVELOPMENT AND TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE PROJECT
Natural Rubber: Trends and Outlook
1.        Production of natural rubber is highly concentrated in the South-
east and South Asia regions, but nearly all natural rubber produced is
consumed in nonproducing developed countries. More than 90% of all exports
are shipped from four Asian countries - Malaysia, Indonesia, Thailand and
Ceylon - and Malaysia alone accounts for 45% of world exports. The remainder
is exported by a group of some 15 minor exporting countries. The two
biggest producers, Malaysia and Indonesia, are heavily dependent on rubber
as a source of income, employment and foreign exchange earnings. The share
of rubber exports in foreign exchange earnings for these countries is
aroun(d 35' ancd 45, respectively. Rubber accounts for around 11% of
export earnings in Thailand and is concentrated in the southern part of
the country; for this region, too, rubber provides the main source of in-
come and employment. In Ceylon rubber is the second biggest export, ac-
counting for around 22% of the export earnings. More detailed statistical
information is given in the tables.
World Demand Prospects
2.        During the postwar period the world market for elastomers, that
is, synthetic as well as natural rubbers, expanded at an average rate of
about 6% per annum, with a slower expansion in consumption in the major
consuming countries (the United States and the United Kingdom) being
offset by an above-average rate of growth in all other countries. However,
the overall buoyant demand for elastomers was associated with a slow growth
of natural rubber supplies (2.6% per annum between 1950-52 and 1969) but
a rapidly rising supply of synthetic rubber (about 10% per annum). Con-
sequently the share of natural rubber in the market for new rubber outside
the centrally planned countries declined from 65% in 1950-52 to around 32%
in recent years. The share of natural rubber in the United States, where
the synthetic rubber industry was established during World War II for
strategic reasons, has dropped to 23% compared to 44% in 1950-52. In most
other countries, natural rubber's share in the demand for elastomers falls
in the range of 40 to 507.
3.        A considerable shift in the geographic distribution of import
demand for natural rubber was also experienced in the postwar period. The
combined share in consumption of the United States and the United Kingdom,
the two largest consumers of rubber in the early 1950's, dropped from 55%
in 1950-52 to 35% in 1969. Meanwhile, consumption in Japan, the EEC and
the centrally planned countries rose rapidly and now accounts for half of
the total.



ANNEX 1
Page 2
4.        It has been observed that the growth of industrial output an(d tlhe
growth of elastomer consumption in major consuming countries, as well as
for the world as a whole, are very closely associated. This is explained
by the fact that the single most important source of demand for elastomers
Ls vehicular transportation which, in turn, is highly correlated with the
growth of industrial output. Approximately 50% of all elastomers is
utilized in the production of tires and tire products.
5.        The results of the regression on 1951-69 data showed that 98%
of the variation in elastomer consumption outside the centrally planned
countries was explained by the growth in industrial production and that,
on an average, 1% increase in industrial production was associated with
1.13% increase in the demand for elastomers (Chart 1). Similar relation-
ships have been observed to hold also for certain individual consuming
countries, such as the United States, the EEC and Japan.
16.       The Table in para 8 presents a view of the probable course of world
demand for elastomers to 1980, which is based on the above relationship bet-
ween the growth in rubber consumption and industrial output. On the basis of
projections of the GNP and industrial output in OECD countries, worl(d
consumption of elastomers outside the centrally planned countries is
expected to reach a level of 9.2 million metric tons per year by 1975, and
12.2 million tons in 1980. In addition, net imports of natural rubber into
the centrally planned countries are projected to reach 800,000 metric tons
in 1975 and 1 million tons in 1980.
World Supply Prospects
7.        It is estimated that in the coming years output of natural rubber
will expand much more rapidly than has been the case in the past as new
plantings and replantings that were undertaken in the sixties come into
production. Detailed data on replantings, apart from a few individual
countries, are not available, but rough estimates of new plantings can be
more easily derived from the increase in rubber area. It is estimated that
the total world area under rubber increased from 11.5 million acres during
1958-62 to 13.5 million acres during 1963-68. Of the four largest producing
countries, only Thailand's area expanded at an above-average rate of 9.6%
per annum; 1/ the expansion in Malaysia was 2.5% and in Indonesia 1.3%, while
in Ceylon the rubber area actually declined. For Malaysia and Ceylon
replanting was a more important factor in increasing output. The expansion
in rubber area was largest in African countries, particularly Ivory Coast,
Liberia and Nigeria.
8.        There are at present considerable differences in the yields
achieved in different producing countries. Such differences to some extent
are due to climatic and soil factors but the large discrepancies among
1/   Recent data compiled by the Rubber Research Center of Thailand suggest
that the increase in the rubber area was even greater.



ANNEX 1
Page 3
producing countries are mainly the result of slow and inadequate replanting
rates in the past. There are as such very good prospects for expanding
production, without necessarily increasing the area under rubber, in the
lagging countries.
PROJECTIONS OF DEMAND AND SUPPLY OF NATURAL RUBBER
(thousand metric tons)
Actual                   Projections
1964-66  1967   1968   1969   1970    1975   11980
Production            2,437  2,487  2,632  2,885  2,898   3,900   4,800
Exports to centrally
planned countries    556    584    709    752    706        800   1,000
Supplies to market
economies           1,881  1,903  1,923  2,133  2,192   3,100   3,800
Market economies
consumption of
all rubbers           4,846  5,240  6,014  6,550  6,750   9,200  12,200
Share of natural
rubber in market
economies              38.8   36.3   32.0   32.6   31.5    33.7    31.1
Source:   International Rubber Study Group and Trade Policies and Export
Projections Division, Economics Department, IBRD
9.        The yields can certainly be increased by more extensive and
effective use of fertilizers and other improved cultivation practices,
but the most important source for the increase in output in future is ex-
pected to be replanting rubber areas under seedling rubber with high yielding
clones through vegetative propagation. The realization of yields up to a
level of 2,000 pounds per acre are considered to be quite practicable in
a number of countries and, in Malaysia, which has led the way in research
and development, the yields could conceivably be higher. Under experimental
con(litions, new varieties of clones have yields up to 6,000 pounds of
rubber per acre in that country.
10.       As far as increasing the yield from the already existing trees is
concerned, a very promising yield stimulant known as Ethrel has recently



ANNEX 1
Page 4
been developed. 1/ Extensive experiments to test the effect of this chemical
have been carried out in the last few years by the Rubber Research Instittute
of Malaysia and elsewhere. Although the results have so far been encouraging,
there does exist a certain element of skepticism among researchers on its
long-run implications, particularly with regard to its effect on the life
of the rubber tree and the dry rubber content of latex. Recent experiments
have nevertheless shown that yields can be increased by 40-100%, particu-
larly if the chemical is applied to older, but well-looked-after trees.
Ethrel has the advantage of easy application to the tree, but its cost,
amounting to about US$13 per acre, is considered rather high for extensive
use by smallholders.
11.       Because of the possibility of lower cost of production, replanting
with high yielding material is expected to be the most important factor
in enabling natural rubber producers to remain competitive with the
producers of synthetic rubbers. Past experience shows that the decline
in natural rubber prices in the postwar period was most easily accommodated
by the producers with the highest yields per acre. With the latest
varieties of clones and agricultural techniques, it would be possible for
natural rubber producers to remain competitive even with a further decline
in prices. 2/
12.       As a consequence of the above-mentioned technical advances, the
rate of expansion in natural rubber supplies is expected to be much greater
in the seventies than the rates observed in the past. The estimates
prepared by the International Rubber Study Group indicate that the growth
rate will exceed 6% per annum during the 1970-75 period and decline to
4.3% during the 1975-80 period. The reason for the relatively slow growth
toward the end of the seventies is that many of the technical advances are
expected to have borne their results by 1975.
13.       The Table in para 8 gives the indication of the course rubber
supplies are likely to take in the seventies. The output would reach 3.9
million tons in 1975 and 4.8 million tons in 1980 as compared to 2.9 million
tons in 1970. These estimates exclude the possible effect of an extensive
use of Ethrel which, if successfully applied, would probably add another
1/   Ethrel is a brand name for a chemical manufactured by a U.S. firm,
which acts as a decoagulant, that is, it increases the flow of latex
from the tree by slowing down the process of coagulation. At the
Rubber Research Institute of Malaya experiments have been carried out
on Panels C and D (i.e., trees after 15 years of tapping) in the last
few years, but no ill effects have been noticed so far. See P.D.
Abrahams, "Field Trials with Ethrel", RRIM Planters' Conference,
July 1970.
21   Cf., IBRD, Efficiency in Resource Allocation, The Case of Natural
Rubber, EC-179, July 13, 1971.



ANNEX 1
Page 5
100,000 tons and 500,000 tons to the supplies in 1975 and 1980, respec-
tively. This unprecedented expansion in the rubber supplies would effec-
tively halt the declining share of natural rubber in the market of all
elastomers. As indicated in the table, the share in recent years has
remained around 32%, but is expected to rise to 34% in 1975 but will
decline once again to 31% in 1980.
Price Outlook
14.       In view of the anticipated rapid expansion in natural rubber
supply in the current decade, natural rubber is expected to face a more
vigorous competition from the synthetic substitutes, and its price as in
the past would be influenced by the expected developments in the synthetic
industry. The disposal of large additional supplies in the market would
obviously necessitate maintaining natural rubber prices competitive with
the prices of synthetic substitutes.
15.       The major development foreseen in synthetic rubber by the mid-
seventies is a decline in the cost of the butadiene-based synthetic rub-
bers, polybutadiene (PB) and styrene-butadiene rubber (SBR), as the price
of their major raw material input falls. This is based on an anticipated
change in the status of butadiene by that time from being a product pri-
marily produced for synthetic rubber conversion to a by-product of another
major chemical product, ethylene. Cost reduction in the raw material in-
put of polyisoprene (PI), which is the closest synthetic approximation to
natural rubber and hence competes most directly with it, may also result
from economies of scale in the manufacture of isoprene. The net effect
of technical improvements is expected to be such that the price of poly-
butadiene would decline to 15 cents per pound and that of polyisoprene to
18 cents per pound by 1975. (See Chart 2). The long-run price of natural
rubber (RSS 1 grade) is expected to be constrained by these limits and could
lie somewhere in the middle of this range. In particular, the cost price of
PI will serve as a ceiling, since protracted movements of natural rubber
above that ceiling would lead to an accelerated increase in polyisoprene
capacity. The projected price of natural rubber in 1971 dollars is there-
fore estimated to be about 16.5 cents (c.i.f. United States) per pound for
RSS 1 grade in 1975.
16.       For the period 1975-85 - during which new and replanted natural
rubber installed after 1970 would be maturing - the price of natural rub-
ber in 1971 dollars would continue to be around 16.5 cents per pound but
withi some tendency towards a downward pressure. This would depend on
whether there have been substantial developments in synthetic technology
and whether this area of investment appears attractive to the petro-chemical
industry.
December 1, 1971






ANNEX 1
Table 1
LIBERIA
AGRICULTURAL DEVELOPMENT AND TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE PROJECT
NATURAL RUBBER: PRODUCTION BY REGIONS AND COUNTRIES AND
SHARE OF REGIONS AND COUNTRIES IN WORLD TOTAL
Yearly
Production           Rate           Share in World
Region/Country                                                 of                Total I/
1955-57    1966-68    1969   Change    1955-57   1966-68    1969
(.....1,000 inetric tons ....) (.       percent   .       ..    .. )
Developed Countries             None        None      None    None       None        None     None
Developing Countries
Asia:
Malaysia                     705.4     1,032.3   1,267.9   3.5        364          41.0o   43.9
Indonesia                    714.0        743.2     79044   0.4       36.9        29.5    27.4
Thailand                     135.0       226.7      281.8  4.8         7.0          9.0     9.8
Ceylon                        97.3       141.0      150.8   3.4        5.0          5.n     5.2
Vietnam                       68.7         39.7      26.2   4.9        3.5          1.6     0.9
Cambodia                      30.5         52.1      51.8   5.0        1.6          2.1     1.8
India      2/                 23.6         61.5      80.0   9.1        1.2         2.4    2.8
Other Asia     2              19.6        24.2       24.8   1.9        1.0         1.0      0.9
Total Asia 2/         1,794.T      2,320.6   2,673.7      7       92.7        92.2    92.7
Africa:                                                    3/
Liberia                       38.8         59.8      6o.9g- 4.0        2.0          2.4     2.3
Nigeria                       36.6         58.3      50.83/ 4.3        1.9          2.3     2.0
Congo                         31.0         30.4      35.oY 0.2         1.6          1.2     1.2
Others                         4.9        21.5       22.8   144.       0.3         0.8      0.8
Total Africa             111.3        170.0     181.5  s39
Latin America:
Brazil                         23.0         22.8      24.0  0.1        1.2          0.9     0.8
Other Latin America             6.1          7.0       7.0  1.3        0.3          0.3     0.2
Total Latin America       29V7         2. -T-k531 6               1 .5        1.2      1.0
Total Developing              1,934.5      2,520.4   2,886.2   2.4      100.0        100.0   100.0
World (excluding centrally
planned countries)          1,934.5      2,520.4   2,886.2   2.4      100.0        100.0   100.0
Centrally Planned Countries   None         None        None    None      None        None    None
World (including centrally
plamnee   ountries          1,934-5      2,52044   2,886.2   2.4      100.0        100.0   100.0
1/  Excluding centrally planned countries
2/  Includes Oceania.
3/ Net exports data have been taken because of non-availability of production figures
for 1969
SOURCE: International Rubber Study Group (IRSG), Rubber Statistical Bulletin,
various issues.
FAO, Production Yearbook, various issues.
December 20,1971



ANNEX 1
Table 2
LIBERIA
AGRICULTURAL DEVELOPMENT AND TECHNYICAL ASSISTANCE PROJECT
WORLD - NATURAL RUBBER EXPORTS, EXPORT VALUE, EXPORT UNIT VALUE
AND NEW YORK PRICES. 1955-57, 1960-62 AND 1966-68 AVERAGES
A4nnuai Percentaenne
1955-57  1960O62     196-60Cf62~
1955-57     1960-62     1966-68   1955/57-60/62   1960/62 -6/68
Exports
(l,0O0Oometric tons)
World Total                1,852.0    2,060.3     2,390.0         2.2             2.5
Developed Cowntries       None       None        None         None            None
Developing Countries    1,852.0    2,060.3     2,390.0         2.2             2.5
Asia: 2/              1,741.0    1,906.9     2,223.5         1.8             2.6
Malaysia              701.0      841.1    1,076.7          3.7             4.1
Indonesia             696.0      653.4       686.5        -1.3             0.8
Thailand              134.0      182.5       221.9         6.3             3.3
Ceylon                 94.0       99.3       135.0         1.1             5.2
Others 2/             116.0      130.6       103.4         2.4            -3.8
Africa                    104.0      144.2       156.3         5.8             1.3
Latin America               2.0        9.1        10.2        36.0             1.9
Centrally Planned
Countries                None       None        None          None           None
Export Value
(U.S. $ mill-ion)
World Total                1,153.0    1,213.1       894.9         1.0            -4.9
Developed Countries       None       None        None          None            None
Developing Countries    1,153.0   1,213.1        894.9         1.0            -4.9
Asia: 2/              1,083.9    1,115.9       920.3         0.6            -5.0
Malaysia              477.0      531.6       447.1         2.2            -2.9
Indonesia             397.0      336.2       186.0        -3.3            -9.4
Thailand               76.0      108.0        84.1         7-3            -4.1
Ceylon                 66.0       62.9        59.7        -1.0            -0.9
Others 2/              67.9       77.2        43.4         2.6            -9.2
Africa                     67.9       89.1        66.8         5.6            -4.8
Latin America               1.2        8.1         7.8        47.0            -0.7
Centrally Planned
Countries                 None       None        None          None           None
ort Unit Value
(U.S. cents per kilogram)
World Total                   62.3       58.9        37.4        -1.2            -7-3
Malaysia                    68.0       63.2        41 .5       -1.5            -6.8
Ceylon                      70.2       63.3        32.1        -2.1           -10.7
Thailand                    56.7       59.1        37.9         0.9            -7.1
Indonesia                   57.0       51.4        27.1        -2.1           -10.2
Africa                      62.3       61.7        42.7        -0.2            -6.o
New York Prices
(U.S. gents per kilogram)
iSS 1                       76.76      70.71       46.29       -1.7            -6.9
P5S 3                       75.27      69.60       45.75       -1.6            -6.7
3 Brown                     65.04      64.69       43.73       -0.l           -6.4
Singapore Average 3          711.94     64.78       41.42       -2.1            -7.1
1/  Eccluding centrally planned countries
2/ Including Oceania.
3/ RSS 1.
Source: FAO, Commodity Review and Outlook, 1968-69.
FAO, Trade Yearbook, various issues.
IRSG, Rubber Statistical Bulletin, various issues
December 17, 1971



ANNEX 1
Table 3
LIBERIA
AGRICULTURAL DEVELOPMENT AND TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE PROJECT
NATURAL RUBBER - SHARE OF EXPCQTS IN TOTAL EXPQRT EARNINGS, 1950-69
(Percentages)
Country        1950-52    1955-57    1962-64    1965       1966     1967     1968      1969
Malaysia         63.9       65.7        43.6     40.2      38.3     32.0      30.7     37.1
Indonesia        29.8      42.1         40.7     46.6     32.8      32.6     29.5      31.7
Thailand         27.5       23.7        19.2     15.4      13.3     11.0     13-3      18.3
Ceylon           27.4       17.6        15.4     15.6      20.0     19.5     16.4      23.0
Vietnam          44.5       66.2        54.7     74.0      76.0     81.2        -        -
Liberia          21.4       19.2         8.7     18.5      18.0     17.0     14.9      16.2
Cambodia         n.a       39.3         27.1     33.3      37.3     27.7     25.3      21.2
Source: FAO, Commodity Review and Outlook and Trade Yearbook; and UN, Statistical Yearbook.
December 17, 1971



ANNEX 1
Table 1
LIBERIA
AGRICULTURAL DEVELOPMENT AND TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE PROJECT
NATURAL RUBBER CONSUMPTICN
(thousand metric tons)
1960-62   % of    1966-68  % of                  % of                 % of
Region/Country              Average  Total    Average  Total          1969   Total       1970   Total
1/
Developed Countries         1,437.4   66.2    1,706.5   64.5    1,825.2    61.2   1,852.6    62.9
United States               464.0   21.4       547.4   20.7        607.9    30.5      568.3    19.3
EEC                         432.5   19.9       484.8   18.3       485.4    16.3       513.2    17.4
United Kingdom              172.8    8.0       185.5    7.0        191.4     6.4      188.2      6.4
Other Western Europe         95.2    4.4       134.6    5.1       143.6      4,8      168.3      5.7
Japan                       180.1    8.3       239.0    9.0        268.0     9.0      283.0      9.6
Others                       92.8    4.3       115.2    4.4       128.9      4.3      131.6      4.5
Developing Countries          206.0    9.5       295.9   11.2        40.3    13.6       433.6    14.7
Producing                         71T    9      172.1     6?      O273    -67 201.0    T:
India                        50.5    2.3        74.2    2.8       100.8      3.4       93.2      3.2,.
Malaysia                     21.4    1.0         8.8    0.3         16.2     0.5       20.4      0.7
Indonesia                    15.9    0.7        24.3    0.9         22.6     o.8       20.5      0.7
Thailand                      1.3    0.1         7.6    0.3          7.0     0.2        8.0      0.3
Ceylon                        0.9     -          5.9    0.2          7.6     0.3        5.1      0.2
Cambodia                      2.0    0.1         2.6    0.1          4.1     0.1        0.5       -
Vietnam                       2.2    0.1         5.0    0.2          6.7     0.2        5.5      0.2
Africa                        3.4    0.2        13.9    0.5         17.3     0.6       22.8      0.3
Latin America                29.5    1.4        29.8    1.1         24.0     0.8       25.0      0.8
3/6
N'on-Producing                 78.9    3.6       123.8    4.7        199.0      6.7     232.6      7.9
Centrally Planned
Countries l/                529.1   24.4       643.4   24.3        752.0    25.2      661.3    22.4
USSR                        287.6   13.2       284.2   11.1        295.0     9.9      272.8      9.3
Eastern Earope             136.8    6.3        167.8    6.3       182.0      6.1      207.2      7.0
China (Mainland)           104.7    4.8        181.4    6.9       275.0      9.2      181.3      6.2
World Total                 2,172.5  100.0    2,645.8  100.0    2,985.5   100.0   2,947.5   100.0
1/  Consumption of natural rubber.  New supply of natural rubber into consuming countries shown
for Belgium-Luxemburg (EEC); other Western Earope; Canda, Australia, New Zeland and
Southern Africa (Others); and USSR.
2/ "Production plus net imports" for most of the developing countries.
3/ DevelopIng countries minus producing countries.
Source:  IMRS, Rubber Statistical Bulletin.
December 17, 1971



ANNEX 1
Table 5
LIBERIA
AGRICULTURAL DEVELOPMENT AND TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE PROJECT
WCRLD IWPORTS 1/ OF NATURAL RUBBER, 1955-67
(1,000 metric tons)
Other              Centrally   Rest           *
USA     EEC     UK    Western   Japan       Planned      of      Total
Europe             Countries  World    World
1955              637     395    274        82       92        141        315    1,946
1956              577     365    179        84      113        288        285    1,890
.1957             552      376    218        97     133         289        317    1,981
1958              465     361    150        96      131        458        323    1,984
1959              566     361    169        89      161         447       324    2,116
1960              404     391    139        93      173        444        341    1,986
1961              391     377    155        92      186         568       343    2,113
1962              420     381    153       106      193         575       365    2,193
1963              368     403    158       114      188         546       382    2,157
1964              420     422    186       116      215         471       439    2,266
1965              417     413    191       129      207        549        436    2,340
1966              389     418    181       139      230        638        441    2,435
1967              419     415    184       127      243        581        473    2,4)41
1968              508     442    194       142      258         709       490    2,743
1969              572     508    197       185      281        771        501    3,015
1970              543     536    194       179      292        671        563    2,978
Rate of Growth
1955/57-1965/67 -3.6      0.9   -1.9       4.2      7.2         9.4       3.9      2.2
1955/57-1966/68 12.6      1.1   -1.7       4.2      7.2         9.4       4.0      2.5
1/  Originally given as "new supply of natural rubber into consuming countries".
*   Total may not add due to rounding.
Source:  IRSG, London:  Rubber Statistical Bulletin, various issues.
December 17, 1971



ANNEX 1
Table 6
LIBERIA
AGRICULTURAL DEVELOPMENT AND TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE PROJECT
PRICE OF NATURAL RUBBER - RSSl New York, 1920-1969
(US cents per lb./US cents per kg.)
A C T U A L
US cents/lb.         US cents/kg.
1920-29                   36.8                  81.1
1930-38                   12.6                  27.8
1948-54                   31 .7                 69.9
1948-67                   38.1                  83.9
1955-59                   42.3                  93.3
1960-64                   36.9                  81.4
1965-67                   29.7                  65.5
1950                      41.4                  91.3
1951                      60.7                 133.8
1952                      38.8                  85.5
1953                      24.2                  53.4
1954                      23.6                  52.0
1955                      39.2                  86.14
1956                      34.2                  754
1957                      31.2                  68.8
1958                      28.1                  61.9
1959                      36.6                  80.7
1960                      38.1                  83.9
1961                      29.5                  65.0
1962                      28.6                  63.0
1963                      26.2                  57.8
1964                      25.3                  55.8
1965                      25.7                  56.7
1966                      23.6                  52.0
1967                      19.9                  43.9
1968                      19.9                  43.9
1969                      26.2                  57.8
1970                      21.0                  46.3
1971*                     19.1                  42.1
* January-June.
Source: IBRD, Commodity Price Trend of 1969.
December 17, 1971



ANNEX 1
LIBERIA                                           CHART 1
AGRICULTURAL DEVELOPMENT AND TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE PROJECT
WORLD RUBBER CONSUMPTION AND WORLD MANUFACTURING INDEX
10.0    -
9.0
8.0
7.0
6.0                                                             1968
5.0
z
0
4.0                                        1960200_5203(
0
Co
z
0
-J~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~6
z ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~~WRDMNFCUIGIDX 1958 =510
z
0~
O 2.5
2.0 ~   ~    ~       
LOG Y  1.19148  1.13300 LOG X
R = 0.993
'Excludes Soviet Block.
1.0                                                     _______    LO-GARITHMIC SCALE
60      70     80    90   100                      150              200                     300
WORLD MANUFACTURING INDEX- 1958  100
World Bar,k-6394






ANNEX 1
CHART 2
LIBERIA
AGRICULTURAL DEVELOPMENT AND TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE PROJECT
PRICES FOR NATURAL AND SYNTHETIC RUBBER BY TYPES, 1960-1975
40                     I    I               I          I 
35  &              _____E_____
NATURAL RUBBER
(Rss No. 1)
30
a
a.
25
w
LU ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~'
POLYISOPRENE
20 -4------
4'.~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~4
SBR-(CIL-EXTENDED)     #5eg1
(EI sti mate)               $#      ttt
o1 0                                           
1960         1963            1966            1969            1972
Y E A R S
World Bank-6395






ANNETX 2
Page 1
LIBERIA
AGRICULTURAL DEVELOPMENT ANID TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE PROJECT
INVESTMENT PROPOSALS FOR INTEGRATED
AGRICULTURAL DEVELOPMFNT PROJECTS
Draft Terms of Reference for Consultants
Consultants are required to prepare feasibility studies and invest-
ment proposals for the development of agricultural and supporting infra-
structural services in the following areas of Liberia:
(a) an area of approximately 1.2 million acres in the Lofa
county, north of a line drawn between the towns of
Foya Kumara and Zorgor and extending to the Guinea
and Sierra Leone borders. The area would include the
proposed Wologisi Iron Ore Development Project; and
(b) an area of about 1.0 million acres surrounding the
Suakoko agricultural research station in the Bong
county.
The studies should include the following:
(a) Determining the major constraints to agricultural
development;
(b) Improving food and cash crop production through:
(i) introducing and disseminating improved
technology;
(ii) improving farm credit, marketing and crop
processing facilities;
(c) Improving rural transportation facilities by
constructing essential feeder roads and farm tracks;
(d) Providing water control systems for the rainfed and
irrigated production of rice and other food crops;
(e)  Public health measures necessary to achieve satisfactory
health standards, including bilharzia control;
(f) Primary and technical education in the area;



ANNEX 2
Page 2
(g) The effect on agricultural development of:
(i)  Lofa County, future infrastructure developments
and urbanization, associated with the proposed
Wologisi Iron Ore Project;
(ii)  in Bong County, of existing and future markets
for agricultural produce in Monrovia, and the
surrounding iron ore, timber, and rubber concessions; anLd
(h) Determining the necessity and extent of new aerial piiutograpipy
required for project implementation.
The detailed investment proposals should contain all information
relevant to the following study outline.
I. Introduction
Brief description of the scope of the project.
II. Rural Background
-    Brief description of the existing level of general
development in the project area, and the problems
associated with further agricultural and infra-
structural development.
-    Description of the main institutions concerned with
agriculture in the project area, and any actions
that Government may have already taken toward
sponsoring development.
III. The Project Area
Details of as many of the following points as are relevant to the
proposed project areas:
Location
Location of the project area and its relation to the main lines
of coumunication and ports.
Population
-    Population, its distribution; and availability
for agricultural development;



ANNEX 2
Page 3
Average size of family;
Seasonal pattern of population distribution and
its employment, including need for itinerant labor;
Effect on labor availability through development
of the Wologisi iron ore reserves; and other planned
projects.
Health
General health of the population and its relationship to agricul-
ttural production; existing medical services and improvements required in
the light of project developments, e.g., bilharzia control.
Climate
Rainfall, temperature and other climatic data.
Education
Present status of educational facilities in the project area and
improvements required.
Tonography, Soils and Water Supply
The general topographic character of the area, related to the
water requirements for food crop production, fish ponds, and the population.
Soils
The results of any soil surveys carried out, and information on
the suitability of project area soils for different crops.
Land Use
Present land utilization and the production pattern of the project
area.
Land Distribution and Tenure
-    Distribution and size of holdings by number
and area;
Land tenure situation;
Any obstacle to economic farming caused by
present land distribution and tenure.



ANNEX 2
Page 4
Transport Network
Review the adequacy of the existing road network in the pronosed
project area.
Research
The institutions conducting research pertinent to apricttltural
(levelopiment in the project area. Are they adequate: If not, reconimen.la-
tions for improvement to required standards.
Extension and Training
-    Extension work being carried out in the project
area;
-    Numbers of extension workers under each category
and their qualifications.
Credit
-    Description of each institution providing credlit
in the project area;
-    Status and effectiveness of credit institutions;
-    Part played by non-institutional credit (e.g. money
lenders);
-    The purpose; amount; terms and conditions of the
loans, and types of farmers to whom credit is
extended.
Cooperatives
Discussion of the situation concerning cooperatives in the various
Fields related to the project.
Farms and Farmers
-    Present farming methods;
-    Standards of farm management;
-    Cropping pntterns an(d yields;
-    Present use of farm iniputs (fertilizers,
nesticides, improved seeds);



ANNEX 2
Page 5
Obstacles to a greater utilization of these
inputs (costs, lack of transportation or
distribution facilities, lack of experimental
data);
Farm incomes; value of subsistence production;
cash crop income; and income from other sources.
Mechanization
-    Types and numbers of tractors and allied
machinery at present in use:
-    Suitability of existing equipment for the work
required;
-    Economics of operating existing equipment, including
output capabilities and operation costs;
-    Main reason for mechanical failures;
-    Supplies of spares and servicing facilities;
-    Quality of operators and training requirements;
eFactors limiting the efficient use of equipment;
-    Supply and storage of fuel;
-    Recommendations for more efficient use of equipment.
MarketiL and Prices
-    Present market outlets for the area (exports,
local markets, processing plants; capacity
of such plants);
-    The need for processing plants in the project
area should be carefully appraised;
-    The distribution and storage facilities available
and any improvements required;
-    Market prospects for commodities relevant to the
project;
-    Prices received by farmers and paid by them in
the project area;
-    Seasonal fluctuations;



ANNEX 2
Page 6
-    Forecast of future prices;
-    An assessment of price policies for inputs and
outputs relevant to the development of the project.
Gross and Net Value of Present Production
Details of the estimated composition, volume and value of present
production in the project area. A table should be given of total and per
acre gross value production, costs of input and net value of production.
Farmer's family labor should be included in the costs but shown as a
separate cost.
IV. The Project
General
Description of the project mentioning:
-    Objectives of the project;
-    Size and nature of project works.
Proposed Works, Measures and Policies
-    Description of the works, measures and
policies proposed for the project;
-    Detailed schedule of phasing, construction
and dates on which measures will be
implemented.
Cost Estimates
Cost estimates should show a breakdown into foreign exchange and
local currency.  Project cost estimates should include capital and a]l
recurrent costs required during the project development period, i.e.
(project disbursement period). A full breakdown of the project costs should
be given, including the basis of estimates, quantities, unit prices and
provision for contingencies. A year-by-year expenditure schedule should
be included.
Estimates should be compared with costs experienced by other
agencies locally and with costs for similar works elsewhere.  The assunp-
tions made for estimating costs should be given, in addition to the methods
used for calculating equipment and labor costs.



ANNEX 2
Page 7
Finance
An explanation should be given of the computation of foreign
costs of equipment, materials and technical assistance. Also state how
local costs would be financed.
Organization and Management
Details of the following aspects of the proposed project:
-    The legislative basis for project implementation;
-    The coordinating and policy making body;
-    The means by which Government will be represented;
-    The agency responsible for project implementation,
its administrative, judicial and financial atatus,
and the interests represented on its board of
management if it should have one;
Detailed staffing requirements, and organization
chart;
Present availabilities of different categories
of staff, any training requirements, and the need
to employ any expatriates;
Method of carrying out any construction (contract,
force account, etc.);
Project administration in the project area;
Organization of any ancillary works and services,
and their timing;
Measures that may be considered necessary to ensure
effective participation by farmers;
Arrangements for credit, and estimates of requirements
(luring the first years of operation;
Critical path chart for implementation of project
activities;
-    Any issues not covered by the above.
Increase in Farm Production and Farm Income
Evaluation of farm income from the farmers' point of view, before
and after the project. For this purpose, details of the following will
be required:



ANNEX 2
Page 8
Main changes in land use and production pattern In
the project area;
Estimates of future production from the project
area, by years;
The conditions necessary for achieving expected
yields (extension credit, etc.);
Expected composition, volume and gross value of
farm production under present conditions, and
after project implementation;
Farm production costs;
Net farm production;
Typical farm budgets, taking into accotnt any
charges and debt repayments;
-    Tables for farm income in the area, with and
without the project;
Details of the number of farmers that will
benefit from the project.
Debt Repayment and Financial Results
An explanation of how repayment of the costs of the project would
be made should include:
-    Any provisions for revenues, including all
types of taxes;
-    If on-farm works are contemplated under the
project, full details of costs should be given;
-    A cash flow table for a typical farm or for the
whole project at the farm level, including debt
repayments and assumptions regarding interest
rates and debt repayment period;
-    A cash flow table for the agency implementing
the project.



ANNEX 2
Page 9
Economic Justification and Benefits
Details for the economic justification of the project, including:
--   Sufficient data to calculate the internal economic
rate of return on the investment;
Assumptions made for construction time, rate of
expenditure and life of the project;
Incremental direct and indirect benefits and costs
of the project;
Contribution made to export earnings or import
savings;
Benefits to be derived from the project at the
national level;
Direct employment on project activities.
December 1, 1971






ANNEX 3
Page 1
LIBERIA
AGRICULTURAL DEVELOPMENT AND TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE PROJECT
Rubber Industry Survey and Investment Proposals
Draft Terms of Reference for Consultant's Survey at Investment Proposals
The Government would retain a consultant firm to carry out a
survey of the rubber industry in Liberia, and if the results of the survey
showed that further development of Liberian rubber farms is feasible, the
consultants would prepare investment proposals for a development program.
The survey would include the following:
(a) preparation of a map showing existing concessionaire and
Liberian owned rubber plantations;
(b) an inventory of Liberian owned rubber to determine the
present status of production through an examination of
the agricultural, financial, economic and social
conditions of Liberian rubber farmers;
(c) an examination of existing transportation, processing,
and marketing facilities;
(d) an examination of existing institutional and organizational
arrangements of the rubber industry;
(e) a review of the part played by the rubber industry in the
Liberian economy;
(f) a review of the pilot rubber scheme findings; and
(g) an analysis of the results of the survey to determine the
future prospects for Liberian rubber farmers.
Detailed Features
A. Mapping and Rubber Field Survey
Prepare a 1:10,000 map of all areas planted under rubber using
whiere possible existing photography. The map should show all motorable
roads and tracks and rubber processing facilities.



ANNEX 3
Page 2
Through a field survey and an analysis of aerial photography
determine the present status of the Liberian owned sector of the rubber
iLndustry; particular attention should be paid to the following:
(a) area of farms, age of rubber, suitability of soils for
rubber; unplanted land suitable for rubber and estimated
clearing costs;
(b) areas of existing rubber not in production and reasons
for this;
(c) farm management arrangements: owner, manager, other;
(d) farm permanent improvements: housing, tappers quarters,
coagulating tanks and buildings; roads; and tracks;
(e) size of tapper task, and availability of labor for tapping
and other farm activities;
(f) yields and estimated potential yield of untapped rubber;
(g) farmer financial returns, and its relationship to farm
size;
(h) incomes not from rubber;
(i) the status of the rubber extension service;
(C) the status of rubber research in Liberia and the avail-
ability of the results of such research to Liberian rubber
farmers.
B. Credit, Marketing and Processing Study
Examine existing sources and methods of supplying credit to
Liberian rubber farmers.
Examine marketing and processing facilities including:
(a) Methods of processing and handling rubber at present in
use, the respective quantities of various types of raw
material involved, and factors affecting quality;
(b) The adequacy of processing and marketing facilities available
to Liberian rubber farmers, costs and financial returns, or
'markups' during handling and processing, and compare these
with similar rubber producing countries, particularly in
West Africa;
(c) The feasibility of establishing additional processing
facilities for Liberian farmers; and



ANNEX 3
Page 3
(d)  I'he adequacy of existing road systems in the rnbber
producing areas, the availability of trucks, and rates
charred.
C. Institutions and Organizations
Examine the role of the following institutions in the
rubber industry:
(a) Government through taxation and the activities of
the Ministry of Agriculture;
(b) the Rubber Planters' Association; and
(c) the rubber concessions.
D. Rubber Production and the Liberian Economy
Examine the present contribution to the national economy made
by concessions and Liberian farmers in terms of:
(a) Employment;
(b) Gross National Product; and
(c) Balance of payments.
E. Pilot Rubber Scheme
Review and evaluate:
(a) on farm costs;
(b) Farm to factory transportation;
(c) Processing charges;
(d) Yields; and
(e) Farm returns.



ANNEX 3
Page 4
F. Future of the Rubber Industry
Analyse the results of the study, to determine, the fuittire prospects
for the industry, and the feasibility of expanding production from Liberian
owned farms in the light of projected price trends for natural rlbber in the
world market.
INVESTMENT PROPOSALS
Should the results of the above study indicate soundA opporttunities
for new investments in the Liberian owned sector of the industry, which are
acceptable to Government and the Bank Group, the consultants woulld then
prepare detailed investment proposals in the form of a feasibility study.
The rubber industry survey and study report should form an annex to the
feasibility study, which would contain all detailed information relevant to
the following outline. The proposals would provide for:
(a) an organization to manage rubber development, especially
the provision of credit and extension services;
(b) rehabilitation and replanting rubber among all categories
of farmers;
(c) reduction in processing, marketing and export costs; and
(d) the introduction of an industry cess (or other taxation) to
finance farmer support services and replanting.
1. Introduction
Brief description of the scope of the project.
II. Agricultural Background
Brief description of the general economic and agricultural
situation of the rubber industry in Liberia and the problems associated
with further development of the Liberian owned sector of the industry.
Description of the main institutions concerned with rubber
production and any actions that Government may have already taken towards
sponsoring rubber production.



ANNEX I
Page  S
III. The Project Area (s)
Details of as many of the following points as are relevant to the
proposed project:
Location
Location of the project and its relation to the main lines of
communication and ports.
Population
-    Population; its distribution; and labor availability especially
for rubber tapping, planting and farm maintenance.
-    Average size of family and composition.
Climate
Rainfall, temperature and other climatic data.
Topography, Soils and Water Supply
The general topography of the area(s) related to rubber
production.
Soils
The results of any soil surveys carried out, and information on
the suitability of project area(s) soils for rubber production.
Land tTse
Present land utilization and the production pattern of the
project area(s).
Land Distribution and Tenure
-    Distribution and size of holdings by number and area;
-    Land tenure situation;
-    Any obstacle to economic farming caused by present land
distribution and tenure.
Researcl
The institutions conducting research pertinent to agricultural
development in the project area. Are they adequate? If not, recommendations
for improvement to required standards.



ANNEX 3
Page 6
Extension and Training
-    Extension work being carried out in the project area(s) and
its effectiveness;
-    Numbers of extension workers under each category and their
qualifications.
Cred it
-    Description of each institution providing credit in the
project area(s);
-    Status and effectiveness of credit institutions;
-    Part played by non-institutional credit (e.g. money lenders):
-    The purpose; amotnt, terms and conditions of the loans, and
types of farmers to whom credit is extended.
Cooperatives
Discussion of the situation concerning cooperatives in the
various fields related to the project.
Liberian Rubber Farms
-    Present farming methods and average per capita incomes
for farmers and tappers;
-    Standards of farm management - and rubber tapping;
-    Yields of tapped rubber and potential yields of the
various classes of untapped rubber;
-    Present use of farm inputs (fertilizers, pesticides, improver
clones and yield stimulants);
-    Obst-icles to a greater utilization of these inputs (costs,
lack of transportation or distribution facilities, lack of
exnerimental data).
lMarketing and Prices
-    Present, marketing and processing facilities (including processing
capacity) available to Liberian rubber farmers;
-    A detailed breakdown of processing and marketing costs;
-    New processing plants and arrangements;
-    The transport network, rates charges and any improvements
required:



ANNEX 3
Page 7
Market prospects for rubber;
Prices received by Liberian rubber farmers for coagulum and latex;
Seasonal fluctuations;
-    Forecast of future prices;
-    An assessment of price policies for inputs and outputs relevant
to the development of the project.
Gross and Net Value of Present Production
Details of the estimated composition, volume and value of present
production in the project area(s). A table should be given of total and per
acre gross value of production, costs of inputs and net value of production.
Farmer's family labor should be included in the costs but shown as a separate
item.
IV. The Project
General
Description of the project mentioning:
-    Objectives of the project;
-    Size and nature of project works.
Proposed Works, Measures and Policies
-    Description of the works, measures and policies proposed
for the project;
-    Detailed schedule of phasing, construction and dates on
which measures would be implemented.
Cost Estimates
Cost estimates should show a breakdown into foreign exchange and
local currency.  Under local currency costs, labor should be distinguished
from other items. Project cost estimates should include capital and all
recurrent costs require(d during the project development period, (project
disbursement period).  A full breakdown of the project costs should be
given incluvding the basis of estimates, quantities, unit prices and
provision for contingencies. A year by year expenditure schedule should be
includ.el.



ANNEX 3
Page 8
Estimates should be compared with costs experienced by otlher
agencies locally and with costs for similar works elsewhere.  The assumptions
made for estimating costs, should be given, in addition to the methods used-
Eor calculating equipment and labor costs.
An explanation should be given of the computation of foreign costs
of equipment, materials and technical assistance. Also state how local costs
would be financed.
Organization and Management
Details of the following aspects of the proposed project:
-    The legislative basis for project implementation:
-    The coordinating and policy making body;
-    The means by which Government will be represented;
-    The agency responsible for project implementation, its
administrative, judicial and financial status, and the
interests represented on its board of management if it
should have one;
-    Detailed staffing requirements, and organization chart;
-    Present availabilities of different categories of staff:
training requirements, and the need to employ expatriates!
-    Method of carrying otut any construction (contract, force account,
etc.);
-    Project administration in the project area(s);
-    Organization of any ancillary works and services, and their
timing;
-    Measures that may be considered necessary to ensure effective
participation by farmers;
-    Arrangements for credit, and estimates of requirements during
the first years of operation;
-    Critical path chart for implementation of project activities
including all administrative actions and construction activities;
-    Any issues not covered by the above.



ANNEX 3
Page 9
Increase in Farm Production and Farm Income
Evaluation of farm income from the farmers' point of view, before
and after the project. For this purpose details of the following will be
required:
-    Main changes in land use and production patterns in the
project area(s);
-    Estimates of future production from the project area(s), by
years;
-    The conditions necessary for achieving expected yields (exten-
sion credit, etc.);
-    Expected composition, volume and gross value of farm production
under present conditions, and after project implementation:
-    Farm production costs;
-    Net farm production benefits;
-    Typical farm budgets, taking into account any charges and debt
repayments;
-    Tables for farm income in the area, with and without the project;
-    Details of the number of farmers that will benefit from the
project.
Debt Repayment and Financial Results
An explanation of how repayment of the costs of the project would
be made shouild include:
-    Any provisions for revenues, including all types of taxes:
-    If on-farm works are contemplated under the project, full
details of costs should be given;
-    A cash flow table for typical farms and for the whole project
it the farm level, including debt repayments and assumptions
regarding interest rates and debt repayment period;
--   A cash flow table for the agency implementing the project.
Economic Justification
Details for the economic justification of the project, including:
-    Data to calculate the internal economic rate of return on the
investment;



ANNEX 3
Page 10
Assumptions amde for construction time, rnte of expenditure,
and project life;
Incremental direct and indirect benefits and costs of thie
project;
Contributions made to export earnings or import savinys:
Other benefits to be derived from the project at the national
level;
Direct employment on project activities.
December 1, 1971



ANNEX 4
Page 1
LIBERIA
AGRICULTURAL DEVELOPMENT AND TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE PROJECT
Rubber Pilot Scheme - Assumptions for Rehabilitation Model
1.   Rehabilitation will consist of:
(a) improving tapping methods and equipment;
(b) re-opening trees tapped in the past but no longer in tapping;
(c) opening mature untapped trees;
(d) maintenance of rubber.
2.   Basic information (per acre)
Trees per acre:            (on average):  160
Tappable trees:            (20" diameter at 60" from the ground) - per
acre 100
Tapping task:              from 300 trees (3 acres) for old trees tapped
with ladders to 500 trees (5 acres) for
younger trees
average 400 trees
Tapping system:            half spiral alternate day (S/2-D/2) - 360
days per year
'lumber of acres tapped
by tappers:                400 x 2 : 100 = 8 acres
Tappers wages:             cts 70 per day plus incentive of 0.5 ct
lb of dry rubber
Yield:                     700 lb of dry rubber per acre per year
Oualities:                 85% coagulum (specification 75% - non-specifi-
cation 10%) 15% lower qualities (tree lace,
cup lump, earth scrap)
lb
Proucttion:                (a)  drc;                  100%       700
coagulum               85%      595
tree lace, cup lump,
earth scrap            15%       105



ANNEX 4
Page  2
(b)  Fresh:  coagulum at  507    1,190
tree lace,
cump lump,
earth scrap
at            407       260
Total       48.3%  1,450
(c) Latex (for coagulum): 3-/drc
700 x 85 + 100 = 595 lb drc per year
or 595 + 30 x 100 = 1,985 lb liquid late;:
per year
-    average per tapper per year:
1,985 x 8 = 15,880 lb
-    average per tapper per day:
15,880 e 360 = 44.11 lb =
5.28 US gallons per day
-    average per tree:
5.28 x 160 + 400 = 2.1 f1 oz.
3.   Costs                                                 US 
per acre
(a) Initial expenses
i.   Slashing undergrowth including felling
some rubber trees when too close
and/or too small for tapping
3 man days per acre                      2.10
ii.   Task preparation:  counting and
panelling
1 man day per task of 4 acres            0.18
iii.   Equipment for labor
1 cutlass (replacement every
4 years)                    0.80
1 t.apping knife (replace-
ment every 2 years)         0.50



ANNEX 4
Page 3
US$
per acre
1 ganga bag (replacement
every 4 years)              0.40
2 buckets (replacement
every 4 years)
3.35 x 2                       6.70
Total per tapper for
8 acre task                 8.40      1.05
iv.   Equipment for trees: per acre of
100 tappable trees
100 cups at cts 4                    4.00
collars: cts 16 per lb - 1 lb for
5 trees (16 - 5) x 100   3.20
spouts: cts 25 per lb (44 per lb)
(25 + 44) x 100            0.57
(replacement every 5 years)
Total per acre                        7.77
TOTAL INITIAL EXPENSES               11.10
(b)  Buildings and sundry equipment
-    Labor housing for 6                             10.00
-    Coagtulating tanks                               1.60
-    Shed                                             1.00
-    Scale                                            0.60
-    Strainer                                         0.17
-    Pruning saws                                     0.09
-    Latexo meter                                     0.08
-    Axe, files, etc.                                 0.06
Total. buildings and equipment               13.60
(c)  2peratjnLeXTpenses
1.   Supervision:  one overseer for 150 acres
$60 p.m.
per year 60 x 12 i 150           4.80
ii.   Tapping:       0.12 tappers x 0.70 x 360        30.24
iii.   Chemicals:    i) sodium sulphate  0.10
ii) formic acid       0.34
iii) fungicide         0.20        0.64
Total operating expenses
(cts 5.09 per lb)                              35.68



ANNEX 4
Page 4
US$
per acre
(d)  Incentive:      0.5 ct per lb of (drc)
700 x 0.005                        3.50
(e)  Upkeep, repairs, replacement:  as from
2nd year
i.   for labor:  cutlass 0.80 + 4        0.20
tapping
knife   0.50 t 2      0.25
ganga
bag    0.40 + 4      0.10
buckets 6.70 - 4       1.71
Total per tapper
per yr for 8 acres  2.21
Per acre: 2.21 + 8                 0.28
ii.   for trees:  replacement every 5 years            1.35
iii.   buildings and equipment
every 20 years                                0.66
every 5 years                                 0.08
0.74
Total upkeep, repairs, etc.                   2.37
(f)  Transport:  US cts 10 per ton mile -
average 30 miles
$ 3 per ton at 50% drc
i.e. $ 6 per ton of unprocessed rubber
6 e 2.24 = $ 2.7 per 1,000 lb of unprocessed
rubber = 2.7 x 700 + 1,000 per acre =                 1.89
Farmer's total recurrent expenditure as
from 2nd year
(cts 6.21/lb)                                       43.44
leg)  Processing and marketing charges:   cts 7/lb:
700 x 0.07                                          49.00
(h) Overhead charges for extension
services: $ 25 p.a.                                 25.00
Grand total recurrent expenditure
(cts 16.78/lb)                                   117.44



ANNEX 4
Page 5
us $
per acre
4.   Credit to farmers
(a) Amount:
It is proposed to grant farmers credit
of U$28 per acre made up as follows:
initial expenses                             24.70
contribution towards operating
expenses                                   3.30
Total per acre                            28.00
This loan will be made
-as follows:
i.   in kind:  equipment for labor   1.05
equipment for trees   7.77
equipment sundries    1.00
building material      8.00
chemicals              0.64   18.46
ii:   in cash:  for labor after
completion of
the work
slashing, tasking,
panelling              2.28
building cons-
truction               4.60
tapping                2.66    9.54
TOTAL per acre                            28.00
(b)  Tnterest:  9% compounded
(c)  Repayment:  1st year                   11.00
2nd year                   5.30
3rd year                   5.30
4th year                   5.30
5th year                   5.10   32.00
Interest    4.00
5.   Revenuie
Projected price
Based on price projection for rubber (RSS 1 - $ cts 16.5/lb
CTF New York), the price paid by the rubber processors to



ANNEX 4
Page  6
the farmers for rubber delivered at factories is
follows:
cts/lb    cts/lb
New York cif - RSS 1                                 16.50
Reduction for lower qualities               0.50
fob to cif                                  2.00      2.50
fob Monrovia                                   14.00
Cost of processing and transport            3.37
Overhead charges, depreciation, profit   3.63         7.00
Price paid to farmers for all
qualities rubber delivered at factory                7.00
6.   Project:  Acreage - Production - Revenue
The project would be situated within a 20-mile radius from
Suakoko (106 miles from Monrovia by road) in the
Bong County.
Acreage         Production                 Revenue USS'o00
Y'ear                         at 700 lb p.a.             FOB          Farmers
New  Cunulative      lb '000               cts 14/lb    cts 7/lb
1         500       500             350                   49.0         24.5
2         700    1,200              840                  117.6         539 . 
3         800    2,000            1,400                  196.0         98.0
4-10        -      2,000           1,400                  196.0         98.0
December 1, 1971



LIBERIA
RUBBER RhHABILITATION
Typical Budget for One Acre
(US $)
Yield ofI700b/acSalet sYear 1    Year 2    Year 3    Year 4    Year 5    Years 6-10
A. Yield of 700 lb/ac - Sale at cts 7/lb-
PRODUCTION                                                 700.00    700.00    700.00    700.00    700.00         700.00
INCOME:  Credit                                             28.00        -         -          -         -
Sale at cts 7/lb                                   49.00     49.00      49.00     49.00      49.00        49.00
77.00     49.00     49.00      49.00     49.00        49.00
EXPENSES:  Opening                                          11.10        -         -          -          -
Building and equipment                           13.60       -          -         -          -            -
Operating expenses                               35.70     35.70      35.70     35.70      35.70        35.70
Replacement repairs                                -        2.40       2.40      2.40       2.40         2.40
Sub-total               60.40     38.10      38.10     38.10      38.10        38.10
Incentive  ct 0.5lb                               3.50      3.50       3.50      3.50       3.50         3.50
Transport  cts 27/1h00 lb                         1.90      1.90       1.90      1.90       1.90         1.90
Sub-total                5.40      5.40       5.40      5.40       5.40         5.40
Total Expenses          65.80     43.50      43.50     43.50      43.50        43.50
SURPLUS OR (DEFICIT)                                        11.20       5.50      5.50       5.50       5.50        5.50
DEBT SERVICE                                                11.00       5.30      5.30       5.30       5.10
SURPLUS  after debt service                                  0.20       0.20      0.20       0.20       0.40        5-50
2/
B. Producer price for rubber. 10 centslbh
INCREASED INCOME                                       +    21,00     21.00      21.00      21.00     21,00        21.00
SURPLUS after debt service                                   21.20     21.20      21.20     21.20     2 1.0        26. 50
Pocessing and marketing charges at cts 7/lb.
/ Processing and marketing charges reduced to 7    ts Vlbb
December 17, 1971



LIB.iiA
RUBBER RERABILITATION - ECONOMIC RATE OF RETURN FOR 2,000 ACRES
(US $ 000)~
I Year 1      Year 2       Year 3      Year Li     Years 5-10
A. Yield of 700 lb/ac - Processing and marketing charges at cts 7/lb
ACREAGE: per year                                           500.00       700.00      800.00          -              -
-      Total                                             500.00     1,200.00    2,000.00    2,000.00        2,000.00
PRODUCTION (700 lb/ac    lb  '000                           350.00       840.00    1,400.00    1,400.00        1,400.00
REVENUE:    fob cts 14/lb                                    49.00       117.60      196.00       196.00         196.00
EXPENSES: Opening $ 11.10/ac                                  5.50         7.80        8.90          -
Buildings and equipment $ 13.60/ac                 6.80         9.50       10.90          -              _
Operating expenses $ 35.70/ac                     17.90        42.80       71.40        71.40          71.40
Replacement repairs $ 2.40/ac                       -           1.20        2.90        4.80            4.80
Sub-total              30.20        61.30        94.10       76.20           76.20
Incentive: ct 0.5/lb                               1.80         4.20        7.00         7.00           7.00
Transport  $ 2.7/1,000 lb                          0.90         2.30        3.80         3.80           3.80
Sub-total               2.70         6.50        10.80       10.80          10.80
Processing and marketing charges cts 7/lb         24.50        58.80       98.80       98.80           98.80
Overhead charges $ 25/ac                         12.50         30.00       50.00       50.00           50.00
Total Expenses         69.90       156.60       253.70      235.80         235.80
SURPLUS OR (DEFICIT)                                        (20.90)      (39.00)     (5770)       (39.80)        (39.80)
B. Processing and marketing charges at h cts/lb and labor slhdow priced at h6 cts/man day
EXPENSES
Reduction in Labor Costs                               +      5.50        12.90       21.20        20.60          20.c0
Reduction in Processing and Marketing Costs            +    10.20         25.o0      )l2.00        l,2.00         02.00
TOTAL                                                        15.70        33.10       63.20        62.60          62.60
SURPLUS OR (DEFICIT)                                         (5.2)          (.90)       5 .5-       :.             22.80
Rate of return is greater than 160U0 (with labor fully costec ana yiel-s o0  7351b/ac thz rate oi return is 31,4)
December 17, 1971



ANNEX 5
Page 1
LIBERIA
AGRICULTURAL DEVELOPMENT AND TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE PROJECT
Rubber Pilot Scheme - Assumptions for Replanting Model
1.        The replanting pilot scheme, preceded by two years of slaughter
tappipg, would be carried out on farms with old trees coming to the end of
thieir tapping cycle. These trees will be either in tapping or tapped in
the past but no longer in tapping.
2.        SLAUGHTER TAPPING (for two years before replanting)
(a) Basic information (per acre)
Trees per acre:  120
Tappable trees:  100 per acre
Tapping task:  350 trees
Tapping system: 1 to 3 full spirals - alternate days -
360 days per year
Number of acres tapped by tapper: 350 x 2 + 100 = 7 acres
Tapper wages: cts 70 plus incentive of ct 0.5 per lb
of dry rubber
Yield: 900 lbs of dry rubber per acre per year
Qualities: 85% specification coagulum
10% nonspecification coagulum
15% lower qualities (tree lace, cup lump,
earth scrap)
Production:
drc       coagulum 85%                     765 lb
lower qualities 15%             135 lb
Total                     900 lb
Fresh      coagulum at 50% drc            1,530 lb
lower qualities at 40% drc    338 lb
Total (48.17%)          1,868 lb



ANNEX 5
Page 2
Latex       (for coagulum) 30% drc
900 x 85 - 100 = 765 lb drc
or 765 a 30 x 100 = 2,550 lb of liquid
latex per year
average per tapper per year:
2,550 x 7 - 17,850 lb
average per tapper per day:
17,850 + 360 = 49.6 lb = 5.94 US gallons
average per tree per tapping:
5.94 x 160 - 350 = 2.7 fl oz
(b)  Costs                                                        US$ p.a.
(i) Initial expenses
slashing undergowth:  including
felling some rubber trees when
too close and/or too small for
tapping - 2 man days                                 1.40
task preparation: counting and
panelling
1 man day per task of 3.5 acres                     0.20
equipment for labor:
1 tapping knife (replacement
every 2 years)                       0.50
2 buckets (replacement every
4 years) 3.35 x 2                    6.70
Total per tapper for 7 acres  7.20            1.02
equipment for trees: per acre
of 100 trees
cups:  150 cups at cts 3               4.50
collars: cts 10.5 per lb
for 5 trees  (10.5 - 5) x 150        3.15
spouts: cts 25 per lb (44/lb)
(25 - 44) x 150                      0.85
8.50
Total initial expenses                       11.12
(ii)  Building and sundry equipment                             5.00



ANNEX 5
Page 3
(iii)  Operating expenses
supervision: one overseer for
200 acres at $60/man
60 x 12 . 200                                      3.60
tapping: 1 tapper for 7 acres
0.70 x 360 e 7                                    36.00
chemicals: sodium sulphate, formic
acid, fungicide                       0.60
stimulant                             2.80         3.40
Total operating expenses
(cts 4.77 per lb)                        43.00
(iv) Incentive: US ct 1/2 per lb
of dry rubber
900 x 0.005                                          4.50
(v) Upkeep, repairs and replacement
(in 2nd year only)                                   0.80
(vi) Transport: US cts 10 per ton mile -
average 30 miles
$3 per ton at 50% drc - i.e.
$6 per ton of unprocessed rubber
6 - 2.24 = $2.7 per 1,000 lb - 2.7 x 0.9             2.43
Farmer's total recurrent expenditure
as from 2nd year (cts 5.63/lb drc)       50.73
(vii) Processing and marketing charges:
cts 7/lb
900 x 0.07                                          63.00
(viii) Overhead charges: for extension services
$25 p.a.                                            25.00
Grand Total (cts 15.41 per lb drc)
$ p.a.                                  138.73
3.        REPLANTING
(a) Years 1 to 6: see table 1



ANNEX 5
Page 4
US$ p.a.
(b) Year 7: detailed expenses
slashing undergrowth: 3 man days
per acre                                3 x 0.70         2.10
task preparation:  3 man days per acre 3 x 0.70            2.10
labor equipment:  1 cutlass                   0.80
1 tapping knife           0.50
1 ganga bag               0.40
2 buckets                  6.70
Total per tapper    8.40
tapping task 500 - 150 trees per acre,
i.e. 3.33 acres per tapper per day
tapping 2 tasks alternate days,
i.e. 6.7 acres per tapper  8.40 t 6.7                    1.25
tree equipment: 150 trees per acre
cups:  150 x 0.04                           6.00
collars: cts 16/lb - 1 lb for 5 trees
(16.5 - 5) x 150                         4.80
spouts: cts 25/lb (44 per lb)
(25 i 44) x 150                          0.85
11.65
buildings and sundry equipment
labor housing for 8                        12.00
fermenting tank and shed                    3.00
sundry equipment                            1.00        16.00
Total initial expenses
in the 7th year                           33.10
4.        TAPPING AFTER REPLANTING
(a) Operating expenses
supervision: one overseer for 150 acres
at $60 per man                                           4.80
tapping: task of 500 trees alternate days -
150 trees per acre - 6.67 acres per tapper
0.70 x 360 i 6.67                                       37.78



ANNEX 5
Page 5
US$ p.a.
factory man:  artisarn - task control                      2.30
chemicals:                                                 1.00
Total operating expenses                    45.88
(b) Upkeep, repairs, replacement
for labor:  every 2 years tapping knife    0.25
every 4 years other items        1.98
Total for 6.67 acres       2.23         0.34
for trees:  replacement every 5 years                      2.33
sundry items:  labor housing 12 : 10          1.20
fermenting tank and
shed 3 : 10                 0.30
improvements                  0.75         2.25
Total (reduced to $2/a
as from year 22)                           4.92
(c) Incentive: US ct 1/2 per lb dry rubber -
average over 24 years 977                                  4.89
(d)  Transport:  cts 10 per ton mile -
average 30 miles
US$3 per ton at 50% drc, i.e.
US$6 per ton of unprocessed rubber
6 - 2.24 = $2.7 per 1,000 lb of
unprocessed rubber
average yield over 24 years:  0.977 x 2.7                  2.64
Farmer's total recurrent expenditure
(cts 5.97 per lb drc)                     58.33
(e) Processing and marketing charges:
US cts 7 per lb 977 lb                                    68.39
(f) Overhead charges: for extension services
$25/ac Year 1-3, $18.75/ac Year 4-6,
$12.5/ac Year 7-10, $6.25/ac Year 11-15                   25.00
Grand Total Recurrent Expenditure
(cts 15.52 per lb drc)                   151.72



ANNEX 5
Page 6
US$ p.a.
e;.       TAPPING WITH STIMULANT (years 28 to 30 after planting)
(a)  Operating expenses:  as for tapping after replanting    45.88
(b)  Plus extra expenses:
tapping task reduced by 10%                 4.20
stimulant                                    5.00        9.20
55.08
(c) Less reduction in task control, artisan,
factory man                                              1.80
Total                                      53.28
6.        GRANTS TO FARMERS
(a) For slaughter tapping: It is proposed to give
farmers grant of $26 per acre made up as
follows:
-  initial expenses                      11.10
-  buildings and sundry equipment         5.00
-  operating expenses                     9.90
Total                         26.00
The payment of the grant will be made
as follows:
-  in kind:  equipment for labor           1.00
equipment for trees          8.50
sundry equipment and
material                   4.00
chemicals                    3.40
16.90
-  in cash:  for labor after completion
of the works
slashing, tasking,
panelling                  1.60
building construction        1.00
tapping                      6.50         9.10
TOTAL PER ACRE                             26.00



ANNEX 5
Page 7
(b) For replanting: It is proposed to give
farmers yearly grants equal to the
estimated costs of replanting and
amounting to $235 per acre as follows:
(for details see below)



ANNEX S
Page 8
Value
of                       Total
super-                      per
vision    Cash    Kind    year
$       $        $        $
Year 1    Supervision                         5
Labor                                      45.50
Tools, poison,  seedlings, etc.                     29.50      80
Year 2    Supervision                         4
Labor                                      26.60
Fertilizer, road maintenance                        9.40     40
Year 3    Supervision                         3
Labor                                      14.00
Fertilizer, road maintenance                        8.00     25
Year 4    Supervision                         3
Labor                                      10.50
Fertilizer, road maintenance                        8.50     22
Year 5    Supervision                         3
Labor                                       7.00
Fertilizer, road maintenance                        9.00      19
Year 6    Supervision                         3
Labor                                       4.90
Fertilizer, road maintenance                        8.10      16
Year 7    Labor                                       4.20
Building and equipment                             28.80      33
TOTAL                        21     112.70  101.30    235



ANNEX 5
Page 9
7.        REVENUE
The Bank projected price for rubber is US cts 16.5 CIF New York
for RSS 1. The price paid by the rubber processors to the farmers for
rubber delivered at factories based on present processing and marketing
charges would be as follows:
cts per lb
New York cif - RSS 1                                            16.50
Reduction for lower qualities                   0.50
fob to cif                                      2.00            2.50
fob Monrovia                                              14.00
Cost of processing and transport                3.37
Overhead charges, depreciation, profit          3.63             7.00
Price paid to farmers for all qualities
rubber delivered at factories                                 7.00
8.        PROJECT - ACREAGE - PRODUCTION - REVENUE
The project would be situated within a 20-mile radius from Suahoko
(106 miles from Monrovia by road) in the Bong County. The 500 acres selected
will be slaughter-tapped for two years, and replanted as from the third
year. The replanted trees will be opened in the seventh year after planting
(ninth year after the start of the project) and be tapped normally for 21
years and then slaughter tapped with stimulants for three years before
replanting. The life of the project will therefore be (2 + 6 + 21 + 3) 32
years. The yield, production and revenue during the life of the project
are estimated in table 1.
D)ecember 1, 1971






LIBERIA
AGRICULTURAL DEVELOPMENT AND TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE PROJECT
Cost of Rubber Replanting Per Acre
(US  t)
LABOR                                     OTHER EXPENSES
YEARS                                          .                                                            TOTAL
Mandays    Cost                                          Cost
rounded
1     Slashing undergrowth              8              Tools                                   4
Felling, poisoning snd                           Poison                                  1
clearing                      13
Planting cover crops             1               Cover crop seeds                        1
Lining and holing                9               Budded stumps 150 at 12 cts            18
Planting                         6               Fertilizer                              3
Slashing and ring weeding       25               Stump replacement                       2
Pruning and fertilizer                           Supervision                             5
application                    3
65      45.50                                          34    79.50       80
2     Slashing, rirg weeding          34               Supervision                             4
Pruning and fertilizer                           Fertilizer 4 - Road maintenance 4       8
application, road
maintenance                    4
38      26.60                                          12    38.60        4;
3     Slashing, ring weeding          19               Supervision                             3
Fertilizer application,                          Fertilizer 6 - Road maintenance 1       7
road maintenance               1
20      14.00                                          10    24.00        25
4     Slashing, ring weeding          14               Supervision                             3
Fertilizer application,                          Fertilizer 7 - Road maintenance 1       8
road maintenance               1                                                      _
15      10.50                                          11    21.50        22
5     Slashing, ring weeding           9               Supervision                              3
Fertilizer application,                          Fertilizer 8 - Road maintenance 1       9
road maintenance               1
10       7.00                                           12    19.00      19
6     Slashing, ring weeding            6              Supervision                              3
Fertilizer application,                          Fertilizer                              8
road maintenance               1                                                      _
7       4.90                                          11    15.90       16
7     Slashing, ring weeding            3              Tapper equipment                        1
Panelling                         2              Collars, spouts, cups                  12
Hanging collars, spouts,                         Building and sundry equipment          16
cUps                           1
6       4.20                                          29    33.20        33
_   GRAND TOTAL           161      112.70                                         119   231.70      235
Mandays  a US cts 70.
December 17, 1971



LIBERIA
AGRICULTURAL OnVELOPIIENr AND TEMINICAL ASSISUAWC6 PROJECT
Replanting - Typ Cal budget f.r One Acre
Year    Ye ar    Year    Year    year   Yrar    Ye ar    Year    Yar    Year    year    Ye ar    Year    Years   Y ar    Years   Year    Ye              ar    Year Yea     Year    Years
_  1    2        3                5       6                 a 8     9       10       1       12       13     14-21    22       23-24    25       26       27      2B       29      10-32
A. Nora. Yield. - Sales at cts 7,1b
PROLUJCTION:  lb                                                 900.0   900.0       -       -        -            -            -     250.0   450.0   700.0    m.0  1100.0  1200.0  1100.0  1000.0   950.0   900.0   650.0   800.0   750.0  1000.0
INCOME:       Grants                                              26.0      -      80.0    40.0    25.0    22.0    1.0    16.0    33.0           -       -        -       -        -        -        -       -        -       -        -        -       -
Sales oE rubber at cts 7                            63.0    63.0      -        _       _                         _       17.5    3l.5    69.0    70.0    77.0   0h.0    77.0    70.0    66.5    63.0    59.5    56.0    52.5    70.0
Total                                          S7.0    63.0    80.0    60.0    25.0    22.0         .0    16.0    60.5    3.5    49.0        0.0    77.0    84.0    77.0    70.0    66.5    63.0    57.5    56.0    52.5    70.0
EXPENSES:    Replanttng                                            -        -      80.0    40.0    25.0    22.0    11.0    i6.0    33.0          _       _        _        _       _        _        _       _        _        _       _                 -
Sleaghter tappirg                                   11.1      -       -        -        -       -        -       -        -                _        _       _        _       _        _        _        _       _        _        _      53.3
Building x equipet                                   5.0                      _        _       _        _       _        _        _       _        _       _        _       _        _        _        _        _       _        _
Operating e-psersee                                 63.0    L3.0                                                         4 _  _  _  _  _  66.0    46.0    46.0    66.0    46.0    46.0    46.0    46.0    46.0    46.0    46.0    46.0    46.0  -
Repairs x replaeeu-t                                -        0.8     _                _ -      -        -                5.0    'Ko       0,o      S.0     5.0      5.0     2.0      2.0      2.0      2.0     2.0      2.0      2.0     2.0
Sub-total oeprating costs                     56.1    L3.8   60.0   46.0    25.0    22.0    19.0    16.0    84.0    51.0    51.0    51.0    51,0    51.0   46.0   64.0   46.0    48.0    6 .0    48.0    48.0    55.3
Iuaentiue,      eta 0.5 sts/lb                       4.5      6.5     _        _       _        _        _       -        1.3     2.3      3.5      5.0     5.5      6.0     5.5      5.0      4.8      4.5     4.3    460        3.8     5.0
Trsanport;      eta 27'100 lb                        2.6      2.4     _        _        _       _                _        0.7     1.2      1.9      2.7     3.0      3.2     3.0      2.7      2.6      2.h     2.3      2.2      2.0     2.7
Sub-total                                       6.9     6.3      _        _       _        _       _        _       2.3      3.5      5.4     7.7      8.,     9.2      8.5      7.7      7.h     6.9      0.0      6.2     5.8      7.7
TOIAL operating cots                           66.0    59.7    80.0    40.0    25.0    22.0    19.0    16.0    86.0    56.5    5,6.    58.7    5 1.5    61.2    55.5    55.5    55.6    54.6    54.6    54.2    53.8    63.0
SURPLUS OR (DEFICIT)                                              23.0    12.3      -        _        _       _        _       _      (35.5)  (23.7)   ( .4)  16.3    17.5    23.3    23.5    14.3    11.1            8.1     4.9      1.8    (1.3)    7.0
B. Slees Increased to eta 10/lb
Inoreased Inan.e                                                  27.0    27.0    7-             |            _        _       _         .5    13.5    21.0    30.0    33.0    36.0    33.0    30.0    28.5    27.0    25.5    24.0    22.5    30.0
SURPLUIS OR (DEPICIT)                                             50.0    39.3 |        _    _  |                                     (28.0)1  (9.3)  (13.6)1 41.3    50.5    59.8    53.5    44.3    39.6    35.1    30.6    25.8 |212    37.0
hovember 23, 1971



LIBERIA
AGO3CIGYIUAL IEV7LOPOENT AND TE3HN0CA1 ASSIOTANICO PROjICT
Rabber Pilot Proj3ct -Rpota   0   o
Yer Ya    er      er     Ya       ea        erJaa   Ya                er     Ya Ye or            ear Y    ear.-Years   Yer         yeae   Y-a        Year    yea      Y-ar    Yea       Years
1  0  1  6    I   A              999a                199)',           0~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~2 13  [  31 IS 162  -22-    23-214   25             2
A. N.o,ea Yields - Procesilg and lOaketto  Ch-rge  at  te 7 'lb
-ORG:              h. Iaaeloatpp- l                                                                                                     5T3    53.3    00.0 511.3 500.53.
R.gjg. Ol-gtier t-Tg                                         0.      5no        -                                 -0-                                         --                                                                                                 0.
T. --.1 P~~~~~~.ti..  -    -                                                511.1                              5~~~~~~~ox    0i. I ~~~500.0   500.    500.0o   500.0   5)0.0   500.0o  500.7)
M0LD:         lb  Pa.                                              '900.0~  900.0                                                        2           50.0   450.0  L 00.0  1,000.0  1,100.0  1,2O.0  1,200.0C  1,100.0  I,)300.0 0950.0   ,)0. 0   850.0   800.0   753.0    1,200. 0
PRODUCTION:  lb: '360                                               1.0.0   650.0 o                                                      125.0   220. 0[350 0   500.0   550.0   600.0   600.0   550.0   500.0   b75.0   450.0   625.0  1400.0   376.0                  500.0
RE05 E        fab at. 16 lb                                          63.0    630I-V                                                       1.5    31.5  F  ..0    70.0    77.0    06.0   d8..0    77.0    70.0    66.5    63.0    59.5    56.0    52.5                   70.0
Tota1 replataag -apeo-                                  -       -        0.0   00.0    12.o    11.0        9.5      8.0    16.5               -        -        -        -        -        -       -        -        -        -        -        --
Slaag0t.r DppizJ  0p5901g                               5.      -        -                        -        -        -       -        -    I-           -        -        - -  -  -  -  -  -  -                                                             -
SIa-ghtertoppiog                                      20.55   21.5       -       -       -        -        -        -       -        -                 -        -        -        -                -        -        -        -        -        -26.6
Oaldiagaad  q.ipmeat                                   2.      -                        -                          -                -        -        -        -        -        -        -       -        -        -        -        -        --
Narea  nppieg                                                            -       -        -       -        - -             23.0    23.0    23.0    23.0    23.0    23.0    23.0    23.0    23 .0    23.0    23.0    23.0    23.0    23.                    -
tepai-a, repla....oal                                   -       0.0      0.,.    3.6      9.,.    3.       0.,.     0.1.    2.5      2.5 4 2.5         2.5      2.5      2.5      2.5      1.0     1.0      1.0      1.0      1.0      1.0      0.0o       1.0
Sab-Dtatl o-.raigo 9000                          29.5    01.      60.,4  20.4    12.9    11 9          .      5.1.    42.0    25.5    25.5    25.5    25.5    25.5    25.5    25.9.    26.0    240.0    26.0    24.0    26.0    26.0  ] 27.6
0.5 ate/lb                            2.3     2.3              -                      J --                 o       0 .01    10       2.5 2.0   3.0              3.0   2.0         2.5 2.4.2.32.2                     2.       1.9        2.5
Orooport,    02.701000 lb                              1.2      .1.L                                                         0.3 o- .6        0.9      1.1.     1.5      1.6      1.6     1.5      1.6      1.3      1.2      1.       '1.1     0.0        1.6-
Sab-to.a~l                                        3.5      3 .5     -                                                  O  ....~ ...2.    2.7      3.3      L.3     6.6      6.6      6.3      3.9      3.7      3.5      3.3      3.1      2.9       3.3
P-:-oog a mark.tiag aha-g- c.a 7<16                    31.5    31.5      -                                                      5    05.     26. 5    35.0    30.      62.      12.0    30.6    35.0I  33.3    31.6    20.0    20.0    26.3135.0
Or-rbed aharge  0 25oac                               125      1.5      12.5    95       95        .5      6,2     6'2      6.2     16.2      3.08      3.      3.0      3.0 
_______________________________________________    77_0   _____         .1    9.     22.4..o..14..6..56 5    60.2    72.1    75.9    72.1    66.5    60.9    61.0    59.93    57.1    55.1    53.2                                                     66.5
0URP10S 0R (DEF~ICIT) 1                                             (10.0)   (6.4.)  (32.9)1(29.0  (22.4)  120.9)  (16.i)  (06,66')  (60.6)  (1.7.7)   7.5)    (1.0)   (4.9)   16.1)   11.9    10.2               7.1      5.5     6.0       2.6     0.9    (0.7)         .
0~Proa...o  an d Marlktin Chgres  at cts 6/lb- 1b-a hbad-oo artd  t3  6 eerts/L.~A d                 .. 
EXPENSES,   Redoetlo  ia Proo.s.ilg COsts                          13.5    1.3.5      .        - i -                 - J -                338     6.0    10.5    15.0    16~         10.0    10 0    16 5    150o    143         13.5    12.0     120    11.           15.0
Redactia i.a labor ral                                 6.64     6.1      7.0      6.5 I2.6        1.0      1.2     002      7.1      6.4      6.1.4    6.6      6-.6     6.6      6.4     6.1.     6.6      6.6      6.1.     6.6      6.6'     6.64       6.6
Total sd..ti.a                                   171.9    19.6      7.0      4.5    2.6      1.0      1.2      05     10.9    13.2    16.9    21.6    22.91  26.6    26.1.    22.9    2.              200      19,9    192    18.6    17.7           21.4
SURPLUS OR (_EFI__T) 2                                                5.9    13.2   (65.1)1 (25.6) 2.)   (19.1)  (14.9)   1,6    25)363    332.
__________________                                  (20.0)   _____               -     (29.5)                     19.6    10.01   16.6                 ~~~~~~.01 0       62      2.       21.61   19.3  117.0          26.9
1/  Rate of Rotors - 4,8 far rp,laotd rubber, Y.ar  3-32
! Rte. d  Retere   0% tar repland robber, Years 3-32   (ahr- vi,2do or,n--a-d    IC)30, 0-e  re'.   o2   t-Or  1.,95)
NOrsebs 23. 1971






ANNEX 6
LIBERIA
AGRICULTURAL AND TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE PROJECT
Draft Terms of Reference
Rice Research Consultants
1.        The Government would retain consultants to prepare a 5-year
program of adaptive research for swamp and upland rice in Liberia. This
program would take into account the results of research already carried
out in Liberia and its available research resources. Priority would be
given to the selection of new varieties and the adaptation of new techniques
already found to be economic and practical under similar ecological condi-
tions.
2.        The program would establish research priorities and would include
details of the:
-    varieties to be kept in a varietal collection at Suakoko;
-    number and design of variety trials;
-    number and design of fertilizer trials;
-    pest and disease control trials;
-    trials to test improved agronomic practices related to:
(a) raising seedlings;
(b) land preparation;
(c) methods of planting.
3.        The consultants would be required to visit Liberia at not less
than bi-annual intervals to supervise and report on progress.
4.        The consultants would assist Government in the preparation of
training programs for four Liberian rice researchers, including their scope
and location, and the selection of candidates. An appropriate training
program and proposals for its implementation would be submitted to the
Association for comment.
March 3, 1972






ANNEX 7
LIBERIA
AGRICULTURAL DEVELOPMENT AND TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE PROJECT
Draft Terms of Reference for Ministry of Agriculture Reorganization
and Study
1.        The consultant employed would be responsible for advising Govern-
ment on the reorganization of the Ministry of Agriculture. This would
include:
(a) A survey of the Ministry's present functions;
(b) An inventory of its present financial and manpower resources;
(c) An analysis of present weaknesses;
(d) A definition of the future role and terms of reference for
the Ministry;
(e) A scheme of service for Ministry's staff;
(f) Taking account of the Ministry's general functions, specific
requirements arising from implementation of project activities,
and resources available to Government, an estimate for 5 years
of the Ministry's:
i.   staff requirements, by qualification, grade and salary;
ii.   staff training program;
iii.   recurrent budget requirements;
iv.   capital budget requirements; and
v.   an organizational structure for the department detailing
responsibilities of all senior officers and their lines
of authority.
(g) Amendments to existing legislation or new legislation required
for the Ministry to carry out its functions.
2.        The Consultant would be responsible to the Minister of Agriculture
or his deputy for coordinating project activities within the Ministry of
Agriculture.
March 3, 1972






LIBERIA
AGRICULTURAL DEVELOPMENT AND TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE PROJECT
PROJECT COST
(US$)
Foreign Cost
Year 1         Year 2          Year 3         Total           %      Total
Investment proposals for integrated
Rural Development Projects            149,000        144l,000            _          293,000         67    195,500
Rubber Industry Survey and
Feasibility Study 1/                     _           305,000            -           305,000         67    204,350
Rubber Pilot Scheme                     132,000          80,700          117,000      329,700         36    117,600
Rice Research                           191,300          34,300           32,300      257,900         56    145,120
Reorganization Miniotry of
Agriculture                            39,100         37,100            34,600      110,800         52      57,600
Counterparts and Training                21 ,900        34,200            17,100        73,200        41      30,000
533,300        635,30          201,000    1,369,600          55    750,170
Contingencies
Price 2                                  49,900         109,000           31,500       190,400         57    108,800
Physical                                 18 ,200          7, 600           9,200        35,000         46     16, 000
GRAND TOTAL            f 601 400oo      751,900          241,700    1,595,000          55    87T,970
1/  Includes $66,000 for aerial survey
2/  20% on Consultants costs, 5% per annum price contingency and 5% physical contingencies on all other
project costs.
November 24, 1971



LIBERIA
AGRICULTURAL DEVELOPMENT AND TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE PROJECT
COST OF INVESTMENT PROPOSAL FOR INTEGRATED RURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECTS
(US$)
Year 1      Year 2      Year 3                Fore gn Cost
Upper Lofa     Bong                   Total
_      Total
STAFF (Man Months)
- Project Manager (Planning Agriculturist)               6            6          -           12
- Land Classification Agronomist                         3            3          -            6
-  Agricultural Economist (Marketing)                    6            6          -           12
- General Civil Engineer                                 6            6          -           12
-  Irrigation Egineer/Hydrologist                        2            1          -            3
- Public Health Specialist                               1            1          -            2
-  Short-Term Specialists                                3            3          -            6
Total (Man Months)                               27          26           -          53        -        -
COSTS
1. Staff:  US$ 4,000 per man month                    108,000      104,000       -        212,000    70      148,400
2.  Sundries:  International Travel                     7,000        7,000       -         14,000    80       11,200
Local Costs                             10,000      10,000        -        20,000      -         -
Aerial Photography                      19,000      18,000        -        37,000    70        25,900
Report Preparation                       5,000      .5,000        -        10,000   100        10,000
Total US$                                    149,000     144,000        -       293,000    67       195,500
3. Contingencies:  20%                                 29,800       28,800       -         58,600    67       39,262
GRAND TOTAL 'JS$                         178,800     172,800        -       351,600    67       234,762
September 13, 1971                                                                                                       oiZ
M CD



LIBERIA
AGRICULTURAL DEVELOPMENT AiND TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE PROJECT
COST OF RUBBER INDUSTRY SURVEY AND FEASIBILITY STUDY
(US$)
Project Year 2              Foreign  Cost
Survey     Feasibility    Total         %       Total
____________________________                    tdy        ______
STAFF (Man Months)
- Project Manager                                 6              6           12
- Photo Interpreters                              4              -            4
- Surveyor                                        4              -            4
- Agronomist                                      4              4            8
- Accountant/Financial Analyst                    4              3            7
- Economist (Transport-Marketing)                 4              3            7
- Rubber Processing Ehgineer                      2              3            5
- Short-Term Specialists                          2              -            2 
Total (Man Months)                         30            19            49          _          _
COSTS
1  Staff:  Us$ 4,000 per man month            120,000         76,000       196,000      70        137,200
2  Sundries:  International Travel              7,000          6,ooo         13,000     80         10,400
Local Costs                     10,000          7,000         17,000       -
Report P'reparation Maps         8,ooo          5,000        1100                   13,000
Total US$                                 145,000         94,000       239,000      67        160,600
3  Contingencies:  20%                         29,000         18,800         47,800     67         32,026
GRAND TOTAL US$                   17             112,800        286,800      67       192,62 6 _ _
1/  The feasibility study would be undertaken only if justified by the results of the Survey.
2/  An additional $79,000 are included in total project costs to cover expenditure on aerial                       w m
survey and 20% contingencies, should new aerial photography be required
October 18, 1971



LIBERIA
AGRICULTURAL DEVEWLOPMENT AND TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE PROJECT
O~S )F q 1   J TAP .
(US $)
Unit Cost   Year 1    Year 2    Year 3    Total    Fore 'T Cost
1. STAFF
- Manager (E):  Salary                               8,000      8,000      8,000     8,000    24,000   50    12,000
Expatriate Allowance                4,000       4,000     4,000      4,000    12,000  100    12,000
Traval                            2/4,000       2,000     4,000      2,000     8,ooo   80      6,400
- Assistant (L):  Salary                             5,000      5,000      5,000     5,000    15,000   -         -
- Accountant (L):  Salary                            4,000      4,000      4,000     4,000    12,000   -         -
- Sector Heads (L):  Salary                          3,000      9,000(3) 12,00Q4) 15,000(5) 36,000   -         -
- Clerk Typist (L):  Salary                          2,500      2,500      2,500     2.500      7,500            -
- Drivers x Laborers (L):  Salary                      400      2,000(5)  2,800(7)  4,000(LC   8,800   -        -
Sub;-total                                      -         36,500    42,300    44,500   123,300   25    30,400
2. EBUIPMENT
- 1 House x Furniture                               15,000     15,000       -         -       15,000   60      9,000
- 2 Houses x Furniture                              12,500     25,000       -         -        25,000   60    15,000
- 1 Training Centre Building                        20,000     10,000    10,000       -        20,000   60    12,000
- 2 Four-Wheel Drive Vehicles                        4,000      8,000       -         -         8,000   go     7,200
- 5 Motorcycles                                     1,000       3, 000(3)   1,00(1)   4,000(4)   8,000   90    7,200
- Training Centre Equipment                           -         2,000      2,000      -        4,000   60       2,400
Sub-total                                                 63,000    13,000      4,000    80,000   66    52,800
3. OPERATING COSTS
- Upkeep Houses                                        200        600        600       600      1,800   20       40o0
- Upkeep Training Centre (10 trainees p.y.)            200      2,000      2,000     2,000      6,000   20      1,200
- Operation and Maintenance of Vehicles              1,000      2,000      2,000     2,000      6,000   50      3,000
- Operation and Maintenance of Motorcycles             300        900      1,200     1,500      3,600   5o      1,800
Sub-total                                        -         5,500      5,800     6,100    17,400           6,400
4. FARM CREDITS AND GRANTS
- Rehabilitation                                        28     14,000    19,600    22,400    56,000   30    16,800
- Replanting                                        26/80      13,000       -       40,000    53,000   20    10,600
Sub-total                                        -        27,000    19,600    62,400    09,00G  25    27,400
TOTAL                                       _       132,000    80,700      7,000   329,700   36   117,000
5. CONTINGIXIChS
- Physical -  5%                                      _         6,600      4,000     5,900    16,500C  36      5 8,0    X
- priee     -  5b                                     -         6,900      R o0_  18,400    33,800   36    12,200 j.'
I   ____________ - _______
GRAND TOTAL                         1       _       JV,5 J00   93,200   L41,300    80,000   36   135,000
1=====-===-==:========~=z===. ====5===~======_5=_=-~== ,======,===j======_==~=[=====_====  5=======:====    ===  =5======
September 13, 1971



LIBERIA
AGRICULTURAL DEVELPMENT AND TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE PROJECT
COST OF RICE RESEARCH
Foreign Cost
Unit Cost    Year 1    Year 2    Year 3    Total    _    Teinost
_______  ~ ~ ~ ~ ~  ~   ~  ~        Total
1. STAEF
- Agronomist (E):  Salary                          10,000      10,000    10,000    10,000    30,000   50    15,000
Expatriate hUowance              5,000      5,000      5,000     5,000    15,000  100    15,000
Travel                         2/4,000      2,000      4,000     2,000      8,ooo   80     6,400
- Secretary (L):  Salary                            2,500       2,500     2,500      2,MO      7,500   - 
- Driver (L):) Sa-lary                              2,           '00        60Q                1,W      _
Sub-total                                        -        20,100    22,100    20,100    62,300   58    36,400
2. EQUIPMENT AND BUILDINGS
- House                                            15,000      15,000      -          -       15,000   60      9,000
- Four4-heel Drive Vehicle                          4,000       4,000      -          -        4,000   90      3,600
- Research Infrastructure:  Asphalting Road        40,000      40,000      -          -       40,000   60    24,000
Fencing               30,000      30,000      -          -       30,000   20      6,ooo
Electricity
Improvement         10,000      10,000      -          -       10,000   60      6,000
Repairs to bIildings    60,000    60,000       -         -       60,000   60    36,000
Sub-total                                        -       159,000      -          -      159,000   53    84,600
3. OPERATING COSTS
- Research (Supervision)                           10,000      10,000    10,000    10,000    30,000   70    21,000
- Upkeep Buildings                                     200        200       200        200       600   20        120
- Operation and Maintenance of Vehicles              1,000      1,000     1,000      1,000     3,000   50      1,500
- Internal Air Travel                                1,000      1,000     1,000      1,000     3,000   50      1,500
Sub-total                                        -        12,200    12,200    12,200    36,600   66    24,120
TOTAL                                       -       191,300    34,300    32,330   Z5?, 900   56   145,120
i. CONTINGENCIES
- Physical  -  5%                                     -         9,600      1,700     1,600    12,900   56       7,200      13
- Price     - 5%                                  _            10,000      3,600     5,100    18.700   56    10,500
GRAND TOTAL                                 -       210,900     39,600    39,CO0   289,5oo I56   162, 8-20       v c
epteb==e=1====1========s===1                               ==
September 13, 1971



LIBERIA
AGRICULTURAL DEVE:LOPIT AND TLCHNIC0,L ZSISTANCE PROJECT
COST OF iIISTRY  OF AG ICULTJ1JE REORGANIZATION
Foreign Cost
Unit Cost   Year 1    Year 2   Year 3   Total
Z     Total
1. STAFF
- Coordinator (E): Salary                        17,000     17,000    17,000    17,000    51,000      50   25,500
Expatriate Allowance           6,000      6,000     6,000     6,000   lB,0O0    100   18,000
Travel                       2/4,000      2,000     4,000     2,000     8,000     80    6,400
-Counterpart Staff:
- Secretary (L)                                    2,500     2,500      2,500     2,500     7,500     -      -
- Typist                                          1,500      1,500     1,500     1,500     4,500      -      _
- Driver                                            600        600       600        600    1,800      -
Sub-total                                      -        29,600    31 ,600    29,600    90,800    55   49,900
2. EQUIPMENT
- 4-wheel drive vehicle                           3,000      3,000      _          -        3,000     9o    2,700
- Office Equipment                                2,000      1,500      500        _        2,000     60    1,200
Sub-total                                      -        4,500       500       -        5,000     78    3,900
3. OPERATING COSTS
- House Rent                                      2,500       2,500     2,500     2,500     7,500     -      -
- Stationery, Stameps, etc.                         500         500      500        500     1,500     50     b00
- Operation and Maintenance of Vehicle            1,000      1,000     1,000      1,000     3,000     50   1,500
-  nternal Air Travel                             1,000       1,000    1,000      1,000     3,000     50   1,500
Sub-total                                      -         5,000     5,000     5,000    15,000     25    3,800
TOTAL                                     -        39,100    37,100    34,600   110,800     52   57,600
4. CONTINGENCIES                                                                                                          aD
- Physical - 5%                                    _         2 ,000     1,900     1,700     5 00     52    2,900
- Price     - 5% per annum                                   ? 100    3,900    5.,4oo    11,400    52    5,900
GRAND TOTAL                                       43,200    42 ,900   41,700   127,800      52 =6,400
November 23, 1971



L I B E R I A
AGRICULTURAL DEVELOPMENT AND TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE PROJECT
Training - Counterpart Staff and Fellowships
Foreign Cost
Year 1       Year 2        Year 3           Total         %       Total
Investment proposals for Integrated
Rural Development Projects
($800 per man month)                9,600         9,600           _           19,200         -          _
Rubber Industry Survey and Feasibility
Study ($800 per man month)                 4,800         9,600         9,600          24,000        -          -
Research Fellowships (4)                    7,500       15,000         7,500          30,000       100       30,000
Sub-Total                                  21,900       34,200        17,100          73.200         L1      30,000
Price Contingency 5% per annum             1,095         32            2,565           7,080         41       2,900
TOTAL                                      22,995       37,620        19,665          80,280         Li      32,900
November 24, 1971
I L
' D






ANNEX 9
Table 1
LIBERIA
AGRICULTURAL DEVELOPMENT AND TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE PROJECT
Project Financing
Year 1    Year 2    Year 3       Total
USsIOO.------- US$ 000 -------------
A. IDA Financing
I.   Consultant Service
(a) Rural Development
Projects                   119.2      115.2       -         234.4
(b) Rubber Industry Survey
and Studies                  -       191.2        -         191.2
(c) Aerial Photography            -        52.8        -          52.8
(d) Research Supervision          8.0        8.0       8.0        24.0
Subtotal                   127.2     367.2        8.0       502.4
II.  Farmers' Loans (rubber
rehabilitation)                 11.2       15.7       17.9       44.8
III. Civil Works
(a) Pilot Rubber Scheme          40          8         -          48.0
(b) Rice Research                92          -         -          92.0
Subtotal                   132         8          -         140.0
IV.  Vehicles and Equipment
(a) Pilor Rubber Scheme          10.4        2.4       3.2        16.0
(b) Rice Research                35.2         -          -        35.2
(c) Ministry of Agriculture
Reorganization               3.6        .4         -          4.0
Subtotal                   49.2        2.8        3.2        55.2
V.   Salaries and Training
Fellowships
(a) Pilot Rubber Scheme          29.2       33.8      35.4        98.4
(b) Rice Research                16.1       17.7      16.1        49.9
(c) Ministry of Agriculture
Reorganization              23.7      25.3       23.7        72.7
(d) Counterparts and
Fellowships                 17.5      27.4       13.7        58.6
Subtotal                    86.5     104.2       88.9       279.6
VI.  Unallocated                       53.4      91.7       32.9       178.0
TOTAL                      459.5     589.6      150.9    1,200.0
B. Government
I.   Consultants' Services            31.8       91.8        2.0       125.6
II.  Farmers' Loans (rubber
rehabilitation)                  2.8        3.8        4.5       11.2
III. Civil Works                      33.0        2.0         -         35.0
IV.  Vehicles and Equipment            12.3       0.7        0.8        13.8
V.   Salaries and Training
Fellowships                     21.6       26.0       22.4       70.0
VI.  Project Administration            12.7      13.0       13.3        39.0
VII. Unallocated                       16.7      24.9        7.8        47.4
TOTAL                      141.9     162.3       90.8       395.0
GRAND TOTAL                601.4     751.9      241.7    1,595.0
Deoember 17, 1971



ANNEX 9
Table 2
LIBERIA
AGRICULTURAL DEVEOEPMENT AND TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE PROJECT
ESTIMATED DISBURSEMENT SCHEDULE
IBRD/IDA       Cumulative Disbursements
Year 2 Quarter       at tb  end of Quarter
(us$'ooo)              (us$0ooo)
1972/73
December 31, 1972                       -                      -
March 31, 1973                          50                     50
June 30, 1973                          136                    186
1973/74
September 30, 1973                     136                    322
December 31, 1973                      136                    458
March 31, 1974                         148                    606
June 30, 1974                          148                    754
1974/75
September 30, 1974                     14&                    902
December 31, 1974                      148                  1,050
March 31, 1975                          3C                  1,080
June 30, 1975                           30                  1,110
1975/76
September 30, 1975                      3C                  1,140
December 31, 1975                       30                  1,170
March 31, 1976                          30                  1,200
December 28, 1971



fiRICE PROJECT l ER   1E  E j|
Jft ~ ~~~~~ ~ ~~~~ ~ ~      ~    ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ /// /5/    'A                             ,A A  A OAT ,*,   y'4A'AA  e-<  A    S TOAW
SI ERRA     LEONE                                   /,4ji
8~ /                                                                          0 F    OC R         PEC*UTA Y GAU  S ITNEA
UNROVIv >(                                         /                                                                     N
-   GRAN D    siA S S A j           I       i.,N  I  M       B  
COUNTY~,UNY                                       Zo         G)~E
Ac U8                                            N      T  Y  ) u
le  A~~~~~~/
p~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~vR                                                            TRAA
RAND  ~~~    AT  /                    /.,N D    S  SO AN                                ekp
-MU                                         BucNT               '                '  ,A,  G                     jiC POC
A    (~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ 
REPUBLIC   OF  LIBERIA                                   / . 
NTSER~~~~~~~AD     /    /71/~~~~~~~~' /                           '          GD
AGRICULTURAL  DEVELOPMENT  &                              1      j, ,;  r';';   a        J     GDH'';>  ^
//                              IVOR~~~~~~~0 "NTY  COAST.
1-ECHNICAL ASSISTANCE   PROJECT--O.
//r//4Rural Development Project Areos     Rvres          /    f ,4                 ^,l'>,. 2              ^''tt  t4'
_Nati honal    Forests ZIX>H/      \'s/5n
Rubber Plant                                                  S I               U   N  T  Y
*  Pilot Rice Proiect              A tlantlc              -                                    'shwa;
*  Research  StatonrCecn                                 Gre,ii                           r/       8                s
_5              ~~~~~Paved  Roadv                                                _                                 \\
All weather Rood                                                     '/                       \    \.5
/   AE           q ~~~~~yoalue
, I,   IsRoilwly                                                             \
- -County Boundaries                                                            Sasstowi t  M AR YL A N D
- --CinternNtionYl goundor,es  o-COUNTY    pibA
i9    Rubber Pilot Protect Headquote,ra                                                      Zuodr'
RE PUBLIC   OF   LIBERIA~o   H C 
NOVEtABER  1971                                                                                                                              BRlD-3656



