CONFORMED COPY
CREDIT NUMBER 306 LBR
Development Credit
Agreement
(Agricultural Development Project)
BETWEEN
THE REPUBLIC OF LIBERIA
AND
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
DATED MAY 17, 1972


﻿CONFORMED COPY
CREDIT NUMBER 306 LBR
Development Credit
Agreement
(Agricultural Development Project)
BETWEEN
THE REPUBLIC OF LIBERIA
AND
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
DATED MAY 17, 1972


﻿DEVELOPMENT CREDIT AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT, dated May 17, 1972, between THE REPUBLIC OF
LIBERIA     (hereinafter  called  the  Borrower)    and   INTERNATIONAL
DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION (hereinafter called the Association).
ARTICLE I
General Conditions; Definitions
Section 1.01. The parties to this Agreement accept all the provisions of the
General Conditions Applicable to Development Credit Agreements of the
Association, datled January 31, 1969, with the same force and effect as if they
were fully set forth herein, subject, however, to the deletion of Sections 5.01 and
6.02 (h) thereof and to the renumbering of Section 6.02 (i) into 6.02 (h) thereof
(said General Conditions Applicable to Development Credit Agreements of the
Association, as so modified, being hereinafter called the General Conditions).
Section 1.02. Wherever used in this Agreement, unless the context otherwise
requires, the several terms defined in the General Conditions have the respective
meanings therein set forth and the term "Ministry" means the Ministry of
Agriculture of the Borrower.
ARTICLE II
The Credit
Section 2.01. The Association agrees to lend to the Borrower, on the terms
and conditions in the Development Credit Agreement set forth or referred to, an
amount in various currencies equivalent to one million two hundred thousand
dollars ($1,200,000).
Section 2.02. The amount of the Credit may be withdrawn from the Credit
Account in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1 to this Agreement, as
such Schedule shall be amended from time to time, for expenditures made (or,
if the Association shall so agree, to be made) in respect of the reasonable cost
of goods and services required for the Project described in Schedule 2 to this
Agreement and to be financed under the Development Credit Agreement; provided,
however, that, except as the Association shall otherwise agree, no withdrawal shall


﻿4
be made on account of expenditures in the territories of any country which is
not a member of the Bank (other than Switzerland) or for goods produced in,
or services supplied from, such territories.
Section 2.03. Except as the Association shall otherwise agree, the goods and
services (other than services of consultants) required for the Project and to be
financed out of the proceeds of the Credit, shall be procured on the basis of the
procedures set forth in Schedule 3 to this Agreement.
Section 2.04. The Closing Date shall be December 31, 1976 or such other
date as shall be agreed between the Borrower and the Association.
.ection 2.05. The Borrower shall pay to the Association a service charge
at the rate of three-fourths of one per cent (3/4 of I%) per annum on the principal
amount of the Credit withdrawn and outstanding from time to time.
Section 2.06. Service charges shall be payable semi-annually on February 15
and August 15 in each year.
Section 2.07. The Borrower shall repay the principal amount of the Credit
in semi-annual installments payable on each February 15 and August 15
commencing August 15, 1982 and ending February 15, 2022, each installment
to and including the installment payable on February 15, 1992 to be one-half
of one per cent (1/2 of 1%) of such principal amount, and each installment
thereafter to be one and one-half per cent (11/2%) of such principal amount.
Section 2.08. The currency of the United States of America is hereby
specified for the purposes of Section 4.02 of the General Conditions.
ARTICLE III
Execution of the Project
Section 3.01. (a) The Borrower shall carry out the Project through the
Ministry with due diligence and efficiency and in conformity with sound
administrative, financial, agricultural and engineering practices, and shall provide,
promptly as needed, the funds, facilities, services and other resources required for
the purpose.
(b)   Without limitation to the provisions of sub-section (a) of this Section:


﻿5
(i)         the Borrower shall establish and maintain a bank account
(hereafter called the Project Account) to be used exclusively for
all expenditures made by the Borrower in respect of the cost
of goods and services required for the Project; and
(ii)        as from the Effective Date the Borrower shall on the first day
of each month deposit in the Project Account such amounts
as shall be required to cover such expenditures for the following
two months on the basis of estimates to be prepared each month
for such purpose by the administrator (the Administrator) to
be appointed in accordance with Section 3.02 (d) hereof.
Section 3.02. (a) For the purpose of carrying out Part A of the Project,
the Borrower shall establish and maintain at Suakoko a Pilot Rubber Scheme
Management Unit and shall appoint as members thereof a Manager, an Assistant
Manager and an Accountant.
(b)   For the purpose of carrying out Parts B and C of Ole Project, the
Borrower shall appoint consultants and shall cause such consultants respectively
to recommend a team leader who shall, upon mutual agreement, be appointed
and be responsible directly to the Minister of Agriculture or his designee (who
shall not be a person below the rank of the Assistant Minister), for the carrying
out of their respective services.
(c)   For the purpose of carrying out Part D of the Project, the Borrower
shall appoint rice research consultants who shall be responsible directly to the
Minister of Agriculture or his designee (who shall not be a person below the rank
of the Assistant Minister), and a rice agronomist who shall be responsible directly
to the Director of Agricultural Research at the Suakoko Rice Research Station.
(d)   For the purpose, inter alia, of carrying out Part E of the Project, the
Borrower shall appoint an administrator who shall be responsible directly to the
Minister of Agriculture or his deputy.
(e)   (i)        The Manager of the Pilot Rubber Scheme Management
Unit and the consultants (including the Administrator)
referred to in sub-sections (b), (c) and (d) of this Section
shall in each case be persons acceptable to the Association
and shall be appointed in manner and upon terms and
conditions (including, without limitation, as to terms of
reference, timing and duration) satisfactory to the
Association.


﻿6
(ii)        Without limitation to paragraph (i) of this sub-section, the
functions, powers and duties of the Manager of the Pilot
Rubber Scheme Management Unit in respect of Part A
of the Project and of the Administrator in respect of the
Project shall be as specified respectively in Parts 1 and
2 of Schedule 4 hereto.
Section 3.03. The Borrower shall cause (i) the Minister of Agriculture to
keep such Departments and Ministries, Bureaus and other of its agencies and
instrumentalities as shall be affected by or concerned with the Project, or any
part thereof, informed of the progress of the Project (including evaluation of the
studies financed under the Project); (ii) such Departments, Ministries, Bureaus,
agencies or instrumentalities, to provide such support, cooperation or other
assistance as shall be necessary or desirable in connection with the carrying out
of the Project; and (iii) the Deputy Minister of said Departments and Ministries
and the equivalent officers of said Bureaus and other agencies and instrumentalities
to be available, on a continuing basis, for consultation with the Ministry of
Agriculture for the purposes of paragraph (ii) of this Section.
Section 3.04. In carrying out Parts A and D of the Project, the Borrower
shall employ contractors acceptable to the Association upon terms and conditions
satisfactory to the Association.
Section 3.05. In carrying out Part A of the Project, the Borrower shall enter
into contracts with farmers for the provision of rubber rehabilitation loans, to
be financed by the Borrower out of the proceeds of the Credit, and of rubber
replanting grants, to be financed by the Borrower out of its own resources, upon
the terms and conditions respectively specified in Parts 1 and 2 of Schedule 5
hereof and upon such other terms and conditions as the Association shall approve.
Section 3.06. (a) In carrying out Part B of the Project, the Borrower shall
submit the rubber industry study carried out thereunder to the Association for
review and shall cause the formulation of detailed investment proposals relating
thereto to be undertaken only if the Borrower and the Association shall so agree
in the light of the recommendations included in such study.
(b)   In carrying out Part C of the Project, the Borrower shall submit the
Lofa Study to the Association for review and shall cause the Bong Study to be
undertaken only if the Borrower and the Association shall so determine in the
light of the Lofa Study.


﻿7
(c)   Following the preparation of the review included in Part E of the
Project, the Borrower shall consult with the Association on the recommendations
included therein and shall formulate a program for their implementation satisfactory
to the Borrower and the Association.
Section 3.07. (a) In carrying out Part F (1) of the Project, the Borrower
shall, in consultation with the rice research consultants referred to in Section
3.02 (c) hereof, select the four rice research fellows to whom the fellowships
included therein are awarded out of suitably qualified governmental staff or recent
graduates and shall cause the said consultants to prepare and supervise the training
programs of such fellows. Upon satisfactory completion of their training the
Borrower shall appoint each fellow to the staff of the Ministry with senior
responsibility for rice research at the Suakoko Research Station.
(b)   In carrying out Part F (2) of the Project, the Borrower shall:
(i)         cause the consultants, to be appointed by the Borrower in
accordance with Section 3.02 (b) hereof, to provide training for
nine suitably qualified agronomists or economists, five of whom
shall be trained as counterpart staff to the consultants appointed
in respect of Part B of the Project and four of whom shall be
trained as counterpart staff to the consultants appointed in
respect of Part C of the Project;
(ii)        upon satisfactory  completion of such training assign such
counterparts to such consultants respectively; and
(iii)       provide short courses for the training of rubber farm managers
and detailed supervision of rubber tappers.
Section 3.08. (a) The Borrower undertakes to insure, or make adequate
provision for the insurance of, the imported goods to be financed out of the
proceeds of the Credit against hazards incident to the acquisition, transportation
and delivery thereof to the place of use or installation, and for such insurance
any indemnity shall be payable in a currency freely usable by the Borrower to
replace or repair such goods.
(b)   Except as the Association shall otherwise agree, the Borrower shall
cause all goods and services financed out of the proceeds of the Credit to be used
exclusively for the Project.


﻿8
Section 3.09. (a) The Borrower shall furnish to the Association, promptly
upon their preparation, the reports, studies, papers, plans, specifications, contract
documents and construction, procurement and work schedules for the Project, and
any material modifications thereof or additions thereto, in such detail as the
Association shall reasonably request.
(b)   The Borrower: (i) shall maintain records adequate to record the
progress of the Project (including the cost thereof) and to identify the goods and
services financed out of the proceeds of the Credit, and to disclose the use thereof
in the Project; (ii) shall enable the Association's representatives to inspect the
Project, the goods financed out of the proceeds of the Credit and any relevant
records and documents; and (iii) shall furnish to the Association all such information
as the Association shall reasonably request concerning the Project, the expenditure
of the proceeds of the Credit and the goods and services financed out of such
proceeds.
Section 3.10. The Borrower shall take all such action as shall be necessary
to acquire as and when needed all such land and rights in respect of land as shall
be required for carrying out the Project.
ARTICLE IV
Other Covenants
Section 4.01. The Borrower shall maintain or cause to be maintained records
adequate to reflect in accordance with consistently maintained sound accounting
practices the operations, resources and expenditures, in respect of the Project, of
the departments or agencies of the Borrower responsible for carrying out the Project
or any part thereof.
Section 4.02. Without limitation to the generality of Section 4.01 hereof,
the Borrower shall:
(a)   cause the Administrator to maintain separate accounts and financial
statements (balance sheets, statements of income and expenses, individual farmer
rubber rehabilitation loan and rubber replanting grant accounts and related
statements) adequate to reflect in accordance with consistently maintained sound
accounting practices the operations, resources and expenditures in respect of each
Part of the Project of the Ministry; and
(b)   (i)          cause the Administrator to have the said accounts and
financial statements for each fiscal year audited, in


﻿9
accordance with sound auditing principles consistently
applied by independent auditors acceptable to the
Association, such audit to include a physical check of the
goods financed out of the proceeds of the Credit;
(ii)        cause the Association to be furnished as soon as available,
but in any case not later than four months after the end
of each such year, (A) certified copies of the said accounts
and financial statements for such year as so audited and
(B) the report of such audit by said auditors, of such scope
and in such detail as the Association shall have reasonably
requested; and
(iii)       cause  the Association   to  be  furnished  such  other
information concerning the said accounts and financial
statements and the audit thereof as the Association shall
from time to time request.
ARTICLE V
Consultation, Information and Inspection
Section 5.01. The Borrower and the Association shall cooperate fully to
assure that the purposes of the Credit will be accomplished. To that end, the
Borrower and the Association shall from time to time, at the request of either
party:
(a)   exchange views through their representatives with regard to the
performance of their respective obligations under the Development Credit
Agreement, the administration, operations and financial condition, resources and
expenditures in respect of the Project, of the departments or agencies of the
Borrower responsible for carrying out the Project or any part thereof, and other
matters relating to the purposes of the Credit; and
(b)   furnish to the other all such information as it shall reasonably request
with regard to the general status of the Credit. On the part of the Borrower, such
information shall include information with respect to financial and economic
conditions in the territories of the Borrower, including its balance of payments,
and the external debt of the Borrower, of any of its political subdivisions and
of any agency of the Borrower or of any such political subdivision.
Section 5.02. (a) The Borrower shall furnish or cause to be furnished to
the Association all such information as the Association shall reasonably request


﻿10
concerning the operations and financial condition, resources and expenditures in
respect of the Project, of the departments or agencies of the Borrower responsible
for carrying out the Project or any part thereof.
(b)   The Borrower and the Association shall promptly inform each other
of any condition which interferes with, or threatens to interfere with, the
accomplishment of the purposes of the Credit, the maintenance of the service
thereof or the performance by either of them of its obligations under the
Development Credit Agreement.
Section 5.03. The Borrower shall afford all reasonable opportunity for
accredited representatives of the Association to visit any part of the territories
of the Borrower for purposes related to the Credit.
ARTICLE VI
Taxes and Restrictions
Section 6.01. The principal of, and service charges on, the Credit shall be
paid without deduction for, and free from, any taxes imposed under the laws of
the Borrower or laws in effect in its territories.
Section 6.02. The Development Credit Agreement shall be free from any
taxes on or in connection with the execution, delivery or registration thereof,
imposed under the laws of the Borrower or laws in effect in its territories.
Section 6.03. The payment of the principal of, and service charges on, the
Credit shall be free from all restrictions, regulations, controls and moratoria of
any nature imposed under the laws of the Borrower or laws in effect in its
territories.
ARTICLE VII
Remedies of the Association
Section 7.01. If any event specified in Section 7.01 of the General Conditions
shall occur and shall continue for the period, if any, therein set forth, then at
any subsequent time during the continuance thereof, the Association, at its option,
may by notice to the Borrower declare the principal of the Credit then outstanding
to be due and payable immediately together with the service charges thereon and
upon any such declaration such principal and service charges shall become dre


﻿11
and payable immediately, anything to the contrary in the Development Credit
Agreement notwithstanding.
ARTICLE VIII
Effective Date; Termination
Section 8.01. The following events are specified as additional conditions to
the effectiveness of the Development Credit Agreement within the meaning of
Section 10.01 (b) of the General Conditions:
(a)   (i)        the Pilot Rubber Scheme Management Unit referred to
in Section 3.02 of this Agreement shall have been
established and the Manager appointed; and
(ii)       the Administrator referred to in Section 3.02 (d) of this
Agreement shall have been appointed.
(b)   The form  of the rubber rehabilitation loan agreements and of the
rubber replanting grants referred to in Section 3.05 hereof shall have been agreed
between the Borrower and the Association in accordance with the provisions
thereof.
Section 8.02. The date August 17, 1972 is hereby specified for the
purposes of Section 10.04 of the General Conditions.
ARTICLE IX
Representative of the Borrower; Addresses
Section 9.01. The Minister of Agriculture of the Borrower is designated as
representative of the Borrower for the purposes of Section 9.03 of the General
Conditions.
Section 9.02. The following addresses are specified for the purposes of
Section 9.01 of the General Conditions:
For the Borrower:
The Minister of Agriculture
Ministry of Agriculture
Monrovia
Liberia


﻿12
Cable address:
Ministry of Agriculture
Monrovia
For the Association:
International Development Association
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Cable address:
Indevas
Washington, D.C.
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their
representatives thereunto duly authorized, have caused this Agreement to be signed
in their respective names and to be delivered in the District of Columbia, United
States of America, as of the day and year first above written.
THE REPUBLIC OF LIBERIA
By /s/ Ellen Johnson-Sirleaf
Authorized Representative
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
By /s/ Mohamed Shoaib
Vice President


﻿13
SCHEDULE I
Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the Credit
1.   The table below sets forth the categories of items to be financed out of
the proceeds of the Credit, the allocation of amounts of the Credit to each category
and the percentage of eligible expenditures so to be financed in each category:
Amount of the
Credit Allocated          % of
(Expressed in        Expenditures
Category                      Dollar Equivalent)    to be Financed
I.    Civil Works
(a)   Pilot Rubber Scheme            48,000  )     80% of total ex-
)     penditures
(b)   Rice Research                  92,000  )
II.   Furniture, Equipment and
Vehicles
(a)   Pilot Rubber Scheme            16,000  )     100% of foreign
)     expenditures
(b)   Rice Research                  35,000  )     for directly im-
)     ported goods or
)     80% of total ex-
(c)   Department of Agri-             4,000  )     penditures for
culture Reorganiza-                     )    locally procured
tion                                    )    goods
III.  Farmers' Rubber Rehabil-            45,000         80% of total ex-
itation Loans                                      penditures
IV.   Consultant Services
(a)   (i)  Rubber Indus-            169,000  )
try Survey                        )
(ii)  Rubber Indus-            75,000   )
try Investment                    )
Proposals*                        )     80% of total ex-
)     penditures


﻿14
Amount of the
Credit Allocated         % of
(Expressed in        Expenditures
Category                      Dollar Equivalent)   to be Financed
(b)   (i)  Lofa Study               119,000  )
(ii)  Bong Study**            115,000   )
(c)   Rice Research                  24,000  )
V.    Rice Research Training              24,000         80% of total ex-
Fellowships                                        penditures
VI.   Salaries and Allowances
(a)   Pilot Rubber Scheme            98,000  )
(b)   Rice Research                  50,000  )
(c)   Department of Agri-            73,000  )     80% of total ex-
culture Reorganiza-                     )    penditures
tion                                    )
(d)   Counterparts                   35,000  )
VII. Unallocated                          178,000
TOTAL            1,200,000
*     Subject to Section 3.06 (a) hereof.
**   Subject to Section 3.06 (b) hereof.
2.    For the purposes of this Schedule:
(a)   the term  "foreign expenditures" means expenditures for goods
produced in, or services supplied from, the territories, and in the currency, of
any country other than the Borrower;


﻿15
(b)   the  term   "total expenditures" means the aggregate of foreign
expenditures and of expenditures for goods produced in, or services supplied from,
the territories of the Borrower.
3.    Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph I above, no withdrawals shall
be made in respect of:
(a)   expenditures prior to the date of this Agreement;
(b)   payments for taxes imposed under the laws of the Borrower or laws
in effect in its territories on goods or services, or on the importation, manufacture,
procurement or supply thereof. To the extent that the amount represented by
the percentage set forth in the third column of the table in paragraph I above
in respect of any Category would exceed the amount payable net of all such taxes,
such percentage shall be reduced to ensure that no proceeds of the Credit will
be withdrawn on account of payments for such taxes;
(c)   expenditures under any one or more of the following sub-categories
or group of sub-categories set forth in the table in paragraph I above, viz.
(1)   IV (a) (i)
(2)   IV (a) (ii)
(3)   IV (b) (i)
(4)   IV (b) (ii), or
(5)   I (b), II (b), IV (c), V and VI (b)
unless the Borrower shall first have appointed in accordance with Section 3.02
of the Development Credit Agreement the person or persons whose services are
to be utilized in respect of the survey, proposals, study or research respectively
specified in such sub-category, sub-categories or group of sub-categories.
4.    Notwithstanding the allocation of an amount of the Credit set forth in the
second column of the table in paragraph I above:
(a)   if the estimate of the expenditures under any Category shall decrease,
the amount of the Credit then allocated to such Category and no longer required
therefor will be reallocated by the Association by increasing correspondingly the
unallocated amount of the Credit;


﻿16
(b)   if the estimate of the expenditures under any Category shall increase,
the percentage set forth in the third column of the table in paragraph I above
in respect of such expenditures shall be applied to the amount of such increase,
and a corresponding amount will be allocated by the Association, at the request
of the Borrower, to such Category from the unallocated amount of the Credit,
subject, however, to the requirements for contingencies, as determined by the
Association, in respect of any other expenditures;
(c)   if the Association  shall have reasonably   determined  that the
procurement of any item in any Category is inconsistent with the procedures set
forth or referred to in Section 2.03 of this Agreement, no expenditures for such
item shall be financed out of the proceeds of the Credit and the Association may,
without in any way restricting or limiting any other right, power or remedy of
the Association under the Development Credit Agreement, by notice to the
Borrower, cancel such amount of the Credit as in the Association's reasonable
opinion, represents the amount of such expenditures which would otherwise have
been eligible for financing out of the proceeds of the Credit.
5.    Notwithstanding the percentages set forth in the third column of the table
in paragraph I above, if the estimate of total expenditures under any Category
shall increase and no proceeds of the Credit are available for reallocation to such
Category, the Association may, by notice to the Borrower, adjust the percentage
then applicable to such expenditures in order that further withdrawals under such
Category may continue until all expenditures thereunder shall have been made.


﻿17
SCHEDULE 2
Description of Project
The Project consists of the following parts:
Part A
The carrying out of a pilot rubber scheme comprising:
(1)   the rehabilitation of approximately 2,000 acres of rubber capable of
sustained and economic future yield levels and the provision of credit
facilities to farmers in respect of the costs thereof; and
(2)   slaughter tapping of approximately 500 acres of rubber ending its
productive life and the rubber replanting thereof.
Part B
The carrying out of a study of the rubber industry in Liberia and of the
.~     feasibility of an increase in rubber production and, subject to Section 3.06 (a)
of the Development Credit Agreement, the formulation of detailed investment
proposals relating thereto in the light of such study and of the results of the pilot
rubber scheme.
Part C
The formulation of a rural development project in the county of Lofa to
increase crop production and the preparation of detailed investment proposals
relating thereto (in the Development Credit Agreement called the Lofa Study) and,
subject to Section 3.06 (b) of the Development Credit Agreement, the formulation
of a rural development project in the county of Bong to increase crop production
and the preparation of detailed investment proposals relating thereto (in the
Development Credit Agreement called the Bong Study), in each case in the light
of the survey of human and physical resources to be carried out in the said counties
by the Borrower.
Part D
(1)   except as the Association shall otherwise agree, the establishment of
a comprehensive rice research program at the Suakoko Research
Station.


﻿18
(2)   the improvement of the facilities of the Suakoko Research Station
comprising:
(i)        the provision of new housing
(ii)       the up-grading of existing housing
(iii)      the paving of approximately one mile of the main road
adjacent to the swamp rice experimental plots
(iv)       the provision of an electric generator
(v)        the provision of fencing.
Part E
The review of the functions and organization of the Department of
Agriculture and formulation of recommendations for the reform thereof, including
the preparation of a staffing, training and financing plan.
Part F
The provision of:
(1)   fellowships each of 12 man-months, or such other period as shall be
agreed to between the Borrower and the Association, for counterpart
staff to be assigned to the Suakoko Research Station; and
(2)   training facilities for nine counterpart staff to be assigned to the
consultants appointed in respect of Parts B and C of the Project and
for rubber farm managers and rubber tappers.
Part G
The provision for the use of the Administrator of office equipment at the
Department of Agriculture, Monrovia and of a vehicle.
The Project is expected to be completed by June 30, 1976.


﻿19
SCHEDULE 3
Procurement
1.    The Borrower shall procure goods and services (other than consultants
services): (i) wherever practicable, on the basis of international competition and
procedures consistent with the Guidelines for Procurement under World Bank Loans
and IDA Credits, published by the Bank in August 1969, as revised in May 1971;
and (ii) on the basis of local competition and procedures similar to those set forth
in the said Guidelines where international competitive bidding is not followed.
2.    With respect to any contract for civil works and equipment estimated to
cost the equivalent of $5,000 or more:
(a)   If bidders are required to prequalify, the Borrower shall, before
qualification is invited, inform the Association in detail of the procedure to be
followed and shall introduce such modifications in said procedure as the Association
shall reasonably request. The list of prequalified bidders, together with a statement
of their qualifications and of the reasons for the exclusion of any applicant for
prequalification, shall be furnished by the Borrower to the Association for its
comments before the applicants are notified and the Borrower shall make such
additions or deletions from the said list as the Association shall reasonably request.
(b)   Before bids are invited, the Borrower shall furnish to the Association,
for its comments, the text of the invitations to bid and the specifications and
other bidding documents, together with a description of the advertising procedures
to be followed for the bidding, and shall make such modifications in the said
documents or procedure as the Association shall reasonably request. Any further
modification to the bidding documents shall require the Association's concurrence
before it is issued to the prospective bidders.
(c)   After bids have been received and evaluated, the Borrower shall, before
a final decision on the award is made, inform the Association of the name of
the bidder to whom it intends to award the contract and shall furnish to the
Association, in sufficient time for its review, a detailed report on the evaluation
and comparison of the bids received, together with the reasons for the intended
award. The Association shall, if it determines that the intended award would be
inconsistent with the procedures set forth or referred to in Section 2.03 of this
Agreement, promptly inform the Borrower and state the reasons for such
determination.
(d)   The terms and conditions of the contract shall not, without the
Association's concurrence, materially differ from those on which bids were asked.


﻿20
(e)   Two conformed copies of the contract shall be furnished to the
Association promptly after its execution and prior to the submission to the
Association of the first application for withdrawal of funds from the Credit Account
in respect of any such contract.
3.    With respect to any other contract for civil works and equipment, the
Borrower shall furnish to the Association, promptly after its execution and prior
to the submission to the Association of the first application for withdrawal of
funds from the Credit Account in respect of any such contract, two conformed
copies of such contract, together with the analysis of bids, (including a copy of
the record of the public opening of the bids and a bid examination report)
recommendations for award and such other information as the Association shall
reasonably request. The Association shall, if it determines that the award of the
contract is not consistent with the procedures set forth or referred to in
Section 2.03 of this Agreement, promptly inform the Borrower and state the
reasons for such determination.


﻿21
SCHEDULE 4
Functions, Powers and Duties of the Manager
of the Pilot Rubber Scheme Management
Unit and of the Administrator
Part 1      The Manager of the Pilot Rubber Scheme Management Unit
The Manager will be directly responsible to the Minister of Agriculture or
his designee, who shall not be a person below the rank of division head, for the
carrying out of Part A of the Project and will, in particular:
(a)   prepare all necessary work schedules, plans and programs for the pilot
rubber scheme included in Part A of the Project and a program for its
implementation;
(b)   prepare an annual work program    for the scheme;
(c)   select and supervise all scheme farmers;
(d)   administer the rubber rehabilitation loans and replanting grants referred
to in Section 3.05 of the Development Credit Agreement;
(e)   train farmers, farm managers, and tappers required for the carrying
out of the scheme.
Part 2      The Administrator
1.    The Administrator will carry out Part E of the Project. In particular:
(a)   in reviewing the functions and organization of the Ministry, the
Administrator will prepare a survey of its present functions, an inventory of its
present financial and manpower resources and an analysis of present weaknesses;
(b)   in formulating recommendations for the reform of the functions and
organization of the Ministry, including the preparation of the staffing, training and
financing plan, the Administrator will:
(i)         prepare a five-year estimate of the
(A)   staff requirements, by qualification, grade and salary


﻿22
(B)   staff training program
(C)   recurrent budget requirements
(D)   capital budget requirements, and
(E)   organizational structure, detailing responsibilities of all
senior officers and their lines of authority;
of the Ministry taking into account the general functions of the
Ministry,   the   specific   requirements    arising  from    the
implementation of the Project and the resources available to the
Borrower;
(ii)         formulate the future role of and terms of reference for the
Ministry;
(iii)        prepare a scheme of service for the Ministry's staff; and
(iv)         draft any   legislation  necessary  to  give effect to  the said
recommendations or otherwise for the carrying out of its
functions by the Ministry.
2.    The Administrator will supervise the carrying out of Part F of the Project
and make arrangements for the award of the fellowships and provision of the
training facilities included therein.
3.    The Administrator will be responsible for the preparation of the estimates
and the accounts and financial statements respectively referred to in Sections
3.01 (b) (ii) and 4.02 of the Development Credit Agreement.
4.    The Administrator will be responsible for the coordination of all Parts of
the Project.
5.    The Administrator shall have access to the Minister of Agriculture for
purposes of performance of the Administrator's functions under the Project.


﻿23
SCHEDULE 5
Terms and Conditions of
Rubber Rehabilitation Loans
and Rubber Replanting Grants
Part 1     Rubber Rehabilitation Loans
Loans shall be made for the rehabilitation of 2,000 acres of rubber included
in Part A of the Project on the following terms and conditions:
1.   A loan shall only be made:
(a)   to a creditworthy farmer of suitable qualifications and experience;
(b)   where land suitable for the purposes of the loan and located at a
distance of not more than 20 miles from the offices of the Pilot Rubber
Scheme Management Unit (the Unit) at Suakoko is owned by such
farmer or is held by him under a tenancy expiring on or after the
final maturity date of the loan; and
(c)   where the Unit shall be satisfied that over the period of 10 years from
the date of the loan such land has an annual yield potential of not
less than 700 pounds dry rubber per acre.
2.   A loan shall only be made in respect of a maximum of 100 acres per farmer,
except as the Association shall otherwise agree, as follows:
(a)   of up to $10.50 equivalent per acre for tapping equipment and
materials;
(b)   of up to $8.00 equivalent per acre for building materials for housing
hired labor; and
(c)   of up to $10.00 equivalent per acre for payment of hired labor required
for slashing, tasking, panelling, building construction and tapping
during the first month of operations of the farmer in carrying out
the rehabilitation provided for under the loan.
3.    (a)  payment of the principal and interest of each loan shall be scheduled
over not more than 5 years from the date of the loan and shall be


﻿24
effected in equal monthly principal repayments beginning in the third
month after such date; and
(b)   each loan shall carry interest at the rate of 9% per annum on the
principal amount from time to time outstanding.
4.    No loan shall be disbursed until the farmer shall have furnished evidence
satisfactory to the Unit that arrangements have been entered into between the
farmer and a suitably qualified processing company for the processing of the entire
rubber output of the farmer during the continuance of the loan and for the payment
on the due date by the said processing company directly to the Unit of the principal
and interest due under the loan out of the proceeds of sale of such rubber.
5.    The proceeds of the loan shall be disbursed by the Unit in kind or in the
reimbursement of the farmer in respect of expenditures for goods or services already
incurred by him in carrying out the rehabilitation provided for under the loan.
6.    Each loan shall provide for the farmer or the farm manager, who shall be
a person approved by the Unit, to supervise on a full-time basis the carrying out
of the rehabilitation provided for under the loan.
7.    Each loan shall provide for the farmer or such approved farm manager to
attend training courses upon request of the Unit.
8.    Each loan shall include suitable provision to safeguard the financial interests
of the lender and the operational interests of the rehabilitation provided for under
the loan.
Part 2      Rubber Replanting Grants
Grants shall be made for the slaughter tapping of 500 acres of rubber over
a period of 2 years and the rubber replanting thereof included in Part A of the
Project on the following terms and conditions:
1.    The terms and conditions set out in paragraphs 5, 6, 7 and 8 of Part I
of this Schedule shall also apply mutatis inutandis to grants included in this Part
2.
2.    A grant shall only be made:
(a)   to farmers of suitable qualifications and experience;


﻿25
(b)   where land suitable for the purposes of the grant and located at a
distance of not more than 20 miles from the offices of the Unit at
Suakoko is owned by such farmer or is held by him under a tenancy
expiring not less than 20 years after the date of the grant; and
(c)   where the Unit shall be satisfied that during the period of the rubber
slaughter tapping provided for under the grant the land under such
slaughter tapping shall have an annual yield of not less than 900 pounds
dry rubber per acre.
3.    A grant shall only be made in respect of a maximum of 50 acres per farmer,
except as the Association shall otherwise agree, as follows:
(a)   of up to $17.00 equivalent per acre for equipment and materials
required for slaughter tapping;
(b)   of up to $9.00 equivalent per acre for payment of hired labor, required
for slashing, tasking, panelling, building construction and tapping
during the first month of operations of the farmer in carrying out
the replanting provided for under the grant; and
(c)   of up to $75.00 equivalent per acre for replanting beginning in the
third year after the date of the grant, including $45.00 equivalent per
acre for hired labo-, and $30.00 equivalent per acre for tools, poison
and seedlings.


