Document of
The World Bank
Report No.: 17263 - ME
PROJECT APPRAISAL DOCUMENT
ONA
PROPOSED LOAN
IN THE AMOUNT OF US$47 MILLION EQUIVALENT
TO
NACIONAL FINANCIERA, S.N.C.
WITH THE GUARANTEE OF
THE UNITED MEXICAN STATES
FOR A
RURAL DEVELOPMENT IN MARGINAL AREAS PROJECT
December 23, 1997
Mexico Country Department
Latin America and the Caribbean Region



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
Exchange Rate Effective September 1, 1997
US$1 = $7.82
FISCAL YEAR
January 1 - December 31
ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
CDR               Comisi6n de Desarrollo Rural (Rural Development Comunission)
CIMMYT            Centro Internacional del Mejoramiento del Maiz y el Trigo (InternationaE Center for the
Improvement of Maize and Wheat)
CRDS              Consejo Regional de Desarrollo Sustentable (Regional Sustainable Development Councils)
FAO               Food and Agriculture Organization of the United Nations
FIRCO             Fideicorniso de Riesgo Compartido (Trust Fund for Shared Risk)
FONAES            Fondo Nacional de Empresas de Solidaridad (National Solidarity Business Fund)
GATIT             General Agreement on Tariffs and Trade
GoM               Government of Mexico
INCA              Instituto Nacional de Capacitacion del Sector Agropecuario, A.C.  (National Institute for the
Agricultural Sector Training)
INI               Instituto Nacional Indigenista (National Indigenous Institute)
INIFAP            Instituto Nacional de Investigaciones Forestales y Agropecuarias (National Institte for Forestry,
Agriculture, and Livestock Research)
NAF:[N            Nacional Financiera (National Development Bank)
NAFrA             North American Free Trade Agreement
NGO               Non-Governmental Organization
PROCAMPO          Programa de Apoyos Directos al Campo (National Program for Agricultural Direct Support)
PRODERS           Programa de Desarrollo Regional Sustentable (Program of Sustainable Regional Development)
SAGAR             Secretaria de Agricultura, Ganaderia y Desarrollo Rural (Ministry of Agriculture, Livestock and
Rural Development)
SEDIESOL          Secretaria de Desarrollo Social (Ministry of Social Development)
SEAkRNAP          Secretaria de Medio Ambiente, Recursos Naturales y Pesca (Ministry of Environment, Natural
Resources and Fisheries)
SINDER            Sistema Nacional de Extensi6n Rural (National System of Rural Extension)
Vice President: Mr. Javed Shahid Burki
Country Director: Mr. Olivier Lafourcade
Sector Director: Mrs. Maritta Koch-Weser
Task Manager/Sector Leader: Mr. Adolfo Brizzi



Prject Appraisal Document
Country. Medco
Mexico
Rural Development in Marginal Areas
CONTENTS
Page U.
A. Project Development Objective
1. Program and project development objective and key performance indicators             2
B. Strategic Context
1. Sector-related CAS goal supported by the project                                     3
2. Main sector issues and Government strategy                                            3
3. Sector issues to be addressed by the project and strategic choices                    5
C. Project Description Summary
1. Project components                                                                   6
2. Key policy and institutional reforms supported by the project                         7
3. Benefits and target population                                                        7
4. Institutional and implementation arrangements                                         a
D. Project Rationale
1. Project alternatives considered and reasons for rejection                             10
2. Major related projects financed by the Bank and/or other development agencies         10
3. Lessons leamed and reflected in proposed project design                               11
4. Indications of borrower comnmitmnent and ownership                                    I 1
5. Value added of Bank support for the project                                           II
E. Summary Project Analyses
1. Economic                                                                              12
2. Financial                                                                             12
3. Technical                                                                             13
4. Institutional                                                                         14
5. Social                                                                               15
6. Enviromnental assessment                                                              16
7. Participatory approach                                                                16
F. Sustainability and Risks
1. Sustainability                                                                       16
2. Critical risks                                                                        17
3. Possible controversial aspects                                                        18
G. Main Loan Conditions
1. Conditions of effectiveness                                                           18
H. Readiness for Implementation                                                                   18
L Compliance with Bank Policies                                                                   18



Project Appraisal Document
Country: Mexico
Annexes
Annex 1.      Project Design Summary
Annex 2.      Detailed Project Description
Annex 3.      Estimated Project Costs
Annex 4.      Cost-Benefit Analysis Summary
Annex 5.      Financial Summary
Annex 6.      Procurement and Disbursement Arrangements
Table A.     Project Costs by Procurement Arrangements
Table B.     Thresholds for Procurement Methods and Prior Review
Table C.     Allocation of Loan Proceeds
Annex 7.      Project Processing Budget and Schedule
Annex 8.      Documents in Project File
Annex 9.      Statement of Loans and Credits
Annex 10.    Country at a Glance
Annex 11.    Letter of Development Program
Annex 12.    Legal Framework and Characterization of Indigenous People Living in the Project Areas
Annex 13.    Eligibility Criteria for Beneficiaries and Subprojects
map



Mexico
Rural Development in Marginal Areas
Project Appraisal Document
Latin America and the Caribbean
Mexico Country Department
Date: December 23, 1997                            Task Manager: Adolfo Brizzi
Country Director: Olivier Lafourcade               Sector Director: Maritta Koch-Weser
Project ID: MX-7711       Sector: Agriculture      Program Objective Category: Poverty Alleviation
LendingInstrument: Adaptable Program Loan (APL)    Program of Targeted Interventions:   [X] Yes  [  No
Program Financing Data (US$M)                                          Sources of F   .
Total Cost       Government       Beneficiaries    IBRD
APLs                                                Federal     States               (75 A of Total)
FistPhase (6regions):  1998-2002    ..63.0..   31.5                  15.5        16.0           47.0
Second Phase (4 regions): 1999-2003 *          69.9       34.5       17.5        17.0           52.0
Tbird phase (10 regions): 2000-2004           123.0       61.5       31.0        30.5           92.0
Fourth Phase (4 regions) 2001-2005            50.0        25.0       12.5   *    12.5           38.0
Program Cost               .  305.0       152.5       76.5   .   76.0           229.0
Project Financing Data (First Phase)  [xl Loan        []  Credit    [] Guarantee    [ ] Other
Amount: US$47 million
Proposed Terms:                        [ I  Multicurrency       [xI    Single currency
[3 ] Standard       [I Fixed            [xl LIBOR-Based
Grace period (years): 5                Variable
Years to maturity: 15
Commitment fee: 0.75%
Financing plan (US$M):
Source                                 Local               Foreign                Total
Government
*  Federal (50%)                                27.5                 4.0                  31.5
*  State (25%)                                  14.0                  2.0                 16.0
Producers/Beneficiaries (25%)                     15.5                 0.0                  15.5
Total                                             57.0                 6.0                  63.0
1BRD financing (75%)                              42.5                 4.5                  47.0
Borrower: Nacional Financiera, S.N.C. (NAFIN)
Guarantor: United Mexican States
Responsible agencies: Ministry for Agriculture, Livestock and Rural Development (SAGAR) and State Authorities
Estimated disbursements (Bank FY/US$M):   1998    1999     2000      2001    2002      2003
(First Phase)
Annual                  7.0       8.0       9.0    10.0       8.0       5.0
Cumulative               7.0       15.0      24.0    34.0    42.0       47.0
Retroactive financing of up to US$4.7 million (10% of the Loan amount) is requested for eligible expenditures incurred
after July 1, 1997 (but not earlier than 12 months before loan signing) due to early preparation of the project and initiation
of its implementation mid 1997.
Expected effectiveness date: March 1998                      Closing date: 06/30/2003
* timing and amounts for implementation ofphases 2 to 4 are tentative and subject to an appraisal process



Project Appraisal Document                                                                         Pap 2
Cottntry: Mexico                                                        Proje tThe Rural Oeveaopment in MUw    Ams
A:: Program and Project Development Objectives
The Program (see the Government's Letter of Development Program in Annex 11)
The Rural Development in Marginal Areas Program, of which this project is the first phase, seeks to imnprove the
well-being and the income of smallholders in about 24 targeted marginal areas, which are among the poorest of the
country, through sustainable increases in productivity and better food security. The program seeks to improve the
productive capacity of participating farmers through a community-based approach by: (i) facilitating the
introduction of sustainable agricultural production systems and diversification through improved access to financial
resources and agricultural services; (ii) fostering community socio-economic development, organization, and
participation; (iii) enhancing the provision of effective technical support services and training to farmers and
producers organizations; and (iv) promoting an effective decentralized decision-making system fostering
institutional coordination. The program would cover a total population of about 10 million people of whichi about 2
million would benefit directly from program support.
To reach its goal the program ains at implementing over a period of about 8 to 10 years a phased approach of
progressive geographic expansion of program activities to 24 areas. The program would tentatively consist of four
phases: Phase I covers six areas and is described in this PAD;
Phase II covers four additional areas;
Phase III covers ten additional areas; and
Phase IV covers four additional areas.
Key performance indicators of progress towards program objectives will be measured through a monitoring and
evaluation system focusing on: (i) the adoption of new technology, increases in yields and income, and better food
security; (ii) the successful integration of sustainable natural resource management practices; and (iii) the
promotion of off-farm activities and employment opportunities.
Itegration of new areas under the program would be subject to an appraisal process aimed at evaluating its
technical feasibility, local interest and participation, as well as to learn from the experience gained from previous
phases. The leaniing process of knowledge and practice change will be key for the phasing of the program. Trigger
indicators have been defined in the Attachment to the "logical framework" (Annex I) in order to assess readines
for integration of new areas under the program, early identification of risks, and implementation of corrctive
measures before geographic coverage expands.
The Proiect
The project objective reflects the program goal and airns at improving smallholders' productivity and food security
in a first group of six marginal areas comprising the regions of: Mixe, Cuicateca, Mazateca (in the state of
Oaxaca), and the Huasteca region, a contiguous area expanding over parts of the three states of Veracruz, San Luis
Potosi and Hidalgo. The 6 regions have a physical surface of nearly 23,000 km2 with a total population of some
1.3 million inhabitants of which about 70' percent is the target population from the project, and about 40,000
families are poor small farming households which wYil directly benefit of project support. The project would
promote the participation of indigenous people, as they represent about 67 percent of this target populaion, and
women, as they play a key role in both agriculture and in family nutrition.
In addition to the performance indicators defined in the "logical framework", this first phase includes a number of
principles and features that w.ill need to be tested and adjusted as the program expands. They are related to: (i) local
interest in participating to a matching grant scheme for productive investments, its effectiveness, and the
functioning of the cost-recovery system; (ii) formation of social capital and community organization; (iii)
establishmnent of a demand-driven and effective system for the delivery of support services and relevancy of the
technical packages; and (iv) effectiveness of the administrative set-up and participation of beneficiaries in the
decision-making process (see Attachment to Annex 1).



Project Appraisal Document                                            PPge a
Country: Mexico                                                        Project Tite: Rural Development h Marginl 
B: Strategic Context
g~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~** ..*.*.*.**.*. .* .
The joint IBRD/IFC Mexico Country Assistance Strategy (number R96-207; IFC/R96-204) was discussed by the
Board of Directors on December 16, 1996. The overarching objective of the CAS emphasizes the need for a broad-
based improvement in welfare and reduction in the country's poverty rates. This implies a development agenda with
three core, interrelated thernes: (i) sustainable growth; (ii) social development; and (iii) modernization of the state.
The project is a poverty-targeted operation which intervenes in the most marginalized rural areas of the country and
will contribute directly to the three main thrusts of the CAS in the following way: (i) sustainable 2rowth through
improved productivity in conjunction with natural resources management, expanding opportunities for the social
sector to access financial resources, promotion of institutions and markets; (ii) social development by promoting
social capital formation through community organization and participation in the development of the productive
sectors (agriculture, forestry, and rural industry); and (iii) modemization of the State by contributing to
Government's new emnphasis on decentralization, bringing the decision-making closer to the beneficiaries and
fostering synergy between public services and the private sector.
Moreover, the project is at the core of the Bank's Rural Focus Program under the "Compact', in support of the
Southem States Initiative being pursued with the Mexican Government. It addresses development issues in a part of
the country where persistent and growing poverty remains the single most important challenge to the wel-being of
the mostly rural populations. The overarching objective of the Southem States Initiative is to stimulate the
integration of small/marginal producers into a growth process in combination with improvements in the delivery of
social services and support for institutional strengthening and private sector development.
Sector nerformance and issues:
Agriculture has been a weak sector of Mexico's economy. In 1995 the agricultural GDP accounted for about 7
percent of total GDP, down from 19 percent in 1960. The sector's slow growth, coupled with stagnating
productivity and wages, has caused the population employed in the sector to drop from 50 percent of total labor
force to about 25 percent during the same period. However, agriculture is expected to remain a significant economic
force, counting on a competitive commercial sector using modem technology and achieving high yields, and on a
productive potential largely untapped, especially in rainfed areas.
The Governnent of Mexico engaged in swveeping reforns in the agricultural sector at the end of the 1 980s to early
1990s, addressing the whole array of issues related to the liberalization of prices and marketing, trade reforms,
divestiture of State intervention, etc. Following this *vave of reforms it also embarked in a major revision of the
regulatory and legal framewvork in the land tenure, water, and forestry sub-sectors. The Govenunent also sought to
promote a greater role of the private sector in the provision of support services and natural resource management.
During this time Govemnment support has switched from commodity price subsidies to non-distortionary direct
income transfers to the producers through the PROCAMPO program and has set the basis for the progressive
exposure of the Mexican economy to globalization and intemational trade through negotiations of the GATT and
NAFTA agreements.
Despite the important reforms and past policv measures, the performance of the sector has been lagging and over
the past 5 years the agriculture growth rate has stagnated. Sector performance has remained relatively disconnected
from macro-economic events that experienced turbulent trends w Xith a major financial crisis and devaluation at the
end of 1994 and an impressive economic recovery in 1996 and 1997. Moreover, Mexico's rural poverty has kept
widening in recent years. According to Bank's research, the high levels of risk factors in marginal rural areas and



- Poject Appraisal Document                                                                        Pge 4
Cowitiy: Mexco                                                          Project rT: RurI Dvnlopntu hi MarN  Aim
the limited options available to producers to cope with ineome and consumption variability, have induced friners
into risk averse investment strategies. This has contributed to placing them in a poverty trap. The incidence of
poverty is highest in the southern states with 65 percent compared with a national average of 34 percent. The
poverty rate among the indigenous population is particularly severe.
More recently, especially after the devaluation, agricultural exports are expanding and diversification of the
production patterns is taking place. However, the impact of reforms and supply response seem to have mosly
benefited the commercial sector, and have not been felt as yet by traditional smallholders producing mainly for
subsistence, thus underpinning the gap with the modem commnercial sector competing on international markets.
Improving the delivery of financial services to the rural population remains one of the major issues facing the
development of the sector. The Government has started a process of liberalization of interest rates, phasing-out
government support to state-owned financial institutions and instead building incentives for the private financial
sector to increase its presence in the rural areas. While penetration of financial services (public or private) in rural
areas remains deficient, other schemes of savings and loans and micro-finance activities have developed. However,
in general, access to resources for productive investments is limited especially for small fanners and in poor areas.
Government's strateav to address these sectoral concerns
MTe sector development agenda that the Governnent and the Bank would be pursuing is oriented towards the
following main strategy lines:
a)  Maintaining the policy framework and strengthening the market economy,
b)  Pursue second generation type of reforms in factor and output markets (financial services, access to output
markets, land and water markets, labor markets);
c)  Increase the agricultural productivity of the small and medium-sized farm sector,
d)  Promote the integration of small/marginal farmers in the growth process; and
e) Strengthen the institutional development and better integrate social and gender perspectives.
Miid 1996 the Govermnent launched a far-reaching national rural development program (Alifora para el Campo)
airned at addressing the issues that affect smallholder production and income. It fosters agricultural productivity
through productive investments (under a matching-grants scheme) and the provision of more effective support
services (research, extension, information, training) for a wide range of agricultural sub-programs. The cornerstone
of the Alianza program is its decentralized approach and the delegation of administration and decision-making to
the States. The program offers the opportunity and the operational vehicle to implemnent a decentralized, demand-
driven approach to channel technical and financial assistance directly to small farmers and poor communities.
The Rural Development in Mareinal Areas Program
Strategy and scope
One of the programs under the Alianza framework is the rural development in marginal areas program. It promotes
productive investments and support services for small farmers through targeted interventions in selected marginal
areas with a productive potential. The program is demand-driven and based on local priorities. Its preparation had
began in 1995, on a pilot basis in Oaxaca and in the Huasteca region, through a highly participatory process with
support from FAO and the Bank. Preparation of this initial project has served as a starting point for SAGAR to
establish the platform on which to develop a long term national rural development program for the poorest areas of
the country.
The program plans to progressively cover a tentative number of 24 regions grouped by state as follows: Chiapas
(3), Guerrero (2), Oaxaca (4), Quintana Roo (1), Tabasco (1), Veracruz (3), Yucatan (1), Hidalgo (2), Michoacan
(1), Puebla (1), Durango (1), Jalisco (l), Nayarit (1), San Luis Potosi (2); representing a total beneficiary
population of about 2 million people.



ProJect Appraisal Document                                                                           Pop S
Country: Mexico                                                          Project Title: Rural O.eblpmnnt i Mginal Are"
In order to build ownership and respond to local demand, the program would unfold by phases, each phase being
constituted by a group of new areas. Because of its demand-driven strategy and long term reach, the progam
cannot be engineered "ex-ante", hence justifying a "grow-as-you-go" approach that would build on successes, test
local commitrnent, leam while doing and adjust. The Government plans to implement the national program through
four phases. The first phase would comprise the six areas already studied, while providing long term commitment
for progressive program expansion.
Approval of new phases under the Adaptable Proeram Loan
Bank's financing of the program under the Adaptable Program Loan instrument, will permit to provide phased but
sustained support for the implementation of the long term development program that reflects local priorities and
contributes to poverty alleviation. The instrument would permit to "lock-in" long-term commitment on program
objectives and strategy, wvhile slicing the financing according to the size and scope of every phase. Preparation of
preliminary studies and experience already gained from the implementation of previous program phases would be
key to determine the capacity and the pace of the program to access newv areas.
Before committing subsequent adaptable program loans, each new phase to be supported under the program would
be subject to an appraisal process so as to assess the feasibility of the integration of the new areas. The following
would be required before appraisal of each phase:
a)  Preparation of a satisfactory set of studies for each region to be included in the program, covering at least
the following subjects:
* technical assessment of proposed activities;
* social assessment;
* natural resources management and environmental assessment; and
* financial and economic analysis.
b)  Preparation of evaluation reports assessing progress made in the imnplementation of the program under
previous phases. Evaluations would be based on trigger indicators defined in the Attachment to the "logical
framework" (Annex 1), so as to gauge achievement of the critical elements of the program and pemiit
adjustment in the design of new phases.
Through this program the Government aims at addressing, at the national level, the long term development goal of
reducing the rural poverty gap and fostering sustainable agricultural productivity. In particular it aims at
facilitating the integration in the development process of small farmers living in marginal areas.
In shaping the strategy underlying the program the Government has made a number of choices:
a) it recognizes that a targeted approach is more likely to address the specific socio-economic and natural
resources management issues facing these marginal areas;
b) it promotes a federalization policy transfering responsibility for the implementation of the agricultural
programs at the state level and fosters implementation arrangements that strengthen local ownership;
c) it places demand-driven and participatory approaches at the core of a capacity-building process where
farmer organizations and communities become legitimate partners and clients in the provision of support
services;
d) it recognizes the lack of capital for productive investments as a kev constraint to unleash the development
potential of these areas while also fostering off-farm activities as part of a poverty-alleviating growth
strategy; and



Project Appraisal Document                                                                         Pap 6
Country: Mexico                                                         Project Tbe: Rurtl Oepwent inMnal Ans
e) it facilitates access to the "seed capital" required to invest in sustainable productive activities while moving
away from traditional approaches of all-subsidy schemes.
C: Project Description Summary
- for the first phase (6 areas)
cost
Component                         Category    Ici.    % of   Bank-   % of
Conting.  Total  financed  Bank-
........... . US1M                    flnanc
(1) Productive Investments                              Physical     40.0    64%     30.0    75%
Under this component the project will finance demand-driven
investment sub-projects for agricultural production, natural
resources management, processing  activities, and minor
productive infrastructure. The investments would be financed
through a matching grants system with up-front farmers
ccntribution of at least 30 percent of project cost. A cost
recovery mechanism will be promoted at the community level
that would foster sustainability of project activities.
(2) Community Development                               Physical/    6.0     10%      4.5     75%
Community-based sub-projects would include: (i) preparation  Capacity
of community-based natural resources management plans and  building
small works associated with themn; (ii) small projects related to
community activities of indirect benefits; (iii) training and
workshops to facilitate beneficiaries participation in the project
(interchanges   with  other  communities,  participatory
approaches, management of revolving funds, natural resources
mnumagement, etc..).
(3) Technical Support                                   Capacity     13.0    20%      9.5     75%
This component covers the provision of extension services, building/
technical assistance, workshops, and training for farmers, T.A.
producers organizations, women's groups, and small
entrepreneurs. The support wvould mainly address the needs for
the preparation and implementation of sub-projects, the
establishment of demonstration plots, and the start-up of
specialized activities. While the basic extension services will be
provided under the national extension system, the specific
technical assistance required for the preparation and
implementation of the investment sub-projects wrill be
contracted by the communities and beneficiary groups through
NGOs or the private sector and partly financed by the
producers.
(4) Institutional Strengthening & Project Administration  Institut.  4.0      6%      3.0     75%
This component would support project management and  building!
ad-ministration and includes (i) the establishment and operating  MgJmonit



Prect Appraisal Document                                                                            Page 7
CWI   Meico       '                                                      Project Title: Rural Oewopmerntin Magka Ar
expenditures  of the  Regional Sustainable  Development
Councils (CRDSs) and their technical support units; and (ii)
expenses associated with institutional strengthening at the
cental level, project management, monitoring and evaluation.
Total              63.0    100%    47.0    75%
The project builds on the existing policy and institutional framework. It does not pursue key policy and institutional
reforms but rather focuses on strengthening the on-going capacity building effort in support of the decentralization
process and progressive delegation of decision-making responsibility at the local level. The issues are discussed in
greater detail under " Institutional Assesment" (Section E4).
Benefits
Ecowomic benefits will be generated through:
a) increased agricultural production and diversification which will improve food security and fann household
income. The set of economic and financial data based on farm models indicates that small farmers in these
areas have a productive and economic potential and are expected to gain significantly from project activities.
Indirect benefits are expected to be significant through the demonstration effect of technology transfer and
improved natural resource management. 'Me promotion of cost recovery and revolving fuids schemes at the
community level would strengthen the local financing capacity; and
b) raised value of production through enhancement of processing and marketing activities, better organization
of production, imnproved access to local markets, and rural employment opportunities. The project is
expected to promote private sector activities in the provision of goods and support services, as well as small
business and enterprises, generally locally based and representing important emnployment opportunities.
Social benefits include:
a) improved participation and access of project beneficiaries, specifically indigenous people and women, to the
decision-making process and investment opportunities, hence facilitating ownership of project activities at
the local level; and
b) increased organization capacity of the communities involved and producers groups, contributing to the
formation of social capital and sustainability of the economic benefits.
Environmental benefits. The project would promote technology that will maintain the natural resource base and
avoid environmental degradation in these fragile zones, particularly w ith respect to deforestation, loss of soil
ferility, and soil erosion.
Incdence. The distribution of project funds ensures that about 75 percent of project resources flowvs directly to the
target population to support productive investments and community development. An additional 20 percent would
finance agricultural services and technical support to farmers and producer groups.
Targetini (see Annex 13)
Detailed mechanisms and criteria have been designed in the Operational Manual to ensure effective targeting and
positive incidence of project activities, including a monitoring and evaluation system. They include:
a) geographic targeting has been carried out using a combination of data on marginality and poverty indexes
(CONAPO/INEGI - See Map), and agro-ecological and production systems (SAGAR);
b) eligibility criteria for beneficiaries are defined on the basis of verifiable criteria of available assets (land,



Prnje Appraisal Document                                                                          Pag 
CGuntuf May!=                                                          Prej TUkk Rura D.wt  inib*W Arm
livestock), level of self-consurmption, access to services, preference to groups, etc...; and
c) eligibility criteria for sub-projects include the definition of the nature of the interventions, sustability
criteria based on economic, technical and environmental grounds, participation requiremen, individual limits
of support per sub-project, co-financing requirements, and a list of activities excluded.
ljnnlementation period: Implementation of the national program would extend over an approximate period of 8 to
11) years. Each phase supporting the national program would unfold for a period of about 5 years and would be
constituted by a new batch of areas.
Executinf Azencies: Ministry for Agriculture, Livestock and Rural Development (SAGAR) and participating stae
authorities of Oaxaca, Hidalgo, Veracruz, and San Luis Potosi.
Proiect Administration: Implementation of the project would take place under the 'Altanza para el Campo'
framework. In line with its decentralized strategy, the program would be implemented under a fornal global
agreement (Convenio) signed between SAGAR and each state participating in the program. It includes a Technical
Amnex describing proposed activities, and the annual budget with the financial commitment of the federal and state
Governments. An Operations Manual describing implementation arrangements for the whole programn has beca
prepared and would cover operational rules and criteria for all states participating in the program. The inmovative
feature of the Alianza program is its cost sharing arrangements between the federal level, the states and te
producers. A Trust Fund (Fideicomiso) has been established in each state to concentrate funds from the federal and
state levels, and to manage disbursements for the various sub-progamms of the Alianza. The state Rural
Development Commission (CDR) is responsible for the overall coordination, planning and prioritization of resource
allocation by sub-programs. CDRs comprise state representatives from the various institutions involved in rural
development, the SAGAR delegate, and producer organizations.
At the regional and local level, the aim has been to develop implementation arrangements that streng    ownership
and accountability at the community level and stimulate beneficiaries and civil society participation and
involvement. Implementation mechanisms would also try to ensure access, relevance, and efficiency in the provision
of services. At the level of each of the regions covered by the project, a Regional Sustainable Development Council
(CRDS) would be established representing the members of communities and "ejidos", producer organizations,
SAGAR, the State Government, relevant public institutions (INI, SEDESOL, FONAES, SEMARNAP) with the
option of including NGOs recognized by producers and institutions. Its president wvould be a representative of the
State. The Council would have responsibility for the promotion, analysis, and selection of sub-projects submitted
by producers groups and communities. The CRDS would be assisted by a small technical unit to carry out the
technical, economic, and social evaluation of the proposals, and make recommendations. Upon approval by the
CIWS, the sub-project proposals vould be fonvarded to the Fideicomiso for payment to the provider of goods and
services associated writh the sub-projects. CRDSs will also promote inter-institutional coordination, foster synergy
and complementarity of the programs already operating in the region.
Financing for productive investments would operate under a matching grant scheme with an up-front contribution
of the beneficiaries of not less than 30 percent of project costs. Moreover, for these activities, a cost recovery
mechanism would be promoted at the community level to foster sustainability, generation of resources at the local
level, and beter accountability. Funds would be recuperated by the beneficiary groups through their conmunity
orianizations (Comrnunity Councils) which, in many instances, are already involved in the managemnent of
revolving funds (through INI) or informal micro-financing schemes. The incentive system for repayment into this
revolving fund scheme would build on the concept of community responsibility and participation, including social
peer pressure. In the case of non repayment to the agreed percentages by the beneficiaries, no new financing would
be authorized by the CRDS to the members of the respective community. The CRDS, through their technical units,
wvould have first line responsibility for monitoring implementation of the cost recovery mechanisms at the local
level. Funds would keep revolving at the community level according to internal priorities and decision-making



Pfolet ApPaisal Dument                                                                            Page 9
cot moco                                                               Projet reft: Rural Oewvopmmin Marginal Aram
mechanisms.
Proiect coordination: Project coordination would be carried out: (i) at the federal level by SAGAR's Sub-
secretariat for Rural Development. It would be responsible for project oversight, overall policy guidance, the
preparation of new phases, and expansion of the national program; (ii) at the state level by the CDR, and (iii) at the
regional level by the CRDS.
Accounting, financial reriortine and auditing arrangements: The Fideicomiso would carry out financial
accounting and maintain separate project accounts and records for project related expenditures in accordance with
sound and accepted accounting practices. Financial reporting would be carried out by the SAGAR delegation in
each state including preparation of the Statement of Expenditures (SOE). Financial reports would be consolidated
at the central level by SAGAR and NAFIN for transmission and review by the Bank. The financial management,
accounting system, and internal controls are already in place as part of the Alianza program and are being
implemented by the Rainfed Areas project and the On-farm and Minor Irrigation project They have been operating
satisfactorily and their use would be continued under the project. Resources and mechanisms that will permit
financial monitoring and reporting of the project will be in place before effectiveness. Accounts would be audited
annually according to international audit standards by independent auditors acceptable to the Bank and GOM, in
line with the framework agreement existing between the Bank and the Secretariat for Administrative Control
(SECODAM). Such framework will be reviewed shortly at the country level to make it compatible with the new
OP/BP 10.02 on financial management. Audit reports would be submitted to the Bank within six months of the end
of each calendar year (Govermment of Mexico fiscal year).
Procuremnent: Most of the procurement (goods, works and services) will be carried out as part of the approved sub-
projects. The total cost of an individual project would not exceed US$30,000 and would be implemented with direct
participation and contribution of the beneficiaries. Given the remote and scattered location of many rural
communities and in order to encourage community participation in project execution, local shopping and direct
contracting procedures would be applicable. Procurement would be carried out by the CRDSs and by the
beneficiaries, and payments made by the State Fideicomiso. Ceiling amounts have been established and included in
the Operation Manual. Prices would be compared with reference prices established at the state level where feasible.
Monitoring and evaluation arrangements
Monitoring:
The CRDS would have primary responsibility for monitoring sub-projects implementation. The technical unit of the
CRDS would implement a simple monitoring and reporting system gathering information at the local level on
project implementation and submitting quarterly reports to the CDR who would in tum consolidate the information
and provide bi-annual monitoring reports to the federal level. M&E would be guided by the "logical framework"
matrix (see Annex IA) and permit to follow up on the output and impact indicators agreed upon.
Evaluation:
Evaluation of project activities, including project performance, level of participation, and efficiency of the
administrative system, would be carried out twice a year for each region through independent consultants. The
evaluation process wvould be based on the trigger indicators defined in the Attachment to the "logical famnework"
(Annex 1). It would build on specific surveys and self-assessments. Infornation relative to project impact on
productivity and income would be provided annually according to the agricultural cycles.
Reporting and expansion to new phases:
At the federal level, SAGAR will centralize and consolidate monitoring and evaluation information for the wvhole
program. It will submit progress reports to the Bank tNwice a year. The monitoring & evaluation system will be key
in providing lessons of experience and helping in the design of newv phases. In particular, the bi-annual evaluation
reports for every region would provide the information needed to carry out the appraisal process of each subsequent



Prect AppFaisal Document                                                                         Pop la
Cauyr Mjdca                                                            P ra me.rouRui  uobpnwt inM mg  Ar..
phase and assess the pace at which the program can be expanded. An Irnplementation Completion Report will be
prepared at least six months prior to the final disbursement of the loan; GOM will prepare its own evaluation of the
project including a plan for its continued implementation.
D: Project Rationale
In the absence of the Adaptable Program Loan (APL) instrument, the Bank would have bad to chose between: (i)
limiting its support to the areas initially studied in the state of Oaxaca and the Huasteca region, or (i) providing for
a general rural investment fund type of approach of a larger scope and dimensioned to possibly cover a greater
number of areas. The former alternative would have prevented a longer term perspective on key development issues
and limited the leverage to support program expansion, under the sarne framework, in a flexible and progressive
way. The latter would have implied a larger financial conimitmnent and would have faced higher risks and
uncertainties about future program development, and ngidities in the capacity to pennanendy leam and adjusL
Under the APL, preparation and irnplementation of this first phase has pernitted the Government to establish the
basis for the national development progrm. Its expansion would be supported through distinct free-standing loans
based on readiness, learning, partnership, previous outcomes, and financial availability. This will also permits to
gather long term commitment while reducing risks and exit costs.
Sector issue                        Projects                                    Latest Form 590
Ratings
Bankc's financed                                                                 IP        DO
* IlTigation/drainage, rural
- infastructure, extension        * 2nd Tropical Agricultural    Conpleted      S          S
*  Rural and social infrastructure,    Development Project
decentral. & institut. strengthening  * Decentralization & Rural  Completed     s          S
!    Small scale municipal infrastructure,  Devel. (DRD I)
institutional strengthening       * Second Decentralization &  Ongoing          U          U
*  Productive investment, institutional  Rural Devel. (DRD) II
strengthening                    * Rainfed Areas               Ongoing          S          S
*  Development of rural financial
services, policy content.         * Rural Finance T.A. (pilot)    Ongoing       S          S
* Building local management capacity
for forest manag., institut. strength.    * Community Forestry  On-going        S          S
*  Productive investment, ag. services,
institutional strengthening,.     * Agricultural Productivity  Plannd
Other develoDment agencies and Governnent 2romrams:
SEDESOL implements a Municipal Funds program promoting social investments and infrastructure development at
the municipality level. Through INI it intervenes in the project area viith commnunity workers and development
funds on activities focused on cultural and socio-economic development of indigenous people. It also promotes
tirough FONAES equity participation and risk capital for small agriculture enterprises. SEMARNAP participates
in natural resources management and soil conservation activities through regional development programs.
These agencies and SAGAR have defined a framework of collaboration on regional development activities that will
foster better articulation and complementarity of various existing programs.



Prjoe Appraisal Oocument                                                                              Pae tt
Countay Meaco                                                              Proect Tite: Rural Oevdopmmt in Margna Arm
The proposed project builds on the experience of decentralized, rural development investnent programs. In general
they indicate that flexibility and grass-root demand-driven approaches are key in building ownership, defiing local
priorities, and setting the ground for better implementation and sustainability. In Mexico, positive examples can be
drawn from the first and second Decentralization and Rural Development projects (DRD I and I) as well as the
Rainfed Areas Development project, which already operates iunder the Alianza framework. The Bank's record of
financing this type of programs is on the whole satisfactory, and there is consensus on continuing this line of
financial assistance. Over time, however, some shortcomings have emerged:
a) Past municipality-based demand-driven approaches have been globally successful in the promotion of rural
infrastructure and social investments. However, because investment decision by municipalities tend to favor
collective investments, little has been achieved in triggering production-oriented activities and tapping the
productive potential of existing resources;
b) Notwithstanding their intrinsic merits, micro-investments tend to form a disparate collection of interventions,
and may not reach the critical development mass required to attract the private sector, generate buyers
competition, facilitate access to markets, and foster the establishment of support services;
c) It is imnportant that access to resources for productive investments be accompanied by the required technical
support for technology validation and community organization; and
d) Poor timing and lengthy administrative processes are likely to jeopardize the implementation of this type of
programs particularly in agriculture where natural cycles impose rigid time constraints.
The proposed project would address these issues by: (i) focusing on productive investments in areas with productive
potential; (ii) promote the regional approach as a way to concentrate interventions and foster a more integrated level
of development better driven by market opportunities; (iii) provide a broad range of technical assistance and
training to producers and communities; and (iv) promote decentralized and agile mechanisms for sub-projects
approval and disbursement.
Two main features reflect Govemment's commitment and ownership:
a) The project is an integral part of the nation-wide Government initiative Alianza para el Campo launched in
mid 1996 with strong political support and the provision of a large increase in budget allocation for SAGARI
Its decentralized strategy ensures a stronger involvement and ownership at the state level; and
b) SAGAR and the four states initially involved have been preparing the project since 1995, stimulating
community initiatives, ensuring involvement of the smallholders and sustaining interest, commitment and
participation, despite uncertainty of Bank's financing in 1996.
~'~1i2udd~dot.flan.~..  _.                                 ...........
a) The Bank has built considerable experience in Mexico and worldwide on policy dialogue and operations
dealing with poverty alleviation issues and rural investment funds. The Bank can facilitate access to
information and advisory capacity on design issues and lessons learned with comparable projects and
subsequent incorporation of the lessons of these experiences;
b) The newv instrument of the Adaptable Program Loan would provide greater flexibility in adapting project
design and financing to client needs as they evolve; and
c) Bank's participation provides for better continuity for implementation of the long term national program.



Prject Appait Documet
Country: MUico                                                            Projc rTie Ruaw Devaopmnwt in Muih   Am.
E: Summary Project Analysis (Detailed assessments are in the project file. See Annex 8)
lx I Cost-Benefit Analysis    []  Cost-Effectiveness Analysis  ] Ol h
Economic Analysis of Prototvye Sub-proiects:
retkodelog Because of the demand-driven nature of the project, it will not be possible to know a ptiori which
micro-projects will be actually financed, nor in which proportion. Thus the approach chosen for the financial and
economic analysis is to elaborate prototype investnents and farm budgets typical of firming situations in the
various regions and agroecological zones (upper, medium and lower zones). Each activity and farm model compare
with and without situations and illustrate the possible changes induced by the project The activity budgets take into
account recurrent costs and labor increments. Additional social and environental benefits of the project have not
been incorporated in the economic analysis. However, they are substantial and are discussed under "Benefit and
target population" (Section C3).
R.y Assumptions of the Analysis: (i) Discount rate: 13 percent; (ii) Tine horizon: 20 years; (iii) Output prices:
constant; (iv) Input prices: Constant first quarter 1997 (including family labor costs and technical assistance); and
(v) Real Exchange Rate: constant. The main corrections made in order to derive economic prices were to remove
taxes (especially VAT on technical assistance) and subsidies (Procampo), and to reflect the opportunity cost of
labor. Border prices were calculated for major outputs (maize, coffee, beefo and inputs (fertilizer). With some
exceptions (maize) there are few distortions on agricultural inputs and outputs, as they bear limited taxes and no
subsidies.
Assumptons about impact on markets: Impact on markets is considered limited as the project emphasizes
subsistence food production. Local markets exist for local products such as chicken, fish, maize, vegetables.
Na-tional and international markets are expected to absorb the production of milk, citrus, beef and honey. Coffee
producers' organizations are generally strong and entirely export oriented. The development of organic coffee and
other organic products represent an interesting market opportunity that the project would promote.
Rehlts: Highest NPVs can be observed for diversification activities. Livestock requires high iniial invesaments
that would lirnit its attractiveness. Inprovements in traditional crops (milpa and traspatio) reap lower returns but
combine low costs and little risk, and may therefore be better suited to the small farmers' 'risk-coping strategy'.
These results have been fed into an economic scenario analysis which aggregates individual results with different
weights according to the importance given to the main features of the farning models. In Oaxaca NPVs range
beiveen US$29 million and US$46 million and in the Huasteca between US$30 million and US$62 million .
Financial Analysis of Prototype Sub-oroiects
Resuts: The main findings of the financial analysis are: (i) most of the individual financial NPVs for the fiam
models tested are positive, indicating their potential attractiveness to smallholders; (ii) the degree of profitability
varies considerably between the upper, medium and lower areas. In Oaxaca, lower returns are typical of the high
mountain areas compared to the other two zones, while in the Huasteca results are more variable according to the
technical package proposed; and (iii) the marginal return to labor is in most cases higher than the assumed labor
wage rate of NS 20/day. The analysis identifies the followxing main limitations to the adoption of technical
packages: (i) high initial investments Xvhich may be beyond the financial reach of smallholders (cattle breeding); (ii)
the time-lag until production starts (coffee, macadamia); (iii) high labor requirements for some activities (chili,
vanilla); and (iv) the degree of changes induced to traditional practices.
Sensitivity analysis: A sensitivity analysis that uses financial prices with sw-itching values and a scenario analysis



Pjct ApprMia ocumnt                                                                                Page 13
conu Ma                                                                  Project The Rutw Oavdopnswt in MgW Aron
were prepared to calculate the impact of changes in: (i) output prices, (ii) expected yields, (iii) operation costs, and
(iv) investinent cost. The main findings are that in general the various activities are not very sensitive to a relative
increase in input prices with the exception of poultry breeding. Also, in general, activities show higher sensitivity to
yields than to prices (especially activities related to milpa and traspatho). This may also partly explain the
traditional aversion to risk of farmers when they are faced with the adoption of new technologies, as tiey may
usually confront greater uncertainty on their yields. Livestock activities such as cattle and poultry breeding show
high sensitivity and their initiation should be subject to careful analysis of prices, narkets, outputs, and validation
of productivity parameters through adaptive research and selection of animals.
Screening Criteria: Although each sub-project submitted would need to be subject to an economic analysis it is
not realistic to expect a sophisticated analysis for each of them. Rather, on the basis of the prototype models
developed, operational guidance would be provided to the selection of the projects that will receive support under
the program. Screening criteria are thus designed to ensure that sub-projects financed under the project have
positive expected net present values.
Fiscal Analvsis
The project operates under the nation-wide Alzanza para el Campo Program whose budget for 1997 was of about
US$220 million equivalent at the federal level. The Alianza represents less than 20 percent of SAGAR's budget
Within that framework, the budget for the Rural Development in Marginal Areas program (6 regions) in 1997 is of
about US$3.5 million. While proportions may vary from state to state, the cost sharing arrangement for this
program is on average of: 50 percent at the federal level, 25 percent at the state level, and 25 percent fiom the
producers, which leads to a total project cost of about US$7 million. It is expected that in 1998 the federal budget
for this first phase will increase to about US$5 million (US$10 million including all levels) and remain constant in
real terns. The program will operate within the existing budget allocated to SAGAR and the states, and will not
generate additional financing requirement. Recurrent expenditures represent only about 3 percent of project costs,
and more than 75 percent are direct subproject-related investments.
-- lefscal impact at th federal level: The fiscal impact of the project is relatively small but negative. The federal
contribution to the project (6 regions) would represent about 2 percent of the total Alianza budget (assuming
conservatively that the Alianza budget would not increase). Taxation income from incremental production as well
as input consumption would be small, especially in view of the income level of the project population, the limited
fiscal requirements to which it is submitted, and the type of activities to be implemented. As the project coverage
expands to 24 areas, the budgetary impact would grow to about 25 percent of the Alianza program, in year four
and five, then declining.
he fiscal impact at the states level: As states are not allowved to retain federal taxation revenues, they derive the
bulk of their budget from revenue sharing mechanisms of such taxation income by the federal level. Therefore, the
issue of financial sustainability of the project would depend on intemal criteria for resources allocation based on
local priorities and political w%illingness to support targeted interventions for productive investments in rural poverty
areas. The burden of the project at the state level varies according to the number of regions that each state plans to
cover. For the four states concerned the project cost remains at relatively low levels, ranging betveen 0,2 percent
and 5 percent of the total state investrnent budget. The budget allocated to the project also range between 3 percent
and 31 percent of the total states' contribution to the Alianza para el Campo Program of which it is part.
The project has been subject to thorough studies (see Annex 8) covering all aspects related to the technical,
financial, and environmental matters. In addition, an Operation Manual for the project covers the procedures and
arrangements to be followed during project implementation. The Manual was developed in consultation with the
states and on the basis of planning workshops held at the local level with representatives of the producer
organizations. The project's technical design wvas also assessed through field visits during project preparation.



ProFect Appraisa Document                                                                             Page 14
Country: Meadco                                                            Pas.t ri Ruim Deepment in MwginO AhU s
One of the main challenges of the project would be to promote technical improvements adapted to local conditions
and reflecting existing constraints while respecting traditional and cultural habits. The strategy for the provision of
technical assistance is to foster the provision of private services and to improve accountability and administrafive
control of the service providers by the beneficiaries and the communities. Moreover, the technical units assisting the
C!RDSs will play a key role in reviewing, screening, and selecting project proposals so as to ensure the fiancial and
environmental sustainability of technical packages. Technology generation and diffusion would build on the
following elements:
a) Rapid rural appraisal techniques, participatory diagnostic and planning with the involvement of research
centers and technical staff, so as develop ownership of the technical package at the community level;
b) Identification of the technology which is available and can be directly transferred (cofee and citrus
improvement, small livestock, small irrigation and drainage works, organic cropping, soil protection metiods,
on-farm processing), and the one that requires local adaptation (improvements and changes to the milpa and
transpatio fanming system, new varieties for traditional crops, introduction of new crops, etc...);
c) Promotion of investments that increase the ability of producers to cope with risks, or at least do not increase the
overall risk level of household's activities, and do not represent a qualitative leap outside their reach;
d) Implementation of a strategy of adaptive research and validation of available techniques establishing stronger
links between research institutions and technical centers (INIFAP, FIRCO, CYMMIT, IICA, INCA Rral,
state coffee-growers organizations, NGOs, universities), extension workers, and producer groups;
e) Direct involvement of beneficiary groups in the selection, contracting, and periodic evaluation of the
performance of the technical assistance; and
f) The establishment of a multi-disciplinary consultative group in every state including agronomists, social
scientists and economists.
Wuile the development of and access to market-based financial services should represent the long term solution to
capital formation, rural credit facilities are deficient or non-existant in these areas and past expenence with directed
Govenmment-sponsored credit systems has been poor. The matching grant scheme implemented under the Alianza
Program was judged appropriate to facilitate generation of assets for productive investments while also promoting a
cost recovery mechanism at the community level that would inprove sustainability and foster savings. This would
prcomote the development of the financial sector, as people who have not been able to benefit from formal financial
services because of their low incomes or location, often represent a large and potentially profitable market for
institutions that can develop ways to reduce costs and risks associated with serving them.
Executine agencies
SAGAR has a good administrative capacity at the federal level. At the State level SAGAR is represented by
delegations who coordinate activities with the State Government's administration for agrculture and rural
development. Institutional capacitv is uneven from state to state as well as the level of collaboration between state
authorities and SAGAR delegates. However, in viewv of the decentralization trend in Mexico, capacity at the states
level is being progressively strengthened as states will inevitably become the main actors in the definition of
priorities and program execution. The project builds on existing institutional arrangements and will contribute to a
sustained effort of instituuonal strengthening. All matters related to procurement, disbursement and audits are
handled in Mexico by the Financial Intermediary (the Borrowver - NAFIN) which has a long experience in the
adninistration of Bank's projects.
Proiect Manazement
Most of the management responsibility at the local level Nsill rely on the CRDSs assisted by a technical unit that
wouild serve as their secretariat. CRDSs would foster inter-institutional coordination, and focus more sharply on the
integration of activities at the regional level. Some of these CDRSs derive from existing coordination structures at
the regional level which have already proven their legitimacy and are Nvell established and recognized. Others will



Projet Appraisal Document                                                                          Pag 1S
Country- Ma aco                                                          Projod rite Rural Deveioprient in UMgla Ares
be created on the basis of existing community representation mechanisms but may initially present weak
management and technical capacity, and will need to be strengthen.
The institutional capacity for loan recovery at the tommunity level would generally need considerable capacity
building in order to foster sustainability. However, management of revolving funds at the community level has
proven to have a better track record than credit schemes extended through public programs.
Institutional Strenothenine
The project would provide assistance to the communities and the producers' organizations to strengthen their
capacity to identify and implement the sub-projects as well as in self-assessment, management of revolving funds,
and community organization. Technical workers and extensionists would be trained in rapid rural appraisal
techniques and participatory diagnostic. The CDRSs would be strengthened through adequate training and by
ensuring that the technical units are adequately staffed and competent.
T'he institutional strengthening of SAGAR would aim at reinforcing a small teamn of well qualified professionals in
the Sub-secretariat of Rural Development. They would be trained in project preparation and monitoring and in the
formulation of rural development policies. This team should be capable of monitoring implementation of the
projects in the various regions while organizing the studies and workshops required for the preparation of the new
areas that are part of the national program.
During project preparation, comprehensive socio-economic studies were carried out including detailed
characterization of producer organizations. As indigenous people make up a significant percentage of the target
population, the studies and workshops carried out have addressed indigenous issues in an integrated way as part of
the various topics being studied (socio-economic, production systems such as milpa and transpatfo, gender, land
tenure, natural resources management, etc..). These comprehensive assessments and the participatory approach
followed during project design with beneficiary workshops, take into account the elements required for the
empowerment of the indigenous people in a fashion that is consistent with their cultural preferences. Moreover, as
the project is designed in a demand-driven way, participation is entirely voluntary and non-participants will not be
affected by project activities. In particular the project would support and improve production systms that are well
suited to the need and enviromnent of the indigenous people and ensure their involvement in the identification and
inplementation of project activities in the same way that it has emphasized gender considerations and participation
in the project. The project would initiate a learning process in the change of relationship between the communities
and state and federal agencies. There are already great expectations at the community level that participation would
not confine itself to project preparation but would extend to implementation and monitoring. The project would also
ensure that extension workers at the conmmunity level are accepted by the groups- they serve and that they speak the
local language.
The project has considered land tenure systems and land management by indigenous communities. There is a long
history of peasant organization and struggle against the large landowner and market intermediary classes that
dominated much of these areas for a long time. In recent times, upon the progress made by the agrarian reform,
especially since 1992 (see Annex 12), the situation has improved. Although land tenure conflicts may persist in
some locations, institutional resolution mechanisms are in place. The project will not affect land tenure or induce
changes in the rights of indigenous people over land. More recently civil society has tended to move from a purely
land and human rights defense objective to a more production-oriented focus.
The project meets the criteria of a social development plan of the indigenous people, preserving their social
organization systems in the framework of cultural diversity. The National Indigenous Institute (INI), which has a
permanent presence in these areas through their community workers, has closely participated in project preparation
and will continue to collaborate as part of the project institutional mechanism (INI is a permanent member of the
CRDSs).



ProjectAppraisal Document                                                                         p is
Country: Mexico                                                        Projec rTh RuNl Oevopmt in Mh IU k
Environmental Category      (]  A        [x]   B         [3  C
Separate environmental analysis have been prepared for the different project regions in close collaboration with
several state and federal agencies including SEMARNAP, research organizations (INIFAP, CBIMYT), faimes
organizations, and NGOs. They have shown that the project would improve the productivity of local faring
systems while protecting the natural resource base, hence the project would have either beneficial or neutral impacts
on the environment. To achieve this, the implemnentation strategy would need to build on strong participatory
diagnostic methods carried out jointly by the local communities and the technical assistance. The Operatio
MaNual includes the screening criteria required to ensure that environmental considerations are taken into account
during sub-project selection. Their implementation would be subject to regular monitoring. A list of actvites that
would not be eligible to project financing has also been established including: creation or rehabilitation of rural
roads, modification of the cropping patters of shaded-coffee, restrictions on the use of agro-chemical. The project
would not involve any resettlement.
Identification/Preparation      Implementation          Operation
Beneficiaries           COL                        COL                  COL
Producer Organizations            COL                       COL                  COL
NGOs               COL                       CONS
Local government            CONS                      CONS                   IS
State government            COL                       COL                  COL
Federal Government             COL                       COL                  COL
Academic/research             COL                      CONS
IS=nformation Sharing; CONS=Consultation; COL=Collaboration;
There is good scope for strong and responsible farmer participation in the project For this to materialize, however,
it is important that state governments understand well the need to cooperate with producers' orgamzations and other
civil society institutions. It is also essential that government officers be prepared to transfer to farmers and their
organizations the role of promoters and managers of rural development, and be ready to consider producers'
organizations leaders and their advisors as respected partners with whom to decide priorities and program activities.
Participatory methods that build on these on-going processes have been promoted during preparation of the project
To ensure wide producer participation during implementation, mechanisms are proposed through the CRDSs for a
balamced representation of governnent authorities, producers organizations and conmnunities.
F: Sustainability and Risks
Sustainability would be addressed at three levels:
a) technical sustainability w ould focus on the appropriate management of natural resources. The project would
promote technologies capable of protecting the soil from degradation, particularly on the steep mountains. t
would discourage development that may damage the natural resource base;
by institutional sustainability would be promoted: (i) at the Government level, by building on and strengthening
existing institutional arrangements under the Alianza para el Campo program; and (ii) at the local level,
through a decentralized organizational set up that Nvould promote ownmership of the process of appraisal and
approval of investment proposals; and
c)i financial sustainability vwould be pursued by promoting investments and activities that would generate regular
income streams over time, and which the farmers themselves would be capable of managing and maintaining.



Pvojet Appraisal Document                                                                              Page 17
Counity: Me- o                                                             pro*et rile: Runa Oevelopnmnt in Marn 
Moreover, cost-recovery would be sought for commercial activities so as to stimulate the constitution of
revolving funds at the community level.
Some uncertainty will remain with respect to political commitment and therefore budgetary allocation at the end of
the present administration in the year 2000.- However, there is growing concem in the public opinion about the
necessity to undertake a more pro-active and targeted approach towards the most disadvantaged segments of the
rural population. This makes it unlikely that major changes be introduced in the main sectoral orientations and
priorites, as they benefit from wide support at the state and local level.
_______________   _    _As                                              m             _ 
From Outputs to Develooment           Rating                  Risk Minimization Measure
Objectives
(i) Small poor firtmers may not be modest  :Improved agricultural services wvould increase available
interested in investing in productive to high  . teclmological options and know-how. Matching-grants would
activities  and  in  adopting   new,           ease financial constraints while improving ownership and
technologies if their income largely:          sustainability. Screening of proposals would promote viable
depends  on  off-firm  activities  and        1sub-projects with remtus to labor above the marginal rural
because of their risk-averse behavior.        wage rate. Off-farm activities would also be promoted.
(ii) Availability  of TA  with  good. modest  The project would promote a strategy of service provision by
knowledge of participatory techniques,        'the public and private services which builds on establishing
and  of sustainable  management of             links with various centers of technical expertise; it would also
natural resources management may be'           implement a  training  program  for extensionists  and
limited.                                       community workers.
(iii)  Access  to  market  may  be. modest  . The project would increase the bargaining power of local
constrained  by  limited  number  of to high  I communities by  improving their organization  capacity,
intermediaries  (coyotes) and  limited 1      I support  for  micro-enterprises  in  transformation  and
possibilities for retaining added value at    1marketing, better market information, and by developing
the local level;                               private sector provision of services.
From Components to Outputs:
(i) Availability of budgetary resources   low  The Alianza programn is expected to provide adequate
resources and to receive good response at the state level.
(ii) CRDSs w,ill be able to operate with . modest   Close monitoring and evaluation of the performance of the
autonomy and in a democratic way    tCRDSs. Commnunication and sensitization.
(iii) Competent staff will be appointed   low to    The project wvould focus on capacity building and establish
to coordinate project activities and to  I modest  , evaluation mechanisms to ensure that competent staff is in
support the CRDSs                   '          place.
(iv) Political factors               modest  'Targeting  mechanisms  and  vell  defined  operational
procedures  in  addition  to  close  involvement of the
beneficiaries in project implementation should limit political
interference. Local authorities will be informed and consulted
so that they endorse project strategy.
Ov.erall p_e. risk rating           'modest
. ...............~ ~ ~~~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ --------  -.....  ..........   .    .........  ................ ...... . .....       ....  ...... ..... ~..... *. ..   .................. .  ..



Project Appraisal Document                                                                         pa is
Country: Mdco                                                           Proe The: Rural Ouw,tln wlnl Arm
a) Decentralization of project management at the regional level through CRDSs could be controversial in view of
possible differing approaches developed by the different states on how to deal with communities and municipal
dievelopment. The fact that a representative of the state govermnent would be the president of CRDSs has
permitted to address Government concern with respect to oversight on the use of financial resources. On the
other hand CRDSs will have to prove that they can operate in a balanced and democratic way, and that
producers representatives will be able to influence decision-making.
b) 'While project design has incorporated indigenous issues in a way that is consistent with cultural and socio-
economic preferences at the local level, implementation of project activities could be subject to controversial
interpretations on how to best deal with indigenous people development. The participatory and demand-driven
approach, the development of technological packages adapted to traditional farming systems, the incorporation
of the language criteria in the selection of extensionists, and the close collaboration with INI, are all elements
that should help to adequately address indigenous issues.
G: Main Loan Conditions
_I~~~~~~~~~~~N
Approval of the Operations Manual.
The Government has in place the appropriate resources and mechanisms required to carry out the obligations of
accounting, auditing, financial management and reporting.
H: Readiness for Implementation
The procurement documents for the first year's activities are complete and ready for the start of project
implementation.
The Project Implementation Plan has been appraised and found to be realistic and of satisfactory quality.
I: Compliance with Bank Policies
2! project complies with all applicable Bank policies.
Task Manager: Adolfo Bri
Sector Director: Maritta Koch-Weser ! JLlX (Y4C)
Country Director: Olivier Laoo -



pop is
Project Tie: Rural Dweopmen in Margh A
Annex 1
Mexico - Rural Development in Marginal Areas
Project Design Summary
CAS Objectives
Improve the well-being of the  Acknowledgment that income    Surveys, sector studies,    Political commitment and
ural population and expand   and access to productive services  and independent reviews   financial support at the federal
the opportunities for      has increased in targeted areas                       and decentralized level to pursue
integrating smallholder                                                          policies in favor of the most
marginal producers into the                                                      economically disadvantaged
growth process.                                                                  populations.
Program Development                                                              (Program Development
Objectives                                                                       Objectives to CAS Objectives):
Inprove the well-being and   Increase of productivity by about Implementation    I General economic stability in
the income of smallholders in 40% to 50%/o, and increase of  Completion Reports of  the coutry and politc
about 24 targeted marginal   income by about 30% to 40% for each phase of the       stability in the region.
areas through sustainable  participating producers.     Program.                 2 Price stability (10% in real
increase in productivity and                                                        terms)
food security.            Positive impact on employment  Bi-annual evaluation    3 No natural disasters, drought
opportunities in the targeted  reports from each phase of    or floods
areas.                       the Program              4 There are economic
opportunities for the creation
Successful integration of                                of small enterprises.
sustainable natural resources                         5. Sustained political and
management practices in                                  budgetary commitment to
community development plans                              address social sector issues
permitting a positive impact on                       6. The regions benefit from
land coverage, forest resources,                         irastructure and the
soil conservation, and better use                        provision of social services
of pesticides.                                           from other development
programs and institutions in a
complementary way.
Project Development                                                             (Project Development Objectives
Objectives                                                                       to Program Objectives):
Increase smallholders      I Producers who adopt the new  1. Biannual monitoring   I The other phases of the
productivity in a sustainable    technology experience an   reports                 program are prepared and
way and ensure food security   increase of yields of the milpa  2. Bi-annual evaluation  implemented with success
in the 6 marginal areas of  by 40% at the end of the        report               2 General economic stability in
Mixe, Cuicateca, Mazateca   project (EOP).              3. Mid-term evaluation     the country and political
(Oaxaca), and the Huasteca   2 Producers that adopt new  4. Implementation         stability in the region
region of Veracruz, San Luis   technology improve yields of   5. Completion Report    3 Price stability (10% in real
Potosi and Hidalgo.         fruit, coffee and livestock by                          terms)
30% EOP                                             4 No natural disasters, drought
3 Households that adopt                                  or floods
improved technology for                             S There are economic
traspatio production, increase                     I  opportunities for the creation



Page 20
Pr*et Tin.: Rural O.elopmt in M"ra Ars
their consumption of                                   of small alierprises.
vegetables and meaL                                 6. Susained political and
4 70% of the projects are still                          budget"y commitment to
operating two years after the                           address social sector issues
financing of the investment.                        7. The regions benefit from
5 At least 70% of the producers                          infastructre and the
supported by the project                               provision of social sevnices
improve their income by at                             from other deeopment
least 30% at EOP.                                       programs and insdtutions in
6 Small enterprises supported by                          a complmentary way.
the project generate new
substantial enployment in
each region at EOP.
7 Producers that adopt the
improved natural resource
management practices show
improved soil fertility.
Project Outputs:                                                                 (Output to Project Development
Objectives):
1. Producers have access to   1.1. Subprojects financed  1.1. Biannual monitoring   1 The majority of producers are
ftmancial resources and    annually during project life:  reports                interested in invresting in
support services to        Oaxaca    225              1.2 Bi-annual evaluation   pmductive activities and
prepare, implement and     S.L.P.     150                report                  introducing technological
maiintain sustainable      Hidalgo    125             1.3 Implementation         changes in spite of risk-averse
practices of productivity  Veracruz   100               completion report        behavior.
increases and natural   1.2. About 40,000 smallholders  1.4 Minutes from the  2 There is sufficient supply of
resources management       benefit from the project by  meetings of the          TA specialized on the
EOP of which:               Regional Council          sustinable managemnta of
14,500 in Oaxaca                                      natral resources
8,400 in Veracruz                                 3 Access to markets and
9,100 in San Luis Potosi                             adequate functiong of
8,000 in Hidalgo                                     market services
1.3. 80 % of the projects
submitted to funds
recuperation implement a cost
recovery system
1.4. Cost recovery would be at
least at 80% of the amounts
expected to be recuperated.
1.5 Adoption of methods of soil
conservation and water
management in 50% of the
subprojects for milpa
improvement in watershed
areas.
1.6 Introduction of organic
cropping and biological
control in the relevant
agricultural projects.
1.7 Natural resources
management messages are
_ ________________    integrated in the extension   I



Page 21
Project Tide: Rural Develapmest In Margal Areas
programs of the community
agents.
1.8 Livestock practices are
improved through better
rotation and use of fodder
2. Communities participation 2.1 Community plans for natural
in the project is facilitated    resources management, small
through better             infrastructure and capacity
organization, preparation  building approved and
of management plans,       implemented in eligible
small works, and capacity    communities
building.
3. An efficient system of   3.1. 50% of the producers that
technology transfer is      receive T.A. on ag.
operating and meeting       technology adopt proposed
farmners' needs             changes.
3.2. The project has permitted
the establishment of one
extensionist in every 4
communities assisted.
3.3. At least 60% of the
subprojects financed have
benefited from technical
assistance considered
satisfactory by the producers.
4. A coordination mechanism  4.1. A Regional Council for
is operating that ensures  Sustainable Development
the participation of       operates in every region, with
beneficiaries and          the balanced participation of
institutions.              institutions, producers
organizations, community
representatives, and NGOs
recognized by beneficiaries
and institutions. CRDSs are
efficiently assisted by a small
technical unit
4.2. 90% of the subprojects are
subject to a maximum
approval time of:
* CRDS:
- analysis: 15 days
- approval: 15 days
!  Fideicomiso:
- payment: 15 days



Prect Tafrde Rwui Development In Mha!  Aram
Project Components        Input:                                               (Componns to outputs)
1. Pnoductive investments    USS40 million             1. Bi-annual monitoring  I Timely availability of
Fimancing sub-projects                                  reports including:     budgetary resources at the
prepared by beneficiary                                 - financial monitonng    federal and state level
groups after approval by                                - disbursement report  2 CRDSs will be able to
the CRDS. Beneficiaries                                 - CRDS report on cost    operate with autonomy and
contnbute to project cost                               recwvery              in a daeowatic way
and implement cost                                                          3  Competent staff will be
recovery system at the                                                            intedto coordinate
colmmunity leved lpoj
project activities and to
2 C:mmunitv Development USS6 million                   2. Bi-annual monitoring    support the CRDSs
Community projects are                                  reports             4  No polidcal interference
prepared and financed to
implement natwual
resources management
plams, small works and
training
3 Technical support       USS13 million                3. Contracts, training,
Contract technical                                     and performance
assistance staff and carry                             evaluation
out training and
workshops for farmers and
producers organizations
4 Institutional strengthenina USS4 million
and project administration                          4. Management and
Eslablish CRDSs and their                              financial reports,
technical units, train                                 pro     t records,
project management staf                                contracts, audits,
carry out monitoring, and                              evaluation reportL
contract out evaluation



Project TMe: Rural Development in Marginal Ageas
Attachment to Annex I
Mexico: Rural Development in Marginal Areas
Trigger Indicators under the Adaptable Program Loan
It is envisaged to implement the national program for rural development in marginal areas in four phases,
each phase being constituted by a new group of areas. The Bank would support each phase distinctly through a new
adaptable program loan. The project described in this PAD refers to the first phase of the programn as is the logical
framework matrix in Annex 1. Each new phase would be submitted to an appraisal process aimed at evaluating the
technical, economic, social, and environmental feasibility, as well as at to learn from the experience gained during the
implementation of previous phases. This approach of learning by doing will allow for continuous adjustment to
project design, early identification of risks, and the implementation of corrective measures before geographic coverage
expands. In order to help incorporate required adjustment in project design, facilitate the appraisal process of each
new phase, and determine its appropriateness and readiness for integration under the program, the following
indicators have been defined. They would be assessed and measured as part of the monitoring and evaluation systemn
in place and presented in the evaluation reports to be prepared for each areas. Evaluation of achievements and lessons
of experience under previous phases will develop over time. However, prelininary results and indication of
performance would be gathered during implementation and will need to be differentiated according to the time-frame
on which they are based. All phases will have the same development objectives, but in different areas. Besides the
regular project preparation and appraisal process, a logical framework with specific indicators will be developed for
every region.
The initial focus of the first phase of the program and thus the triggers for phase II will be based on the
evidence that capacity building and institutional strengthening is taking place in the expected way and that the key
principles underpinning the strategy of the program are sound. Therefore, trigger indicators will be more process-
oriented and geared towards capacity building and learning. As the program rolls out geographically and
implementation results are available, triggers for phase III and IV will be more quantitative-oriented and based on the
performance indicators spelled out in the logical frameworks of previous phases.
Triggers for Dossible additional Bank lendins for the Program supported by the Loan
Phase II
Experience from previous phase  a) Regional Councils are established in each region    Bi-annual evaluation reports,
indicates  that the  project's    with a balanced participation of institutions,  made available to all members
institutional   arrangements    producers organizations, conmmunity         of Regional councils, to be
reflect effective decentralized    representatives and NGOs recognized by   carried out by independent
decision-making, builds local    beneficiaries and institutions             consultants in every region
responsibility         and                                                 (incorporating  analysis  of
accountability, and implements b) Administrative arrangements permit effective and   results of farmers' surveys)
an effective  monitoring and    timely project approval and implementation
evaluation system
c) The monitoring and evaluation system permits to
follow-up project implementation and assess
achievement of project objectives



Pop 24
Project Tile: Rural Ovebpmuent h Malrg  Ar_a
Experience from previous phase  a) Communities participate to project activities and
indicate  that  the  project    develop internal mechanisms for the submission
facilitates       community    and implementation of subproject proposals
organization and development,
and there is demand in a  b) Revolving funds are established at the community
nnatching  grant scheme  for    level so as to introduce elements of financial
productive investments.         sustainability
c) Beneficiaries prepare and submit subproject
proposals in significant number
Experience from  the previous a) Sub-projects receive support from extension
phase indicate that the project is    workers and/or TA
promoting a system of technical
assistance which is community- b) Extension workers are well accepted and
based and demand-driven.        integrated in the community
Phase III and IV
Productive Investments
Effectiveness of a matching   a) Each project region demonstrates a substantial  Bi-annual evaluation reports,
grant scheme for productive     adoption of proposed technology and an increase   made available to all members
investment, and introducing an  in agricultural productivity; the improvenent of   of Regional councils, to be
element of financial            the nutritional situation; and higher income from   carried out by independent
sustainability through fostering  these activities (see logical framework indicators).  consultants in every region
community-based revolving                                                   (incorporating analysis of
funds                        b) The number of subprojects under implementation   results of farmers' srveys)
in each project region is in line with the logical
framework indicators and shows a real demand by
producers.
c) The revolving funds successfully re-channel funds
to other projects in the community.
Community DeveloRment
A community-based            Community plans for natural resources management,   Bi-annual evaluation reports,
participatory approach facilitates small infrastructure and capacity building are  made available to all members
internal organization and    approved and implemented satisfactorily in each  of Regional councils, to be
development, and permits     region                                          carried out by independent
communities to define demand                                                consultants in every region
for the support services that                                                (incorporating analysis of
meet their needs                                                            results of fhrmers' surveys)



Page25
Project Ttle: Rural Development in MArginal Areas
Technical Sunnort
a) Target groups are of the opinion that service  Bi-annual evaluation report
Establishment of a demand-      delivery is useful and at least 60% of the      made available to all memnbers
driven and effective system for  subprojects financed have benefited from technical   of Regional councils, to be
the delivery of support services  assistance.                                   caried out by independent
consultants in every region
b) Communities agree with the selection made of the  (incorporating analysis of
extension workers and are willing to contribute to   results of farmers' surveys)
part of their costs.
c) Progress in knowledge and practice change in
snallholder farming systems is demonstrated in
each project region.
Institutional strengi enin.
administration and monitorin   a) The Regional Councils operate satisfactorily in  Bi-annual evaluation reports,
each project region. The project promotes      made avaflable to al members
The project's institutional     institutional complementarity at the regional level   of Regional councils, to be
arrangementS reflect effective  and foster better overall impact of other       carried out by independent
decentralized decision-making,  government programs                             consultants in every region
builds local responsibility and                                                 (incorporating analysis of
accountability, and implements   b) Administrative arrangements permit effective  results of farmers' srveys)
an effective monitoring and     and timely project approval and implementation
evaluation system               (see logical framework indicators)
c) Monitoring and evaluation reports are submitted
in time and adequately reflect implementation
progress.



pa2B
Project Tre: Rural Development in Marlgl Aros
Anniex 2
Mexico: Rural Development in Marginal Areas Project
Detailed Project Description
Component 1: Productive Investments (US$40 million)
Under this component the project will finance demand-driven investment subprojects for
agricultural production, natural resources management, processing activities, and mninor productive
infrastructure. The investments will be financed through a matching grants system. Up-front
farmers' contribution will be in kind or/and in cash and will not be less than 30% of project cost. A
cost recovery mechanism will be established at the beneficiaries' level to ensure sustainability of
the activities. Moreover, the grant-financing amounts for the different type of activities are subject
to ceilings as defined in the Operation Manual. Financing of the previous subprojects would
include the following: farming equipment and tools; input for cultivation or livestock, animals;
construction material, small works and installations; processing machinery; small irrigation and
drainage works and equipment; plantations and nurseries; technical assistance and specialized
training; storage facilities for inputs and products. The following type of subprojects will be
covered by the project:
[mprovements in existingt Farming Systems for Basic Grains ("Milpa"I) and home aarden
production ("Transpatio" 2
'There are two combined aspects related to milpa husbandry: to increase subsistence grain
production in order to improve household food security, and to disseminate sustainable grain
production technologies that would improve soil and moisture conditions, mostly through minimum
tillage methods, green manure, and live barriers. Inprovement of crop rotations, intercropping
systems, fallow systems and better varieties are also considered. The most important requirement
for tapping the existing potential is a good understanding of the complex functioning of the milpa
system, of the labor and input requirements of the present and proposed technologies, and of the
interaction between the milpa and other on- and off-farm activities in the family economy together
with labor allocation strategies of the small-holders. Transpatio cultivation (homestead) is related
to vegetable and fruit production and rearing of small animals (birds, sheep, goats and, in some
places, pigs). The transpatio is mostly a women occupation and provides for both domestic
consumption and for occasional sales.
Diversification and Improvement of Farming Production with Commercial Objectives
The most important crops concerned are coffee, sugar cane, and citrus fruits. There is much room
for improvement of coffee yields and returns to investmnents in coffee production. Rehabilitation
would have to proceed carefully, however, through natural attrition and the filling of the many
voids in coffee groves. The expansion of the production of organic coffee is a promising line of
investment in the sector. Organic coffee growers have already established certification and export
channels on which the project could build.
I)iversification subprojects would comprise a variety of crops with arboreal or shrub plantations
(such as vanilla, macadamia, litchi, citrus, etc.); annual crops (i.e. passionflower, ginger, chilis,
Milpa is the Mexican name for the crop land used by farmers to produce food for their own subsistence Maize,
beans and some vegetables are normally grown in a variety of ways, including crop association and relay
systems.



Page 27
Project Title: Rural Deveopment In Marginal Areas
pineapple, flowers, etc.); and the development of minor stockbreeding, aquaculture, and apiculure.
The production of loaf sugar from sugar cane has also a good potential. It would require some on-
farm investments and technology enhancements to increase yields and improve processing and
marketing of the output so as to increase the added value at the farmer's level. Citrus production
improvement also offer a good potential (mandarins, sweet lemons and grapefruits) but the
existence of good marketing outlets will need to be ensured.
In addition to small livestock development, the project would promote technologies and investments
that would foster intensification of livestock activities, such as dual-purpose cattle raising (dairy
and meat) which offers the main opportunities in the lower zones.
Natural Resources Management and Agroforestrv
Subprojects would facilitate sustainable production of firewood, in order to help soil conservation
and the utilization of medicine plants. It would also assist in the establishment of seed and plant
nurseries and in the recuperation and conservation of soil. Forestry resources are currently
exploited commercially for timber in parts of the upper zones by communities and ejidos. There are
localized potentials to develop these activities with technical assistance for forest management, and
investment in small forest trails and felling equipment. In Oaxaca the project would benefit from
the technical assistance and methodology being implemented by the Community Forestry projectL
Small enterprise development
Subprojects would assist in the establishment of small centers for animal breeding, small store
systems, transformation and commercialization of farming products and input, artisanal crafing,
processing units, the production of building material, furniture consttuction, various types of wood
and iron works, repair shops, basket and pottery making, etc... The project would also support the
establishment of small private businesses for the provision of agricultural services.
Revolving Funds
While the use of directed matching grants to finance rural productive investments could be
considered as a second best approach to rural finance, it was chosen due to the low performance of
rural financial markets in Mexico, which are particularly deficient or non-existent in rural poverty
zones. International experience has shown that directed credit has low repayment rates and high
administrative costs. The approach chosen in this project would not face comparable administrative
costs since fiscal recuperation of the funds is not envisaged. Rather, in addition to up-front
beneficiary contribution, a cost recovery mechanism would be developed at the community level
and would build on intemal management practices and control systems as an incentive mechanism
for the repayment of funds and access to new financing. Moreover, careful targeting and
monitoring mechanisms would need to ensure that funds go to poor small producers and their
communities.
Component 2: Community Development (US$6 million)
This component mostly covers activities to be implemented by the communities and whose
financing would not need to be recovered. Main activities include preparation and implementation
of simple plans of community-based natural resources management using participatory rural
assessment methods, small projects of indirect benefits related to cormmunity activities, studies for
the preparation of community development plans and works, workshops and training for capacity
building, participatory approaches, management of revolving funds, etc...



Page28
Project The: Rural Development in Mnal Areas
Component 3: Technical Support (US$13 million)
This component of the project covers the provision of extension services, technical support
and training of farmers and producers organizations, required for the implementation of
subprojects, the establishment of demonstration plots, and the organization of workshops and
training. While the basic extension services will be provided under the national extension system
(ithe SINDER program), the producers will be able to contract out, through NGOs and the private
sector, the support services and technical assistance required for the identification, preparation and
implementation of the subprojects. Part of the cost of the TA would be covered by the
beneficiaries.
* Typical activities under this component will be:
*  Training courses and workshops on agricultural productivity.
*  Establishment of demonstration plots and technology validation modules.
* Tours and workshops to exchange experiences among producers' groups.
* Identification of project ideas and support to project preparation, for activities to be presented
under components I and 2.
-  Support to participative planning and progmmming.
- Support for self-evaluation of the project and its impact.
*  Identification of the requirements for specialized technical assistance in the project zones.
 Diagnostic studies using participative rural evaluation methods.
Component 4: Institutional Strengthening and Project Administration. (US$4 million)
Activities under this component would focus on the support to project management and
administration and include (i) the establishment and operations of the technical support teams for
each Regional Sustainable Development Councils (CRDS); (ii) capacity building and training for
the CRDSs; and (ii) institutional strengthening at the central level for project management,
monitoring and evaluation, and auditing.
Through the support provided to the CRDSs, the project seeks to strengthen the
decentralization process and foster the constitution of sustainable decision-making and
coordination bodies that would pemut better integration of programs at the regional level and better
participation and ownership by the beneficiaries. At the central level SAGAR would be
strengthened to implement the monitoring and evaluation system, carry out project administration
and undertake project preparation and launching for the new regions under the national program.



Page 29
ProJect rTie: Rural Oevelopment in Ma.ginal Areas
Annex 3
Mexico - Rural Development in Marginal Areas
Estimated Project Costs
(US$ million)
Local  Foreign    Total
1. Productive Investments
a. Sustainable Agricultural Production     21.5       3.0    24.5
b. Sustainable Use of Natural Resources     3.6       0.4      4.0
c. Infrastructure Support for Production    4.0       0.5      4.5
and Marketing
d. Diversification of Economic and          3.6       0.4      4.0
Productive Activities
Subtotal Productive Investments  32.7        4.3    37.0
2. Community Development                      5.5         0     5.5
3. Technical Support                         12.0         0    12.0
4. Institutional Strengthening                2.0       1.5     3.5
Total BASELINE COSTS                           52.2        5.8    58.0
Physical Contingencies                         0         .0       0
Price Contingencies                          4.8        0.2     5.0
Total PROJECT COSTS                            57.0        6.0    63.0



Page 30
Project Tids: Rural Deveopment in Mwginal Aron
Annex 4
Mexico - Rural Development in Marginal Areas
Cost Benefit Analysis Summary
Description of the approach: Because of the dernand-driven nature of the project, it is not possible to
know a priori which micro-projects will be actually financed, nor in which proportion. The financial and
economic analysis is based on a broad selection of prototype investments and farm budgets typical of
farming situations in the various regions and agro-ecological zones (upper, medium and lower zones). In
this respect, 24 farm models have been elaborated for Oaxaca, 29 for Veracruz and 22 for San Luis
Potosi. Each activity and farn model compare with and without project situations and illustrate the
possible changes induced by the project. The activity budgets take into account recurrent costs and labor
increments. In many cases the calculation of IERR has been made difficult or impossible due to the lack
of knowledge of the investment period and the absence of negative figures in the cash flow. The use of
NPV has been preferred as an indicator of profitability, particularly for situations where the models
basically deal with improvements to existing situations. The following is a sununay of the economic,
financial and fiscal analysis that was prepared. A detailed description of the analysis, including the
calculation of the economic prices and the agronomic data used, are available in the project files. Two
separate economnic and financial analysis have been prepared for the three areas in Oaxaca and for the
Hluasteca region (Veracruz and San Luis Potosi).
I.     FINANCIAL ANA L YSIS
The financial analysis concentrated on the financial viability of prototype activities under the project. In
the case of Oaxaca, representative household production units have been construed (3 for each agro-
ecological region) combining some of the above models in different proportion. This permits to illustrate
the likely effect of the project in introducing sustainable productions systems and improvements to the
household economy. These schemes are set on a conservative basis (progressive expansion of herds or
pace of changes), to take into account the risk-minimising strategy that will prevail. In addition to
financial criteria, labor requirements increments are analyzed with respect to family availability as wenl
as returns to labor.
The main assumptions for the analysis were: (i) Discount Rate: 13 percent; (ii) Time horizon: 20
years;(iii) Output prices: Constant; (iv) Input prices: Constant first quarter 1997 (including family labor
costs and technical assistance); and (v) Real Exchange Rate: Constant
Afain resultsfor Oaxaca:
a) All farn models and technical packages utilized for Oaxaca show substantial increase in farm net
income.
b) The degree of profitability, however, varies considerably between the upper, medium and lower areas,
with lower returns in the high mountain areas compared to the other two.
c) The marginal return to labor is in all cases higher that than the assumed labor wage rate of N$ 20/day
which would constitute a strong incentive to carry out proposed activity.
d) The model that incorporates introduction of macadamia (M2), appears highly profitable and shows
robust results in the sensitivity analysis. However, little is known so far about marketing aspects of
macadamia and care should be used in promoting this model.
e) Negative cash flow can be observed for some investments in the first few years (macadamia and cattle
breeding (B3), and may require external financing.
f) The analysis identifies three main limitations to the adoption of a project activity:



Page 31
Project Tile: Rural DOveopment hi Marginal Areas
* High initial investments which may be beyond the financial reach of smallholders (cattle
breeding).
*  The time-lag until production starts (macadamia bush needs four years until it produces).
*  High manual labor requirements (chili and vanilla).
Main resultsfor the Huasteca Region:
a) A number of prototype farm models show negative results and will require to be reviewed, corrected
or discarded during implementation.
b) There is high variability of profitability of the models according to their locaization (upper, medium
or lower zones). In particular, in the medium-lower zones of the Veracruz region, models related to
erosion control (contour ploughing) and production of organic material show negative NPVs while
they show positive results in the upper zones.
c) Milpa and transpatio activities provides lower returns in the lower zones of San Luis Potosi.
d) Returns to labor also vary according to the technical model and the zone. The models that induce
family labor savings generally show positive results.
e) It is more difficult to identify some common patterns in the results of the Huastaca, pointng to the
necessity of a closer analysis and carefil selection of the sub-project during implementation.
*I.    SENSITIVITYANALYSIS
A sensitivity analysis with switching values was prepared to calculate the impact of changes in: (i) output
prices, (ii) expected yields, (iii) operation costs (including paid labor), and (iv) investment cost. The
switching values indicate the required change as a proportion of the base value of that particular variable
for the NPV to equal zero. The models include family labor costs and technical assistance. The variables
are then combined to test sensitivity under a scenario analysis. Detailed tables for the switching values as
well as for the scenario analysis are available in the project files.
Main results:
a) In general the various activities are not very sensitive to a relative increase in input prices with the
exception of poultry breeding and livestock.
b) Activities show higher sensitivity to yields than to prices (particularly in Oaxaca), especiaDly for
activities related to milpa and traspatio. This may also partly explain the traditional aversion to risk of
farmers when they are faced with the adoption of new technologies, as they may usually confront
greater uncertainty on their yield.
c) Livestock activities such as catte and poultry breeding, and introduction of new crops, show high
sensitivity and their initiation should be subject to actual analysis of prices, markets, and outputs, and
validation of productivity parameters through adaptive research and careful selection of animals and
varieties.
Critical assumptions: Important assumptions of the project which can also be considered risk factors are
listed in the logical framework and can be summanized as: (i) the quality of agricultural extension service;
(ii) the level of acceptance and adoption of technology adapted to local conditions, (iii) the functioning
and knowledge of the market for non-traditional crops; and (iv) community participation.
Impact on markets: Impact on local markets is considered limited as the project ernphasizes subsistence
food production. Local markets exist for chicken, fish, maize, vegetable. Regional markets are expected
to absorb the incremental production of milk, citrus, beef and honey. Coffee producers' organizations are
generally strong and entirely export oriented. The development of organic coffee represents an inresting
market opportunity that the project would promote. Coffee is the major export crop and prices are
expected to follow a decreasing trend in the near future but the expected level of around USS 100/quintal



PSP32
Project Te: Rural 0elopment in M1rina Areas
for 1998 remains attractive. Increased production of maize will have an import substiattion effec Maize
production, however, is affected by international trade as cheaper imports mainly from the USA may
affect the regional market and the incentive system for local small producers to expand maize production
beyond self-consumption needs. However, the maize market in Mexico renains one of the areas where
government intervention persist through provision of floor prices and direct income subsidies through
PROCAMPO.
III.  ECONOMICANALYSIS
The adjustments made for the economic analysis mainly reflect the rernoval of taxes and subsidies
(mainly through PROCAMPO), the correction of the exchange rate (Standard Conversion Factor is
1.05), and the opportnity cost of labor. Border prices were calculated for the major outputs (maize,
coffee and beef) and inputs (fertilizer). With the exception of maize, there are in general few distortions
on agricultural input and outputs, as they bear limited taxation and subsidies. All models include finily
labor and technical assistance costs. More detailed information on the calculation of the prices used are
available in the project files.
The analysis does not incorporate important elements in the decision to finance a project such as: (i)
positive effects on natural resources management; (ii) effects on food security; (iii) effects on producers
organization; and (iv) development of revolving funds systems. However, some important characteristics
of the project area have led to put emphasis on the importance of self-consumption activities, daily
wages, migration as a source of monetary income, complementary activities, and risk management by
:Farmer.
iCaxaca
Ihe table below summarizes results of the economic analysis at the activity level (in US$).
Actlvlty                              Unit            Actual Cost           NPV
UpperZone
Al. Milpa I                           I ha                       77                 737
A2. Milpa 2                           1 ha                       77                  934
A3.Milpa3                             Iha                       345                 924
A4. Chick Pea                         I ha                       77                 621
A5. Poultry/tspatio                   I family                   154                 100
A6. Pisciculture (trouts)             I tank (family)          1,100               1,884
A7. Family orchard                    24 m1                      51                 383
AS. Gladiolis                         200 m2                    435                1,355
Mediam Zone
MI. Milpa in mediun zone              I ha                       77                 872
M2. Coffe improvemen                  I ha                       180               1,140
M3. Macadamia                         I ha                      487                5,990
M4. Vanilla                           I ha                      141                1,445
MU. Organic coffee                    I ha                       102               1,350
M6. Apiculture                        group of 5 prod          3,256               2,260
M7. Introduction of granadilla        I ha                     1,385               2,530
MS. Introduction of ginger            I ha                     1,000               1,610
LowerZone
Bl. Milpa in the lower zone           I ha                       77                 285
B2. Maize I                           I ha                       77                1,620
B3. Maize 2                           I ha                       77                 742
B4. Maize 3                           I ha                       77                 620
B5. Citrus                            I ha                       77                1,955
B6. Chili                             I ha                       154               7,600
B7. Livestock (pasture impr.)         10 families              9,230              17,530
B8. Cattle breeding (dbl. purpose)    10 families             16,923              10,484



Pop 33
Project Tihe Rural Deveobpmit hi Mua Areas
In general results are positive with overall highest retums for diversification activities. Livstock
activities present the liniitation of the producers' limited financial capacity to afford the initial
investment. Milpa and traspatio improvements have lower returns but involve low costs and little risk,
and may therefore be better suited to the farmers' 'risk-coping strategy'.
These results have been fed into an economic scenario analysis which aggregates individual results with
five different weights according to the importance given to the main possible features of the farming
systems: (i) balanced; (ii) with emphasis on coffee; (iii) with emphasis on diversification; (iv). with
emphasis on milpa and traspatio; and (v) with emphasis on livestock. Results are all positive and, while
diversification activities provide the best results, NPVs are not very sensitive to changes in emphasis, and
remain relatively high.
Implementation Scenarios                 NPV Aggregated
(US$million)
1. Balanced                                    45.7
2. Emphasis on coffee                          43.9
3. Emphasis on diversification                 46.2
4. Emphasis on milpa and traspatio             46.1
5. Emphasis on livestock                       29.2
Huasteca.
The following tables summarize the results for the Huasteca. In Veracruz, 5 main models, mostly related
to different farming system improvements to the milpa and transpatio, have been tested in 5 different agro-
ecologic zones (determined by their altitude). Four other non-site specific commodity models have also
been prepared. In San Luis Potosi, 22 different models have been elaborated for the various zones.
Veracnuz (IS$)
Zones     Upper        Medium/Up      Mediim/Upper    Medium/Low            Low
(High yields)    (Low yields)
Actual         Actual          Actual            Actual          Actual
Activity (Iha)     Costs   NPYI  Costs   NPV   Costs        NPV    Costs    NPV   Costs  NPV
Legume covcr crop      95    405       33    1031      61     398       129      65     129    371
Vermi-compost         450     218     399    1020    309      -81      450    -190    450   -104
Contour ploughing     439      62     745      319    388      71      439    -245    439       60
Integrated pest control    176    224  169    682    169       189     209      -53    209    190
Organic material      400   1 100    361    1514    361        98      400    -206    400       99
Actual
Commodity specific      Costs         NPV
Chily                   683           3358
Cotton                  834           1598
Coffee                   179          2023
Apiculture (10 hives)   1050          1832



Pop 34
Project Tr:s Rural De lopmt h Mwgkn Ams
San Luis Potosi (USS)
Activity                     Actual Costs             NPV
Zone: Low
Sesame - Improved variety (Iha)            184                   1168
Milpa - Calabaza (1 ha)                     38                   626
Milpa - Chilayote (I ha)                   183                   -414
Zone: Medium/Low
Agroforestry(I ha)                        1745                  14175
Livestock (25 heads)                     57686                  -153
Beans - Inproved varieties (1 ha)          375                   719
Family Orchard (50m2)                     1982                    100
Apiculture (20 hives)                     3415                   1145
Apiculture (5 hives)                       868                   1251
Cinnamon (nursery 50,000 plants)          7781                 27815
Cinnsmon (transpatio 720 m2)               795                   255
Sugar cane (I ha)                         1148                  2456
Citrus (I ha)                              651                   666
Citrus - Palm (camedor) (1 ha)             764                   642
Maize - soil conservation (I ha)            86                    321
Sheep (20 heads)                          7695                  8197
Zone: Medium/U.Der
Coffee (pruning) (1 ha)                    796                  2145
Coffee (renewed) (1 ha)                    900                   576
Coffee (husbandry) (1 ha)                 1851                  2277
Coffee - Palm (camedor) (I ha)            1156                   1793
Family orchard (25m2)                     1020                    943
Palm camedor nursery (150,000 plants)     37 8                 27995
In the case of the Huasteca, the agegation of the results of the individual activities has bee condctd
by: (i) maintaining the same proportion of available models; and (ii) same as (i) but elimmating all models
that provide negative results. Total NPV deriving from productive investments is as foilow (results for
Hidalgo have been extrapolated, as the same conditions apply):
I    0 Scenarios                       NPVaggregated (US$ mullion)      |
Proportional - all models                          30                 l
Proportional - "cleaned-u "                        62
IV      FISCAL ANAL YSIS:.
The project operates under the nation-wide Alianza para el Campo Program whose budget for 1997 was
of about US$220 million equivalent at the federal level. The Alianza represents less than 20 percent of
SAGAR's budget. Within that framework, the federal budget for the Rural Development in Marginal
Areas program (6 regions) in 1997 is of about US$3.5 million. While proportions may vary from state to
state, the cost sharing arrangement for this program is on average of about: 50 percent at the federal level,
25 percent at the state level, and 25 percent from the producers, which leads to a total cost of about US$7
million. It is expected that in 1998 the federal budget for this first phase will increase to about USS5
million (US$10 million including all levels) and remain constant in real terms. The program will opeate
within the existing budget allocated to SAGAR and the states, and will not generate additional financing
requirement. Recurrent expenditures represent only about 3 percent of project costs, and more than 75
percent are direct subproject-related investments.



Pap S5
Project Titl: Rural Dewvupmwt In MUwgh Arms
Budget figures for 1997 for the Rural Development in Marginal Areas Project are as follOws. Beneficiay
contribution would represent approximately another US$2.2 million.
(in 000US$)
States                 Federal contribution  State contribution         Total
Hidalgo                        630                  570                  1,200
San-Luis Potosi                745                  615                  1,360
Veracruz                       630                  320                   950
Oaxaca                       1,450                  720                 2,170
Total                        3,455                 2,225                5,680
Thefiscal impact at the federal level:
The fiscal impact of the project is small but negative. The federal contribution to the project (6 regions)
would represent about 2 percent of the total Alianza budget (assuming conservatively that the Alianza
budget would not increase). Taxation income from incremental production as well as input consumption
would be small, especially in view of the income level of the project population, the limited fiscal
requirements to which they are submitted, and the type of activities to be implemented (focusing on food
security). As the project coverage expands to cover 24 areas under the national program, the budgetary
impact would grow to about 25 percent of the Alianza program, in year four and five, then declining.
The fiscal impact at the states level:
States derive the bulk of their budget from federal transfers as they are not allowed to retain taxation
revenues. Therefore, the issue of financial sustainability of the project would depend more on intemal
criteria for resources allocation based on local priorities and political willingness to support targeted
interventions for productive investments in rural poverty areas. The burden of the project at the state level
varies according to the number of regions that each state plans to cover. For the six states concerned the
project cost remains at relatively low levels, ranging between 0,2 percent and 5 percent of the total state
investment budget. The budget allocated for this project also range between 3 percent and 31 percent of
the total states' contribution to the Alianza para el Campo Program.
for 1997
Share of the Alianza Share of the project as Share of the project as
Program  in the total part of  the  Alianza  part of the total State
States         State Investment Budget  Program               Investment Budget
Oaxaca                  17.9%                  15.8%                    2.8%
Hidalgo                 11.5%                   8.8%                    1.0%
San LuisPotosi          15.9%                  31.2%                    4.9%
Veracruz                6.3%                    3.1%                    0.2%



Annex S
Mexico: Rural Development in Marginal Areas Project
Financial Summary under the Adaptable Program Loan
Years Ending December 31
(US$million; including contingencies)
~~~99~~~~~~    tw...~~~~~~~~~~~~~~  ...2O~~~~~~~~~~~~~14  .~~~~~~~~~. .....~ ~ ~~~~......
Proiect C,osts
* First Phase (6 regions)
Total                         10.0      11.0      13.0      14.0       15.0                                             63.0           47.0
* Second Phase (4 regions)
Total                                   11.0      13.0      14.0       15.0       16.0                                  69.0           52.0
. Third Phase (10 regions)
Total                                             21.0      23.0       25.0       26.0        28.0                      123.0          92.0
*   Fourth Phase (4 regions)
Total                                                       8.0        9.0        10.0        11.0        12.0         50.0            38.0
TOTAL Project Cost                 10.0      22.0      47.0      59.0       64.0       52.0        39.0         12.0        305.0           229.0
FiMnanip Sources
Govenmment
'Federal (50%)                  5.0      11.0      23.5      29.5       32.0       26.0        19.5         6.0          152.5
* States (25%)                  2.5      5.5       12.0      15.0.      16.0       13.0         9.5         3.0           76.5
ProducersSBeneficiaries(25%)      2.5       5.5       11.5      14.5      16,0       13.0        10.0         3.0           76.0
I11RD fuuancing of total (75%)       7.5      16.5      35.0      44.5       48.0       39.0        29.5         9.0         229.0
Timing and amounts for Phases 2 to 4 are indicative and subject to an appraisal process                                                                 f
I2



Pap37
Project Tde: Rural Oevekopnwti Mwghl Atm
Annex 6
Mexico: Rural Development in Marginal Areas Project
Procurement and Disbursement Arrangements
Procurement:
Procurement of works and goods financed by the Bank under the project would be caruoed
out in accordance with the bank's Guidelines for procurement under IBRD Loans and IDA Credt
(January 1995). Consultant services to provide technical assistance and training to the project
coordination unit would be procured in accordance with Guidelines for the Use of Consultants by
World Bank Borrowers and the World Bank as Executing Agency (January 1997).
Sub-projects would comprise a broad spectrum of activities to be undertaken widt dirct
participation and fimancial contnbution of the beneficiaries. Eligibility criteria and operational
procedures would be included in the Operation Manual for the project. Expenditures would be
made against an approved sub-project proposal and budget. The total cost for an individual project
would not exceed US$30,000. The main purchases to be made would consists in small equipment,
material and supplies, snall ruminants for fattening and poultry, plants and seeds, some
construction material, technical assistance and training. The grouping of these purchases would not
be feasible because they involve different operators and scattered beneficiaries in remote areas.
Procurement would be undertaken by the Regional Councils for Sustainable Development (CRDS)
and by the beneficiaries of the subprojects, according to procedures already established under the
Alianza para el Campo Prograrn in Mexico, and incorporated into the Operational Manual as the
basis for procurement under the project. Local shopping procedures would be applicable to
subprojects, however, given the remote location of many rural communities and in order to
encourage community participation in project execution, employ appropriate local technologies,
and ensure community commitment to project sustainability, direct contracting would be pennritted
to implement subprojects. Ceiling amounts for individual procurement of good and works would be
established for the different type of activities envisaged and included in the Operation Manual.
Moreover, CRDSs would compare prices at the moment of the subprojects evaluation, with
reference price listings established at the State level where feasible.
Consultant Services are expected to cost approximately US$15.0 million and would be
procured in accordance with the Bank's procedures for hiring of consultants (see Table A).
Monitoring of procurement practices would be carried out to ensure consistency with
Bank guidelines, the operational manual and MIS. Bank prior review thresholds are shown in table
B. All consultant contracts with individuals for up to US$50,000 and all firms up to US$100,000
would require prior review by the Bank of corresponding terms of reference and short lists. In
addition prior review of evaluation report and draft contract would be required for consultant
contract: a) with individuals exceeding US$50,000 and firms exceeding US$100,000; b) with
single source selection of consulting firms; c) with amendments that raise the contract value to
US$50,000 or above in the case of individual consultants, or US$100,000 equivalent or above in
the case of consultant firms; or d) for assignments of a critical nature such as design and
establishment of the monitoring system, evaluation studies, auditing, etc...



Page38
Project Tfe: Rural Development in Marnal Areas
Disbursement:
Allocation of loan proceeds: Disbursements would be made against the categories of
expenditures indicated in Table C. The proceeds of the Loan are expected to be disbursed over a
period of five years for the first APL. The project is expected to be completed by December 2002
and the Loan Closing Date would be June 2003.
Disbursement for Subprojects: The Bank will disburse an initial tranche against the
Annual Plan approved between SAGAR and each participating State into the Special Account not
to exceed the authorized allocation of the account. Successive tranches would be disbursed upon
justification of the initial arnount. At negotiations, assurances would be sought that SAGAR will
establish a reporting system that would allow them to submit quarterly reports to the Bank
indicating the expenditures made for each Region and State, that would pernit the Bank to release
the subsequent tranches.
Use of Statements of Expenditures: Disbursements would be based on Statements of
Expenditures (SOEs) for: (a) all subprojects; (b) service contracts for consultancies, auditing and
training valued below US$100,000 for firms and US$50,000 for individual consultants; and (c)
operating costs. Documentation supporting SOEs would be retained by SAGAR at the central level
and by the SAGAR delegations in every state, and made available for examination by Bank staff as
requested. All other disbursement requests would be accompanied by fiill documentation.
Special Account: Payments from the Loan proceeds would be administered by the
financial agent from a Special Account. The Special Account would be maintained in US dollars
in Banco de Mexico. The authorized allocation, sufficient for financing four months of eligible
expenditures, would be US$3.0 million.
Retroactive Financing: At negotiations, the need for retroactive financing of up to
US$4.7 million (10% of the Loan amount) would be reviewed and agreed for eligible expenditures
incurred since July 1, 1997 (but not earlier than 12 months before Loan signing).



Page 39
Project T-e: Rural DevelOPmet in Margn Aras
Table A: Project Costs by Procurement Arrangements
(US$ million)
Procurement Method
Other                              Total
(including Coningencies)
A. Subprojects                 46.0 a/                            46.0
(34.5)                             (34.5)
B. Consultant Services         15.0 b/                            15.0
(1 1.0)                           (1 1.0)
C. Operating Costs              2.0                               2.0
(1.5)                             (1.5)
TOTAL                          63.0                               63.0
(47.0)                             (47.0)
Figures in parenthesis are the amounts to be financed by the Bank loan
a/ Matching grants. Community procurement and direct contracting for works, good and services
for subprojects of less than US$30,000
b/ Consultant Services in accordance to "Guidelines on the Use of Consultants" (Jan. 1997)
Consultant Qualifications = US$1.0; Individual Consultants up to US$1.0
Table B. Thresholds for Procurement Methods and Prior Review
Expenditure Category    Contract Value     Procurement Method      Contracts Subject to
(Threshold) (US$)                               Prior Review
1. Subprojects              <30,000        Community Procurement           None
direct contracting
(reference prices)
2. Consultant Services                      According to Consultant
Guidelines
with Finns           >100,000     Cons. guidelines (para 3.1-3.4)    Yes
with Firms          <100,000           Consultant Qualif.         Only TORs
with Individuals       <50,000              Individuals             Only TORs



PaP40
PmWct The: Rural DOvebpment in Marh a Arsn
Table C: ADlocation of Loan Proceeds
(US$ million)
Expenditures              Amounts        Financiu %
1. Subprojects             32.7              75 %
2. Consultant Services      11.0             75 %
3. Operating Costs           1.3             75%
3. Unallocated               2.0
Total                    47.0



Page41
Project The: Rural Oevebprrmt i Margna Arm
Annex 7
Mexico - Rural Development in Marginal Areas
Project Processing Budget and Schedule
A. Project Budget (US$000)                      Plannet
(At final PCD stage)
Bank Budget                                                          200
Trust Funds                                                          680
B. Project Schedule                             Planned               Acu
(At final PCD stage)
Tme taken to prepare the project (months)          12                   24
First Bank mission (identification)            07/02/1995           07/0211995
AppWaisal mission departure                    06/05/1996           06/24/1997
Negottons                                      09/25/1996           12102/1997
Planned Date of Effectiveness                   03/1997              03/1998
Ppartd by: Ministry of Agriculture, Livestock and Rural Development (SAGAR)
State Governments of Oaxaca, Veracruz, San Luis Potosi, and Hidalgo
Preparation assistance: Japanese PHRD Grants: TF 025265 and TF 029596.
Bank staff who worked on the project included: Adolfo Brizzi (Task Manager), Ina-Marlene
Ruthenber, Christian Pieri, Augusta Molnar, Salomon Nahmiad, Anna Sant'Anna, Mark Austn,
Gabriel Kenyan, Robert Kanchuger.
Consultants: Robin Lebreton, Rigoberto Stewart.
FAO: Jos6-Maria Caballero and his team



Pag42
Projet Te: Rural DOvelopmet hi M11   Area
Annex 8
Mexico - Rural Development in Marginal Areas
Documents in the Project File
1.    Manual de Operaci6n
2.     Programa Nacional de Desarrollo Rural
B.    Oaxaca
1.    Caracterizaci6n de Organizaciones de la Regi6n Mixe.
2.     Caracterizaci6n de Organizaciones de la Regi6n Mazateca.
3.     Caracterizaci6n de Organizaciones de la Regi6n Cuicatlan.
4.     Estudio Socioecon6mico y de los Sistema de Producci6n
5.     Estudio Especifico sobre la Participaci6n de las Mujeres.
6.     Producci6n Sostenible de Granos Basicos y Diversificaci6n Agricola. Estudio
Especial.
7.     Evaluaci6n de Fondos Regionales de Solidaridad de Oaxaca (Reporte Previo), INI
8.     Proyecto de Caminos Cosecheros en las regiones Cuicatecas, Mazatecas y Mixe
9.     Proyecto de Desarrollo Sostenible en Zona Rurales Marginadea de Oaxaca
1CI.   Estudio de Recursos Naturales del Proyecto de Desarrollo Sostenible en zonas rurales
Marginadeas de Oaxaca
I1.   Estudio sobre la Administraci6n del Proycto
12.   Estudio de Factibilitad para el Proyecto de Desarrollo Sostenible:
* Componente de Comercializaci6n
* Componente Pecuario
13.    Estudio Especifico de la cafeticultura en las Regiones Mazateca/Cuicateca y Mixe del
estado de Oaxaca
Studies prepared by FAO/CP for the project region in Oaxaca:
13.    Proyecto de Desarrollo Sostenible en Zonas Rurales Marginales de Oaxaca-Informe de
Preparaci6n
14.   Anilisis Ambiental
15.    Documento de trabajo sobre Fondos Revolventes.
16.   Anilisis Economico y Finanziero
C.    Huasteca
I.    Programa de Desarrollo Rural de la Huasteca
2.     Programa de Capacitacion en Agroecologia para el Desarrollo de las Huastacas
(Veracruz, Hidalgo, San Luis Potosi)
3.     Anilisis del Impacto Medio-Ambiental
4.     Anilisis Economico y Finanziero
5.     Sistemas de Comercializacion y Formaciones Microempresariales en las Huateas
Potosina, Hdalguense y Veracruzana



Pn .43
Project The: Rural Delopmuit In MWgki Arm
Estado de Hidal&o
1.    Diagnostico Socioecon6mico y de los Sistemas de Producci6n en Zonas Rurales
Marginadas de la Huasteca Hidalguense.
2.     Programa de Desarrollo Regional de la Huasteca Alta de Veracruz
3.     Caracterizaci6n de Organizaciones de la Huasteca Hidalguense - SAGAR
4.     Monitoreo: Enlaces e Integraci6n
5.    Perfil del Proyecto
Estado de San Luis Potosi
1.    Caracterizaci6n de la Huasteca Potosina. Informe Ejecutivo 12/95. SAGAR
2.     Conclusiones de los Talleres Regionales Realizados los dias 29 y 30 de noviembre de 1996
en Axtla, Tancanhuitz y Ciudad Valles, con Representantes de Organzaciones e
Instituciones de la Huasteca Potosina.
3.    Delegaci6n Estatal en San Luis Potosi. SAGAR 3/13/97
4.     Diagnostico Socioecon6mico y de los Sistemnas de Producci6n
5.    Perfil Preliminar del Proyecto. Mayo de 1996
6.     Fichas de Identificaci6n de las Organizaciones de la Huasteca Potosina. 3/96
7.     Evaluaci6n Rural Participativa. Delegaci6n INI San Luis Potosi. Experiencia de Trabajo
1996.
Estado de Veracruz
1.    Estudio Socioecon6mico y de los sistemas de producci6n
2.    Federacion de Sociedades de Solidaridad Social "Uni6n de Mujeres del Estado de
Veracruz"
3.    Caracterizaci6n de la Regi6n Huasteca Alta del Estado de Veacruz
4.     Contenido de los Diagnostico Comunitarios
5.     Estudio socio-economico y de los Sistemas de production do Tlamacuimpa
6.     Perfil del Proyecto
7.    Adonde Va la Huasteca ?



Pap 44
P-4ect r1f.: Rural Devepmert In Uainal Areas
Annex 9
MEXICO
Statement of Loans/Credits
Schedule D (MOP) as of September 30, 1997
(in Millions of US Dollars)
I~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
'Amount in USS million (less cancellations)
LoanlCredit; Fiscal Year: Borrower Purpose                Bank    iUndisbursed -Closing Date
Credits                                                  I .
0 Credit(s) closed  !_i_I
Total Number of     -__ __._-_ =
Credits = 0                                                               0
Loans
157 Loans(s) closed   ;                                   20,443.66      829.96
282401      1987          URBN TRNSPRT I                 90.98         4.89         12131/97
33580,     1991          iVOC -TRNG SCTR                   137'       20.01t         6/30/98
33590'     1991           MINING SCTR                      200:      41.51.         6/30/98
346101     1992.          ENVIRON/NATURL RESOU   I   23.79.            5.61i       12/31/97
34750      1992!         'SCIENCE/TECH                     187'        7.83:        6/30198
34190      1992,         IRRIG SCTR                        350,       104.9;        7/31/98
35420      1993.         'LABOR MARKET & PROD.   I         174;      23.75j         6/30198
355901     1993;         IMEDIUM CITIES TRANSP             2001      163.51 i       6/30/00
36280,     1993'           W'HBSF1                         480'      219.1!         6/30/00
37220:     19941        iPRIM.EDUC.II                      3721     280.12;        12/31/99
37520t     1994.          SOLID WASTE =I                  6.94.        1.71        12131/99
375001     1994:          N. BORDER I ENVIRONM            94.6       65.36!         9/30/01
37040'     1994.         ;ON-FARM & MINOR IRRI             170'     127.19.         6/30/00
37510;     1994.          WATERtSANiT 11                   350      199.41          9/30/98
39120      1995          :ESSENTIAL SOCIAL SER             500.      88.96          6/30/98
38380;     1995           FINANCIAL SEC T.A.              23.6'       5.32          6/30/98
38381'     1995'          FINANCIAL SEC T.A.              13.8        13.81         6/30/98
379001!    1995           SECOND DECENTRALZTN              500      303.39!         6/30/99
38050      1995'         :TECH EDUrTRAING                  235      193.63'         9/30/00
37780      1995           RAINFED AREAS DEVELO              85       46.18          6/30199
40500,     1996           WATER RESOURCES MANA           186.5       181.5:         6/30/02
39430;     1996           BASIC HLTH II                    310      285.03          6/30/01
39370      1996          INFRA. PRIVATZTN TA                30       22.25          6/30/99
41010.      1997          RURAL FIN. MKTS T.A.              30          30          6t30/00
41520      1997           AQUACULTURE                       40.         40         12/31/02
41370       1997          COMMUNITY FORESTRY                15          15i         6/30/02
42060'      1997.         FEDERAL ROADS MODZTN  !          475         475.         6/30/04
Total Number of Loans =27                                  5,280.22:   2,964.96.
_          Total**                             . 25,723.88'
,of which repaid                               i 10,304.05;
Total held by Bank & IDA                        15,419.83.
Amount soid                               92.34
.of which repaid                          92.34
:Total Undisbursed                                           3,794.92



Annex 10                             Project TIO  Rurwd DOeopiat in Marhp Ams
Mexico - Rural Development in Marginal Aras
Country at a Glance
Mexico at a glance
Latn   Uppe.
POVER Ta  SOCIAL                                           America  middle-
Mexico  a Cadb.  Income        Devul.pmentdtsmnit'
POpulm mid-1199 (n1n:)                               91.8      480      440
GNP perapi 1995 (USV                                3.320     3.300    4.300
GNP 1991 (bilnsS                                    304.6    1.584   -iT
Av     ub uaI growth, I9S 5
PopulMio MW                                           1.9       1.8      1.7     (IPGios
Law c km                                              2.9       2.4      2. 
per                           pdmia
most recnt estmae (Je.    ar    h  slte 1989)                                    capita                      wam  nt
PovWt headeount Ine (14 oIpoulato)                    34                  -
U"lbnpcutetioX  dlJ                                   75        74       74
Uleeioectyatb    h&O                                  72        68       69
Infantmmwoi  r    l0mobyit)                           34        41       36                AcustOrwer
Chid malnutrt (14 ddllro  und5                          -
Acemetoser(1%ofpcioulaia                               83       8t       89
Ulko%  (%o pofApt    gp IS*)                           10       13       13             - bd
Ga pr nrtimylownstt(% ofatod4gepwi.opac)              112       110      107                        9
emawe                                               110                                    peW4wms m
FbMW                                                tto_
K- ECONOMIC RATIOS and LONO-TERM TRENDS
1178    1985      1994    1995
GOP (ban US3:                               94.4   183.6    377.1    25M00
ar domsich ve6Wtnop.                        2Z3      20.8      23.5     19.4
Epor.of goods and nmactservicesIOP           5.7     ts        1.7    24.0
Gross domest savng/GP                       19.0    25.9       1.4    22.3
Gro atinlonawsavings0oP                    17.1    Z2.1       17.1     18.7                      T
Cuneto  ecount beancaGDP                     *4.4     0.4      -7.a    40.3
itueregp_yments/GoP                          1.2   S 1          1.6      3.2     Sa"                         k4p
Total ddbVCGP                               19.3    52.8       34.0     633                  4      -
TtoldeMservce6exports                       41.1     50.7      33.9     28.8
Presentve d    ddtGOP                          _        _      31.1        _
Presetvalue a drerpot                                  ..    20e.6         ..                   h    _
1975J4  198S-95     1994      1998  1996-99
(awemsparit"OW1Vd
GOP                                 &I       LO       3.5      -6.9      3.9
GNPp rcach                          2.0      0.3      1.2    -.108         _                   4
Exoutaoiodrand n                   12.5      52       73       284      10.3
STRUCTURE of tle ECONOMY                                                            -
175      1985     1994    t995
(1 ofGODP                                                                         Growt ml" of output and wesUnw%
Agdwclture                                   10.8     9.1       8.0       2 
Indusy                                      29.9    33.5       28.1    27.         1
Munnfamg                                   21.9    23.5       19.7     19.8             *
Servics                                     59.4    67.4       64.0     64.1    .z.
Pants consumption                           71.6     64.6      70.0     67.3    .4*
Gneral government consumption                 9.3     9.3      11.6     10.4               -Go0         0    G0OP
Inpo. of goodsand non-factor sertes           9.0    10.4      17.8     21.2
197544  1985-91      1894     1995
(average    igwJ)                                                                 Greowt rates of expor  nd Imports 1
Aglcuhxe                                      3.2     0.3       4.2    -3.8         T
kndusy                                       5.2      2Z4       4.1      .8.0
Manufacturing                               4.4      2.8       3.6     48.4     15
Services                                      5.3     2.0       3.4      4.7
Pevte consumption                             4.1     3.8       3.7    *12.9              s e       n     la
Genem' -vwernment consurnptn                  6.6      1.2      2.5    .4.1
GlQ3&Z;'-'et1nv*%l1h                          2.4      3.7      T.S1   -39.5     4eO
Impors of goods and non-ctorserces            2.8     13.3     12.9   -27.6
Gross natida product                          4.5      2.2      3.1 t    8.7                                            _
Note: 19tS data are priminay estimates.
' The diamnds Show tour key ndicators in the country (in bold) compared with its income-grup average. It data are missing, the damond wit
be ircorncletn,



Pap 4S
Proct THb! Rura DOYvalapnbI Afht"  AMIa
Mexico
PRICES ad GOVERNMET FNC                                                                                           -
1175     1t8       134     111
tbmefpdcz                                                                           ben%
exd9 ".
Cormr pces                                      _     57.7       7.1    34.9
krpiciGDPt lS.deStor                         15S      562        7.4    29.4
Gov rnzm ent financ                                                                 __   _  _  __   _  _  __   _  _
KdG ) of GOP)
Cunt rovSIo .                                         31.5      252      262              o           S    U U        U
CuntwsitbldghadeftcWt                           -      .16       4.0      32               _             -0-cp
4.20-  4        0.1     4_.4   t
TRADE                                                                             _______________
1975     1385      1S94      1995_
ot nd as US Ep xnvels (. US
Toa expots (lb)                                 -   22,931    40,416   53.362
Fuel                                          _   14.767     7.445    8,422
n.a..                                                            -
Manufactm                                           6.245    29,936   40,71           ,|
Total krorts (cil                               -   14.533     5880   46274
Food                                          ..   1.082     9.510    5.335       .
Fuel and enwmW-                                         
Caspital goods                                      3,165    13,322    ',175        a
Port price dex (197w 10)                        -      125       110      122            0     e
lrportpdceldex(1997w10O                         _       99       119     123                   OE          Dl
Tism of blr    (10781z0)                        ..     127        93       in
LUANCE of PAYMENTS
1975    1185       iS94    1m
(nowbne USSJ                                                                      Creat aeownt hnw  to GOP as(%)
tporsg   goods and non4ealorsen4ce          6.066   27,726    50.717   63.532     e
beor tdgoods andnon-actorser*s              8.486   19.915    71.13t   S5.203      .        -
R.omm    balance                           -2,400    7.811   20.419    8.329
Not eaor ncome                              1,783   46.996   .13,012  -12.98
NOteutnw"tMtn                                  59    1.986     4.011    3,9
Cuwrent account balance.
IolIdalsbreotf ansfu                      ^4,124     801   .29,419         
Fnan Items (net)                            4327    3222    11,028   II,5
Chab       In not rurn                        204    2.421    111391  -t0,850     .4
bmo.m
F    bse Inculing gold (    .)              1,8I7    4,997    630   16.870
Conversion rts, IbOmc                     1.2E-02      0.3       3.4      ,4
EXTERNAL DEBT and RESOURCE FLOWS
1975    I1S5      19S4 19    90 
(mibns US1 5                                                                      Cmp_ otow  deKt. 199 (  mL
Totl debt outtanding and disbursed         18,231  9g.867   128,302  158.298
1IBRD                                     1,123    4.034    13.038   13,823                          A
0DA                                           0        0         0        0              G3 * 
32890               C
Totaldebtsefvice                            2,613   15293    19,049   20,194                                 15W9
I1RO                                        116      597     1,a99    2,372                                   D
IDA                                           0        0         0       0                                   4 *2
Compositon of net resource flows                                                                                a
Offical grants                                8       78        47       43   |0\3 
OfFieal cedItor                             381      809      423   11.293
Prte creditors                            3.365     631      4.894    5.125
voreign direcd westment                     809      491     7.978    4,133   |
PortfolIo equity                              0        0     4.521    1,619               7094
World Sank progm||
CoMwnltmens                                 310      928     2,115    2.142      A.ISNO                     E.Uhte      I
Isbufuments                                 18       840       942    1.732      B-lDA     0.Ou'ermutar   F Pdn
Princpal repayments                          39      335     1,065    1,411      C. #-Pr                    35n.rumN
Net flows                                   150      505      .123     321    1                          _
Intest payments                              78      262       924      961
Not tuwns                                    72      243    -1,047     440
Intematonl Economics Departnt                                                                                      t1696
a. period average.



Pope 4T
Annex I          Prje ct The: RurI DOPSIUW i WO  AMS
OFICINA DEL C. SECRETARIO
OFICIO NO 100. 1194
M6xico, D. F., 6 de noviembredo 1997
SECRETARIA DE AGRICULTURA-
GANA5ERIA Y DESARROLLO RURAL
SR. OLMER LAFOURCADE.
Director del Departamento de Mixico
del Banco Mundlal y Representante del
Banco Mundlal en Mdxico.
P r a s e n t .
Estimado Seflor Lafourcade:
La  Secretarfa  de Agricultura, Ganaderia  y  Desarrollo  Rural, asume la
responsabilidad de importantes programas de la poirtica y acciones del sector
agropecuario y rural de Mexico quo se concretan en la Alianza para el Catnpo
Varias son las razones que han orientado la elaboracd6n del presente Programe: [hs
problemas de la pobreza de muchos productores, la baja rentabiridad de una
actividad econ6mica y social fundamental, la enorme potencialidad que tiene el
campo y el alto valor de la ruralidad en el contexto nacional.
La Alianza para el Campo es producto del dialogo con las organizaciones de
productores y del trabajo de ocho Secretarias de Estado. La Alianza conforna un
programa que tiene una perspectiva de largo plazo, indispensable para lograr las
transformaciones de fondo que el sector requiere.
En su oportunidad, el Dr. Emesto Zedillo, Presidente de la Reptiblica, expresd quo la
Alianza es integral y pertinente, es realista y ambiciosa, pues un campo rentable y
en plena producci6n es indispensable para una cabal justicia social.



AI~DOS~                                                             poag4
Projet Tiftle: Rtirl Dvdopmt hI MuglU Aron
SECRETARIA DE AGRICULTURA,
GANADERIA Y DESARROLLO RURAL
La Alianza asume que los mexicanos no queremos vivir con la ineficiencia del-
centralismo, queremos que el nuevo federalismo y la creciente participacidn de boe
productores y sus organizaciones sea la base del desarrollo.
Bajo estas premises la Alianza para el Campo se articuf6 como una estrategia de
apoyo al mejoramiento productivo con la participacion de los diferentes niveles do
gobiemo y los productores, integrando los recursos en los fideicomisos estatales
como mecanismo para asegurar una acci6n descentralizada y expedita.
La Alianza implica una mas eficiente coordinaci6rq.entre las dependencias del
Gobiemo Federal, y una comunicacion abierta y continua con las organizaciones de
productores. Reforzaremos con toda decisi6n el combete a la pobreza y
procuraremos un mejor cuidado de los equilibrios ecol6gicos, 6sts fhe el mandato
del Presidente de la Republica.
La Alianza para el Campo viene instrumentando diversos programas especificos que
responden con pertinencia a las diferentes condiciones de pro ductores y regiones en
el pals. En este marco la Subsecretarfa de Desarrollo Rural tiene la responsabilidad
y amplias facultades para la atencion del desarrolio rural en las areas de menor
desarrollo relativo.
Consecuentemente, esa Subsecretarfa, se ha dado a la tarea de conformar el
Programa de Desarrollo Sostenible en las Zonas Rurales Marginadas que con el
auxilio tecnico de la FAO y del Banco Mundial, emprendid su preparacion desde
mediados de 1995.



V11DOSA                                                             Pa 49
Proe Tite Rural Devement In MAi Ars
SECRETARIA DE AGRICULTURA,
GANAOERIA Y OESARROLLO RURAL
A partir de 1997 y con el respaldo presupuestal de Is Alianza para eo Campo, este
Programa inici6 su ejecuci6n en las regiones Mixe, Mazateca y Cuicateca del estado
de Oaxaca y en la Huasteca de los estados de Hidalgo, San Luis Potosf y Veracruz,
todas estas zonas caracterizadas por una amplia composici;n indfgena.
El enfoque integral de dicho Programa, su caracter regional, su especial
preocupaci6n por el aprovechamiento sustentable de los recursos naturales y su
metodologia participativa por parte de los productores y comunidades indfgenas, le
otorgan una amplia pertinencia dentro del proceso de federalizaci6n y asi, se
concreta una estrategia productiva en la que se establecen oportunidades
sostenibles de ocupaci6n e ingreso, de esta manera estamos construyendo una via
para avanzar en el compromiso institucional de coadyuvar al mejoramiento de las
condiciones de vida de los indigenas que forman las familias campesinas de la
mayor parte de las comunidades pobres del Mkxico Rural.
Esta estrategia responde a la convicci6n del gobiemo de la Republica para superar
la pobreza rural con respeto a la l6gica y dimensi6n cultural de los propios
productores y comunidades indigenas, de tal manera que se ha recorrido un proceso
de reconocimiento y estudio sobre la forma en que se interrelacionan los aspectas
productivos, ambientales, sociales, econ6micos y culturales, en los que se
desempe?a cotidianamente la familia campesina y las comunidades indigenas, en eo
Ambito de sus unidades de producci6n y espacios microregionales, respectivamente.
Hemos realizado estudios socioecon6micos y de los sistemas de producci6n que nos
indican una expresi6n no solo de lo que a los productores y las muieres de las zonas



Pwjact Ti.: Rural Devok                                      n In U Ii Ate
SECRETARIA DE A ,RICULTURA,
GANAOERIA Y D-SAP .OLLO RURAL
rurales marginadas apremia, sino tambi6n lo que esta en el fando de sus
preocupaciones cuando estos observan que la conducta de los climas y de [os
recursos naturales se altera, modificando sus pricticas culturales y sus expecaivas
productivas o cuando la organizacion tradicional se toma insuficiente pars enfentar
las relaciones del mercadeo o del trabajo en el exterior, en fin, hemos podfdo hacer
una r.ueva lectura de la demanda social, en donde aparece una estructura de
prioridades en lo que corresponde a sus necesidades mas sentidas en el corto y
mediano plazos.
El caracter participativo de este procedimiento, permitj6 concretar un esquema para
otorgar apoyos integrales a las unidades campesinas de produccion y comunidades
en proyectos productivos de la actividad agropecuaria, en proyectos para el
aprovechamiento sustentable de los recursos naturales, proyectos para el desarrollo
de la comercializaci6n agropecuaria, para la diversificaci6n de las actividades
econdmico-productivas mediante la formaci6n de microempresas de transformacidn
y servicios, asi como proyectos para el mejoramiento de la pequena infraestructura
de apoyo a la produccion y comercializaci6n y proyectos para el desarrollo de la
comunidad.
Para asegurar la inscripci6n de estos apoyos en una estrategia de desarrollo
sustentable con relaci6n al adecuado manejo de los recursos naturales y sosteniblo
con respecto a la dinamica socioecon6mica, se ha comprormetido un esquema de
extensionismo y asistencia tecnica, asi como de coordinaci6n interinstitucional y de
promcci6n de mecanismos de recuperacion para la creacion de fondos comunitarios,
a fin de asegurar la continuidad del financiamiento de nuevos proyectos productivos.



*@IDS                                         PMpageS
4,"                                ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~propec TIU Rural Developmert In Mulna Arma
SECRETARIA OE AGRICULTURA,
GAMADERIA Y DESARROLLO RURAL
Esta estrategia de trabajo, complementa sus bases de instrumentacddn con la-
constituci6n de los Consejos Regionales como instancdas para la participacidn de ros
productores y comunidades en la determinacion de los apoyos conjurtamente con Ia
representacion institucional de los diferentes niveles de gobiemo y dependencias
que convergen en las regiones prioritarias en que se instrumenta el Programa.
Para las acciones que presupone esta estrategia de operacidn, haremos los
esfuerzos necesarios para que se cumpla el precepto de una estrategia incluyente y
participativa y para ello se ha disedado un esquema de seguimiento y evaluacl6n,
con el cual podremos hacer sobre la marcha, los cerrectivos que se reclamen y
sobre todo, tomar las lecciones que nos permitan abrir el Programa en nuevas
regiones con un coeficiente de eficiencia superior en su aplicaci6n.
De esta manera la Secretaria de Agncultura, Ganaderia y Desarrollo Rural, asume el
compromiso de trascender la condici6n de prueba piloto en la que originalmente se
concibi6 este proyecto, para convertirlo en un Programa que amplie su cobertura de
ejecuci6n a las regiones que se caracterizan por su alto grado de marginaci6n y el
reconocible potencial productivo sobre el que se asientan sus poblaciones.
Esta ampliaci6n de la cobertura de operaci6n del Programa, permitira contribuir en
las transformaciones estructurales que demanda. el sector rural para alcanzar ia
disminuci6n de las desigualdades entre las regiones y entre los diferentes miembros
de la sociedad rural. El establecimiento de cambios en los patrones de productividad
con un manejo sustentable y un compromiso con el mejoramiento de la seguridad
alimentaria, traera desde la base de los pueblos indigenas y las comunidades,



Pegs52
Project The: Rural Develpiflt In Mevgla APeSS
SECRETARIA DE AGRICULTURA,
GANADERIA Y OESARROLLO RURAL
importantes enseianzas sobre la mejor manera de responder a los problemas de is.  &
marginaci6n y la pobreza rural, al mismo tiempo que se partcipa constructivamente
en el establecimiento de un desarrollo nacional sostenible.
El Programa de Desarrollo Sostenible en Zonas Rurales Marginadas permiTrni
irrumpir, en el ambito nacional, la tendencia degradante de los rearsos naturales en
importantes areas depositarias de la mayor riqueza ambiental y el resquebrajamiento
de las unidades campesinas de producci6n familiar.
Se lograra un aumento de. los ingresos campesinos y del nivel de segurndad
alimentaria a trav6s de un mejoramiento de la productividad de los cultivos
tradicionales y no tradicionales, complementariamente al desarrollo de formaciones
microempresariales para la transformaci6n y la comercializaci6n, asi como de
servicios coadyuvantes a la mejor integraci6n de las cadenas agroalimentarias.
La meta final del programa es la de contribuir a la disminucion del nivel de rezago de
estas regiones en relaci6n al nivel promedio nacional de pobreza rural y de
favorecer su integraci6n en un proceso de crecimiento nacional.
Otros objetivos y resultados esperados por la aplicaci6n del Programa son los que
se refieren al fortalecimiento do las organizaciones de productores, de la vida
comunitaria, y en general, de la gesti6n social, asi como de la coordinacian
institucional y de los diferentes niveles de gobiemo para ei- desarrollo de las
regiones.



Page 53
@                                      Project Title: Rural Devlopment in Mar"  Afua
SECRETARIA OE AGRICULTURA,
GANADERIA Y DESARROLLO RURAL
No menos de 24 regiones han sido identificadas bapo esta perspectiva y por tanto en.
un proceso de mediano y largo plazos, nuevas areas se iran abordando en fases
sucesivas conforme se cumplan las condiciones de preparaci6n y disero en cada
una de 6stas.
El proceso de seguimiento y evaluaci6n durante. la operacion del Programa,
permitira generar la informaci6n necesaria para determinar, mejorar y ajustar el
desarrollo de las nuevas fases en funci6n de su capacidad de a) instrumentar un
esquema de apoyo a proyectos productivos, incluyendo mecanismos de fondos
revolventes comunitarios; b) fomentar un proceso de partidpaci6n-de las
comunidades en la idenUficaci6n y analisis de proyectos; c) establecer un sistema de
extensi6n y asistencia tecnica efectiva; y d) promover un marco institucional que
permita una toma de decisiones descentralizada con la participaci6n de los
productores. El marco l6gico del proyecto se conforma con los indicadores que
permitiran juzgar el exito del Programa y su capacidad de expandirse a nuevas
regiones.
Realizar la instrumentaci6n bajo este esquema, permitira evaluar los procesos en
marcha y de esta manera asegurar que cada regi6n que se va incorporando bajo la
atencion del Programa, aproveche la experiencia y haga posible sensibles
economfas en los recursos de preparaci6n y tiempos de ejecuci6n.
Bajo las premisas que aquf se resumen, el Programa de Desarrollo Sostenible en
Zonas Rurales Marginadas, se orienta al fortalecimiento de una nueva relaci6n entre
las instituciones del gobiemo de la reptiblica y la sociedad rural, con una perspectiva



Project lThe: Rural DeOpment hI _W Areas
SECRETARIA DE AGRICULTURA,
GANA0ERIA Y DESARROLLO RURAL
de superacion de la pobreza y la marginaci6n social mediante e0 trabapo productivo y
la participacl6n comprometida en la construccidn de los cimientos de la unidad
nacional, que con justicia y equidad, perfilan el Mdxdco del pr6idmo milenio.
Para la plena consecucion de este Programa, so ha preparado su inscrfpcidn en et
marco de un credito con el Banco Mundial, a quien usted representa dignamente en
Mexico. Este apoyo financiero supone un monto de 47 millones de d6lares para una
inversi6n total de 63 millones de d6lares en la primera fase que comprende las
regiones Cuicateca, Mazateca y Mixe del estado de Oaxaca y las Huastecas de los
estados de Hidalgo, San Luis Potosi y Veracruz.
Subsiguientemente se estiman una segunda, tercera y cuarta fases, en (as que
podran incorporarse nuevos financiamientos sucesivos para una inversi6n total bapo
el programa de 300 millones de d6lares.
Este esquema supone que una vez aprobada la metodologia del Programa se podra
utilizar la cobertura financiera del Banco Mundial en funcion de la dinamica de
avance en la instrumentaci6n del Programa y de conformidad con los criterios
expuestos anteriormente, mismos que corresponden al mecanismo de un Programa
de Prestamo Adaptable (Adaptable Program Loan).
La Secretaria de Hacienda y Cr6dito Publico encabeza esta perspectiva financiera
que sabemos prontamente entrara a su fase de negociaci6n.  -



Projec Title: Rural Oevomnt im Me8Ilna Arms
SECRETARIA DE AGRICULTURA,
GANAOERIA Y DESARROLLO RURAL
Esperamos que el mecanismo sugerido en el Adaptable Program Loan contibuya al.
esquema de instrumentaci6n del Programa, del cual le expreso la determinacdn de
esta Secretarfa para llevarlo a cabo en beneficio de los campesinos mexicanos y el
proyecto nacional.
ATENTAMENTE.
SUFRAGIO EFECTIVO. NO REELECCION.
EL SECRETARIO DEL DESPACHO
FRANCISCO                OCH
C.GP. DR MARTN W!ItNR WANIFELD.- SubSoeetaro de Hacenda y Cridi o PObo. Proseuf*.
C.c.p. ING. JOSE ANTONIO MENDOZA ZAZUETA.. Subsecretwdc do Oesaollo Rual. Present.
Gcp. C. JORGE CARDENAS EL ZONDOC. Ofcial Mwr de Ram Prent .



Page se
Prct Twe: Rural Oewopn ewiM    Ars
Annex 12
Mexico - Rural Development in Marginal Areas
Legal framework and characterization of'the indigenous people living in the project areas
L,eal Framework
I.    The legal framework governing indigenous issues in Mexico comprise a number oftexts
and agreements at the national and state level. The most important are:
* The National Constitution, Article 4, specifies the rights of indigenous people and
recognize them as social entities that deserve to be culturally and legally protected
through the various specific laws. The ethnic plurality of the Nation is recognized as
well as the habits (usosy costumbres) and cultural rights ofthe indigenous people.
* Article 27, of the same Constitution specifies the respect of land tenure rights of the
indigenous "community land" (bienes comunales) and provides the possibility to convert
ejidos to "bienes comunales", which are untransferable and not seizable.
*   The Agrarian Law protects the rights of indigenous communities over their land.
* The Customary Law of Oaxaca protects the election of indigenous authorities though
traditional ways (usos y costumbres), therefore it is possible to maintain the autonomy
of their form of government. In the other states the situation varies according to the laws.
However, in most of the cases,'municipalities with indigenous people include their
representatives in the Municipal Council.
T The Government has ratified the Agreement 167 of the International Labor Organization
which entirely refers to Mexico's indigenous people and which has the effect of a
national law.
*   The law of 1948 creates the National Indigenous Institute  M) for the protection,
defense, and development of the indigenous people in Mexico.
*   The Government has ratified the Convention that creates the Inter-american ndigenous
Institute based in Mexico. Its mandate is to protect and develop indigenous people.
*   The Government is a member of the Ibero-amnerican Indigenous Fund based in Bolivia,
and promoted by the IDB.
Characterization
2.      The 10 indigenous groups of Oaxaca (mixes, mazatecos, cuicatecos, nixtecos,
chinantecos, nahuas) and the four of the Huasteca (huastecos or tenek, otomies, pamnes and
tepehuas) in the states of Hidalgo, San Luis Potosi and Veracruz, represent the indigenous
population of the project area. They constitute a cultural group of the Mesoamerican Civilization
characterized by their multi-cultural coexistence with specific characteristic, pattems of life,
languages and cultures. Mesoamerica has been described as a geographical, cultunal and ecological
mosaic. Its rainfed agriculture made it possible to sustain the existence of the population during
centuries of penranent occupation of these regions.                  ;



Page 57
Project Tit: Rural Development in h oa Areas
Box 1'
The indigenous groups have been mostly living in the. context of anr agrcltl  .e,con,omy. They
have experienced a high demographic increase. during the last 5: decades- which has modified ,the
use of'natural -resources such, as farm lands, water, woods, forests, etc. This has expand the
agricultural frontier.to mountains and forests, resulting in. the scattering of the popultion in sevl
villages or-micro-communities,: as they: tend to live near their maize fields (milpas)trather than in.
urbanized'places :
3.     The geographic location of the selected regions is in the heart of the Sierra Madre Oriental,
where live a greater number of indigenous groups. However, these 10 groups constitute a
significant majority of the inhabitants of this mountain range and are part of several linguistic
families whose only form of communication between them is the Spanish language. In the pre-
Colonial period the nahuatl or Mexican language was the form of conmmnication. The
Otomangues languages are the otomi, pame, mazateco, cuicateco, chinanteco and mixteco. Among
the yuto-aztec languages, only the nahuatl is common in the 4 states. The mayense languages are
the huasteco or tenek and the tepehua. The mixe or ayukk language belongs to the zoqueana
family. Given the predominance of producers of these ethnic groups speaking their own languages,
it is recommend that communication for the development of the project be made through the
beneficiaries indigenous languages.
Box 2             .. ..
INDIGENOUS POPULATION BY GROUPS
- -:-:- . -. - 1990. -:. :LA::NGUAGE IDENTITY-
~~~~~~~~~~~~.          S-.: ......   ::-...::.::-:--:-1291--.............. ::-:-aj'y-...  ........    .::
MIXS                                               112,951                awlj'y
CL1CAECOS. -                                      .15,223-
MAZATECOS-:                                        199,656.               shuiaenr..
WNA AS (        )                                   9,090          .ah--::
:NAHUS (lalgo):                   :.-.-:--.-:---:---188,530 :-at.:l
NAHUAS (I)122,'664                                                         nhut
N M   S   ::-  -  . . :-  :-:   ::.  -  --- -    -::--  ::-  122:5  :.  :.. .    -    : -- .sS  .s? .. .  i   s .:.:.. - . ...
UASTECOS tenek  .?.                                68 -3      -      -iEe
HUASTEC0 :(tenek:Ver.)-.::                     :-:46-897           .. ...      e ... ..
PAE S(S.LP.) :-     :----    -   : :5,669 :-xi-: ::'ui:: : :.:
> .ES  S VU.) - .  ::  . . :  5 742: . . : :    :~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~.  ...   .. 
..TEP~EHUAS (.Ver.)                                 574
CH      ECO  (Cuiatl=0anG.)             --------- 4,373 -         i    -      juji
MTCOS (Cuitatlan Oax.)                           .5,692'                    fl::u sai.
OTOMviiES (Ver.) -                                 15,986. -:       .  -     hfU.
4.       The agricultural and cultural characteristic of these groups is their dependence on the
consumption of maize, beans, calabazas, and hot peppers. Their productive systems differenciate
according to the ecological niche that they occupy in the mountain chain. They all use and produce
ceramics, sewing baskets, textiles and pre-hispanic handicrafts. They preserve the basic elements
of the agricultural calendar and mesoamerican ceremonies, which govem their productive and
religious activities. Agricultural activities are organized through sacred ceremonies which mobilize
their productive forces. Traditional tools, such as hoes and handspikes, as weil as other more
modern items, are used in the agricultural activities. It is essential to have ethnobotanic knowledge
to be able to understand the productive systemns and to take advantage of the traditional knowledge
of useful plants.



Proect Thtte: iwu Deveopment in Mwginal Ar_
Bot 3;
Ancestral mrles are flowed to select maize: sees and: the: biggest cobs at harves.Sed  ar'
soaked and let germinate two or.three days. before taking them  to the ciD vaton field This practice
is mainly used with the 'tonamil"' (maize:that is supposed to have soul and spiri)..
5.      Horticulture, and the cultivation of flours and fruits are essential  activities for thc
household economy: jicama, sweet potato, tomato, green tomato, quelite, avocados, zapotaceas,
mamey, papaya fruit, pineapple, zempaxuchiti, etc. The transpatfo practice includes stockbreeding
of turkeys, chickens, pigs, goats and lambs. The lower fields are used for livestock breeding of
cows and horses. Hunting and fishing fulfill a priviledged role in the donestic economy for many
family's incomes.
Bx 4-
Family v'egetable::and: fruit gardens' contain a great variety of commestib ad.an for
local use and local' markets. They are generally attended by..women. andhildren Et oic
:activitie.s by'these inigenousgroups hae  accounted for up:to 90 difr           conisb
plants,'.18. ifferent' pes ofmtreepfom  which te  obtainlo gs  diwood ad 5
Monograph:ofthe::Ch'inantecos del.NI)'''-' ': ' '.:'i---:'::''.'-'''"
6.      In order to sustain their development, the indigenous groups have relied on a very simple
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~.           . . .     . . -.   . . .. ..    --
~~~~CrNE::: it...:  . :.-: - .es.... . :.-0.-            ..... :a  ;:-'.-: :
8 ,gf           .     f        om-.w.:.:::s         ch- .h  . :- :;bta . -  d    A       s: 7.--. :.  
technological equipment whinch, together with the accumulated cultural knowledge, have permited
themn to maintai the productive potential and improve the fanning system through progressive
adatatonand without threatening their cultural patrimony.
Box.S
r  W -   . - *:..   -  E    ..:  ..:  ..     :-:-.:  . s  -...:-  .s- s -   ..   .:  -:.s-  E::-  E   -: -.   :: -. -.-s:-.-.-   ....
t.,epetlat::o                                                      tepetate::-'         'i't::;; -4-S:-:;.:f-  ;iS,:is
atctiealui
{   atodi    '  :''  :''-  ''   -:  -  -!-.- :::    y    -   .s;- :,,:,   -:  .,......- .  ...........  .
teuhtlalli                                                        l     :--:-:-E-:-......:-.:::-:soil . -: ....:::
7.      These groups have preserved their regional or micro-regional open-air markets where
households sell, buy, or exchange their production surplus. The functioning of these trading and
barter systems should be analyzed and taken into account when trying to raise production, not only
for the international, national and state markets, but to sustain the production interchange between
the various niches of the mountain range. The regional and micro-regional economy is driven by
the offer and demand of these open-air markets.
8.      Since ancient times, the commercial relations among the different ecological niches, as
between the Sierra Madre Oriental and the high plateau, have developed through commercial
agents. The interaction among these systems has been strengthened with the development of
conmmunication, and the flow of agricultural and handicraft products could be maintained so far.
The large markets of agricultural products in Mexico City, Oaxaca, Pachuca, Ciudad Valles, San
Luis Potosi, Tuxpan Veracruz and the intermediate cities, depend substantially on the agricultural,



Project Tite: Rural Developmnt hAg ke-An
forestiy, handicraft and natural resources production of the indigenous communities of these
regions.
Traders among:the Mixes consider that.all benefits come:from God and frominatre. 'Wen st
a':new.enterprse tey eebrate a:'seri'es:of ceremonies. ey aso: carryout a acye
ceremonies 'and-rituals to:'preserve.thefaivor .of theGods,fbr their enterprises especially in;thc
aideciiingf ussiness alws frequirs .aerns in
the mountains or in churches.TheGods 'must also:a  orizenanyl  s        amount'.`
9.     The traditional indigenous distinction "hot, temperate and cold land" reflects an infonnal
climate characterization combined with a soil classification according to the muber of maize
harvests, varying from one up to 3 (rainy season, summer, tonamil).
10.   The project regions are considered areas of temperate forests, where cities obtain their
supply of wood for construction, furniture and industry. They also get supply of coal and firewood
for domestic and industrial use. Likewise, minerals, such as gold, silver, copper, kaolin, lime, salt,
etc. are traditionally extracted since a long time, and continue to be valuable resources for the local
market.
11.    Community land has remained under the system of community property (bienes comunales
o ejidales). However, usufruct and production has been assigned to each domestic unit, with part
of the labor surplus destined to community works and festivities. The participation in the
agricultural labor is performed through a typical cross-support organization among relatives or
members of the same social group (mano vuelta). For celebration expenses, the cooperation among
the community members is managed through a reciprocity system, as well as deferred payments for
births, weddings or funerals.
4s.part:.of..the mesoamerincan..agricultural calenda. r,.-elder peop.l .stil...fo.recast: the meteorologicS
conditionsfor'the following12 monhs .of.the year t g aa pat
days ofathe mont -f.January,.which'represent. each :::one :of:the months of the yea.. hi
observatio is-' c   ented  ith t emoonhasesTe    ndar o'      n      i
the-mixes by the-pr est-i chare of-countig the days:ofthe year(niabye).- :   .
12.     Comrnunities of indigenous groups maintain government systems according to their
customs (usos y costumbres), which are defined inside each community or municipality and which
they adapt to the federal or state systems. They keep autonomous government features, including a
civil government sector working jointly with the govenmment of lands and with the government of
sacred and religious matters. They do not separate civil and sacred activities but handle them
together. These elements are essential for the participation of the populations in the project.
Modem production organizations have in many cases developed adequate articulations with
traditional systems, however in some regions they have remained as external structures and will
need to be examined in the specific context of each community or ejido.
I Box 8
Communties,as: corporte structursi uedb consenu,tn  orglt nenlyalteapcs
o6fthe social, ecnmc6giutrl ultural and. rlgousli.



eop
Project Tie: Rural Develmert hI Ma"l Areu
13.     In many cases the gender division of social functions in works, households, festivities
and in the agricultural production, are typical of the mesoamerican systems. However, in some
places it has entered in a modernization process, while still maintaining very specific pattems.
14.    Community works are ruled by voluntary and mandatory community cooperation. They
are not remunerated and benefit the community only (it is designated as tequio or faena). The civil
government administers these works, weeldy, monthly or annually. Decisions are take by
community consensus and the community assembly is the most important intemal govenment
structure. Some of these activities are directed to productive activities of a collective nature, such
as hydraulic control for small irrigation systems, management of terraces, surveillance of the
forest, annual delimitation of land, construction and maintenance of small infre bride,
churches, etc.
The -mIazatecos cconsider that worSing n th  in t          t .
staeisare not inivdualbut are bae  onteognzto   ftecmuiy  ncinn
15.    Since a long time social stratification systems have existed in the ethnic groups fiom
villages to ceremonial cities. External tributary systems have caused many rebellions and with the
conquest, the social stratification systems have been modified. The inter-etnic relations in some
regions are very tense (Huejutla, Hgo.) and in others the presence of "strangers" was not allowed
so that societies maintained closed system (mixes). Nevertheless, the new economical relations
have pressed the communities and regions to relate externally in economical terms under a system
to which they are not used and which may provoke difficult inter-ethnic relations.
16.    The thousands of producers mixe, cuicateco, mazateco, nahua, tnek, etc. and their
families, have contributed to the development of mestizos cities. The agricultural economy has
allowed urban development. The dependency between the indigenous agricultual producers and the
non-indigenous traders (formal or ambulant), has developed along oligopolistic and segmented lines
and has not facilitated the retention of added value at the local level. The production-marketing
chain in the various areas should be taken into consideration with care when implementing the
project.



PageI6
Project TM: Rural Developmet in Mawnal Areas
Annex 13
Mexico - Rural Development in Marginal Areas
Eligibility Criteria
1.    This Annex summarizes the criteria described in the Operational Manual to be used during
project implementation in order to better target the beneficiary population of the project and defme
modalities of implementation.
GeoeraDhic Tar2etine
2.     Geographic targeting is based on a combination of two level of criteria and data:
*  The first level of targeting is based on marginality indexes based on CONAPO/INEGI
classification so as to ensure that regions selected correspond to areas with highest
levels of poverty and marginality, see Map.
*  The second level of selection is based on agro-ecological and production systmns
criteria (SAGAR) so as to ensure that the regions selected have a productive potential.
Eligibility Criteria for Beneficiaries
3.     To be eligible for support under the project, beneficiaries should be member of
smallholders and have the following characteristics:
* belong to localities with less than 2500 inhabitants;
. do not cultivate more than 10 ha (rainfed);
* do not possess more than 10 cattle (or equivalent);
* has a productive potential;
* employ family labor;
D their productivity is below national averages;
* a high proportion of their production is for self-consumption;
* have limited access to inputs, markets, and services; and
* accept to participate to project mechanisms for technical assistance.
4.     Requests would be considered from the following type of organizations, with preference
given to groups. Groups would be of a minimum of 5 persons up to a maximum of 30:
* Organized Groups
* Economic Organizations
* Communities
* Individuals with the endorsement of the community assembly
Elieibility Criteria for Sub-Droiects
5.     Sub-projects would be identified and designed by beneficiary groups and communities with
the help of technical assistance. Sub-projects would need to be consistent with the following
priorities and criteria, they should:



Page 62
Proct Thte: Rual Deopnbt hf Margil Arm
*  introduce technological changes or improvemt to household activities, food security,
and community organization;
* respond to the constraints and needs as expressed at the local level in a representative
way;
* be considered sustainable with respect to the use of natural resources;
*  be considered sustainable with respect to the local traditional cropping patrs and
socio-economic situation;
* prove the sustainability of the technical package and of proposed changes;
* be economically profitable and increase productivity and production for pre-identified
markets;
* count with an organized social base, and the participation of beneficiaries and
communities in the unplementation, maintenance and evaluation (selfessment) Of
the sub-projects;
* have access to technical assistance;
* emphaslze the role and participation of women;
* favor employment generation;
* promote local processing of row products and generation of added value at the local
level; and
- promote cofinancing with other programs.
6.     As part of a black-list of activities, the project would not finance:
* debts and liabilities;
* purchase or rent of land;
* civil works construction, except materials for some community works and
maintenance;
* social assistance type of intervention that fall under the purview of social development;
*  sub-project that do not pass the economic and envi tal review,
* reconversion out of shaded-coffee;
* extensive livestock in the medium and upper zones of the targeted areas; and
* sub-projects that would require deforestation
7.     The use of pesticides would be restricted so as to be in compliance with the existing
regulations as defined in the Pesticides Official Catalogue (CICOPLAFEST) updated in 1997, and
international standards to which Mexico adhers.
* The following pesticides would not be permitted: Acetate or Propionate of phenyl,
Aldrin, DBCP, Mercury, Cianofos, Dialiafor, Acid 2, 4, 5-T, Cloranil, Dieldrin,
Dinoseb, Endrin, Erbon, Formotion, Sodium Fluor-acetate, Fumisel,
Kepone/Clordecone, Mirex, Monuron, Nitrofen, Schrandan, Triamifos, BHC, EPN,
Ethilic Parathion, Toxafen, Sulfate of Talio.
* The use of the following pesticides is restricted: 1,3 Dichlorinepropen, Ataclor,
Aldicarb, Bromure of Metyl, Clordan, Clorepicrina, Dicofol, Forate, Fosfture of
Aluminum, Isotiocianate of Metyl, Lindan, Matamnidofos, Metam Sodium,
Metoxiclorin, Mevinfos, Paraquat, Pentaclorofenol, Quintozen, Endosulfan.



Page 63
Project ritle: Rural Development in Marginal Areas
Limits of support and beneficiary contribution
8.     Beneficiaries would contribute upfront to at least 30% of sub-project cost. Contribution
would be in cash and/or in kind according to the type of activity.
9.     Limits of support have been defined in the Operational Manual for each type of activity
and per production unit, in addition, the maximum total financing that can be authorized for a sub-
project would vary as follow:
*  for a beneficiary (smallholder), sub-project financing would not exceed about US$780
(6,000 pesos);
*  for community projects, financing would not exceed about US$3,250 (25,000 pesos);
* for projects of an associative nature or bringing together various groups, financing
would not exceed about US$11,700 (90,000 pesos), while respecting individual limits.






MAP SECTION






IBRD 29231
BAJA   -UIE                                                                                                              TTS O                      MRC
So    N1   O   R   A
CALIFORNIA
(                                               ~~~~~~~RURA L D EVE LOPME NT JN
B.AJA                                                                   CAUL                                                               MARGINAL AREAS
CALIFORNiIA
REGIONS IN OPERATION, PHASEI
5UR                                                                                                        ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~REA QFIG   AINLITY
NUEVO             NAAREAS OFVERY HIGH MARGINALIiRy
-RIVERS
L~~                                          ~~~~~~~~~~~ NATIONAL CAPITAL
DUR403                                                                                ---  STATE ROUJNDARIES
-  -INtERNATIONAL BOUNDARIES
Sovr, 1: CONAPO
0 -ISo    2SP    300    400    $0 0KIAOMET
~~>NA  ,2   ,~~~JA ~~    SANL  POTOSI  j                      0        - 15~~~~0    200-       -2GLS
N   oT
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~R~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~/
-20~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~JLS
CAM PECH            {
BELIZ
ThrIL F.tp FOtprSdtCd by thM. a  0efigFt UnIt  7i. Th    tt4  oI
Th. he-,dorie. cLr, dtomnoio,,an oyolhot M&-drmato lhaw
thin  - SF0   -1 tstitp))%  otA. part of lUt W9,Id Bank GStFp, att/ 
jJ.dg-m ttmt the Ipttto   f may tnn/  QUOO *ttt  OrFOtCtntte
\HONDURAS
JANUARY 199



