Report No. PIC1834
Project Name                   Mexico-Agricultural Development (@) ...
and Rural Poverty Project (see 1/)
Region                          Latin America and Caribbean
Sector                          Poverty Reduction
Project ID                     MXPA7711
Borrower                        Nacional Financiera, S.N.C. (NAFIN)
Implementing Agency            Secretariat of Agriculture, Livestock
and
Rural Development (Secretaria de
Agricultura, Ganaderia y Desarrollo Rural,
SAGAR)
Av. Insurgentes Sur 476, Piso 10
Col. Roma
06760 Mexico D.F.
Telephone:(5) 584-6044
Fax:(5) 574-5570
Date PID Updated                July 28, 1995
Projected Appraisal Date        January 2, 1996
Projected Board Date            October 25, 1997
Country and Sector Background
1.    Rural areas contain 41- of Mexico's population, but 84t of
the extreme poor. The rate of extreme poverty is highest in the rural
areas of southern states, where its incidence increased from 17t in
1989 to W in 1992.   This rate of extreme poverty is over three
times the national average. The welfare of the extreme rural poor in the
south depends principally on agriculture, as 83t of their monetary
income comes from agricultural production (63%) and agricultural
wages (20%-). Of the 1.9 million producers in seven of the poorest
states in the south and center regions (Chiapas, Guerrero, Hidalgo,
Michoacan, Oaxaca, Puebla, and Veracruz), 67T have five or less
hectares of cultivable land.    Of that land, 60% is devoted to maize
production, with an average yield of only one ton per hectare. The
conditions of road infrastructure and access to drinking water are
extremely poor in this region; 36% of the population in rural
areas in these states are without access to water.
2.    Government macro-economic policies have affected negatively
the agricultural sector. An overvalued exchange rate supported by high
interest rates undermined growth, as the sector produces mainly
tradables, and reduced investments. Moreover, government price and
trade policy for agriculture has favored larger commercial farmers
who are net sellers of grains and oilseeds, as well as commercial
livestock producers. Until the December 1994 devaluation, there
were subsidized prices for maize, wheat, rice, soybeans, beans, and
sorghum. To compensate for the higher producer prices, the
Government subsidized tortillas (through targeted and untargeted
subsidies) and maize grain. However, net rural purchasers of maize



have had limited access to these subsidies, which were mainly for
urban consumers and commercial livestock producers. Moreover, the
protection afforded basic grains and oilseeds undermined the
expansion of horticulture crops, which are more labor intensive and
would have expanded the rural labor market. Finally, the lack of
basic physical and institutional infrastructure for transport,
marketing and finance has prevented most of the rural poor from
taking advantage of trade liberalization and their proximity to
domestic and foreign markets. The devaluation of the peso further
undermined the welfare of low income rural producers by raising
prices of maize and other consumables even further for poor rural
consumers and reducing demand for rural labor and the value of
wages. All these factors have reduced margins in subsistence agriculture
to the point where farmers can no longer invest in their farms, and
are increasingly obliged to adopt unsustainable farming practices just
to survive.
3.    During the past six years, government agricultural programs
aimed at poor producers have diminished in scope and in
effectiveness. Agricultural services such as research and
extension have been brought to a near standstill as budgets have been cut
radically and funding left only to cover recurrent personnel costs.
Government is currently reviewing these programs in order to
clarify the appropriate public sector role in each and identify how these
responsibilities may be at least partially devolved to the states.
Other efforts to address the problems of the rural poor have
included investments in basic social and economic infrastructure through the
Solidarity program (for example, through Municipal Funds) and
targeting of poor rural areas for improvements to health and basic
education services with the support of sector ministries. While
these programs have achieved some success in expanding social
infrastructure and services and, in some cases, increasing
community participation, they have done little to increase the productive
potential and income generation of small farmers or generate other
sources of employment.
4.    Investments in rural roads and rural water supply have been
undertaken in poor states and municipalities with financing from
the Solidarity program and the first and Second Decentralization and
Regional Development (DRD and DRD2) Projects (Lns. 3310-ME and
3790-ME). The use of these funds for rural roads and water supply,
however, often must compete with other state and municipal
priorities, leaving insufficient financing for the poorest regions.
The first DRD project also financed basic education and health
programs in the Selva Lacandona, Chiapas, where community teachers
and health promoters are used to provide basic services. This
successful effort in reaching the poor in inaccessible, indigenous
communities, may be used as a model to help promote similar
programs in the project's target areas.
Objectives
5.    The objective of the project is to improve living standards
- 2-



for poor small-scale farmers and landless rural poor in priority
regions of the poorest states by developing, testing, and introducing
sustainable agricultural technologies and rational resource
management practices, and institutionalizing improved strategies
for the delivery of agricultural services and poverty-targeted
investments by state governments, producer organizations and other
nongovernmental organizations (NGOs). The project would
specifically target participation of indigenous peoples, as they make up a
significant percentage of the extreme rural poor in the southern
states, and women, as they play a key role in both agriculture and
in family nutrition. The project would finance:
(a)   on-farm adaptive research, extension, and technical
assistance for appropriate agriculture-related technologies;
(b)   grants to community managed funds which would provide
partial financing to groups and producer organizations for
small investments in agriculture, natural resource management and
other income-generating activities; and
(c)   technical assistance and training focused on
strengthening producer organizations and state rural development
agencies participating in the project.
6.    Activities supported by the project would include helping
small farmers and rural groups to: (a) increase yields, profitability
and long term sustainability by introducing, among other things, land
use and soil and water conservation practices; (b) improve variety of
foods available to the home for family nutrition; (c) increase the
value of agricultural production through improved storage,
processing, marketing, and other activities; and (d) identify and
develop alternative sources of farm and non-farm income.
Description
7.    The precise components and implementation mechanisms of the
proposed project would be developed during project identification
and preparation, involving federal, state and local officials, as well
as rural poor producers and producer organizations. Project financing
would be geographically targeted to areas of greatest need within
the poorest states, which would include highly indigenous areas.
8.    Possible areas of project financing would include:
(a)   On-farm investments. Through a municipal trust fund or
similar mechanism, the project would co-finance on-farm
investments by groups of producers in natural resource
management activities such as soil and water conservation,
small scale irrigation or drainage works, agroforestry, crop
diversification and improvements in post harvest processing
and storage. These activities and investments would improve the
sustainability of the agricultural production systems,
increase on-farm employment opportunities, increase the value of
family nutrition, exploit marketing opportunities, and increase the
value-added of products.
-3-



(b)   Adaptive agricultural research and technology.   The
project would finance on-farm adaptive research and extension
activities, designed to introduce improved sustainable
agricultural technology to participating groups of farmers.
(c)   Institutional development assistance to producer
organizations. Since producer organizations would be the
beneficiaries as well as active participants in the
identification and implementation of (a) and (b), the project
would finance activities to strengthen these organizations'
capacity to assist members in areas such as marketing, access
to credit, and adoption of technology.
(d)   Institutional development assistance to state agencies
of agriculture and rural development (SDRs). In support of the
objective of strengthening provision of services to small
farmers, the project would finance institutional development
activities aimed at assisting in the devolution of
responsibilities from the national (i.e., SAGAR) to its
counterpart state government organizations, the SDRs.
Assistance would especially focus on the development of
strategy, approach and staffing of the SDRs to undertake its
role in financing adaptive research, extension, and related
investment focused on poor agricultural areas.
(e)   Support to women's groups.   The project would finance
programs which would provide technical assistance and small
grants to specifically to women's groups for improvements in
agricultural production and processing technologies,
economic infrastructure and micro-enterprises.
(f)   Link roads.  In the marginal areas that the project
will serve, poor communications are a major constraint. The
project would therefore finance the rehabilitation of rural (unpaved)
roads which provide esssential links among communities and
markets. It would also assist in developing a municipal-based
road maintenance program. These efforts would supplement
other funds that already exist in the DRD2 project for small local
level road improvements.
Project Costs, Financing and Sustainability
9.    The estimated project cost is US$200 million, of which US$100
million would be financed by a World Bank Loan, and the balance by
federal and state governments and benefiting organizations and
groups. The quality and sustainability of the individual
investments would be safeguarded by a process of analysis and selection
which incorporated both technical reviews and the participation of local
organizations in prioritizing and making final decisions regarding
such funding.
Project Implementation
10.   The national level, the Agriculture, Livestock and Rural
Development Secretariat (SAGAR) would be responsible for overall
- 4 -



project guidance and coordination. The project would be limited to
identified poor regions of a limited number of states. The project
would finance technical assistance, training, and a menu of
alternative investments, with the selection of priority investments
left to a decision-making process at the local level, most likely
using a special substate, regional or municipal council with
community representation. Producers would be responsible for
maintaining the investment in the post-project period.
Lessons
11.   Experience from other rural development efforts in Mexico and
elsewhere has shown that the most effective strategy for the
identification, planning and implementation of discrete project
investments is through the full participation of local groups,
leading to a project which is demand-driven rather than supply-
driven. Specific investments within each of the proposed
components would be identified and managed by local producer or community
groups with government resources matched by financial and other
contributions of group members.
Environmental and Social Aspects
12.   The project is classified under Category B and would have
minimal environmental consequences. Project investments would be
limited to small scale productive, economic and social
infrastructure. As part of the social assessment to be conducted
during project preparation, an Indigenous Development Plan would be
developed.
Poverty and Program Objective Categories
13.   The project would be designated as belonging to the Project
Objective Code of PA (poverty alleviation) and would be in the
Program of Targeted Intervention. The project belongs primarily to
the Environmentally Sustainable Development and Poverty Reduction
and Human Resource Development program objective categories.
1/    Formerly called the "Southern States Agricultural Development
Project."
NOTE: PLEASE CONTACT THE PUBLIC INFORMATION CENTER FOR A COPY OF
THIS DOCUMENT IN SPANISH.
Contact Point:           Public Information Center
The World Bank
1818 H Street N.W.
Washington D.C. 20433
Telephone No.: (202)458-5454
Fax No.: (202)522-1500
Note: This is information on an evolving project. Certain
components may not necessarily be included in the final project.
- 5 -



