                                          Document of
                                       The World Bank




                                                               Report No: 30242

                         IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
                                     (SCL-42760 TF-26538)

                                              ON A

                                             LOAN

                             IN THE AMOUNT OF US$47 MILLION

                              TO NACIONAL FINANCIERA S.N.C.

                WITH THE GUARANTEE OF THE UNITED MEXICAN STATES

                                            FOR A

                  RURAL DEVELOPMENT IN MARGINAL AREAS PROJECT




                                        December 9, 2004




Environmentally and Socially Sustainable Development
Latin America and the Caribbean Region

                             CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS

                        (Exchange Rate Effective June 30, 2003)

                               Currency Unit = Mexican Peso
                              1 Mexican Peso = US$ 0.0956
                                       US$ 1 = 10.455 Mexican Peso

                                     FISCAL YEAR
                                January 1    December 31

                        ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
APL     Adoptable Program Loan
CNA     National Water Commission
CAS     Country Assistance Strategy
CPPR    Country Program and Portfolio Review
CRDS    Regional Sustainable Development Council
CSF     Community Saving Funds
FAO     Food and Agriculture Organization of the United Nations
FIRCO   Fideicomiso de Riesgo Compartido (Trust Fund for Shared Risk)
ICR     Implementation Completion Report
IICA    Instituto Nacional de Capacitacion del Sector Agropecuario, A.C (National Institute
        for the Agricultural Sector Training)
INIFAP  Instituto Nacional de Investigaciones Forestales y Agropecuarias (National Institute
        for Forestry, Agriculture, and Livestock Research)
IPM     Integrated Pest Management
NAFIN   Nacional Finaciera (National Development Bank)
NAFTA   North American Free Trade Agreement
NGO     Non-Governmental Organazation
NPV     Net Present Value
PAD     Project Appraisal Document
PANNA   Pesticide Action Netwrk
PEAT    Basic Technical Assistance Program
PRI     Institutional Revolutionary Party
RDMAP   Rural Development in Marginal Areas Project
SAGAR   Secretary of Agriculture, Livestock, and Rural Development (now SAGARPA)
SAGARPA Secretary of Agriculture, Livestock, Rural Development, Fisheries and Food
SHCP    Secretary of Finance and Public Credit
SILs    Specific Investment Loan
SINDER  Sistema Nacional de Extension Rural (National System of Rural Extension)

                              Vice President:    David de Ferranti
                           Country Director      Isabel Guerrero
                    Sector Manager/Director      John Redwood
         Task Team Leader/Task Manager:          James Smyle

                                           MEXICO
                        Rural Development in Marginal Areas Project


                                         CONTENTS




                                                                              Page No.
1. Project Data                                                                    1
2. Principal Performance Ratings                                                   1
3. Assessment of Development Objective and Design, and of Quality at Entry         2
4. Achievement of Objective and Outputs                                            4
5. Major Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcome                              9
6. Sustainability                                                                13
7. Bank and Borrower Performance                                                 13
8. Lessons Learned                                                               17
9. Partner Comments                                                              19
10. Additional Information
Annex 1. Key Performance Indicators/Log Frame Matrix                             21
Annex 2. Project Costs and Financing                                             25
Annex 3. Economic Costs and Benefits                                             27
Annex 4. Bank Inputs                                                             31
Annex 5. Ratings for Achievement of Objectives/Outputs of Components             34
Annex 6. Ratings of Bank and Borrower Performance                                35
Annex 7. List of Supporting Documents                                            36
Annex 8. Borrower Executive Summary ICR                                          38

Project ID: P007711                                                  Project Name: Rural Development in Marginal Areas
                                                                     Project
Team Leader: James W. Smyle                                          TL Unit: LCSER
ICR Type: Core ICR                                                   Report Date: December 9, 2004


1. Project Data
                   Name: Rural Development in Marginal Areas Project              L/C/TF Number: SCL-42760; TF-26538
   Country/Department: MEXICO                                                             Region: Latin America and the
                                                                                                     Caribbean Region

        Sector/subsector: General agriculture, fishing and forestry sector (64%); Other social
                            services (15%); Agricultural extension and research (15%); General
                            public administration sector (6%)
                  Theme: Nutrition and food security (P); Rural services and infrastructure (P);
                            Decentralization (S); Rural policies and institutions (S); Civic
                            engagement, participation and community driven development (S)


  KEY DATES                                                                  Original               Revised/Actual
           PCD: 04/05/1997                                     Effective: 03/15/1998                10/14/1998
     Appraisal: 06/24/1997                                         MTR:                             05/21/2001
      Approval: 01/27/1998                                      Closing: 06/30/2003                 06/30/2003



    Borrower/Implementing Agency:          Nacional Financiera, S.N.C. (NAFIN)/Secretariat of Agriculture, Livestock and
                                           Rural Development
                      Other Partners:      State Authorities

STAFF                           Current                                        At Appraisal
Vice President:                 David de Ferranti                              Javed Shahid Burki
Country Director:               Isabel M. Guerrero                             Olivier Lafourcade
Sector Manager/Director:        John Redwood                                   Maritta Koch-Weser
Team Leader at ICR:             James W. Smyle                                 Adolfo Brizzi
ICR Primary Author:             Jorge Caballero; Elsie Garfield
                                and James Smyle with inputs
                                from Jorge Franco; Christian
                                Pieri and Zhong Tong


2. Principal Performance Ratings

(HS=Highly Satisfactory, S=Satisfactory, U=Unsatisfactory, HL=Highly Likely, L=Likely, UN=Unlikely, HUN=Highly Unlikely,
HU=Highly Unsatisfactory, H=High, SU=Substantial, M=Modest, N=Negligible)

                           Outcome:        S
                      Sustainability:      L
   Institutional Development Impact:       M
                 Bank Performance:         S
            Borrower Performance:          S


                                                      QAG (if available)             ICR
                                  Quality at Entry:                                  S

                      Project at Risk at Any Time: No

The Project had a Quality at Supervision rating of "Satisfactory".


3. Assessment of Development Objective and Design, and of Quality at Entry

3.1 Original Objective:
The Rural Development in Marginal Areas Program, of which this project is the first phase (APL I) seeks
to improve the well-being and the income of smallholders in about 24 targeted marginal areas , which are
                                                                                                       (*)


among the poorest of the country, through sustainable increases in productivity and better food security.
The program seeks to improve the productive capacity of participating farmers through a community-based
approach by (i) facilitating the introduction of sustainable agricultural production systems and
diversification through improved access to financial resources and agricultural services; (ii) fostering
community socio-economic development, organization, and participation; (iii) enhancing the provision of
effective technical support services and training to farmers and producers organizations; and (iv) promoting
an effective decentralized decision-making system fostering institutional coordination. The program would
cover a total population of about 10 million people, of which about 2 million would benefit directly from
program support.

The program was planned to progressively expand coverage over an eight-to-ten year period to eventually
cover the 24 target regions. APL I was to cover a first group of six marginal areas, comprising the regions
of Mixe, Cuicateca, Mazateca (in the state of Oaxaca), and the Huasteca region (a contiguous area
expanding over parts of the three states of Veracruz, San Luis Potosi and Hidalgo). The 6 regions
comprise an area of some 23,000 km2 with a total population of about 1.3 million inhabitants. An
estimated 70 percent of the population was eligible to participate in the project. About 40,000 families,
constituting poor small farming households, were to directly benefit from project support.

The project objective reflects the program goal and aims at improving smallholders' productivity and food
security in a first group of six marginal areas. The project would promote the participation of indigenous
people, as they represent about 67 percent of this target population, and women, as they play a key role in
both agricultural and in family nutrition.

(*) "Marginal areas" were defined both geographically (using a combination of GOM indices of marginality and
poverty from CONAPO and INEGI) and physically (using a combination of agro-ecological and production system
variables from SAGAR). Beneficiary eligibility was primarily defined on the basis of verifiable criteria of available
assets (land, livestock), level of production for self-consumption, access to services, and producer groups.

3.2 Revised Objective:
Program objectives remained unchanged during the period of implementation.

3.3 Original Components:
The project components and activities were designed in a way that was consistent and appropriate for
reaching the objective of improving the well-being and the income of smallholders in targeted marginal
areas, through focalized activities that assured area and beneficiary targeting. The project financed four
components that included the following:

Total Project Costs: $63 million of which $47 million from the World Bank.

3.3.1. Productive Investments (US$40 million, 63% of total project cost): Under this component, the



                                                          - 2 -

project financed demand-driven investment subprojects for agricultural production, natural resources
management, value-added processing, and minor productive infrastructure. The investments were to be
financed through a matching grants system with up-front contribution by participants of at least 30 percent
of the subproject cost. A cost-recovery mechanism was to be promoted at the community level to foster
sustainability of project activities.

Eligible expenditures in the subprojects included farming equipment and tools; inputs for cultivation or
livestock; construction materials, small works and installations; processing machinery; small irrigation and
drainage works and equipment; plantations and nurseries; technical assistance and specialized training and;
storage facilities for inputs and products. The principal types of subprojects to be covered were: (i)
improvements in traditional basic grain farming systems and home garden production; (ii) diversification
and improvement of farming and production systems with commercial objectives; (iii) natural resources
management and agroforestry; (iv) small enterprise development subproject; and (v) revolving funds.

3.3.2. Community Development (US$6 million, 9% of total project cost): This component financed
activities community-driven investments for which cost recovery was not expected. Activities included: (i)
preparation of community-based natural resources management, plans and small works associated with
them; (ii) small projects related to community activities of indirect benefits; and (iii) training and
workshops to facilitate beneficiaries participation in the project (interchanges with other communities,
participatory approaches, management of revolving funds, natural resources management, etc.).

3.3.3. Technical Support (US$13 million, 22% of total project cost): This component covered the
provision of extension services, technical assistance, workshops, and training for farmers, producers'
organizations, women's groups, and small entrepreneurs. The support was primarily to address needs for
the preparation and implementation of subprojects, the establishment of demonstration plots, and the
start-up of specialized activities. While basic extension services were to be provided under the national
extension system, technical assistance required for the identification, preparation and implementation of
investment subprojects was to be contracted by the communities and beneficiary groups through NGOs or
the private sector and partly financed by producers.
3.3.4. Institutional Strengthening & Project Administration (US$4 million, 6% of total project cost):
This component was to support project management and administration, and included (i) the establishment
and operating expenditures of the Regional Sustainable Development Councils (CRDSs) and their technical
support units; (ii) capacity building and training for the CRDSs and (iii) expenses associated with
institutional strengthening at the central level, project management, monitoring and evaluation, and
auditing.

3.4 Revised Components:
Project components remained unchanged.

3.5 Quality at Entry:
Quality at entry of APL I was rated as satisfactory. In addition to being consistent with the CAS, the
project's objectives and activities reflected a number of innovative concepts: explicit links between social
demands and institutional response (through regional councils); participatory, community-driven
approaches; integration of social and environmental safeguard concerns; co-financing among different
levels of government; capitalization of financial assistance; and the possibility of replication to many areas
in the country. Overall, at Federal, State and sub-regional levels, stakeholders acknowledged the innovative
and appropriate vision on which the project was built.

From the perspective of the Bank's safeguard policies, the design was appropriate at entry. Government



                                                       - 3 -

and institutional policy and the necessary degree of commitment by technical staff were in place.

4. Achievement of Objective and Outputs

4.1 Outcome/achievement of objective:
The project outcome is rated satisfactory. This may be a somewhat unorthodox conclusion for a project
within a program of APLs that was closed early with a large undisbursed balance, but, as discussed in
more detail below, the project had tremendous success in convincing Government to scale up, without
external financial assistance, a poverty-targeted program for sustainable rural development. In this regard,
the project exceeded, both in scope and timing, all expectations with respect to its development impact. For
example:

    l Government completely mainstreamed the RDMAP through SAGARPA's Under-Secretariat for
         Rural Development. As of 2003, 75% of the Under-Secretariat's investment program budget was
         being allocated utilizing the concepts and approaches developed under APLs I and II.
    l The ICR's: (a) estimation that the economic rate of return over 13%, (b) the financial analysis
         showing a financial rate of return estimated to be over 50%, and (c) the conclusion that
         investments made under the project resulted in improved production and income.
    l The project contributed directly to achieving Government of Mexico and the CAS priorities on
         improving food security and well being among rural households of the extreme poor (who are
         primarily indigenous); priorities that are still valid.

While the APL itself did not progress as far as was originally planned, Government's early mainstreaming
of the RDMAP and rapid expansion of the project concept into a broader Marginal Areas program under
the current "Alliance With You" rural development program clearly constitutes a successful outcome for
the project.

Based on the survey data and information collected through interviews with field staff and participating
farmers, it can be stated that among the producers assisted over longer periods of time (more than one
year), the project achieved the objective of improving production and income. According to the FAO's
2001 annual evaluation of SAGARPA's rural development programs, which specifically includes the
RDMAP, 68% and 17% of beneficiaries increased productivity and income by 30%, respectively. As
regards impacts on household food security, the available information on production increases indicates
that improvements were achieved in household food security. In Veracruz, for example, child nutrition
status in nine project communities was assessed and measurable improvement in child health and nutrition
were found as a result of the introduction of grain amaranths in the diet.

With respect to the environment, agrochemical use and health hazards were increasingly reduced over the
life of the project, with the greatest reductions occurring as a result of an important change in the 2002
program guidelines that recurrent costs such as agricultural inputs (including pesticides and fertilizers)
would no longer be financed. Other positive impacts included the increased investment requested by
producers for soil and water conservation and management, for alternative soil nutrient management
technologies (e.g., composting), in crops adapted to conditions in marginal areas which required fewer
inputs (e.g., aloe vera), and in diversification activities which reduced reliance on extensive use of the
natural resource base (e.g., handicrafts, small animal raising, fish culture, small-scale value-added
processing, etc.).

4.2 Outputs by components:




                                                        - 4 -

4.2.1 Productive Investments
The FAO/SAGARPA evaluation (2001) showed overall farmers' satisfaction with the recommended
technologies and 87% of the farmers interviewed reported that they continued to use the recommended
technologies. Each State has a list of successful subprojects and all these projects have in common some
degree of technical and economic integration within a broader framework of rural family and market
opportunity development. It was recognized that the promotion of changes in technology, especially among
indigenous peoples, cannot be achieved in isolation from the understanding of the complex functioning of
their traditional production systems and the interaction of these systems with the family-economy, labor
allocation strategies, community organization, current links with public services and unfavorable marketing
systems controlled by middlemen. Two interesting trends were observed with respect to subprojects: (i) a
progressive move from investments in subsistence agriculture to investments in income generating
activities, e.g., in the State of Oaxaca between 1997 and 2001 the annual percentage of investment in
traditional crop production declined steadily from 43% to 8%; and (ii) a growing demand for investments in
soil and water conservation, which went from zero in 1997 to a high of 10% in the states of Oaxaca,
Veracruz and Hidalgo.

According to SAGARPA's reports, the project generally met or exceeded its targets in terms of number of
subprojects financed annually. However, only about 50% of the estimated 40,000 end-of-project
beneficiaries were reached despite a total investment that was 76% of the appraisal estimate. This is an
indication that average per-beneficiary costs were significantly higher than expected. The desired
productivity increases were obtained, but as of program closing, the income improvements sought had not
yet fully materialized. Only an estimated 17% -- 25% of the goal -- of project producers experienced
income increases of more than 30%. Among other this was due to a heavy reliance by farmers on planting
of subsistence crops; the length of establishment period for market-oriented, perennial crops; and difficulty
in accessing competitive markets (i.e., marketing tended to be through middlemen, operating with predatory
practices). With a longer implementation period, this would have improved given the trend observed during
the project of a shift from subsistence production to more market and income generating investments in
crop and livestock production.

While there is no information available on the actual percentage of funds that were recovered -- the project
target was 80% recovery -- there was a notable and important development of community saving funds
(CSF) created out of producers' savings. The project made a crucial contribution in initiating the CSF
movement and developing the appropriate technical assistance package and capacity for the creation of
CSFs. One indication of this is the report by the Instituto Nacional para el Desarrollo de Capacidades
del Sector Rural (Inca Rural) that by July 2002 there were about 110 CSFs with more than 4,700 members
in the states assisted by the project. The total estimated savings among these CSFs was 2.7 million pesos
or about 600 pesos per capita.

The project was also successful in increasing demand for investments in practices conducive to
conservation and sustainable management of land and water resources, including conservation tillage,
living edges and agroforestry activities. Producers from Oaxaca, Veracruz and Hidalgo steadily increased
their demand for such investments to where it ultimately represented about 10% of the total financing for
productive investments. The increases were particularly significant in Oaxaca, going from 2% of
investment in year one to 21% in the final year. According to the 2001 SAGARPA/FAO Evaluation,
38.9% of beneficiaries believed that the program had undertaken positive actions with respect to natural
resources.




                                                      - 5 -

Some shortcomings were noted. While technologies were generally sound in principle, many were not yet
adapted to the biophysical and sociocultural environments in which the project operated. For example,
when initially more complex IPM technologies were promoted (e.g., crop scouting), results were marginal.
However, by shifting to "soft", environmentally friendly technologies that relied on skills within most
farmers' grasp (e.g., introducing different crop varieties as part of an integrated pest management
approach) better results were achieved. Over time, gains were made in moving for the early-on view that
subprojects were primarily vehicles for providing subsidies to traditional farming practices toward the
understanding that they were investments in developing future, sustainable farming practices. Achieving a
move toward the integration of subprojects at the farm, community, micro-watershed, and market levels
was difficult and slow. During the course of implementation, many of these weaknesses were recognized
and a series of improvements were made incrementally, over time. Among the critical steps taken to
address these shortcomings were those related to improving technical support and retention rates of field
technicians to allow for improving performance through both training and experiential learning. This is
discussed in more detail in the sections immediately below.

4.2.2 Community Development
According to project reports, participatory rural assessments and plans for community-based natural
resources management were carried out in 100% of participating communities and about 75% of
investment targets were met in community development subprojects. These are very important levels of
accomplishment. The full impact of this accomplishment, however, was not achieved. The project was
introducing new instruments for achieving participatory development (e.g., rural assessments, diagnostics,
prioritization of issues and opportunities) and as such they were often treated as formalities to be applied
and rarely updated. In the beginning, the groups of community participants were often "artificial" in the
sense that they came together solely for the purpose of accessing project resources. During the course of
implementation, there were advances in resolving these problems, especially once reforms were introduced
in the project's technical support structure that created regional technical units that could offer closer
technical and organizational support.

4.2.3 Technical Support
Overall, farmers from the assisted areas were highly supportive of the technical assistance received,
particularly when it came through technicians that spoke the local language. According to the
FAO/SAGARPA evaluation (2001), 93.4% of farmers interviewed said that they benefited from skilled
field technicians. Only 5.2% of interviewed farmers paid for technical assistance services whereas 24%
were willing to pay for it in the near future. During the project, there was a clear and constant demand on
the part of communities and municipal governments to have access to technical knowledge and assistance
not directly related to any particular investment subproject. Community demand for non-subproject related
technical assistance was high. Areas of particular demand for assistance included marketing and
organizational and administrative assistance. Early attempts to respond to this demand revealed that
provision of technical assistance generated expenditure levels that were unsustainable under the Alianza's
regulations. This limitation was resolved in the 2002 guidelines with the mainstreaming of the RDMAP.
In recognition of the demand for technical assistance, the guidelines were reformed to allow stand-alone
technical assistance investments, training, organizational support, marketing, etc. The financing ceilings
established under the 2002 federal guidelines were generous.

While the desired levels of assistance (one extensionist per four communities) were generally achieved,
there were problems with and complaints about the high turnover of field technicians, the lack of continuity
in the services provided, inadequate support for implementation and monitoring of results, and the
unsatisfactory quality of many subprojects submitted for project funding. In general, the extension agents


                                                      - 6 -

were young professionals, lacking incentives to remain in the field and often overwhelmed by the
administrative demands and requests to produce plans and bankable projects.

On these issues, progress was achieved as a result of the ongoing dialogue on refining project guidelines to
create opportunities for improving the provision of services, for developing and integrating within the
project strategic lines of assistance (e.g., environmental management, IPM, marketing and
commercialization), and of removing adverse incentives. Improvements were seen in the 2002 federal
guidelines for the Alianza Para El Campo program when restrictions on investments in technical
assistance, training, and extension were removed. The changes introduced allowed for adequate financing
to carry out critical activities as they had been originally intended, such as: participatory diagnostics with
community groups, technical assistance, training and organizational support, and impact monitoring. For
the latter, also for the first time, the 2002 guidelines included financing for a quality control and
supervision mechanism (through contracts with Universities). Another very important change as of 2002
was a prohibition in the program of using public funds for purchasing agricultural inputs (including
pesticides and fertilizers). This latter created two desirable incentives. For the technical service providers,
it became unavoidable to look to the use of improved agronomic and cultural practices for maintenance of
soil fertility and for pest management. For farmers, the use of agrochemicals would no longer be
subsidized by the federal program, requiring they rationalize their practices and complement them with
more natural management systems. As part of the overall dialogue with Government, towards the end of
the program SAGARPA expressed interest in working with the World Bank in areas of decentralized,
participatory rural development and environmental management of agricultural productions systems; the
latter in order to develop payment of environmental services schemes to benefit rural households.

4.2.4 Institutional Strengthening & Project Administration
The project was successful in creating the regional councils in most regions and in strengthening grassroots
organizations (especially in Veracruz). Technical units were created and were successful in maintaining
the project as operational.

During the field visits, it was found that the communities appreciated the regional councils as useful
organizational structures for discussing their needs and finding solutions to common productive problems.
The new Sustainable Rural Development Law of December 2001 institutionalized the regional council
philosophy and principals, but at the same time it introduced a new structure within which the project's
regional councils did not fit well either in territorial or in operational terms. The new law created and gave
to Municipal Development Councils the role of prioritizing development investments and to the District
Councils the role of a forum for interchange between municipalities and sectors in order to allow for
coordination and development of strategic, regional priorities. As such, the project's regional councils
became "obsolete" within the organizational structure for development planning introduced by the new law.

It was noted that in states that were initially distrustful of the project's Regional Councils, at the end these
same state authorities expressed their disappointment for the loss of the existing councils as the move was
made to municipal-level planning and priotization. Apparently, in an important number of cases --
following long periods of often-tense dialogue -- the council actors had learned to work in a constructive
way. A side effect, mentioned by some state authorities, was that the mechanism of the councils may have
contributed to the reduction in other forms of pressuring Government (e.g., invading government offices,
blocking roads and demonstrations). At the time of project closing, much yet remained to be done to
implement the new planning and organizational structures and to consolidate within these a participatory
institutional framework. An important step, taken by the Subsecretariat of Rural Development at the time
of project closing, to strengthen these was to finance municipal-level promoters in the marginal areas'
municipalities to support and work with the Municipal Development Councils and local communities on


                                                        - 7 -

participatory planning.

A shortcoming noted in the project's institutional strengthening efforts was its limited contribution to
strengthening the strategic/operational relations between SAGARPA and the states; a critical element in the
decentralization framework. Throughout the implementation, bottlenecks between the federal and state
level programs existed. Among these are included: limited systematic communications and dialogue
between the two levels of government; and limited consultations between the federal and state levels on
adaptations and refinements of program's norms and guidelines. Given that a number of the problems that
contributed to the eventual cancellation of a significant percentage of the loan were ones whose solution
required accommodation on the part of the states in areas of financial management and procurement, it is
possible that more systematic communications and dialogue may have contributed to a solution.

4.3 Net Present Value/Economic rate of return:
The economic rate of return is 13.3% for the overall project which shows that the project had a positive
impact on most of the targeted beneficiaries and made a relatively positive overall economic contribution.

In order to carry out the economic analysis, adjustments were made in the price of labor, maize, beans and
milk. The actual rate of exchange of the Mexican peso was used as it is considered to be determined in the
open market and other domestic prices are believed to be in line with border economic values. The subsidies
paid through Procampo     (*)and the RDMAP itself were excluded from calculations in order to reflect the real
social cost of the project.

(*) Begun in 1994, PROCAMPO is a government subsidy program whose objective is to provide direct income
support to rural producers. The program was initiated in response to the liberalization of the Mexican economy to
soften the blow to the income of rural producers when government price guarantees for agricultural products were
removed.

4.4 Financial rate of return:
The financial analysis to assess the actual results obtained by beneficiaries of productive investments of
APL I was carried out on the basis of twelve farm models (including 4 for milpa production, 3 for home
garden/small livestock production, 2 for commercial crops, 1 for cattle production, and 2 for micro
agro-industries), valid all across the project areas.

Selected farm models show relatively high positive financial results (see Annex 3); a result that could be
expected given the level of subsidy provided to the various on-farm investments. The exceptions are the
models of milpa improvements with soil conservation and milpa with fruit trees, probably because of the
high initial investment requirements. Initial investment costs in the "milpa with fruit trees" model were
reduced by 50% through promotion of locally produced grafted fruit tree seedlings and through research
showing that equivalent results could be obtained with a 30% reduction in the recommended fruit trees
populations. The switching values show that all models are relatively stable, with the exception of the
"milpa with soil conservation" model. This latter is not surprising considering that terracing (the soil
conservation technology in the model) tends to be an inappropriate technology for use with low value crops.
As the project was moving toward the promotion of more appropriate hillside production practices (e.g.,
vegetative barriers, minimum till), in the future the "milpa with soil conservation" model likely would have
improved.

The overall financial rate of return was estimated at 50.9%.

4.5 Institutional development impact:




                                                       - 8 -

The institutional development impact was satisfactory given the extraordinary success of the project had in
helping Government rapidly scale up its marginal areas rural development program, although, as noted in
Section 4.2.4, some aspects of the institutional strengthening component itself could have been more
effective. As mentioned previously, the RDMAP became the basis for SAGARPA's Sub-Secretary of
Rural Development's restructuring of its programs. The major changes came toward the end of 2002 when
the Alianza para el Campo programs were restructured in accordance with an integrated rural perspective
and based on the new institutional framework defined by the Sustainable Rural Development Law. All
existing, individual programs were conceptually and operationally grouped into three basic thematic areas
similar to the RDMAP structure: (i) physical capital development (i.e., capital investments); (ii) human
capital strengthening (i.e, training, technical assistance and consultancies to identify, prepare, execute and
consolidate investment subprojects); and (iii) social capital building through strengthening organizations,
organizational linkages and local participation and decision-making processes. The RDMAP targeting
criteria were adopted for the new program, resulting in about 70% of the Sub-secretary of Rural
Development's resources being directed to marginal areas. According to the 2002 Operational Manual, the
new assistance strategy prioritizes capitalization of family production units, food security, sustainable use
of natural resources, adding value through post-harvest transformation processes, capacity building in rural
activities and higher levels of participation especially through farmers' organizations.

As a learning experience, the RDMAP provided Government and the states with an important opportunity
to confront the challenges of developing the instruments and organization required for decentralized,
participatory and demand-driven approaches to productive agricultural investment. While there remains a
substantial amount of work required to refine the instruments and approaches initiated under the RDMAP,
the evolutionary trends are visible as past learning has been incorporated into revised approaches to be
implemented through the new, RDMAP-based program. One particular area of note is in the ongoing
adjustments being made to the approach for provision of technical assistance in marginal areas. A very
positive set of changes introduced at the time of project closing included: (i) more realistic financing
ceilings for technical assistance; (ii) making stand-alone technical assistance subprojects eligible for
financing; (iii) differentiated payment scales to reduce turnover of field technicians and to create incentives
for technicians to visit and work in more remote/marginal areas; (iii) addition of a quality control/outcome
certification mechanism in the technical assistance program; and (iv) placement of program promoters in
the Municipalities to work directly with the Municipal Development Councils.

5. Major Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcome

5.1 Factors outside the control of government or implementing agency:
A number of problems affecting public interventions in the rural sector are either beyond the control of
Government or are very slow to change as they result from a heavily ingrained institutional/political culture
that was reinforced during past decades of "top-down" oriented programs. There are also persistent
structural problems limiting the capacity of small farmers to access assets, to participate in better
functioning factor and goods markets (e.g., land, financial services, labor, and technology, marketing
facilities) and to add value in the post harvest chain. These constrain their development and the potential
for programs such as RDMAP to contribute to the growth process. This situation constitutes a major
policy challenge as NAFTA agreements will put the sector in open competition with Canada and the United
States as of 2008.

Factors beyond the control of Government and the implementing agency that affected the project's ability to
fully achieve the desired impacts on the direct beneficiaries included: fall in the price of grains in the
international market; appreciation of the Mexican peso from 1996 to 2001; public sector reform resulting
in the abrupt withdrawal of the public sector from direct provision of technical assistance, and rural



                                                       - 9 -

financing among others; opening of the Mexican market to imports of grains faster than originally agreed in
NAFTA; and institutional cultures in an uneven process of adaptation toward supporting decentralized,
participatory and demand driven development approaches.

5.2 Factors generally subject to government control:
Several implementation problems can be attributed to public management norms and culture and to
Government policy.

First, the federal budgetary cycle made it difficult to systematically operate a decentralized, demand-driven
project from year-to-year. This, in turn, made it more difficult to achieve objectives of local capacity
building and sustainability. Typically, financing of community-level activities was initiated during the 4th
quarter of any fiscal year. This was the time required to complete the cycle of Congressional approval of
budget, approval and publication of the rules for the functioning of the federal programs during that fiscal
year, finalizing of agreements with the states on the transfer of the federal program funds under the new
year's rules, transfer of funds to the state and contracting of the technical assistance providers to work with
communities and groups on their proposals, selection and approval of proposals. At the farmer-level, this
resulted in late disbursement and a divorce between project support and the seasonal farming cycles.
Multi-year subprojects could not be approved as financing was on an annual basis only.

Second, the project's adaptive approach, which encouraged discussions, reflections and knowledge
dissemination, initially confronted a traditional institutional environment that had evolved to operate more
centrally-controlled activities. This, coupled with the aforementioned budgetary arrangements, limited the
opportunities for the project to develop and integrate its needed "bottom-up" elements. Also, top
decision-makers did not receive the quality and timely information that was becoming available at the local
level unless they actively sought it out by making regular visits to the project communities.

Finally, the Government of Mexico's fiscal policy of non-additionality (*) applied to external financial
resources limited the project's potential. In terms of the RDMAP, a project to progressively build upon
learning and experience in order to replicate and scale-up proven approaches, the lack of additionality made
all decisions within SAGARPA on resource allocation a zero sum game. Any incremental investment in
institutional strengthening, coordination, monitoring and evaluation, systematization of experiences and
dissemination of good practices, and consensus building could only be done at the expense of "productive
investment" and through increases in what were considered to be "administrative costs". As such,
flexibility, experimentation, innovation and adaptation potential were significantly reduced. In addition,
difficulties were created for financial management. The RDMAP had severe problems in translating
expenditure of national funds into disbursements from the Bank. The executing agencies (SAGARPA and
the State governments) had no incentive to bear the incremental transaction costs associated with the
Bank's financial management, procurement and disbursement requirements as they would have access to
the same amount of resources from the national budget with or without the Bank financing. This was the
primary cause of slow disbursements that resulted in the cancellation of more than 50% of the APL I loan
funds.

(*) The World Bank finances a percentage of the federal budget. Thus, from the agency perspective, World Bank
financing does not imply additional resources. Among others, this means that no additional resources are provided
to the agency to cover the transaction costs associated with a Bank-financed project. This aspect of working in
Mexico has long been recognized as a problem that can affect the implementation of investment projects, especially
when the project is financing small, scattered activities and/or attempting to break new ground. Although some
projects have coped better than others (see section on Lessons Learned) and the Ministry of Finance requested that
the subject of non-additionality be dropped from the ICR (see section on Borrower comments), the
non-additionality problem has been, and continues to be, a chronic problem for much of the Mexico portfolio.


                                                        - 10 -

5.3 Factors generally subject to implementing agency control:
While overall the RDMAP's contribution was very positive, during the course of implementation a number
of critical issues arose.

The commitment by Government to a rapid expansion of the Marginal Areas concept and approach and its
integration into the Alianza para el Campo framework resulted in an unforeseen circumstance. Whereas
the RDMAP was to be the pilot ­ a structured learning environment for systematically refining, scaling-up
and expansion ­ it was quickly faced with a choice of operating either as an enclave in the Government's
much larger program or to be mainstreamed into the larger program. Given the non-additionality of
Bank-financing, the decision to mainstream was a correct one. However, the integration of the RDMAP
into the Alianza now meant that it represented a line of financing within the Alianza that was relatively
small  (*), but whose execution relative to the rest of the Program required a disproportionate amount of time
and resources at the national and state-levels and additional transactions for the recipients.

The increases in administrative complexity resulting from expansion of the program was anticipated. From
late 1999 onward,discussions centered on strengthening the structure and functions at the central and state
levels (e.g., increasing central level monitoring and follow capabilities and state level operational
capabilities), implementing an effective communications strategy on the project's operational rules and
characteristics, increasing administrative and technical staff and not prematurely decentralizing some
functions. Specific proposals to deal with administrative issues were generated in the Second National
Forum of the RDMAP held in October 2000. Ultimately, most of the proposed strengthening actions were
not implemented as: (i) the changes proposed would have required incremental financing and (ii) from an
operational perspective, the RDMAP was already demanding more staff time and operational/recurrent
expenditure than the other, non-Bank financed portions of the Alianza programs.

Other issues worthy of mention include:

     i. Greater efforts were needed in: a) dissemination and communication to support a process of
          "horizontal dissemination" between and to get periodic feedback from project actors (federal, state,
          local, community), and b) to monitor socioeconomic and environmental impacts from baseline
          situations.
     ii. A more systematic approach to capacity-building programs for community participatory planning
          during early implementation. Such a capacity program was eventually organized by SAGARPA
          and implemented by a specialized NGO (INMEDER) for a limited number of technician and
          farmers leaders in 2002;
   iii. A sustained focus on promoting the formation and/or strengthening of community organizations;
          sustainable ggriculture farmers' organizations; and development of field technician and producers'
          technical capacity for on-site adaptation of improved technologies;
    iv. A more systematic approach to ensuring appropriate orientation and impact of subprojects
          through:
             l Participatory rural assessment including diagnosis and prioritization of issues and
                  opportunities;
             l Timeliness of disbursements relative to production cycles and field activities;
             l Reducing administrative tasks required of the field technician so that majority of their time
                  is dedicated to field, not desk, work;
             l Increasing field technicians responsibilities during the subproject implementation and in the
                  monitoring of results;
             l Recruitment process of field technicians that ensure an appropriate mix of experienced and




                                                       - 11 -

                  inexperienced technicians and of technicians with multidisciplinary backgrounds
                  (especially, social science/community organization, marginal areas production systems,
                  rural development, natural resources, and marketing/commercialization backgrounds);
            l Development of long-term basic education and training programs for field technician to
                  teach them to move beyond the delivery of only technical messages and to develop capacity
                  of field technicians as "change agents" and "catalyzers"; and
            l An incentive system to reduce field technician turnover and enhance motivation to work
                  under difficult conditions through more than just salary increases and covering of travel
                  expenses, but also by enhancing potential for professional development.

(*) By the end of 2001, under APL I and APL II, the Bank was financing activities in only 15 regions whereas the
government's overall program for Marginal Areas was being implemented in 42 regions. In addition, Government
was financing the implementation of the RDMAP in municipalities within regions where the RDMAP was
operating but that where not eligible for Bank-financing, i.e., municipalities which met the criteria for RDMAP
financing but which had not been included in the APL. By 2002, Bank financing represented less than 10% of the
total program financing.

5.4 Costs and financing:
The total project cost was US$63.0 million at appraisal, including Bank financing of US$47.0 million of
Federal and States' budgets and US$16 million of beneficiary contributions. Actual expenditures
amounted to US$48.9 million, of which Bank financing was US$21.48 million, GOM US$21.52 million
and beneficiaries US$5.90 million. The differences between the appraisal estimates and the final total were
primarily attributable to a series of factors discussed below.

The actual expenditures were approximated 78% of the initial budget. Bank financing was only 46% of the
original estimate. The by-component expenditure, as a percent of original estimates was: Productive
Investments - 76%; Community Development ­ 67%; Technical Support ­ 88%; and Institutional
Strengthening and Project Management ­ 75%.

The shortfall in overall disbursement is primarily explained by: (i) project start-up was slow; (ii) the
mainstreaming of the programs' budget into the Alianza para el Campo, where the states subsequently
reset budget priorities, resulting in budget reductions to the Bank-financed RDMAP; and (iii) the lengthy
process required to transfer federal program funds to the states.

The Bank loan disbursement data does not accurately portray the real pace of implementation by
Government; rather it indicates the problems that were affecting the Bank-financed portion of the program.
For example, in 2000, APL I and APL II had a combined budget allocation of over 260 million pesos
(approximately US$ 27.7 million). The entire amount was disbursed by SAGARPA to the participating
states, which reported a 100% execution of those funds. Subsequently, SAGARPA's RDMAP
administrative staff estimated that Bank-reimbursable expenditure constituted about 86% of this total
(about 224 million pesos). The Bank ultimately was able to reimburse only some 55% of that amount.
The process required to do so took 18 months due, among others, to the difficulty that federal-level staff
had in obtaining adequate documentation from state officials. The underlying causes of this situation were
primarily:

      i. Lack of incentives for: a) the States to collect, maintain or deliver to SAGARPA's RDMAP
         administrative staff the documentation required for requesting Bank reimbursal, and b) SAGARPA
         to finance the additional transaction costs associated with the Bank loan. The additional costs of
         compliance with Bank procedures had to be absorbed by the States' and SAGARPA's budgets,



                                                       - 12 -

         which given the non-additionality of the Bank loan, were the same with or without the loan funds.
         Another contributing factor was that the unspent balance of the budget allocated under RDMAP
         could be spent on other activities that were subject to more flexible and discretional regulations.
         Thus, the RDMAP competed at a disadvantage with other programs of Alianza para el Campo.
    ii. The rapid expansion of the RDMAP by Government, utilizing their own funds, placing tremendous
         strain on the implementation capacity of SAGARPA's RDMAP staff. The same staff were
         administering and managing SAGARPA's Rural Development Sub-secretariat's expanded
         program as well as numerous other rural development programs. Despite great diligence and effort
         on their part, there was neither the time or the resources to resolve the Bank-specific problem.

Attempts were made to increase Bank loan disbursements without result. Among these were efforts by
NAFIN and SAGARPA to jointly analyze the disbursement process in order to simplify and reduce the
time required. Agreements were reached with the Bank to utilize simplified documentation for purposes of
disbursement and audits. SAGARPA also attempted to move fund management and administration to
FIRCO (Investment Fund for Shared Risk or Fideicomiso de Riesgo Compartido), an agency of
SAGARPA that was effectively managing other Bank-financed programs. By October 2001 the Bank
warned about the possibility of making a partial cancellation of the loan. By November 2002, only some
30% of the eligible expenditure for 2001 had been disbursed and prospects were not promising for
resolving the obstacles to disbursements in 2002. SHCP, in conjunction with NAFIN, informed the Bank in
November 2002 of their decision to cancel US$23 million from APL I rather than seek an extension of the
project's June 2003 closing date. At that time less than 40% of the APL I loan had been disbursed.
Several promising alternatives were discussed to increase disbursements; however SHCP's position was
that significant efforts had already been made with no improvement in disbursements, and rather than
continue to pay commitment fees, Government would cancel all but what might reasonably be expected to
be disbursed before project closing. In December 2002 all but US$ 6.0 million were canceled from APL I.
In October 2003, the US$ 2.5 million yet outstanding to be disbursed was cancelled. In total, some
US$25.5 million was canceled from the loan.


6. Sustainability

6.1 Rationale for sustainability rating:
Overall, sustainability is considered likely. As discussed above, the project exceeded all expectations with
respect to scaling up, both in scope and timing, and eliminating the need for external resources.
Government has mainstreamed the RDMAP. The bulk of SAGARPA's rural development investment
program budget with the states is being allocated utilizing concepts and approaches developed under APL I
and APL II. The new Sustainable Rural Development Law, which greatly strengthens the role of local
communities and municipal governments in prioritization of investment resources, provides a suitable
framework for sustaining the project's vision of community demand-driven investments. In addition, the
financial and economic rates of return of the project indicate that the potential for sustainability exists. The
project also made important progress with regard to developing the tools and capacity to encourage and
facilitate the development of community saving funds (CSF), created out of producers' savings. Over time,
these funds could become important sources of financing for productive investments.

Other factors that been previously mentioned but which are important elements that favor sustainability and
demonstrate Government's commitment include: (i) having responded to community demand for technical
assistance by both increasing the financing ceilings (investment) in technical assistance and by having made
stand-alone technical assistance subprojects eligible for financing; (ii) the introduction of differentiated
payment scales to reduce turnover of field technicians and to create incentives for technicians to visit and
work in more remote/marginal areas; (iii) the addition of a quality control/outcome certification mechanism


                                                      - 13 -

in the technical assistance program; and (iv) placement of program promoters in the Municipalities to work
directly with the Municipal Development Councils.

6.2 Transition arrangement to regular operations:
The principal transition arrangements to regular operations are through the new Alianza Contigo (Alliance
With You) program framework. The new program structure consists of three inter-locking subprograms:
"PAPIR" or "Rural Investment Projects" for financing investments in physical capital; "PRODESCA" or
"Rural Capacity Building Program" for training, technical assistance and studies and; "PROFEMOR" or
"Program for Strengthening of Businesses and Rural Organizations" for strengthening organizations,
organizational linkages and local participation and decision-making processes.

7. Bank and Borrower Performance

Bank
7.1 Lending:
The World Bank's performance in the lending process, including APL I and APL II, can be rated as
satisfactory. The project design was consistent with the government priorities at that time and the proposed
10-year program provided Government with a long-term development strategy in the rural areas. Because,
among others, of Government's strong ownership of the RDMAP and the vision it represented, the APL
was an appropriate instrument for assisting Government to achieve the goal of reducing rural poverty and
fostering sustainable agricultural production among small farmers living in marginal areas. Risks were
adequately assessed and the principal risks identified for the appraisal (availability of technical assistance,
functioning of regional councils, etc.) over time revealed themselves as actual implementation problems for
which mitigating measures were foreseen.

7.2 Supervision:
The Bank's supervision performance was rated as satisfactory. Project supervision by the Bank was
considered to be regular, constructive, and supportive of project implementation. The Bank team worked
closely with the government and the counterpart's implementation unit to monitor progress, advise and
assist to resolve problems. The Bank team established a collaborative relationship with the borrower and
supervision missions were usually well regarded both as technical assistance and as a mechanism for
messages from local stakeholders and field and state operating staff to be discussed with the federal
authorities.

It was demonstrated that supervision missions could, after successive discussions, help to introduce
important operational changes. For example, the discussions reflected in Aide Memoirs around the
desirability of making direct disbursements to stakeholders for the purchase of goods and works bore fruit
and this method was successfully introduced in Veracruz and Oaxaca. Such changes as this were the result
of joint visits with federal staff to the field, hearing views from local stakeholders that were different from
those held at the central level, and the sometimes rapid, sometimes gradual process of fomenting changes
based on mutual discussion, observation and knowledge generated through the joint field visits. State-level
actors also saw Bank supervision missions as playing a strategic role in bridging knowledge and
suggestions from the bottom to the top administrators.

7.3 Overall Bank performance:
Overall, Bank performance was satisfactory. At the Federal, State and sub-regional levels, stakeholders
acknowledged the innovative and appropriate vision on which the program has been built. During the
implementation period, it was demonstrated that the RDMAP approach is viable as it is accepted by
farmers and communities and can provide good results in terms of sustainable increases in income through
diversification and the improvement of productive capacity. The Borrower and project stakeholders



                                                        - 14 -

appreciated the Bank's support, advice and supervision during preparation and implementation. In fact, it
could be argued that that Bank performance might merit a highly satisfactory rating, if both the
Government and the Bank had been able to successfully overcome the issues stemming from the
non-additionality. However, all sides recognized that the ability of a single project to do so was extremely
limited, so ICR rating for Bank performance remains at satisfactory.

Borrower
7.4 Preparation:
The Government's performance in preparing the Project was satisfactory. The Government of Mexico was
fully supportive of the project in both policy and financial terms. SAGARPA was involved throughout the
preparation and provided the needed orientation, technical counterpart and supervision to the project
preparation teams. The program that was developed was relevant. Local governments and communities
strongly supported the project's focus and aims of assisting a large number of communities of rural poor
(151,000 communities).

7.5 Government implementation performance:
Throughout the implementation of the project the Government's macro-policy framework and priorities
were highly supportive of the RDMAP. There was significant commitment from Government to the types
of rural development interventions that the RDMAP represented. This was manifest in the increased
budgetary allocations made to the program and its rapid expansion to new (non-Bank financed) areas and
new states.

In terms of the normative and institutional context in which the project implementing agency worked,
following the change of administrations at the end of 2000 the context changed greatly. The change of
federal administration from that of the PRI (after over seventy years in office) to a non-PRI federal
administration meant a significant change in the relationship between the federal and states'
administrations. For the first time in Mexico's modern history, different political administrations existed at
the federal and state levels. An accelerated decentralization took place in which roles were redefined along
a basic differentiation between roles of the federation (policy and norms) and the states (operations).
Among the results were:

     i. The federal bureaucracy's leverage with the states was weakened, which contributed greatly to the
         inability of SAGARPA to require states to comply with procedures for documenting expenditures
         in order to obtain Bank reimbursals. Indeed, the states, as sovereign entities under the
         Constitution, could not be forced. Previously, under the PRI structure this had not such an issue
         due to the "discipline" inherent within the context of a one-party public administration.
    ii. In respect of the inability of SAGARPA to require states to comply with procedures for
         documenting expenditures, either as a consequence or as a contributing factor, there was a
         weakening of commitment on the part of SAGARPA management to assume the incremental
         expenditures associated with the implementation of the RDMAP.
    iii. Communications between federation and states were weakened. Subsequently, federal level
         planning and normative design not uncommonly resulted in important changes with limited prior
         discussion with the states and the states made adjustments to meet their priorities and purposes and
         the federation was not informed by the states of their adjustments, subsequent operations or results.
         It can only be expected that this situation will improve over time as as the federal and state
         governments learn to work together within the new federal model evolving from mulit-party politics
         and the ongoing devolution of decision-making to the states and municipalities within the federal
         programs.




                                                     - 15 -

The change in administrations also brought the inevitable change in sectoral authorities and in upper-level
public agency staff. Unsurprisingly, these new actors had little experience in running the public
bureaucracy and their learning process was further complicated by the situation described above and by the
number and scope of changes that the new sectoral authorities were introducing in Government's rural
development programs and in the administrative structures to operate them. Inevitably this also contributed
to slow downs in the project's implementation and, while the RDMAP staff worked hard to learn and get
the project on-track, the sum total of the changes (expansion of RDMAP model, mainstreaming of
RDMAP, weak communications between federal and state-levels, loss of leverage with states'
bureaucracies, reduced commitment of counterpart to assume transaction costs and lack of incentives or
additional funds to cover these) created the untenable situation that led to early cancellation of the
RDMAP.

Some obstacles were also encountered in the form of bureaucratic rigidities that made it difficult to shift
resources within the program as dictated by experience and learning. Part of this came from pressures
associated with overall reform efforts directed at reducing personnel and recurrent/operational expenses at
the field-level. For example, the rapid expansion of the program was not accompanied by an increase in
administrative, supervision and monitoring and evaluation capabilities as additional staff could neither be
hired nor brought in and outsourcing, which was the primary alternative, could not substitute effectively for
internal administrative and operational staff. Also, strict guidelines greatly limited the capacity of the
implementing agency to better allocate program resources when the opportunity arose or to fund necessary
innovations like a social communications strategy, technical assistance to the states', development of an
appropriate monitoring system and, as already mentioned, the necessary staff to follow up program
operations. As a result, agency staff was stretched thin, over-committed and lacked a complete set of
instruments for program management, supervision and evaluation.

7.6 Implementing Agency:
The implementing agency was SAGARPA's Undersecretary of Rural Development. Overall performance
was satisfactory.

The federal administration of 1995-2000 participated in planning both phases of the APL and was
committed to its design and implementation mechanisms. The resulting project was a vehicle for learning --
from the development of the rules and responsibilities of the Regional Rural Development Committees to
the specific ways to contract technical assistance personnel in the field. The different approaches taken by
each participating state in administrative procedures and even to the "philosophy" of the project provided
diverse models to learn from. Some state initiatives, like in the state of Veracruz, decided to contract
`community promoters' and to directly disburse program funds to the producer's groups. In a number of
cases, such as those mentioned here, these adjustments proved to be good practices and were subsequently
adopted by other states. Annual nationwide program workshops, which brought together producers, field
technical staff, state administrators and federal staff proved to be a good way to share experiences and to
disseminate learning within the project. The project evolved during the 1998 to 2000 period, but it did so
slowly. Changing operational rules was difficult. It was possible to introduce adjustments only once a
year and, due to a "top­down" bureaucratic culture, incorporating experiences and lessons learned from
operations and the constructive internal discussions was not a simple matter.

The new federal administration entered in December 2000 and inherited a program whose norms and
budget structure were already set and that allowed for no changes in the 2001 exercise. Thus the "Rural
Development in Marginal Areas Project" ran in 2001 much in the same manner as in the previous year.

The new sectoral authorities for SAGARPA's rural development (RD) programs early on initiated a



                                                      - 16 -

process to try and consolidate the numerous existing RD programs into a simpler, better-focused
framework. After evaluating the some 18 existing programs in the Alianza Para El Campo, it was decided
to take the Rural Development in Marginal Areas Project (RDMAP) as the model for the whole of the rural
development programs of the new administration. In particular, the new authorities liked the RDMAP's
linkages between technical assistance, social organization and physical investments as well as the
participatory approach to decision-making. They moved forward in 2002, taking important steps to
consolidate the existing RD programs into three (see Section 6.2) and to further decentralize administrative
and operational responsibilities to the states and agenda-setting and prioritization responsibilities to the
municipal-level. These goal for decentralization were compatible with the changes introduced (under the
new Sustainable Rural Development Law).

Great gains were made through the ambitious efforts to expand and replicate the RDMAP on the national
level. The impacts from this, particularly in sharpening the poverty and equity focus of RD programs is
extremely positive. Yet, the challenge of implementing these profound changes while overhauling the
federal rural development programs was also great. There was an underestimation of the central capacity
to guide and facilitate the desired changes at the state and municipal levels. No substantial strengthening of
central capabilities or provision of technical assistance to effect the administrative changes were provided
nor were internal institutional or external communications campaigns put into effect to orient local, state or
federal actors on the new programs(*). The absence of clear indicators for change or impacts from ongoing
restructuring hampered the systematic follow up and refinements to the changes being implemented.

(*) One quite positive response in 2003 was to place Rural Development Promoters (Coordinators) in over 800
poor municipalities, using federal funds, to work in close association with the Municipalities and communities.

7.7 Overall Borrower performance:
Overall the Borrower's performance is rated as satisfactory. This overall rating should be seen as
combining an unsatisfactory performance in terms of resolving the non-additionality/low disbursement
issue and a highly satisfactory peformance in terms of the project having greatly influenced government
policy and approaches. This has resulted in a rapid scaling up and in the mobilization of significant,
additional public resources to implement nation-wide a successful program for rural development among
the extreme poor in rural areas. The Borrower showed and continues to show a tremendous commitment to
the RDMAP model, its refinement and its implementation. The Borrower has utilized the RDMAP as a
pilot to develop ideas, learn, and to adapt the learning and apply it broadly as intended by the APL
approach.

8. Lessons Learned

Project Management and Administration

"Adaptable Program Loans" may not be sufficiently adaptable when a project is successful in convincing
policymakers that it merits replication and expansion. When the pace of change is such that the originally
conceived program grows much faster than envisioned, the APL framework may actually inhibit adaptation
versus the use of a series of SILs.

Where there is no-additionality and project implementation implies significantly increased transaction costs
from the perspective of the key implementation actors, a reasonable incentive framework must be explicitly
included in project design to overcome the otherwise high risk that those costs will not be accepted or borne
and project implementation will suffer.




                                                       - 17 -

The non-additionality of Bank-lending greatly complicates the introduction of new approaches and
structures for development. The absence of incremental financing for such mundane expenditures as
contracting of additional personnel at federal and state-levels to assist with the incremental administrative
transactions associated with a Bank-financed projects greatly hampers implementation efficiency and is
demoralizing to project staff.

Projects that finance small, demand-driven community subprojects through decentralized implementation
structures must greatly simplify financial management processes especially those related to the validation
of disbursements and expenditures. Attention should be given to constructing output/outcome-related
approaches and to having capacity building for best practice approaches for management and
administration of inputs incorporated into project and community subproject design.

Innovative projects and APLs require early, in-depth evaluation before new phases, expansions or major
implementation changes. These evaluations should look at, among others, technical aspects such as
appropriateness of technology, impacts of packages recommended, degree of actual participation of target
groups, success in development of project management instruments and structures to monitor inputs and
outcomes and to detect and resolve implementation problems.

A strong management information system and an efficient administrative structure are needed, as in any
project. Further attention to monitoring, technical review, systematizing of experiences and dissemination
of good practices could have significantly increased the quality of the results and the sustainability potential
of the program.

Mainstreaming and scaling-up of projects is extremely desirable from many perspectives. However, from a
project management perspective there are risks that must be dealt with in an intentional fashion. If
non-additionality is also a factor, the risks can be much greater. Scaling-up too quickly rapidly increases
the administrative complexity and can dilute the administrative and technical capacities directed toward
project implementation as well as limit the potential impact and ability to innovate and learn.

Project Implementation

Non-additionality also impacts investments in "best-practice" elements of project design. In the case of a
pilot project, where significant additional training, technical assistance and a more sophisticated than
normal monitoring and evaluation system is required, from an agency viewpoint these require significant
expenditure that must be "cut" from other (usually operational and investment) budgets. To overcome this,
it seems desirable to heavily front-load these elements in a project in order to establish a "tradition" of such
expenditures while there is time and leverage to possibly achieve the needed investment-levels.

In programs where non-additionality in lending is found, more realistic assessments of institutional capacity
and the implementing agencies organizational structures and culture must be undertaken and with a slightly
different focus than for projects where funds are incremental. Where loans are not incremental, the
assessment must lead to more precise and pragmatic implementation hypotheses that reflect that the options
for capacity building and strengthening investments may be substantially reduced as compared to a project
where there is additionality. Without additionality, there will be a much greater reliance over the
implementation period on existing capacity and existing processes. This in turn should lead to more modest
expectations of how rapidly change and increased capacity can be attained.

Given the space and the flexibility, the states can innovate and develop appropriate solutions to address
implementation issues and create more favorable environments for implementation, tailored to their


                                                      - 18 -

particular environment. This type of innovation can be capitalized upon to improve overall program
functioning, particularly when cross-dissemination is encouraged between states. The example of
Veracruz's innovative approaches in developing solutions to address issues of quick turnover and thus lack
of continuity of field technicians by creating a favorable incentive situation is one example.

Direct disbursement of resources to farmers' groups for their own administration dramatically decreases
the time required to initiate local projects, is an efficient way to reduce transaction costs, increases quality
control over input and equipment purchase, ensure the types of inputs purchased actually meet the
producers' needs, and improves outcomes, project ownership and relations between the project and the
project clients.

Key elements to the long term sustainability of programs like the RDMAP include: (i) strengthening and
support for inter-institutional coordination at all levels as a continuous need; (ii) operational integration of
the current three lines of rural development assistance (PAPIR, PRODESCA, PROFEMOR) into a
seamless rural development program for the marginal areas and SAGARPA's priority groups (women,
youth, indigenous, and the elderly); (iii) strengthening of the quality control mechanism to ensure adequate
supervision and evaluation of the provision of technical services to communities and groups; and (iv)
strengthening of a programmatic approach to the promotion, expansion, and maintenance of the group and
community savings and credit schemes in order to improve access to credit for the rural poor and build a
culture of savings and investment.

Field technicians must follow-up, monitor, and assess the impacts of the sub-projects, by doing so, they
will advance much more quickly up the "learning curve".

The regional councils were useful instruments for improving transparency and accountability with respect
to development investments. In the later transition to Departmental and Municipal Development Councils
these could have remained a bit longer in place to transfer their experience and facilitate the change to the
new structures.

Training and Technical Assistance

The program demonstrated that technical assistance is a very important factor in triggering and fostering
rural development in marginal areas and that upstream, preparatory work in participatory social
diagnostics and participatory planning are essential tools for reaching poor groups and tailoring actions to
what is appropriate to their situation.

Programs seeking to change approaches and behaviors require more and earlier training activities to
acquire practical "know-how" in addition to "lectures" on the new concepts. Examples of what worked
well in training included: i) the tutoring systems implemented in Oaxaca, Veracruz, and later in Chiapas
through a regional or state-level coordinator and ii) specialized capacity building programs for
cross-cutting themes (e.g., on community saving and credit accounts and on "Participatory Community
Planning") are both more efficient and well-appreciated by the field technicians, resulting in improved
performance of the technical assistance, as in Oaxaca and Chiapas.

As learned by the end of the Program, organization for provision of technical services must increasingly
focus on i) the strengthening of municipal promoters/technicians, ii) developing and implementing more
aggressive plans for capacity building of practitioners, including farmer-to-farmer extension, field visit, and
hands-on training and acquisition of "know-how" through specialized units or contractors.




                                                        - 19 -

Tutoring of field technicians, particularly in marginal areas, is critical. Such tutoring should contemplate
the need for specialized assistance from academic or scientific organizations. To make this work, however,
challenges resulting from institutional distrust, competing institutional norms require appropriate incentives
to overcome.

9. Partner Comments

(a) Borrower/implementing agency:
SHCP Comments

We would prefer that the theme of "no-additionality" be removed from the document.

Throughout the document this theme is reiterated as an important reason as to why the two loans were
cancelled due to their not being incremental to the executing agency's budgetary ceiling.

The decision to cancel was taken by SHCP because of the very significant lags in disbursements despite
numerous attempts to increase them. It was clear that in the medium term there were not going to be
improvements. If SAGARPA did not assign budget to cover the "incremental administrative costs"
mentioned in Section 5.2 (among others), this was not due to "non-additionality". Rather, it was due to a
lack of appropriate provisions for budget on the part of the agency, which is a quite different matter.

Also, the legal and budgetary framework applied to these two loans exists for all World Bank loan projects
(in Mexico) and does not affect the execution of these others. Further, this rule existed from the time of the
preparation of the loan project and was known to all parties prior to the negotiations.

In virtue of the points mentioned, it is the request of SHCP that this theme be removed from the
implementation completion report

SAGARPA Comments

3.5     Quality at Entry
It is important to note that the implementation arrangements had incompatibilities with respect to the actual
function/procedures of the involved public institutions in the following areas:
    l In practice, many of the functions and responsibilities of the executing agency (SAGARPA) were
        actually functions and responsibilities that were devolved to the state governments.
    l The roles of the individual actors and levels in the process of definition of budgets (especially the
        roles of SHCP, SAGARPA and the state governments).
    l The institutional implications of the operations of the Marginal Areas project versus the operations
        of the Alianza Para El Campo program through which it was executed, especially as regards the
        additional processing demands (transaction costs) of the project in the absence of incremental funds
        in the budget to cover these costs.
    l The period of the project versus the periods of planning and responsibility of a government
        administration.

4.2     Outputs by components.
The initial financing of the project of recurrent costs in the farmer's production system, especially inputs
like agrochemicals, created dependencies and made it difficult for farmers to see the real costs of
production. Therefore guidelines were changed (ed. note, change was made in the 2002 program
guidelines) to orient assistance towards capitalizing farmer's production systems. This change in no way



                                                      - 20 -

impeded the programs' potential to improve agricultural practices and introduce technological changes,
however farmers would have to pay with their own funds for inputs.

The role of the "Regional Councils for Sustainable Development" in the project was never adequately
documented. There are diverse opinions about the actual utility of the Councils. In the State of Veracruz,
for example, the Councils were never formed. In Puebla, the Councils were primarily for purposes of form
rather than substance. In the Huasteca, the Councils were somewhat closed, excluding other project
stakeholders and often operating with logic of distributing available assistance among groups linked to the
Council.

7.6     Implementing Agency:
In 2002, the change in the Alianza Para El Campo program guidelines was the expression of the change in
policies brought by the new administration. In this sense, that the policy changes would result in
adjustments to the Alianza program should have been foreseen and expected by all participants.


(b) Cofinanciers:


(c) Other partners (NGOs/private sector):


10. Additional Information




                                                    - 21 -

Annex 1. Key Performance Indicators/Log Frame Matrix

Outcome / Impact Indicators:
                                                                                 1
               Indicator/Matrix                           Projected in last PSR                      Actual/Latest Estimate
Increase of productivity by about 40% to       Productivity increase at least 40%, income Based on FAO/SAGRPA evaluation in 2001,
50%, and increase of income by about 30% increase at least 30%.                           The latest data are not available. [1]
to 40% for participating producers.
Community plans for natural resources          100%                                       100% [3] & [5]
management, small infrastructure and
capacity building approved and implemented
in participating communities.
Producers who adopt the new technology         50%.                                       50% for milpa, and over 70% for fruit, coffee
experienced an increase of yield of the milpa                                             and livestock.
by 40%, fruit, coffee and livestock by 30% at
end of the project.
Percentage of the projects are still operating 70%                                        No data
two year after the financing of the investment.
Percentage of the producers supported by       70%                                        17% [1]
the project improve their income by at least
30% at EOP


Output Indicators:
                                                                                 1
               Indicator/Matrix                           Projected in last PSR                      Actual/Latest Estimate
Subprojects financed annually during project Oaxaca 225                                   2000 budget executed in 2001 [3]:
life.                                          S.L.P. (1st Phase) 150                     Oaxaca 269
                                               Hidalgo 125                                S.L.P 275
                                               Veracruz (1st Phase) 100                   Hidalgo 94
                                                                                          Veracruz 497
Small holders benefiting from the project by   Oaxaca 14500                               2001 [3]:
EOP.                                           Veracruz (1st Phase) 8400                  Oaxaca 8799 [9]
                                               S.L.P. (1st Phase) 9100                    S.L.P. 1531
                                               Hidalgo 8000                               Hidalgo 6960
                                                                                          Veracruz 2194 [10]
Percentage of projects subject to funds        80%                                        Percentages of subprojects with a cost
recuperation implement a cost recovery                                                    recovery element, as of December 2001 [3]:
system.                                                                                   Oaxaca Cuicateca 10%
                                                                                          Oaxaca Mazateca 83%
                                                                                          Oaxaca Mixe 42%
                                                                                          Huasteca Hidalgo 80%
                                                                                          Huasteca Veracruz 6%
                                                                                          Huasteca S.L.P. 15
                                                                                          [2]
Percentage of subprojects for milpa            50%                                        In general, most of milpa improvement
improvements in watershed areas that adopt                                                subprojects included some component of soil
methods of soil conservation and water                                                    conservation, such as contour planting and
management.                                                                               stone line. However, in practice only a few
                                                                                          producers fully applied the recommendations
                                                                                          contained in the subprojects.
Establishment of one extensionist in every 4   1 extension agent in every 4 communities   Communities per extension agent, on
communities assisted.                          assisted.                                  average:
                                                                                          Oaxaca 4.5
                                                                                          Huasteca Hidalgo 3
                                                                                          Huasteca Veracruz 5
                                                                                          Huasteca S.L.P. 4.5
                                                                                          [3] [6]
Percentage of producers who receive            50%                                        70%
technical assistance on agricultural
technology who adopt proposed changes.
Percentage of the subproject beneficiaries     60%                                        50% (?)
who received technical assistance who
consider technical assistance to be




                                                                  - 22 -

satisfactory
A Regional Council for Sustainable          1 in each region.               Regional councils were established in every
Development operating in every region                                       region, with the exception of Veracruz, as this
(project units), with participation of                                      was a prerequisite for receiving assistance.
institutions, producers' organizations,
community representatives, and NGOs.
Percentage of approved subprojects disburse At least 90%                    (% within 60 days)
funds within 45 days of project submission.                                 Oaxaca Cuicateca 20
                                                                            Oaxaca Mazateca 10
                                                                            Oaxaca Mize 5
                                                                            Huasteca Hidalgo 85
                                                                            Huasteca Veracruz 0
                                                                            Huasteca S.L.P. 8
                                                                            [3]

1End of project
[1]
According to FAO/SAGARPA evaluation 2001, 67.9% and 17% of beneficiaries increase productivity and
income respectively.

As regards productivity increase, quantitative data was only obtained from key informants in the field. On
average low increase in traditional food crops yields (50% maize, 60% beans). When new cropping systems
were introduced, including conservation tillage, legume cover crops and fruit trees contours, productivity
more than doubled in maize and beans. In addition, there has been introduction of new high value added
crops (fruits, etc.), that most certainly have involved increase in producers' income.

As regards income, the trend towards shifting investments from subsistence production to cash income
generation crops and livestock production may suggest that farmers were increasing income. This is an
observation further supported by the fact that the community saving funds grew significantly over the
years.

[2]
There is no information available on the actual % of funds which were recovered.

There has been an important development of community saving funds (CSF), which were created out of
producers savings, to whose creation the project made a crucial contribution by initiating the CSF
movement and providing the appropriate technical assistance.

Indicatively it was reported by SAGARPA/Inca Rural that by July 2002 there were the following number
of CSF in the states assisted in the project.



State                         Number of CSF            Number of       Amount of savings
                                                       members         (Mexican pesos)
Chiapas                       218                      4858            786951
Guerrero                      9                        399             206425
Hidalgo                       20                       466             275860
Michoacán                     23                       480             103248
Oaxaca                        53                       2267            1839327
San Luis Potosí              14                        1246            437445
Veracruz                      21                       759             120710




                                                             - 23 -

[3]
Reported by SAGARPA.

[4]
According to data contained in Evaluation of Alianza para el Campo 2001, SAGARPA/FAO. The survey
covered the states of Chiapas, Guerrero, Hidalgo, Michoacan and Puebla.

[5]
Participatory rural assessments and plans of community-based natural resources management were mostly
carried out to comply with the Norms and Operative Manual and were rarely taken into consideration or
updated during the following process of subproject development.

[6]
According to SAGARPA, in 2001 there were 248 extensionists with different specialties involved in the
project.

[7]
Organic cropping, such as compost application, was introduced and well accepted in home garden
(traspatio), but as it highly labor intensive it was hardly applied in open field cultivation. Experiences of
biological control did not work properly because lack of monitoring and lack of on site validation.

[8]
There was an increased demand for investments in practices conducive to conservation and sustainable
management of land and water resources, including conservation tillage, living edges and agroforestry
activities.Producers from Oaxaca, Veracruz and Hidalgo had steadily increased the demand for such
investments to represent about 10% of the total amount of productive investments. This increase is
particularly significant in Oaxaca: 1st year, 2.2% ( corresponding to a total amount of about US$22,000);
2nd year, 7.6%; 3rd year, 10.9; 4th year, 15.0%; 5th year, 20.8% (corresponding to a total amount of
about US$ 312,000). In Chiapas, technical assistance reports that many farmers were asking for
investments in soil and water management, such as terracing, and simple gravity irrigation system. Such
investments were usually not implemented for several reasons, including a) higher cost leaving less
investment opportunities to communities, b) lack of coordination or good will from public institutions
"officially' in charge of such investments (e.g. SEMARNAP, CNA).

According to SAGARPA/FAO Evaluation, 38.9% of beneficiaries believe that the program has undertaken
positive actions towards natural resources.

[9]
The State Technical Unit reports that from 1997 to 2001 a cumulative total of 52,324 Family Productive
Units (FPU) received support from the program, including Productive Investments for 44,683 FPUs,
Community Investments involving 1,796 FPUs, and TA for 5,890 FPUs.

[10]
State SAGARPA Delegation reports that for the period 1998-2001, 12,359 FPUs received support.

[11]
The financial and economic analysis of some micro-enterprises sub-projects, such as aquaculture
production in Oaxaca and Chiapas, show that significant amount of labor force was hired monthly.


                                                      - 24 -

Similarly, community restaurant as developed in the Huasteca regions has also created job opportunities.

[12]
Farmers targeted by the project were generally highly supportive of the technical assistance received. Most
of the communities had hardly received any attention in the past, and they were naturally appreciative of
this new attention, particularly coming from field technician speaking their own idiom. The
SAGARPA/FAO evaluation makes a clear distinction between the percentage of beneficiaries who were
satisfied with the support provided by the Program, and the percentage of producers who have changed
their farming practices or improved their technical knowledge. For instance, the evaluation in Guerrero
(2001) shows that 93.5% of interviewed farmers estimate that the support and services provided by the
Program were of good quality, but this support came late for 63.6% of them, and more concerning , 88.3%
acknowledged that they have not learn anything new regarding farming practices.




                                                    - 25 -

Annex 2. Project Costs and Financing

Project Cost by Component (in US$ million equivalent)
                                                                 Appraisal       Actual/Latest       Percentage of
                                                                  Estimate         Estimate             Appraisal
                        Component                               US$ million       US$ million
Productive Investment                                              40.00                30.50                   76
Community Development                                               6.00                 4.00                   67
Technical Support                                                  13.00                11.41                   88
Institutional Strengthening and Project Management                  4.00                 3.00                   75

Total Baseline Cost                                                63.00                48.91
                          Total Project Costs                      63.00                48.91
                   Total Financing Required                        63.00                48.91


Project Costs by Procurement Arrangements (Appraisal Estimate) (US$ million equivalent)
                                                                           1
                                                  Procurement Method
     Expenditure Category            ICB              NCB                    2           N.B.F.         Total Cost
                                                                       Other
1. Works                             0.00             0.00               0.00             0.00              0.00
                                    (0.00)            (0.00)            (0.00)           (0.00)             (0.00)
2. Goods                             0.00             0.00               0.00             0.00              0.00
                                    (0.00)            (0.00)            (0.00)           (0.00)             (0.00)
3. Services                          0.00             0.00              15.00             0.00              15.00
Consultants Service                 (0.00)            (0.00)           (11.00)           (0.00)            (11.00)
4. Subprojects                       0.00             0.00              46.00             0.00              46.00
                                    (0.00)            (0.00)           (34.50)           (0.00)            (34.50)
5. Operating Costs                   0.00             0.00               2.00             0.00              2.00
                                    (0.00)            (0.00)            (1.50)           (0.00)             (1.50)
6. Miscellaneous                     0.00             0.00               0.00             0.00              0.00
                                    (0.00)            (0.00)            (0.00)           (0.00)             (0.00)
    Total                            0.00             0.00              63.00             0.00              63.00
                                    (0.00)            (0.00)           (47.00)           (0.00)            (47.00)
Matching grants. Community procurement and direct contracting for works, goods and services for subprojects of
less than US$30,000.

Project Costs by Procurement Arrangements (Actual/Latest Estimate) (US$ million equivalent)
                                                                           1
                                                  Procurement Method
     Expenditure Category            ICB              NCB                    2          N.B.F.         Total Cost
                                                                      Other
1. Works                             0.00             0.00              0.00             0.00              0.00
                                    (0.00)           (0.00)            (0.00)            (0.00)           (0.00)
2. Goods                             0.00             0.00              0.00             0.00              0.00
                                    (0.00)           (0.00)            (0.00)            (0.00)           (0.00)
3. Services                          0.00             0.00             11.41             0.00             11.41
Consultants Service                 (0.00)           (0.00)            (4.47)            (0.00)           (4.47)
4. Subprojects                       0.00             0.00             34.50             0.00             34.50



                                                   - 26 -

                                              (0.00)               (0.00)             (16.36)            (0.00)            (16.36)
   5. Operating Costs                          0.00                 0.00                3.00               0.00              3.00
                                              (0.00)               (0.00)              (0.65)            (0.00)             (0.65)
   6. Miscellaneous                            0.00                 0.00                0.00               0.00              0.00
                                              (0.00)               (0.00)              (0.00)            (0.00)             (0.00)
       Total                                   0.00                 0.00               48.91               0.00             48.91
                                              (0.00)               (0.00)             (21.48)            (0.00)            (21.48)
   Matching grants. Community procurement and dirct contracting for works, goods and services for subprojects of
   less than US$30,000.
     1/Figures in parenthesis are the amounts to be financed by the Bank Loan. All costs include contingencies.

     2/Includes civil works and goods to be procured through national shopping, consulting services, services of contracted staff
       of the project management office, training, technical assistance services, and incremental operating costs related to (i)
       managing the project, and (ii) re-lending project funds to local government units.



Project Financing by Component (in US$ million equivalent)
                                                                                                                 Percentage of Appraisal
        Component                      Appraisal Estimate                      Actual/Latest Estimate
                                  Bank         Govt.         CoF.           Bank          Govt.        CoF.       Bank     Govt.  CoF.
Productive Investment             30.00                                     14.23        10.57         5.70        47.4
Community Development             4.50                                      2.13          1.77         0.10        47.3
Technical Support                 9.50                                      4.48          6.83         0.10        47.2
Institutional Strengthening       3.00                                      0.65          2.35                     21.7
and Project Management
Total                             47.00        47.00         15.75          21.48        21.52         5.90        45.7    45.8   37.5

   Note:
   1. The Bank loan financed both the Federal and State contributions, which at appraisal were estimated to be: Federal Govt. -
        US$31.50 million (50% total project cost) and States - US$15.75 million (25% of total project cost). Because there is no
        additionality to Bank loans in Mexico, the Appraisal Estimate only shows the Bank financing, i.e., to present Govt.
        financing in the above table would simply be to repeat the figures in the "Bank" column in the "Govt." column. Also, the
        PAD does not provide a clear breakdown of Federal, State and Beneficiary financing by component therefore no attempt
        was made to do so here. In the "Actual/Latest Estimate" the reported "Govt." expenditures represent the eligible
        expenditures for which SAGARPA was unable to obtain Bank reimbusal.
   2. "Govt" includes Federal and State financing. "CoF" includes beneficiary financing.
   3. SAGARPA has cost breakdowns for Bank financing by disbursement category and not by component. Therefore,
        "Actual/Latest Estimate" figures for Bank financing at the component-level is taken from the disbursement data, whose
        categories correspond to the components with the exception of Components 1 and 2, which are included in the
        disbursement category "Subprojects". The division of these latter was based on best estimates from the information
        available.




                                                                - 27 -

Annex 3. Economic Costs and Benefits

The economic and financial analysis has been carried out for evaluating the output of the porject.

About the farm models

The ex-post evaluation was developed according to the following methodology. First, a selection of the
main activities supported by the Productive Investments component of the project was done on the basis of
their occurrence and major contribution to the disbursement in the 8 States covered by the WB loan. Five
selected activities - "Milpa" improvement; "Traspatio"; Commercial Crops; Livestock Production;
Micro-enterprises ­ represent about 80% of the total disbursement effectively realized during APL I.
Second, for each main activity, specific subprojects were selected from several proposals made by the
beneficiary communities at local level. The selection made for the analysis is responded to a threefold
criteria: i) frequency of subprojects supported in each area, ii) availability of data, particularly on costs,
prices and change in productivity, and iii) potential for application of the subprojects to the different
marginal areas. Third, cost and returns were calculated on the basis of 2001 prices, since this was the last
year of full project implementation.

The analysis overlook the differences encountered in the different States concerning the same type of
activity. Likewise, it didn't seem necessary to make a distinction between the 2 phases as the "weight" of
the selected activities, in terms of actual disbursement ­reflecting the demand- have been very similar.

Twelve models of productive systems were developed:

Activity 1: Milpa and Corn Production
1.       Improved "milpa" (traditional milpa with agrochemical inputs and increase in plant population;
seeding along contour);
2.       "milpa" with soil conservation (improved milpa with earth works, including terracing);
3.       Corn in association with commercial crop (hot pepper associated with 10 lines of corn);
4.       "milpa" with fruit trees in contours (peach trees planted every 10-12m, associated with improved
milpa);
Activity 2: Home garden ("Traspatio")
5.       "traspatio" with chicken and eggs production (improved alimentation of birds, and production of
chicken and eggs);
6.       "traspatio" with sheep production (breeding improvement and lambs marketing) ;
7.       "traspatio" with pig production (breeding improvement and piglets marketing);
Activity 3: Commercial crops
8.       Improved management of Citrus orchard (regeneration of under managed orchards);
Activity 4:Livestock production
9.       Livestock production (breeding improvement and calves and milk marketing);
Activity 5: Micro-enterprises
10.      Women handicrafts workshop (production of traditional clothes and handicrafts including, purses,
backpack, hats);
11.      Fish production (building of tanks to raise trouts, tilapias, using canalized run-off waters);
12.      Corn mill (for production of corn floor and corn "masa").

The models have been applied across all regions. It was taken a conservative assessment of productivity
increase to match the range of yields and productivity identified by several sources including regional
experts Sources of information include Report from the State Technical Unit from Oaxaca, Annual



                                                     - 28 -

evaluations from Veracruz, Hidalgo, Puebla, Chiapas, San Luis Potosi, Michoacan, Guerrero, subprojects
documents provided by Chiapas, Hidalgo, Puebla, Veracruz, Oaxaca, and resource persons from
SAGARPA, State Delegation, FIRCO, and from the World Bank. A corrective evaluation of labor was
applied when the region offers possibility of better remuneration e.g. in coffee production region the labor
cost was raised at 50 Mexican pesos/day compare to the average 30-35 Mexican pesos/day applied in most
marginal areas. It was assumed that price of coffee increased after the third year from 6.3 to 10 pesos as a
result of international price recovery.

Financial analysis

A financial analysis was carried out to assess the actual results obtained by beneficiaries of productive
investments of the project. All twelve farm models (including 4 for milpa production, 3 for "traspatio"
production, 2 for commercial crops, 1 for cattle production, and 3 for micro agro-industires) were
considered valid all across the project areas, though in different proportions of the benefiting farmers. Full
investment costs were included as well as the amount of subsidy provided by the project which entered into
the models as grants. Assumptions regarding yield increases were made on the basis of data obtained from
surveys undertaken by the SAGARPA/FAO 2001 evaluation of the Alianza programs and from data
collected in the field from key informants. Other data inputs were obtained locally during the visit to several
project areas.

Financial Results

                                                                             Switching Value
MODEL                                    NPV              FIRR (%)           -Benefit %              +Costs %
1. Improved Milpa                        $137,623         79.1               -71.1                   246.0
2. Milpa with Soil Conservation          ($751)           4.9                -0.8                    0.8
3. maiz with Hot Pepper                  $876             20.5               -17.0                   20.5
4. Milpa with Fruit Trees                ($16,171)        -25.3              -154.2                  60.7
5. Chicken and Eggs, Traspatio           $21,252          31.7               -34.0                   51.6
6. Sheeps, Traspatio                     $20,008          21.1               -24.6                   32.6
7. Pigs, Traspatio                       $19,325          56.3               -36.9                   58.5
8. Citrus                                $2,119           22                 -17.8                   21.6
9. Livestock Production                  $20,165          32.3               -53.7                   111.2
10 Women Handicrafts                     $939             16.3               -11.8                   13.4
11. Fish Production                      $6,268           34.3               -21.5                   27.3
12. Corn Mill                            $11,004          34.4               -27.0                   38.2

Total Project                            $186,543,718     50.9               -243                    256

All selected farm models show relatively high positive financial results as can be seen in the table above,
which could be expected given the level of subsidy provided to the various on-farm investments. The
exceptions are the models of milpa improvements with soil conservation and milpa with fruit trees,
probably because of the high initial investment requirements. The switching values (that indicate the
required change as a proportion of the base value of returns and costs for the NPV to equal zero) show that
all models are relatively stable, that is not very much sensible to changes in costs and returns, with the
exception of the one of milpa with soil conservation.




                                                     - 29 -

The overall financial rate of return was estimated at 50.9%. For the aggregate financial and economic
evaluation, the mentioned 13 farm models were incorporated according to the relative importance of the
various productive investments financed and the number of farms, and the general costs of the project were
added.

Investments required by producer are shown in the table below, including the amount of subsidy granted on
average in each farm model.

Investments and Returns by Producers

                                                          AM Incentive                         Average Increased
TYPE of MODEL                            Toal Investment Amount              Percentage        returns
1. Improved Milpa                        $25,000          $20,000            80                $15,337
2. Milpa with Soil Conservation          $2,660           $713               27                $2,204
3. maiz with Hot Pepper                  $1,078           $650               60                $2,205
4. Milpa with Fruit Trees                $20,834          $6,000             29                $2,025
5. Chicken and Eggs, Traspatio           $1,600           $1,224             77                $19,830
6. Sheeps, Traspatio                     $30,750          $9,500             31                $16,059
7. Pigs, Traspatio                       $16,468          $7,500             46                $10,900
8. Citrus                                $70              $2,625             70                $7,000
9. Livestock Production                  $16,337          $5,000             31                $14,034
10 Women Handicrafts                     $335             $150               60                $6,690
11. Fish Production                      $12,264          $6,500             53                $8,450
12. Corn Mill                            $2,200           $1,867             78                $11,930

Economic analysis

For the economic analysis it was considered adjustments in the price of labor because of the assumed
limited employment opportunities for the targeted group of workers. Thus, shadow price for labor were
estimated at 80% of the market price. As regards maize, beans and milk, the shadow prices reflect the still
existing market distortions, remaining after the policy reforms undertaken in Mexico in past years and the
current opening of the economy. The corrections introduced are 90% for maize and beans and 80% for
milk. The rate of exchange of the Mexican peso is considered to be determined in the open market and other
domestic prices are considered in line with border economic values.

The subsidies paid through Procampo and the RDMAP itself were excluded from calculations in order to
reflect the real social cost of the project.

The economic internal rate of return is 13.3% for the overall project. All together these calculations show
that the project had a positive impact on most of the targeted beneficiaries and made a relatively positive
overall economic contribution in spite of the subsidy component.

Fiscal Impact

The loan/project supported a larger SAGARPA program and operated within the existing budget allocation
of SAGARPA and the state governments, and it did not generate additional budgetary financial
requirements for the Federal Government. State governments derived the bulk of their budgetary resources
from federal transfers as they cannot retain tax revenues. Incremental tax revenues as a result of project


                                                    - 30 -

activities were negligible as sales of goods and services in the agricultural sector are exempt from the Value
Added Tax (IVA) and income tax revenues from incremental profitability of on-farm production were also
negligible given the level of income of the benefited population.




                                                    - 31 -

Annex 4. Bank Inputs

(a) Missions:
Stage of Project Cycle                No. of Persons and Specialty                  Performance Rating
                                     (e.g. 2 Economists, 1 FMS, etc.)          Implementation Development
                   Month/Year  Count           Specialty                         Progress       Objective

 Identification/Preparation
              Identification          14     Economist (2), Agroecologist (1),
              Mission: 07/1995               Natural Resources Spec. (2),
                                             Anthropologist (1), Indigenous
                                             Spec. (1), Rural Sociologist (1) ,
                                             Monitoring And Evaluation
                                             Spec. (1), Agronomist (2),
                                             Institutions Spec. (1), Policy
                                             Analyst (1), Rural Development
                                             Spec. (1)

 Appraisal/Negotiation
              Appraisal               14     Economist(2),Agroecologist
              Mission: 06/1997               (1), Natural Resources Spec.
                                             (2), Anthropologist (1),
              Negotiations:                  Indigenous Spec. (1), Rural
              12/97                          Sociologist (1) , Monitoring
                                             And Evaluation Spec. (1),
                                             Agronomist (2), Institutions
                                             Spec. (1), Policy Analyst (1),
                                             Rural Development Spec. (1)

 Supervision

              10/1997                   6    Ag. Economist (1); Nat. Res.           S               S
                                             Manag. Spec. (1); Rural Finance
                                             (1); Micro-Enterprise (1);
                                             Anthropologist (1); Monitor &
                                             Evaluat (1)
              04/1999                   6    Sector Leader (1); Economist (1);      S               S
                                             Natural Resource Spec. (1);
                                             Commodity Specialist (1); Rural
                                             Finance Speciali (1); Social
                                             Development Spe (1)
              11/1999                   5    Sector Leader (1); Ag Economist        S               S
                                             (1); Ngos And Social (1);
                                             Proj.Mangm.Specialist (1);
                                             Communic.Specialist (1)
              06/2000                   4    Task Manager (1); Sector Leader        S               S
                                             (1); Agriculturalist (1); Socil
                                             Scientist (1)
              11/2000                   4    Task Manager/Agric. Ec (1);            S               S
                                             Sector Leader/Agric Ec (1);
                                             Agriculturalist (1); Social
                                             Scientist (1)
              05/2001                   8    Sector Leader/Ag.Econ. (1);            S               S
                                             Agriculturalist (1); Natural



                                              - 32 -

                                                       Resources Mgmt (1); Social
                                                       Communications (1); Social
                                                       Scientist (1); Procurement (1);
                                                       Financial Management (1);
                                                       Policy/Institutions (1)
                06/2001                           5    Task Team Leader/Sr. Nat.Res.              S                S
                                                       Spec. (1); Social Specialist (1);
                                                       Sr Procurement Special (1);
                                                       Financial Management (1);
                                                       Agroecologist (1)
                10/2001                           4    Task Team Leader/Sr. Nat.Res.              S                S
                                                       Spec. (1); Social Specialist (1);
                                                       Agroecologist (1);
                                                       Natural Resources Mgmt (1)
                04/2002                           5    Task Team Leader/Sr. Nat.Res.              S                S
                                                       Spec. (1); Social Specialist (1);
                                                       Agroecologist (1);
                                                       Financial Management (1); Sr.
                                                       Procurement Spec. (1)
                11/2002                           6    Task Team Leader/Sr. Nat.Res.              S                S
                                                       Spec.(1) ; Sector Manager (1);
                                                       Agroecologist (1); Social Spec.
                                                       (1); Financial Mgmt. (1); Sr.
                                                       Procurement Spec. (1)
                04/2003                           4    Task Team Leader/Sr. Nat.Res.              S                S
                                                       Spec.(1) ; Agroecologist (1);
                                                       Social Spec. (1) ; Financial
                                                       Mgmt. (1)
                06/2003                           3    Task Team Leader/Sr. Nat.Res.              S                S
                                                       Spec.(1) ; Social Spec. (1); Sr.
                                                       Financial Mgmt. Spec (1)

 ICR
                12/2003                           4     Team Leader/Sr. Ag. Econ
                                                        (1); Agroecologist (1);
                                                        Social Spec. (1); Financial
                                                        Mgmt. (1); Ag. Economist
                                                        (1)

Note: No data available on details of identification, preparation, appraisal and negotiations missions. Information
presented from PAD Annex 7.

(b) Staff:

        Stage of Project Cycle                           Actual/Latest Estimate
                                           No. Staff weeks                     US$ ('000)
  Identification/Preparation             Not Available                           $506,903
  Appraisal/Negotiation                  Not Available                                  --*
  Supervision                                         94                         $396,940
  ICR                                               3**                         $14,819**
  Total
* - No details available on SW and costs for identification, preparation, appraisal and negotiations missions; cost is
for all LEN phase.




                                                        - 33 -

** - Actuals for ICR for APL I do not reflect actual cost. APLI and APL II charged to APL II task code (avg. per
ICR 15 SW, $61,922)




                                                       - 34 -

Annex 5. Ratings for Achievement of Objectives/Outputs of Components

(H=High, SU=Substantial, M=Modest, N=Negligible, NA=Not Applicable)
                                          Rating
  Macro policies                        H        SU    M       N    NA
  Sector Policies                       H        SU    M       N    NA
  Physical                              H        SU    M       N    NA
  Financial                             H        SU    M       N    NA
  Institutional Development             H        SU    M       N    NA
  Environmental                         H        SU    M       N    NA

Social
           Poverty Reduction            H        SU    M       N    NA
           Gender                       H        SU    M       N    NA
           Other (Please specify)       H        SU    M       N    NA
  Private sector development            H        SU    M       N    NA
  Public sector management              H        SU    M       N    NA
  Other (Please specify)                H        SU    M       N    NA




                                                    - 35 -

Annex 6. Ratings of Bank and Borrower Performance

(HS=Highly Satisfactory, S=Satisfactory, U=Unsatisfactory, HU=Highly Unsatisfactory)


6.1 Bank performance                           Rating

   Lending                                       HS     S     U       HU
   Supervision                                   HS     S     U       HU
   Overall                                       HS     S     U       HU


6.2 Borrower performance                       Rating

   Preparation                                   HS     S     U       HU
   Government implementation performance         HS     S     U       HU
   Implementation agency performance             HS     S     U       HU
   Overall                                       HS     S     U       HU




                                                    - 36 -

Annex 7. List of Supporting Documents

Banco Mundial. Guidelines for preparing implementation completion reports. ICR.

Ayudas de memoria del PDRAM. Abril de 1999
Ayudas de memoria del PDRAM.Noviembre de 1999
Ayudas de memoria del PDRAM.Junio de 2000
Ayudas de memoria del PDRAM.Octubre de 2000
Ayudas de memoria del PDRAM.Mayo-Junio de 2001
Ayudas de memoria del PDRAM.Octubre de 2001
Ayudas de memoria del PDRAM.Abril-Mayo de 2002
Ayudas de memoria del PDRAM.Noviembre de 2002
Ayudas de memoria del PDRAM.Junio de 2003

James Smyle. 2003. Ayuda de memoria de junio de 2003 con comentarios al "Informe Final de Resultados
Alcanzados de Sagarpa. Smyle. 6 páginas. Enviada el 15 de julio de 2003 a C. Tunon.

James Smyle. Propuesta de calendario y tareas para el ICR en hoja excel.

Garfield. Documentos varios relacionados con la colaboración especial de Francisco Medina. Enviados por
Garfield el 9 de octubre.

Garfield. Agenda para cierre con Sagarpa. 7 de noviembre. 4 páginas.

Christian Pieri. Annex 1. Key Performance Indicators/Log Frame Matrix. Pieri, Caballero, 7 pages. Nov.
7th, 2003.

Christian Pieri. 2003. SUMMARY OF THE FINANCIAL/ECONOMIC EVALUATION. Pieri, Medina,
Caballero. 2 pages. Nov. 7. 2003.

Christian Pieri. 2003. About the Farm Models. Pieri. 2 pages. Nov. 7, 2003.

Christian Pieri. 2000. RURAL DEVELOPMENT IN MARGINAL AREAS. APL Phase I: 1997-2000;
APL Phase II: Dec. 1999-2002. Technical Aspects: Adequacy of Technologies, Technical Assistance role
and activities, and their impacts. Executive Summary. Pieri. 6 pages. Nov. 6th.

Jorge Caballero Cerruti
Jorge Caballero Cerruti . Propuesta de cuadros (en blanco) para pedir información a Sagarpa. 22 de
septiembre.

Jorge Caballero Cerruti. BTO del 16 de noviembre. 4 páginas. Dirigido a Selim Mohor.
Jorge Caballero Cerruti. Preguntas de Maddalena DiGiorgio a Francisco Médina, enviadas por Caballero
el 27 de octubre.

Jorge Caballero Cerruti. ICR. Aportaciones de Caballero del 31 de octubre. En inglés. 6 páginas sobre: 3.
Assessment of Development Objective and Design, and of Quality at Entry; 4. Achievement of Objective
and Outputs; 5. Major Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcome.

Jorge Caballero Cerruti. 2003. Comentarios generales sobre el proyecto. Caballero, 6 pages. Sent by


                                                  - 37 -

Garfield on Nov. 7th. 2003.

Jorge Caballero Cerruti. Annex 2. Project Costs and Financing. Caballero, 4 pages.

Jorge Franco. Programa de Desarrollo Rural en Áreas Marginadas. ICR. Aspectos sociales. Jorge Franco,
21 páginas. Enviado el 19 de octubre.

Jorge Franco. Aportaciones al formato ICR. Español e inglés. Jorge Franco. Enviado el 19 de octubre.

Jorge Franco. 2003. Aportaciones de Jorge Franco en el formato de ICR Guidelines (en inglés). Sent on
November 3th, 2003.

Jorge Franco. Evaluación de la Alianza para el Campo 2002. Insumos para el ICR. Jorge Franco, 10 pags.

José María Caballero. Nota de política sobre desarrollo rural (Chiapas). 23 pags. Enviada por Garfield el
17 de octubre.

Consultores del BM (José Valencia). 2002. Alternativas de organicidad de los Consejos Regionales de
Desarrollo Sustentable, en el marco del nuevo sistema de planeación y participación social de la Ley de
Desarrollo Rural Sustentable que propone Consejos Distritales y Municipales. José Valencia, Mayo de
2002.

Leyes. 2001. Ley de Desarrollo Rural Sustentable. Diario Oficial 7 de diciembre de 2001.

Leyes. 2002. Reglas de Operación de la Alianza para el Campo 2002. D.O. 15 de marzo de 2002

Sagarpa. 2003. Informe final de los resultados alcanzados en el marco del préstamo 4276 del Banco
Mundial. 30 de junio de 2003. 38 pags.

Sagarpa. 2000. REPORTE DE EJECUCIÓN. Préstamo 4276 ­ ME. RESUMEN EJECUTIVO.
PERIODO: 1 de enero del 2000 ­ 30 de junio del 2000. 9 pags.




                                                   - 38 -

Additional Annex 8. Borrower Executive Summary

                  PROGRAMA DE DESARROLLO PRODUCTIVO SOSTENIBLE
                                EN ZONAS RURALES MARGINADAS.

      INFORME FINAL DE LOS RESULTADOS ALCANZADOS EN EL MARCO DE LOS
         PRÉSTAMOS 4276-ME Y 7004-ME DEL BANCO MUNDIAL "PROGRAMA DE
    DESARROLLO PRODUCTIVO SOSTENIBLE EN ZONAS RURALES MARGINADAS"

                                        (RESUMEN EJECUTIVO)


1. Evaluación del proyecto.

a)      Objetivos

El planteamiento de objetivos a lograr correspondió con la realidad del sector rural marginado, su
cumplimiento fue relativamente satisfactorio, dado que su desarrollo fue heterogéneo; en algunos estados se
tuvo relativo interés, en tanto que en otros hubo más voluntad y más interés de alcanzar los objetivos, así
como más recursos a disposición del programa y más control.

b)      Diseño

La conceptualización del diseño del programa fue acertada en su mayor parte porque consideró los
elementos fundamentales al concebir dentro de su estructura una filosofía, enfoque, metodología,
estrategias, mecanismos de implementación, normas e indicadores bastante congruentes con los objetivos
del mismo proyecto y con la lógica de producción y costumbres de la familia rural de alta y muy alta
marginación.

Sin embargo, le falto un sistema eficiente de administración de las acciones del programa para asegurar los
resultados en la parte operativa, un esquema operativo y de control, así como un sistema de información y
mecanismos eficientes de gestión. Asimismo no hubo un plan estratégico de servicios técnicos para los
proyectos, no se considero la parte de capacidad de ejecución real a nivel institucional.

c)      Implementación

No obstante que se llevaron a cabo importantes acciones de implementación para dejar instalado
debidamente el programa en las regiones de los estados como: 1) Presentar el programa a los gobiernos
estatales e instituciones federales que operan en las regiones, aclarando las características y
particularidades del mismo, acordando los municipios de las regiones, 2) Se constituyeron los comités
estatales del programa respectivos incluyendo funcionarios federales y estatales, 3) Se seleccionó y preparó
personal técnico de diferentes instituciones en el diagnóstico socioeconómico regional participativo
mediante talleres con apoyo de la FAO y Banco Mundial, 4) Se elaboraron estudios; socioeconómico,
Técnico y Financiero regional, de impacto ambiental y de las Organizaciones en cada región e incluso en
Oaxaca se realizaron estudios específicos como el de sistemas de producción, mujeres, caminos saca
cosecha, etc., con apoyo de fondos japoneses del Banco Mundial, 5) Se previó la necesidad de conformar
los Consejos Regionales de Desarrollo Sustentable y las Unidades Técnicas de los Consejos, impulsando su
formación, 6) Se llevaron a cabo talleres para revisar y modificar los diagnósticos socioeconómicos de cada



                                                    - 39 -

región por diferentes instituciones y organizaciones de productores, 7) La normatividad del programa y su
manual de operación se explico en cada estado con crédito externo.

d)      Experiencia de la operación

Las experiencias de la operación del programa son heterogéneas con buenos o regularmente satisfactorios
resultados, a partir del compromiso de los ejecutores y, de la participación de los productores en los
consejos regionales de desarrollo rural sustentable y en los procesos de planificación comunitaria. Los
servicios técnicos de campo contribuyeron a impulsar la participación de los productores en la toma de
decisiones de la planeación, operación y seguimiento de su propio desarrollo y de la sociedad rural,
logrando la organización de unidades de producción familiar a través de diagnósticos, planes y proyectos de
desarrollo integral comunitario participativo, generando el desarrollo de capacidades locales, tanto en
capital humano como social, para exigir que los procesos se realicen de una manera transparente,
equitativa y democrática.

e)      Principales lecciones aprendidas que pudiesen ser relevantes en el futuro


§       Que se requieren sistemas de comunicación, información, seguimiento y evaluación para asegurar
resultados.
§       Que se debe hacer un análisis de capacidad institucional en todos los niveles que intervienen en
cualquier programa.
§       Que el reconocimiento de la lógica de producción de la familia rural marginada para su
subsistencia, propicia apoyos integrales para su desarrollo social y económico.
§       Que el fomento al ahorro y la recuperación de los apoyos por parte de las familias rurales
beneficiadas, es posible y que además es fundamental para la sostenibilidad financiera de los cambios
tecnológicos.
§       Que el desarrollar mayor número de herramientas de trabajo como metodologías, manuales,
modelos, paquetes de capacitación, controles, formatos, procesos, talleres, videos, entre otros, permita
sistematizar las acciones del desarrollo del programa.


2. Evaluación del desempeño del prestatario (SHCP, SAGARPA y NAFIN).

a)      Diseño

La SAGARPA contribuyó significativamente en el diseño técnico del programa con la asesoría técnica y
revisión de FAO y Banco Mundial, discutiendo primero en forma conjunta la conceptualización del mismo
y posteriormente SAGARPA desarrolló la normatividad y manual de operación; así como diversas
actividades de promoción, capacitación, inducción metodológica, operación, evaluación y seguimiento.


En relación a comprobación de gastos y desembolsos, la SAGARPA instaló en octubre de 1998 la Unidad
de Comprobación de Gastos, la que contó con personal a nivel central y estatal quien directamente se
encargaba de la comprobación de gastos y desembolso, bajo la supervisión de la SAGARPA y la revisión
de NAFIN.

b)      Operación (implementación y evolución)



                                                   - 40 -

La intervención de la SAGARPA en la implementación del programa en los estados fue satisfactoria al
plantear la propuesta a los estados con amplia aceptación, sin embargo, en su evolución fue regularmente
satisfactoria ya que no se previeron las estructuras organizacionales suficientes para acompañar con
eficiencia el desarrollo del programa, faltando además un sistema de control y diseño de herramientas, que
aseguraran resultados, por lo cual se dejo suelto el programa sin conocer con precisión el rumbo de éste en
cada estado.

El acompañamiento y asesoría técnica de Nacional Financiera en comprobación de gastos, desembolso y
auditorias, realizando además visitas de supervisión y de asesoría en la materia a los estados que tenían
crédito externo.

Un problema importante en la operación del Programa se refiere a la lentitud observada en el desembolso y
en recuperar la información relativa a la ejecución del crédito externo. En eso influyó de manera
fundamental que quienes gastaban los recursos del programa eran los estados, y éstos no tuvieron estímulos
positivos al cumplir o negativos por no cumplir, además el detallado diseño de la administración del crédito
externo les implicó significativos costos de transacción adicionales.

c)       Principales lecciones aprendidas

·        Que deben simplificarse los procesos de comprobación de gastos y desembolsos, así como las
contrataciones de consultores para ser más oportunos en la información financiera y en los productos que
se esperan obtener, tanto por NAFIN como por Banco Mundial o en su defecto considerar estímulos a los
ejecutores para cumplir adecuadamente la administración del crédito externo.
·        La Autorización de la segunda fase fue un poco apresurada, no permitió recuperar enseñanzas de
la primera fase
·        Las operaciones de comprobación de gastos y desembolsos deben iniciar al parejo de la operación
para evitar desfasamientos en los desembolsos.


3. Evaluación del desempeño del Banco (y otros que haya estado involucrado durante la implantación y
     supervisión del proyecto).

a)       Diseño

La participación del Banco Mundial en el diseño del programa siempre estuvo presente, desde las
propuestas iniciales de un enfoque regional, productivo, integral, sostenible y participativo, así como, la
asesoría metodológica para su instrumentación sobre todo en los estados piloto.

b)       Supervisión

La supervisión del Banco Mundial mediante misiones permitió un contacto cotidiano con las operaciones de
campo que facilitó el apoyo en la instrumentación tanto en la parte documental, como en la parte técnico ­
operativa. Traduciéndose en documentos ayuda memoria que sistematizaron las observaciones y propuestas
de solución, muchas de ellas retomadas con las adecuaciones consecuentes en términos operativos y
administrativos.

c)       Efectividad de las relaciones entre el prestatario y el Banco



                                                     - 41 -

     La relación del Banco con SAGARPA y NAFIN fue fluida, sin embargo, la capacidad de respuesta fue
     insuficiente para concretarse medidas encaminadas a mejorar el desembolso, tales como ampliación de
     regiones y estados susceptibles de descontar, así como otras medidas simplificadoras.

d)       Principales lecciones aprendidas

·        Asegurar que las metas de desembolso se cubran con el presupuesto otorgado al programa.
·        Los proceso de comprobación de gastos y requerimientos de información deben ser simples en
ejecuciones federalizadas, de tal modo que no impliquen altos costos de transacción a los estados, en caso
de diseños detallados deben considerarse estímulos los estados para garantizar el cumplimiento de
compromisos
·        Cuidar que la capacidad institucional o estructuras organizativas del ejecutor: nivel central, estados
y regiones, sea la adecuada


4. Arreglos para la sustentabilidad del proyecto en el futuro.

a)       Arreglos

    Etapa Pre-operativa:

·        Sistematizar las estrategias, planes, programas y acciones a través de diseño de manuales,
modelos, procedimientos y videos, entre otros, que permitan asegurar la correcta inducción de quienes se
van a incorporar a la operación del programa y que estas herramientas sean congruentes con los sistemas
de comunicación, información y seguimiento.

    Etapa Operativa:

·        Contar con sistema de remuneraciones diferenciales significativas de acuerdo a la distancia y
dificultades de acceso de las comunidades asignadas, de tal modo que los técnicos puedan vivir en su área
de trabajo. Incluyendo un esquema de incorporación al trabajo técnico de los productores líderes.
·        Facilitar esquemas de evaluación durante la operación, pero también flexibilidad para hacer las
adecuaciones legales necesarias desprendidas de la operación.

b)       Principales lecciones aprendidas incorporando en los arreglos

·        Ordenar las estructuras y disposiciones de arriba hacia abajo para que pueda haber participación
de abajo hacia arriba.
·        Los indicadores de evaluación del programa deben medir los resultados, los procesos y los recursos
utilizados para identificar donde se localizan los errores y aciertos, y realizar las acciones correctivas
necesarias o reproducir las experiencias exitosas, según sea el caso.
c)       Algunos posibles indicadores a ser utilizados para monitorear la operación futura y el impacto de
desarrollo

     Indicadores de Impacto:

·        Rendimiento actual de la producción obtenida con proyecto, en relación a la producción obtenida



                                                     - 42 -

sin proyecto,
·        Incremento en ingreso familiar obtenido con proyecto, en relación al ingreso mensual o anual
obtenido sin proyectos,
·        Canasta básica de consumo familiar con y sin proyecto,
·        Etc.

    Indicadores de Desempeño:

·        Tiempo transcurrido en la Gestión de Recursos, desde la asignación presupuestal al programa
hasta la liberación de los recursos a los beneficiarios una vez realizado los cambios necesarios para una
eficiente gestión, en relación al tiempo transcurrido en la liberación de recursos a los beneficiarios sin
realizar los cambios señalados,
·        Número de hectáreas atendidas con algún tipo de mejora o conservación de recursos naturales, en
relación al número total de hectáreas atendidas por el programa,
·        Número de beneficiarios que se apropiaron de nuevas tecnologías, en relación al número total de
beneficiarios del programa,
·        Etc.




                                                     - 43 -

- 44 -

