Page  1
CONFORMED COPY
LOAN NUMBER 4276-ME
Guarantee Agreement
(Rural Development in Marginal Areas Project)
between
UNITED MEXICAN STATES
and
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
Dated July 15, 1998
LOAN NUMBER 4276-ME
GUARANTEE AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT, dated July 15, 1998, between UNITED MEXICAN STATES (the Guarantor) 
and INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT (the Bank).
WHEREAS (A) the Guarantor and Nacional Financiera, S.N.C. (the Borrower), having 
been satisfied as to the feasibility and priority of the Project described in Schedule 
2 to the Loan Agreement, have requested the Bank to assist in the financing of the 
Project;
(B)
by the Loan Agreement of even date herewith between the Bank and the 
Borrower, the Bank has agreed to extend to the Borrower a loan in the amount of 
forty-seven million Dollars ($47,000,000), on the terms and conditions set forth in 
the Loan Agreement, but only on condition that the Guarantor agree to guarantee the 
obligations of the Borrower in respect of such loan and to undertake such other 
obligations as provided in this Agreement; and
WHEREAS the Guarantor, in consideration of the Bank’s entering into the Loan 
Agreement with the Borrower, has agreed so to guarantee such obligations of the 
Borrower;
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows: 
ARTICLE I
General Conditions; Definitions
Page  2
Section 1.01. The “General Conditions Applicable to Loan and Guarantee 
Agreements for Single Currency Loans” of the Bank, dated May 30, 1995, with the 
modification set forth in the Loan Agreement, constitute an integral part of this 
Agreement.
Section 1.02. Unless the context otherwise requires, the several terms defined 
in the General Conditions and in the Preamble to and Section 1.02 of the Loan 
Agreement have the respective meanings therein set forth.
ARTICLE II
Guarantee; Provision of Funds
Section 2.01. Without limitation or restriction upon any of its other 
obligations under the Guarantee Agreement, the Guarantor hereby unconditionally 
guarantees, as primary obligor and not as surety merely, the due and punctual payment 
of the principal of, and interest and other charges on, the Loan, and the premium, if 
any, on the prepayment of the Loan, and the punctual performance of all the other 
obligations of the Borrower, all as set forth in the Loan Agreement.
Section 2.02. The Guarantor shall enter into the contractual arrangements 
referred to in Section 3.01 of the Loan Agreement and, except as the Bank may 
otherwise agree, shall not amend or fail to enforce any provision of such contractual 
arrangements. The Guarantor shall exercise its rights under such contractual 
arrangements in such manner as to protect the interests of the Guarantor and the Bank 
and to accomplish the purposes of the Loan. 
Section 2.03. The Guarantor shall provide or cause to be provided, in a timely 
manner as needed, the funds, facilities, services and other resources required for the 
Project.
ARTICLE III
Execution of the Project
Section 3.01. The Guarantor declares its commitment to the objectives of the 
Project as set forth in Schedule 2 to the Loan Agreement and, to this end, without 
limitation or restriction upon any of its other obligations under the Guarantee 
Agreement, shall with due diligence and efficiency and in conformity with appropriate 
environmental, technical, financial and administrative standards and practices, as 
well as in accordance with the Operational Manual:
(a)
have SAGAR cause the Project to be carried out in coordination with the 
Participating States within the framework of the Alianza para el Campo, through the 
use of Participation Agreements;
(b)
have SDR coordinate Project implementation at the national level;
(c)
cause each CDR to coordinate Project implementation at the level of each 
CDR’s Participating State; and
(d)
cause a CRDS to be established for each Project Area (or subdivision 
thereof) within a Participating State and cause each CRDS to coordinate Project 
implementation at the level of each CRDS’s Project Area. 
Section 3.02. Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree, procurement of the 
goods, works and services required for the Project and to be financed out of the 
proceeds of the Loan shall be governed by the provisions of Schedule 1 to this 
Agreement.
Section 3.03. The Guarantor shall carry out, or cause to be carried out, the 
obligations set forth in Sections 9.04, 9.05, 9.06, 9.07, 9.08 and 9.09 of the General 
Conditions (relating respectively to insurance, use of goods and services, plans and 
schedules, records and reports, maintenance and land acquisition) with regard to the 
Project.
Page  3
Section 3.04. (a) The Guarantor shall, through SAGAR, maintain or cause to be 
maintained records and separate accounts adequate to reflect, in accordance with sound 
accounting practices, the operations, resources and expenditures in connection with 
the execution of the Project.
(b)
The Guarantor shall:
(i)
have the records and accounts referred to in paragraph (a) of this 
Section for 
each fiscal year audited, in accordance with generally 
accepted auditing 
standards and procedures consistently applied, 
by independent and qualified 
auditors;
(ii)
furnish to the Bank as soon as available, but in any case not 
later than six 
months after the end of such year, the report of such 
audit by said auditors, 
of such scope and in such detail as the Bank 
shall have reasonably requested; 
and
(iii)
furnish to the Bank such other information concerning said records 
and 
accounts as well as the audit thereof as the Bank shall from 
time to time 
reasonably request.
(c)
For all expenditures with respect to which withdrawals from the Loan 
Account were made on the basis of statements of expenditure, the Guarantor shall:
(i)
maintain, in accordance with paragraph (a) of this Section, 
records and 
accounts reflecting such expenditures;
(ii)
retain, until at least one year after the Bank has received the 
audit report 
for the fiscal year in which the last withdrawal from the 
Loan Account or 
payment out of the Special Account was made, 
all records (contracts, orders, 
invoices, bills, receipts and other 
documents) evidencing such expenditures;
(iii)
enable the Bank’s representatives to examine such records;
(iv)
ensure that such records and accounts are included in the annual 
audit 
referred to in paragraph (b) of this Section and that the 
report of such audit 
contains a separate opinion by said auditors 
as to whether the statements of 
expenditure submitted during such fiscal 
year, together with the procedures 
and internal controls involved in 
their preparation, can be relied upon to 
support the related 
withdrawals.
(d)
For all expenditures with respect to which withdrawals were made from the 
Special Account, the Guarantor shall provide to the Borrower any information that may 
be required by the Borrower to comply with the Borrower’s obligations under section 
4.01 of the Loan Agreement.
Section 3.05. Throughout the course of Project implementation, and without 
limitation upon the provisions of Section 9.07 of the General Conditions, the 
Guarantor, through SAGAR, shall:
(a)
maintain or cause to be maintained procedures adequate to enable 
monitoring and evaluation on an ongoing basis, in accordance with the indicators set 
forth in the Implementation Letter, of the carrying out of the Project and of the 
achievement of the objectives thereof; 
(b)
cause each CRDS to:  (i) monitor the execution of each Subproject in the 
CRDS’s Project Area by applying the procedures and indicators referred to in paragraph 
(a) above; and (ii) one month after the end of each quarter (beginning for the quarter 
commencing on the Effective Date), furnish to its Participating State’s CDR a report 
on the results of said monitoring;
(c)
cause each CDR to furnish to SAGAR, one month after the end of each 
semester (beginning for the semester commencing on the Effective Date), a consolidated 
report based on the quarterly reports referred to in paragraph (b) above; and
Page  4
(d)
furnish to the Bank, two months after the end of each semester (beginning 
for the semester commencing on the Effective Date), progress reports on Project 
implementation, in a format satisfactory to the Bank, which reports shall be based on 
the semestral reports referred to in paragraph (c) above and shall each include 
Project evaluations carried out semestrally by independent consultants separately for 
each Project Area.
Section 3.06. In case of any conflict between the terms of the Operational 
Manual and those of this Agreement and of the Loan Agreement, the terms of this 
Agreement and of the Loan Agreement shall prevail.
ARTICLE IV
Representatives of the Guarantor; Addresses
Section 4.01. The Director General de Crédito Público of the Guarantor is 
designated as representative of the Guarantor for the purposes of Section 11.03 of the 
General Conditions.
Section 4.02. The following addresses are specified for the purposes of Section 
11.01 of the General Conditions:
For the Guarantor:
Dirección General de Crédito Público
Secretaría de Hacienda y Crédito Público
Insurgentes Sur 826 (piso 9)
Colonia del Valle
03100 México, D.F.
México
Telex:
1777313-SHOCME
For the Bank:
International Bank for
 Reconstruction and Development
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Cable address:
Telex:
INTBAFRAD
248423 (MCI); or
Washington, D.C.
 64145 (MCI)
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their duly authorized 
representatives, have caused this Agreement to be signed in their respective names in 
the District of Columbia, United States of America, as of the day and year first above 
written.
UNITED MEXICAN STATES
By /s/ Jesús Reyes Heroles 
Authorized Representative
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR
 RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
Page  5
By /s/ Shahid Javed Burki 
Regional Vice President 
Latin America and the Caribbean 
SCHEDULE 1
Procurement and Consultants’ Services
Section I.
Procurement of Goods and Works 
Part A:
General
Goods and works shall be procured in accordance with the provisions of Section I 
of the “Guidelines for Procurement under IBRD Loans and IDA Credits” published by the 
Bank in January 1995 and revised in January and August 1996 (the Guidelines) and the 
following provisions of Section I of this Schedule.
Part B:
Community Participation
Goods and works required for Part A of the Project shall be procured in 
accordance with procedures acceptable to the Bank, which procedures may include:
1.
direct contracting (with the proviso that, for goods and works for which SAGAR 
maintains reference price lists, such goods or works shall be procured at prices at or 
below those set forth in such lists);
2.
procurement of goods under contracts awarded on the basis of national shopping 
procedures in accordance with the provisions of paragraphs 3.5 and 3.6 of the 
Guidelines; and
3.
procurement of works under lump-sum, fixed-price contracts awarded on the basis 
of quotations obtained from three qualified domestic contractors in response to a 
written invitation.  The invitation shall include a detailed description of the works, 
including basic specifications, the required completion date, a basic form of 
agreement acceptable to the Bank, and relevant drawings, where applicable.  The award 
shall be made to the contractor who offers the lowest price quotation for the required 
work, and who has the experience and resources to complete the contract successfully.
Part C: 
Post Review by the Bank of Procurement Decisions
With respect to each contract covered by Part B of this Section, the procedures 
set forth in paragraph 4 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines shall apply.
Section II. 
Employment of Consultants
Part A:
General
Consultants’ services shall be procured in accordance with the provisions of the 
Introduction and Section IV of the “Guidelines:  Selection and Employment of 
Consultants by World Bank Borrowers” published by the Bank in January 1997 (the 
Consultant Guidelines) and the following provisions of Section II of this Schedule.
Part B:
Specific Procedures for the Selection of Consultants
1.
Services provided by consulting firms, estimated to cost $100,000 equivalent or 
more per contract, shall be procured under contracts awarded in accordance with the 
provisions of paragraphs 3.1 through 3.4 of the Consultant Guidelines.
2.
Services provided by consulting firms, estimated to cost less than $100,000 
equivalent per contract, shall be procured under contracts awarded in accordance with 
the provisions of paragraphs 3.1 and 3.7 of the Consultant Guidelines.
3.
Services provided by individual consultants shall be procured under contracts 
awarded in accordance with the provisions of paragraphs 5.1 through 5.3 of the 
Consultant Guidelines.
Page  6
Part C:
Review by the Bank of the Selection of Consultants
1.
Selection Planning
Prior to the issuance to consultants of any requests for proposals, the proposed 
plan for the selection of consultants under the Project shall be furnished to the Bank 
for its review and approval, in accordance with the provisions of paragraph 1 of 
Appendix 1 to the Consultant Guidelines.  Selection of all consultants’ services shall 
be undertaken in accordance with such selection plan as shall have been approved by 
the Bank, and with the provisions of said paragraph 1.
2.
Prior Review
(a)
With respect to each contract for the employment of consulting firms 
estimated to cost the equivalent of $100,000 or more, the procedures set forth in 
paragraphs 1, 2 (other than the third subparagraph of paragraph 2 (a)) and 5 of 
Appendix 1 to the Consultant Guidelines shall apply.
(b)
With respect to each contract for the employment of individual 
consultants estimated to cost the equivalent of $50,000 or more, the qualifications, 
experience, terms of reference and terms of employment of the consultants shall be 
furnished to the Bank for its prior review and approval.  The contract shall be 
awarded only after the said approval shall have been given.
(c)
To award contracts below the thresholds set forth in paragraphs 2 (a) and 
(b) of this Part, prior review and approval by the Bank of short lists (where 
pertinent) and terms of reference shall be required.
3.
Post Review
With respect to each contract not governed by paragraphs 2 (a) and (b) of this 
Part, the procedures set forth in paragraph 4 of Appendix 1 to the Consultant 
Guidelines shall apply.
SCHEDULE 2
Eligibility Criteria for Subprojects and Beneficiaries
A.
Beneficiaries
To participate in the Project, Beneficiaries must, inter alia:
1.
reside in localities of less than 2,500 inhabitants, within a Project Area;
2.
be farmers who:  (a) have productive potential but whose actual productivity is 
below the national average, (b) do not cultivate more than ten hectares each, (c) do 
not each possess more than ten heads of cattle or equivalent and (d) mainly employ 
family labor; and
3.
propose and carry out a Subproject as a group, community or organization 
consisting of at least five, but no more than thirty, Beneficiaries in total (except 
that a Subproject may be carried out by an individual Beneficiary if such individual 
implementation is endorsed by the relevant community assembly).
B.
Subprojects
To be eligible for financing under the Project, Subprojects must, inter alia:
1.
relate directly to agricultural production or natural resource management (but 
may relate indirectly to such production or management in the case of Community 
Development Subprojects);
2.
be proposed by Beneficiaries and approved by the relevant CRDS;
3.
pass the environmental screening criteria set forth in the Operational Manual 
and thus present no environmental threat and be consistent with sustainable natural 
Page  7
resource use;
4.
be sustainable in light of the local cropping patterns and socio-economic 
setting;
5.
be profitable and involve productivity increases and production for viable, 
pre-identified markets (in the case of Productive Investment Subprojects that do not 
focus solely on subsistence);
6.
promote local processing of raw products and generation of local value-added;
7.
not involve the financing of:  (a) mere consumption or transfer of ownership; 
(b) debts and liabilities; (c) purchase or rental of land; (d) civil works (with the 
exception of materials for small community works in the case of Community Development 
Subprojects); (e) welfare or other social assistance; (f) reconversion out of shaded 
coffee; (g) extensive livestock use in medium- or high-altitude areas; (h) 
deforestation; and (i) operating expenses that would have been incurred even in the 
absence of the Subproject;
8.
not involve use of pesticides that are formulated products within classes IA and 
IB of the World Health Organization’s Recommended Classification of Pesticides by 
Hazard and Guidelines to Classification (Geneva:  WHO, 1994-95; hereinafter WHO 
Guidelines), or are formulations of products in Class II of the WHO Guidelines;
9.
in the case of a Productive Investment Subproject, require an up-front cash or 
in-kind contribution from its Beneficiaries, equal to at least 30% of said Productive 
Investment Subproject’s cost; and
10.
not cost more than $30,000 equivalent.
