Page  1
CONFORMED COPY
LOAN NUMBER 4276-ME
Loan Agreement
(Rural Development in Marginal Areas Project)
between
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
and
NACIONAL FINANCIERA, S.N.C.
Dated July 15, 1998
LOAN NUMBER 4276-ME
LOAN AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT, dated July 15, 1998, between INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION 
AND DEVELOPMENT (the Bank) and NACIONAL FINANCIERA, S.N.C. (the Borrower).
WHEREAS  (A) United Mexican States (the Guarantor) and the Borrower, having been 
satisfied as to the feasibility and priority of the Project described in Schedule 2 to 
this Agreement, have requested the Bank to assist in the financing of the Project; and
(B)
by an agreement (the Guarantee Agreement) of even date herewith between 
the Guarantor and the Bank, the Guarantor has agreed to guarantee the obligations of 
the Borrower in respect of the Loan and to undertake such other obligations as set 
forth in the Guarantee Agreement; and 
WHEREAS the Bank has agreed, on the basis, inter alia, of the foregoing, to 
extend the Loan to the Borrower upon the terms and conditions set forth in this 
Agreement;
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
ARTICLE I
General Conditions; Definitions
Section 1.01. The “General Conditions Applicable to Loan and Guarantee 
Agreements for Single Currency Loans” of the Bank, dated May 30, 1995 (the General 
Conditions), constitute an integral part of this Agreement, except that Section 6.03 
of the General Conditions is modified to read:  "Section 6.03. Cancellation by the 
Page  2
Bank.  If (a) the right of the Borrower to make withdrawals from the Loan Account 
shall have been suspended with respect to any amount of the Loan for a continuous 
period of thirty days, or (b) at any time, the Bank determines, after consultation 
with the Borrower, that an amount of the Loan will not be required to finance the 
Project’s costs to be financed out of the proceeds of the Loan, or (c) at any time, 
the Bank determines, with respect to any contract to be financed out of the proceeds 
of the Loan, that corrupt or fraudulent practices were engaged in by representatives 
of the Borrower or of a beneficiary of the Loan during the procurement or the 
execution of such contract, without the Borrower having taken timely and appropriate 
action satisfactory to the Bank to remedy the situation, and establishes the amount of 
expenditures in respect of such contract which would otherwise have been eligible for 
financing out of the proceeds of the Loan, or (d) at any time, the Bank determines 
that the procurement of any contract to be financed out of the proceeds of the Loan is 
inconsistent with the procedures set forth or referred to in the Loan Agreement and 
establishes the amount of expenditures in respect of such contract which would 
otherwise have been eligible for financing out of the proceeds of the Loan, or (e) 
after the Closing Date, an amount of the Loan shall remain unwithdrawn from the Loan 
Account, or (f) the Bank shall have received notice from the Guarantor pursuant to 
Section 6.07 with respect to an amount of the Loan, the Bank may, by notice to the 
Borrower and the Guarantor, terminate the right of the Borrower to make withdrawals 
with respect to such amount.  Upon the giving of such notice, such amount of the Loan 
shall be cancelled.”. 
Section 1.02. Unless the context otherwise requires, the several terms defined 
in the General Conditions and in the Preamble to this Agreement have the respective 
meanings therein set forth and the following additional terms have the following 
meanings:
(a)
“Alianza para el Campo” means the Guarantor’s agricultural production and 
rural development program established on the basis of the Guarantor’s 1995-2000 
National Development Plan and subsequent coordination with agricultural producers’ 
organizations;
(b)
“Beneficiaries” means small farmers that meet the eligibility criteria 
set forth in Schedule 2 to the Guarantee Agreement and carry out a Subproject (as 
hereinafter defined);
(c)
“CDR” means a Comisión de Desarrollo Rural (Rural Development 
Commission), one for each Participating State (as hereinafter defined), comprised of 
representatives from local producers’ organizations, the Participating State, SAGAR 
(as hereinafter defined) and other federal and Participating State entities involved 
in rural development;
(d)
“Community Development Subproject” means a set of productive activities 
that meet the eligibility criteria set forth in Schedule 2 to the Guarantee Agreement, 
are not themselves income-producing and are carried out by small farmers, acting 
through their communities, for the general benefit of those communities; 
(e)
“CRDS” means a Consejo Regional de Desarrollo Sustentable (Regional 
Sustainable Development Council), one for each Project Area (as hereinafter defined) 
or subdivision thereof, assisted by a technical unit to carry out technical, economic 
and social evaluations of Subproject (as hereinafter defined) proposals, and comprised 
of:  (i) representatives from the relevant Participating State (as hereinafter 
defined), local communities, local producers’ organizations, SAGAR (as hereinafter 
defined), INI (as hereinafter defined) and other federal and relevant Participating 
State entities and non-governmental organizations involved in rural development in the 
Project Area; or (ii) any other mix of representatives if satisfactory to the Bank;
(f)
“Implementation Letter” means the letter of even date herewith, from the 
Guarantor to the Bank, containing, inter alia, indicators to be used in monitoring and 
evaluating implementation of the Project;
(g)
“INI” means the Guarantor’s Instituto Nacional Indigenista (National 
Indigenous Affairs Institute);
(h)
“Operational Manual” means the manual, prepared by SAGAR (as hereinafter 
defined), as amended from time to time and satisfactory to the Bank, setting forth 
Page  3
specific rules and procedures for implementation of the Project;
(i)
“Participating States” means the Guarantor’s states of Hidalgo, Oaxaca, 
San Luis Potosí and Veracruz, as well as any other states that may be added by the 
Guarantor with the express written approval of the Bank;
(j)
“Participation Agreement” means an agreement (between a Participating 
State and the Guarantor) or any other written instrument, whereby a Participating 
State commits to participate in the Project under terms and conditions which include 
compliance with the Operational Manual and timely provision of Participating State 
counterpart funds for the Project;
(k)
“Productive Investment Subproject” means a set of productive activities 
that meet the eligibility criteria set forth in Schedule 2 to the Guarantee Agreement, 
are income-producing or food/resource-producing and are carried out by a small farmer 
(individually or in combination with other small farmers) for his, her or their 
specific benefit;
(l)
“Project Area” means each of the following six marginal rural areas (as 
well as any other such areas that may be added by the Guarantor with the express 
written approval of the Bank):  in the Participating State of Oaxaca, the Mixe area 
(consisting of the Mixe area municipalities listed in the Implementation Letter), the 
Mazateca area (consisting of the Mazateca area municipalities listed in the 
Implementation Letter) and the Cuicateca area (consisting of the Cuicateca 
municipalities listed in the Implementation Letter) and in the Participating States of 
Hidalgo, San Luis Potosí and Veracruz, the Huasteca area in each of said States 
(consisting of those States’ Huasteca municipalities listed in the Implementation 
Letter);
(m)
“SAGAR” means the Guarantor’s Secretaría de Agricultura, Ganadería y 
Desarrollo Rural (Agriculture, Livestock and Rural Development Secretariat);
(n)
“SDR” means SAGAR’s Subsecretaría de Desarrollo Rural (Rural Development 
Subsecretariat);
(o)
“Special Account” means the account referred to in Section 2.02 (b) of 
this Agreement; and
(p)
“Subproject” means a Community Development Subproject or a Productive 
Investment Subproject.
ARTICLE II
The Loan
Section 2.01. The Bank agrees to lend to the Borrower, on the terms and 
conditions set forth or referred to in the Loan Agreement, an amount equal to 
forty-seven million Dollars (47,000,000).
Section 2.02. (a) The amount of the Loan may be withdrawn from the Loan Account 
in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1 to this Agreement for expenditures 
made (or, if the Bank shall so agree, to be made) in respect of the reasonable cost of 
goods, works and services required for the Project described in Schedule 2 to this 
Agreement and to be financed out of the proceeds of the Loan.
(b)
The Borrower may, for the purposes of the Project, open and maintain in 
Dollars a special deposit account in Banco de México on terms and conditions 
satisfactory to the Bank.  Deposits into, and payments out of, the Special Account 
shall be made in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 4 to this Agreement.
Section 2.03. The Closing Date shall be June 30, 2003 or such later date as the 
Bank shall establish.  The Bank shall promptly notify the Borrower and the Guarantor 
of such later date.
Section 2.04. The Borrower shall pay to the Bank a commitment charge at the rate 
of three\1efourths of one per cent (3/4 of 1%) per annum on the principal amount of the 
Page  4
Loan not withdrawn from time to time.
Section 2.05. (a) The Borrower shall pay interest on the principal amount of the 
Loan withdrawn and outstanding from time to time, at a rate for each Interest Period 
equal to LIBOR Base Rate plus LIBOR Total Spread.
(b)
For the purposes of this Section: 
(i)
“Interest Period” means the initial period from and including the 
date of this 
Agreement to, but excluding, the first Interest Payment Date 
occurring 
thereafter, and after the initial period, each period 
from and including an 
Interest Payment Date to, but excluding, the 
next following Interest Payment 
Date. 
(ii)
“Interest Payment Date” means any date specified in Section 2.06 
of this 
Agreement. 
(iii)
“LIBOR Base Rate” means, for each Interest Period, the London 
interbank 
offered rate for six-month deposits in Dollars for 
value the first day of such 
Interest Period (or, in the case of the 
initial Interest Period, for value the 
Interest Payment Date occurring 
on or next preceding the first day of such 
Interest Period), as 
reasonably determined by the Bank and expressed as a 
percentage 
per annum.
(iv)
“LIBOR Total Spread” means, for each Interest Period:  (A) one 
half of one 
percent (1/2 of 1%); (B) minus (or plus) the weighted 
average margin, for such 
Interest Period, below (or above) the London 
interbank offered rates, or other 
reference rates, for six-month 
deposits, in respect of the Bank’s outstanding 
borrowings or 
portions thereof allocated by the Bank to fund single currency 
loans 
or portions thereof made by it that include the Loan; as reasonably 
determined by the Bank and expressed as a percentage per annum. 
(c)
The Bank shall notify the Guarantor and Borrower of LIBOR Base Rate and 
LIBOR Total Spread for each Interest Period, promptly upon the determination thereof. 
(d)
Whenever, in light of changes in market practice affecting the 
determination of the interest rates referred to in this Section 2.05, the Bank 
determines that it is in the interest of its borrowers as a whole and of the Bank to 
apply a basis for determining the interest rates applicable to the Loan other than as 
provided in said Section, the Bank may modify the basis for determining the interest 
rates applicable to the Loan upon not less than six (6) months’ notice to the Borrower 
of the new basis.  The basis shall become effective on the expiry of the notice period 
unless the Borrower notifies the Bank during said period of its objection thereto, in 
which case said modification shall not apply to the Loan.
Section 2.06. Interest and other charges shall be payable April 15 and October 
15 in each year.
Section 2.07. The Borrower shall repay the principal amount of the Loan in 
accordance with the amortization schedule set forth in Schedule 3 to this Agreement.
ARTICLE III
Transfer of Loan Proceeds; Other Covenants
Section 3.01. The Borrower shall enter into, and comply with the terms of, 
contractual arrangements with the Guarantor, satisfactory to the Bank, providing, 
inter alia, for: (a) the transfer to the Guarantor of the proceeds of the Loan; and 
(b) the transfer by the Guarantor to the Borrower of such funds as the Borrower shall 
be required to pay to the Bank on account of principal, interest and other charges on 
the Loan.  Except as the Bank may otherwise agree, the Borrower shall not amend or 
fail to enforce any provision of such contractual arrangements.  The Borrower shall 
exercise its rights under such contractual arrangements in such a manner as to protect 
the interests of the Borrower and the Bank and to accomplish the purposes of the Loan.
Page  5
Section 3.02. The Bank and the Borrower hereby agree that the obligations set 
forth in Sections 9.04, 9.05, 9.06, 9.07, 9.08 and 9.09 of the General Conditions 
(relating respectively to insurance, use of goods and services, plans and schedules, 
records and reports, maintenance and land acquisition) shall be carried out, or caused 
to be carried out, by the Guarantor pursuant to Section 3.03 of the Guarantee 
Agreement.
ARTICLE IV
Financial Covenants
Section 4.01. The Borrower shall maintain or cause to be maintained records and 
separate accounts adequate to reflect, in accordance with sound accounting practices, 
the operations, resources and expenditures in connection with the execution of the 
Project.
Section 4.02. (a) The Borrower shall:
(i)
have the records and accounts referred to in Section 4.01 of this 
Agreement, 
and the records and accounts for the Special Account, for 
each fiscal year 
audited, in accordance with generally accepted 
auditing standards and 
procedures consistently applied, by 
independent and qualified auditors;
(ii)
furnish to the Bank as soon as available, but in any case not 
later than six 
months after the end of each such year, the report of 
such audit by said 
auditors, of such scope and in such detail as 
the Bank shall have reasonably 
requested; 
(iii)
furnish to the Bank each month certified statements of the Special 
Account; and
(iv)
furnish to the Bank such other information concerning said records 
and 
accounts and the audit thereof as the Bank shall from time 
to time reasonably 
request.
(b)
For all expenditures with respect to which withdrawals from the Loan 
Account were made on the basis of statements of expenditure, the Borrower shall 
provide to the Guarantor any information that may be required by the Guarantor to 
comply with the Guarantor’s obligations under Section 3.04 of the Guarantee Agreement.
ARTICLE V
Effective Date; Termination
Section 5.01. The following events are specified as additional conditions to the 
effectiveness of the Loan Agreement within the meaning of Section 12.01 (c) of the 
General Conditions:
(a)
that the contractual arrangements referred to in Section 3.01 of this 
Agreement have been entered into;
(b)
that the Operational Manual has been issued by SAGAR and put into effect; 
and
(c)
that the Guarantor has in place appropriate resources and mechanisms 
required to carry out the obligations set forth in Section 3.04 of the Guarantee 
Agreement.
Section 5.02. The following is specified as an additional matter, within the 
meaning of Section 12.02 (c) of the General Conditions, to be included in the opinion 
or opinions to be furnished to the Bank, namely that the contractual arrangements 
referred to in Section 3.01 of this Agreement have been duly authorized or ratified by 
the Borrower and the Guarantor, have been duly executed by them, and are legally 
binding upon the Borrower and the Guarantor in accordance with their terms.
Section 5.03. The date October 13, 1998 is hereby specified for the purposes of 
Page  6
Section 12.04 of the General Conditions.
ARTICLE VI
Representative of the Borrower; Addresses
Section 6.01. The Director Internacional of the Borrower is designated as 
representative of the Borrower for the purposes of Section 11.03 of the General 
Conditions.
Section 6.02. The following addresses are specified for the purposes of Section 
11.01 of the General Conditions:
For the Bank:
International Bank for
 Reconstruction and Development
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Cable address:
Telex:
INTBAFRAD
248423 (MCI); or
Washington, D.C.
 64145 (MCI)
For the Borrower:
Nacional Financiera, S.N.C.
Dirección Internacional
Torre IV, piso 8
Plaza Inn, Insurgentes Sur 1971
01020 México, D.F.
México
Cable address: 
Telex:
NAFIN
NAFIME 383-1775765
Mexico City
Mexico City
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their duly authorized 
representatives, have caused this Agreement to be signed in their respective names in 
the District of Columbia, United States of America, as of the day and year first above 
written.
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR
RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
By /s/ Shahid Javed Burki 
Regional Vice President 
Latin America and the Caribbean
NACIONAL FINANCIERA, S.N.C.
By /s/ Jesús Rodríguez Montero 
Authorized Representative
SCHEDULE 1
Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the Loan
1.
The table below sets forth the Categories of items to be financed out of the 
Page  7
proceeds of the Loan, the allocation of the amounts of the Loan to each Category and 
the percentage of expenditures for items so to be financed in each Category:
Amount of the
% of
Loan Allocated
  Expenditures
(Expressed in
to be
Category
  Dollars)
    Financed
(1)
Goods, works and
32,700,000
75%
services for Subprojects
under Part A of the
Project
(2)
Consultants’ services
11,000,000
75% 
under Parts B and C
of the Project
(3)
Incremental operating
 1,300,000
75%
costs under Part C
of the Project
(4)
Unallocated
 2,000,000
___________
TOTAL
47,000,000
==========
2.
For the purposes of this Schedule, the term “incremental operating costs” 
includes recurrent Project management and administration costs at the SDR and CRDS 
levels, that would not have been incurred absent the Project.
3.
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 above, no withdrawals shall be 
made in respect of payments made for expenditures prior to the date of this Agreement, 
except that withdrawals, in an aggregate amount not to exceed $4,700,000, may be made 
on account of payments made for expenditures incurred within the twelve months prior 
to the date of this Agreement but after July 1, 1997.
4.
The Bank may require withdrawals from the Loan Account to be made on the basis 
of statements of expenditure for all expenditures under Subprojects, for all 
incremental operating cost expenditures, and for expenditures under consultant 
contracts costing less than $100,000 equivalent (in the case of consulting firms) and 
less than $50,000 equivalent (in the case of individual consultants), all under such 
terms and conditions as the Bank shall specify by notice to the Borrower.
SCHEDULE 2
Description of the Project
The objectives of the Project are to, by means of a community-based approach, 
improve the well-being and income of small farmers in targeted marginal rural areas 
through sustainable increases in their productivity and better food security.
The Project consists of the following parts, subject to such modifications 
thereof as the Borrower and the Bank may agree upon from time to time to achieve such 
objectives:
Part A:
Subprojects
(a)
Financing on a matching-grant basis and carrying out of Productive 
Investment Subprojects.
(b)
Financing on a matching-grant basis and carrying out of Community 
Development Subprojects.
Part B:
Technical Support
Provision of extension services, technical assistance and training to 
Page  8
Beneficiaries in support of the preparation and carrying out of Subprojects and of 
rural development in general.
Part C:
Institutional Strengthening and Project Administration
Strengthening (through the provision of technical assistance, training and 
incremental operating cost support) of the capacity of SDR and of the CRDSs to manage 
and administer the Project.
* * *
The Project is expected to be completed by December 31, 2002.
SCHEDULE 3
Amortization Schedule
Payment of Principal
Date Payment Due 
(expressed in Dollars)*
On each April 15 and October 15
beginning on October 15, 2003
through April 15, 2013
2,350,000
_____________________________ 
*
The figures in this column represent the amount in Dollars to be repaid,
except as provided in Section 4.04 (d) of the General Conditions.
SCHEDULE 4
Special Account
1.
For the purposes of this Schedule:
(a)
the term “eligible Categories” means Categories (1), (2) and (3) set 
forth in the table in paragraph 1 of Schedule 1 to this Agreement;
(b)
the term “eligible expenditures” means expenditures in respect of the 
reasonable cost of goods, works and services required for the Project and to be 
financed out of the proceeds of the Loan allocated from time to time to the eligible 
Categories in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1 to this Agreement; and
(c)
the term “Authorized Allocation” means an amount of $3,000,000 to be 
withdrawn from the Loan Account and deposited in the Special Account pursuant to 
Page  9
paragraph 3 (a) of this Schedule.
2.
Payments out of the Special Account shall be made exclusively for eligible 
expenditures in accordance with the provisions of this Schedule.
3.
After the Bank has received evidence satisfactory to it that the Special Account 
has been duly opened, withdrawals of the Authorized Allocation and subsequent 
withdrawals to replenish the Special Account shall be made as follows:
(a)
For withdrawals of the Authorized Allocation, the Borrower shall furnish 
to the Bank a request or requests for a deposit or deposits which do not exceed the 
aggregate amount of the Authorized Allocation.  On the basis of such request or 
requests, the Bank shall, on behalf of the Borrower, withdraw from the Loan Account 
and deposit in the Special Account such amount or amounts as the Borrower shall have 
requested.
(b)
(i)
For replenishment of the Special Account, the Borrower shall 
furnish to the 
Bank requests for deposits into the Special Account 
at such intervals as the 
Bank shall specify.
(ii)
Prior to or at the time of each such request, the Borrower shall 
furnish to 
the Bank the documents and other evidence required pursuant 
to paragraph 4 of 
this Schedule for the payment or payments in respect 
of which replenishment is 
requested.  On the basis of each such request, 
the Bank shall, on behalf of 
the Borrower,  withdraw from the Loan 
Account and deposit into the Special 
Account such amount as the 
Borrower shall have requested and as shall have 
been shown by 
said documents and other evidence to have been paid out of the 
Special Account for eligible expenditures.
All such deposits shall be withdrawn by the Bank from the Loan Account under the 
respective eligible Categories, and in the respective amounts, as shall have been 
justified by said documents and other evidence.
4.
For each payment made by the Borrower out of the Special Account, the Borrower 
shall, at such time as the Bank shall reasonably request, furnish to the Bank such 
documents and other evidence showing that such payment was made exclusively for 
eligible expenditures.
5.
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 3 of this Schedule, the Bank shall 
not be required to make further deposits into the Special Account:
(a)
if, at any time, the Bank shall have determined that all further 
withdrawals should be made by the Borrower directly from the Loan Account in 
accordance with the provisions of Article V of the General Conditions and paragraph 
(a) of Section 2.02 of this Agreement; or
(b)
if the Borrower shall have failed to furnish to the Bank, within the 
period of time specified in Section 4.01 (b) (ii) of this Agreement, any of the audit 
reports required to be furnished to the Bank pursuant to said Section in respect of 
the audit of the records and accounts for the Special Account;
(c)
if, at any time, the Bank shall have notified the Borrower of its 
intention to suspend in whole or in part the right of the Borrower to make withdrawals 
from the Loan Account pursuant to the provisions of Section 6.02 of the General 
Conditions; or
(d)
once the total unwithdrawn amount of the Loan allocated to the eligible 
Categories, less the amount of any outstanding special commitment entered into by the 
Bank pursuant to Section 5.02 of the General Conditions with respect to the Project, 
shall equal twice the amount of the Authorized Allocation.
Thereafter, withdrawal from the Loan Account of the remaining unwithdrawn amount of 
the Loan allocated to the eligible Categories shall follow such procedures as the Bank 
shall specify by notice to the Borrower.  Such further withdrawals shall be made only 
after and to the extent that the Bank shall have been satisfied that all such amounts 
remaining on deposit in the Special Account as of the date of such notice will be 
Page  10
utilized in making payments for eligible expenditures.
6.
(a) If the Bank shall have determined at any time that any payment out of the 
Special Account:  (i) was made for an expenditure or in an amount not eligible 
pursuant to paragraph 2 of this Schedule; or (ii) was not justified by the evidence 
furnished to the Bank, the Borrower shall, promptly upon notice from the Bank:  (A) 
provide such additional evidence as the Bank may request; or (B) deposit into the 
Special Account (or, if the Bank shall so request, refund to the Bank) an amount equal 
to the amount of such payment or the portion thereof not so eligible or justified.  
Unless the Bank shall otherwise agree, no further deposit by the Bank into the Special 
Account shall be made until the Borrower has provided such evidence or made such 
deposit or refund, as the case may be.
(b)
If the Bank shall have determined at any time that any amount outstanding 
in the Special Account will not be required to cover further payments for eligible 
expenditures, the Borrower shall, promptly upon notice from the Bank, refund to the 
Bank such outstanding amount.
(c)
The Borrower may, upon notice to the Bank, refund to the Bank all or any 
portion of the funds on deposit in the Special Account.
(d)
Refunds to the Bank made pursuant to paragraphs 6 (a), (b) and (c) of 
this Schedule shall be credited to the Loan Account for subsequent withdrawal or for 
cancellation in accordance with the relevant provisions of this Agreement, including 
the General Conditions.
