FILE COPY                                     Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No. P-1878-KE
REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION
OF THE
PRESIDENT
TO THE
EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS
ON A
PROPOSED LOAN
TO THE
REPUBLIC OF KENYA
FOR A
WILDLIFE AND TOURISM PROJECT
June 15, 1976
| This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY UNIT
Kenya Shilling (KSh)
CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
SDR 1 = KSh 9.66
KSh 1 - SDR 0.10
Because the Kenyan shilling is tied to SDR, the USR/KSh
exchange rate is subject to change. Calculations in this
report are at a conversion rate of US$ 1 = KSh 8.05, which
is close to the short-term average exchange rate.
FISCAL YEAR
July 1st - June 30th
ABBREVIATIONS
MTW - Ministry of Tourism and Wildlife
MOW - Ministry of Works
KTDC- Kenya Tourist Development Corporation
KNP - Kenya National Parks
WCMS- Wildlife Conservations and Management Service



INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION OF THE PRESIDENT
TO
THE EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS
ON A PROPOSED LOAN TO THE
REPUBLIC OF KENYA
FOR A
WILDLIFE AND TOURISM PROJECT
1.        I submit the following report and recommendation on a proposed
loan to the Republic of Kenya for the equivalent of US$17 million to help
finance a Wildlife and Tourism Project. The proposed loan would be on
standard Third Window terms of 25 years including 7 years grace with
interest at 4.85.
PART I - THE ECONOMY
General
2.        A report entitled "The Second Decade: Basic Economic Report on
Kenya" (Report No. 201-KE, dated January 15, 1974) was distributed to the
Executive Directors on February 20, 1974. Subsequently, a report on an Agricul
tural sector survey on Kenya (Report No. 254a-KE, dated December 20, 1973) was
distributed on March 13, 1974. The accelerated world inflation, including
the increase in oil prices, had a serious impact on the Kenyan economy.
In response, the Government in 1975 formulated an action program to
restructure the economy. We have had extensive discussions with the
Government about this restructuring program in the context of our program
loan negotiations and in coordination with the IMF Staff.
3.        In order to monitor progress in implem,anting the action program
and discuss specific policies needed in its context especially in agricul-
ture, manufacturing and government finance an economic updacLing mission
visited Kenya in the spring of 1976. Country Data Sheets are attached
as Annex I.



-2-
Restructuring Program
4.        In February 1975, the Government formulated an action program
(Sessional Paper No. 4 of 1975 on Economic Prospects and Policies) in order
to adjust the development objectives and policies under the 1974-78 Develop-
ment Plan to the more serious balance of payments constraint. The overall
growth rate target had to be reduced from 7.4 to 6% per annum. The basic
objective of the Government's action program is to restructure the economy
as fast as possible, so as to achieve maximum economic development in the
future under much more stringent balance of payments conditions. The strategy
is to restrain imports in a way that has a minimum impact on production in
the next few years and to direct more production into exports. It will
therefore be necessary to compress public and private consumption and to
clhannel investments into the most productive and quick yielding uses, in
particular into appropriate import substitution and export promotion activities.
In both activities the agricultural sector will have a major role to
play; by further improvements to its performance it will also have to
absorb more labor and maintain incomes in a period of possible slowdown
of urban employment. Manufacturing, which will possibly become the most
dynamic sector in the long run, faces a particularly difficult adjustment
process in the next few years. It will have to improve its resource
utilization and reduce its heavy import dependence in favor of more domestic.,
resource-based production and exports.
5.        The action program relies mainly on global monetary and fiscal
policies reinforced by agricultural pricing policies and some specific
administrative measures to implement the restructuring strategy. Not only
is the overall money supply growth limited by direct restriction on credit
expansion, but the Government is also directing credit specifically into
agriculture, manufacturing, export business and tourism. On the fiscal
policy side, Kenya's already good tax performance as well as the mcsures
introduced in 1973 and 1974 to make the system more progressive does not
leave much room for substantial tax increases. The Government nevertheless
intends to raise some taxes on non-essential domestic and imported products
and to further improve tax administration and revenue collection. Some
other envisaged tax measures (capital gains tax, improved inheritance tax
and increased urban property tax) seek to promote equity as well as revenue
increases. The discussion continues with the other Partner States in the
East African Community about a modification of the common external tariff
towards more uniform rates.
6.        The Government's strategy also aims at holding the domestic rate
of inflation well below that abroad, so as to help bring about import substi-
tution and export promotion by price differentials, this hardship will be distri-
buted between income groups in such a way that the lowest income groups receive
full compensation for cost of living increases, while better-off members of



-3-
society are made to bear a proportionately larger share of the burden by
partial compensation or no compensation at all.
7.        A revised three-year budget for FY76-78 is part of the action
program; it aimed at reducing the growth of government consumption,
promotinig exports, increasing production of agricultural commodities for
import substitution and use of more labor-intensive techniques.
Recurrent expenditure growth in real terms was to be reduced tc 6% from the
11% projected in the 1974-78 Development Plan and development expenditure
growth rate included in the Development Budget was set at 7 - 82 as
against 12%. This required the politically difficult decision to bring
the rapidly accelerating recurrent expenditure for education under control.
Thie Government decided to -i'>w only 7% annual increase, freezin,g education's
share of recurrent expenditure at 29%. In the Development Budget, the share
of agricultural and water development was increased from 22 to 35% while
that of road and building construction was brought down from 22 to 18%;
moreover, a significant shift away from trunk roads to secondary and
labor-intensive construction of rural access roads was incorporated
within the road construction program. In addition to these domestic
measures, the Government was seeking to accelerate disbursements under
existing foreign financing commitments and to obtain additional commitments,
including quickly disbursing assistance, in order to maintain some momentum
of growth while the restructuring policy was taking effect.
IPresent Economic Situation
8.        After a period of steady growth of GDP averaging a remarkable 6.2%
per year, Kenya's economy is now growing at a far slower pace. GDP increased
by 3.6% in 1974 and probably less than 2% in 1975. The disappointing perfor-
mance of agriculture, still the most important economic sector, explains
part of this slowdown, and this in turn was strongly influenced by continuous
unfaivorable weather conditions. Thus, notwithstanding welcome producer
price increases in January 1975 for the main crops which provided adequate
IncenItives to producers, Kenya saw a very uneven and on balance disappointing
performance in agriculture. In addition to improved weather conditions,
tle sector's recovery will require intensified policy measures to stimulate
agriclulture including maintenance of adequate  price incentives and
improved support services. The simultaneous slowdown in manufacturing
growth (6% instead of 8% before) was linked, first, to actual domestic and
f-oreign demand slumps and, second, entrepreneurs' pessimistic outlook for
n;arket improvements. The Government's restrictive credit and import nolicies
led especially to a drop in construction output. However, the private
services sector has so far slowed down less than other sectors, with real
earnings in tourism being maintained. Lastly, the Government sector is
growing at a rate somewhat above that of the economy as a whole. Inflation is
now at high levels for Kenya: 15% in 1974 and 20% in 1975. Further price
increases are expected in 1976, following the October 1975 devalaat:nrk of ]47,¢



-4-
9.        The overall deficit in the balance of payments in 1974 was $84
million. In 1975 the deficit was $55 million. IMF assistance cushioned the
drawdown of foreign exchange reserves to a large extent ($39 million in 1974,
$45 million in 1975), and Kenya moreover received extraordinary support from
various donors, including a $30 million IBRD Program Loan. Nevertheless
Kenya's reserves at the end of 1975 were at $101 million, a precarious level
equivalent to only about 5 week's imports ($167 million at the 1974 import
level). Therefore, Kenya remains dependent on balance of payments support
in the near future, particularly since resumption of import growth cannot
be matched immediately by export earnings. The 14% devaluation of the
Kenya shilling in October 1975 is an important step towards restoring balance
of payments equilibrium in the medium term. The terms of trade index fell
less steeply in 1975 than in the crisis year 1974 (19%) but still deteriorated
by 6%. As a result, real per capita income in 1975 has dropped to 6% below
its 1973 level. A general reversal of price movements in favor of Kenya is
not yet in sight notwithstanding coffee price increases which will ease the
situation in 1976.
10.      Government revenue as a percentage of GDP rose from 23% to 28%
between 1973 and 1975, but failed to keep in step with expenditures which
went up from 29% to 35% of GDP. There was a more rapid growth in development
than in recurrent expenditure with more than 30% of total expenditure now
devoted to development expenditure. The Government managed to some extent
to attract additional foreign financing to offset shortfalls in revenue growth,
but had to revert (contrary to past practice) to substantial amounts of domestic
credit to cover the unusually large budget deficits.
Policy Issues
11.       The balance of payments constraint remains the most serious economic
problem. The Government will therefore have to pursue its restructuring
policies even more vigorously than in 1975. It will have to gear budgetary
policies (both growth and composition of expenditures) towards the stated
objectives and redirect not only the agricultural but also the industrial
sector by its pricing, credit and import policies. This should be combined,
to the extent possible, with measures to help the economy recover from the
low growth of 1974 and 1975. The immediate concern for output and employment
should, however, not be at the expense of creating strong inflationary
pressures in the economy which could set off a wage-price spiral.
12.      One of the main elements of the restructuring policy is to improve
even further on the respectable past growth performance (6% per year) in
the acricultural sector. The Government is applying several policies to
enhance agricultural growth. First, it aims at providing adequate price
incentives to farmers; annual price reviews for the major crops take
place but price announcements are not always simultaneous for all products



and may be too late to affect planting decisions. In this connection,
under the proposed Integrated Agricultural Development Project, the
Government has agreed to publish controlled prices not later than
December 15 of each year and has also given an undertaking to set up
a unit in the Ministry of Agriculture to formulate recommendations on
absolute and relative agricultural prices. The Government also seeks
to channel a larger proportion of development expenditures into
projects in the agricultural and other directly productive sectors.
In the past, the bottleneck was a shortage of well-prepared
projects. There is now a sound project pipeline but the bottleneck now
emerges at the financing and to some extent the implementation stages. Con-
siderable amounts of foreign financing for agricultural projects are being
committed, but it proves difficult to disburse these funds rapidly. Strength-
ening the Government's implementation capacity over a wide range of agri-
cultural services will take time. The Government is training more Kenyan
agricultural officials and is attempting to improve the quality of extension
officers who provide the most essential link to the farmer himself. The
proposed Integrated Agricultural Development Project will go some way toward
achiieving higher quality and better coverage of extension services.
13.      The manufacturinlg sector had been growing rapidly at 8% per annum
until 1975, mainly through import substitution within the domestic market
and exports to the East African Community (EAC) market under the protection of
EAC import duties and national controls. In the process, the medium to
large scale enterprises have become dependent on imported capital goods,
spare parts and raw materials.  However, Tanzania and Uganda no longer
offer good market prospects because of economic slowdown and/or the estab-
lishment of parallel national industries, while the easier import-substitution
opportunities within Kenya have been exhausted. In order to retain its dynamism,
malnufactmmring has to be geared towards exports outsidle the EAC market an(d *n-
couir:igfd to use more domestic resources inter alia thlrough promotion of nmore
approp)riate technology and smaller-scale industry.  A Bank mission visited Kenya
in April l')70 to assist in the preparation of a project in this field, and the
International Finance Corporation is considering support to smal] scale business.
14.       The restructuring program thus requires that use of local resources
be made financially more attractive vis-a-vis imported inputs and exports
more remunerative vis-a-vis domestic sales. The GovLrnment has in fact,
already taken two important steps in this direction: an export compensation
payment of 10% on export value of processed goods to offset th._ sales tax of
10% and the 14% devaluation of the Kenya shilling (together with (-he other
EAC currencies). Their combined effect was to increase exporters' prices
by 25% in Kenya currency. There has been less progress so far in lcwering
import duties for raw materials, final consumer goods and capital goods and
making them more uniform. This should preferably be done by a series of
adjustments under the EAC treaty and requires consent by EAC partners.



-6-
15.      At the time of preparation of the FY1976-78 forward budget,  deficit
financing was not seen as a serious problem, provided that expenditures could
be kept under control and foreign financing would be forthcoming. Since
then, the final outcome of FY1975 yielded a large overall budget deficit
and the outlook for FY1976 is worse. FY1976 revenue is suffering from the
economic recession which has affected both income tax and customs duties
receipts. Moreover, both recurrent and development expenditure are higher
than estimated. The Government is concerned about the financial squeeze
in the budget and is in the process of tightening FY1976 expenditure ceilings
as well as adjusting its targets for the forward budget now rolled over to
FY1977-FY1979 with a view to curbing expenditure in non-directly productive
activities and allotting adequate development as well as recurrent funds to
high priority projects without creating undue inflationary pressures. With
recovery of economic activity in the near future revenue will hopefully grow
more rapidly again. Nevertheless, contrary to previous expectations, re-
course to domestic borrowing on a larger scale is necessary to support the
development budget.
16.      In the past the Kenya Government has followed a conservative policy
with regard to external borrowing. Since Independence Kenya has been in-
creasing new commitments at a rate of about 8.5% per year, or somewhat less
than the rate of growth of the economy as a whole in current prices. As
a result, Kenya's debt service burden is still comparatively light (3% of
exports in 1974, excluding Kenya's share of East African Community debt) and
the country could,if necessary,resort to moderate borrowing on commercial
terms during the next few difficult years without impairing long-term credit-
worthiness. About 14% of total external debt is now held by IBRD (Bank
Group: 30%), but because Bank Group lending has only recently become a sig-
nificant proportion of Kenya's debt, debt service to IBRD in 1974 was still
only about 15% of all debt service payments (Bank Group: 17%). IL. addition
to its own external public debt, Kenya is also jointly responsible together
with the other two Partner States for debts incurred by the East African
Community and its institutions, which amount to some $244.8 million (including
undisbursed). Allowing for a nominal one third of service payments on these
debts, Kenya's total debt service ratio is about 4%.
17.       In spite of the much greater need for external capital now facing
the country, Kenya is still following a cautious policy in her external
debt management, although the Government is making greater use of suppliers'
or export credits on favorable terms to finance some of the larger projects
now ready for implementation. Assuming a slower growth rate ahead during
the restructuring period, Kenya's external debt will have to increase
considerably over the next decade if the expected balance of payments gap
is to be filled.   While Kenya's economic  performance   certainly



-7-
justifies substantial amounts of concessionary financing, including Third
Window Fund and IDA credits; it can be expected that the terms of borrowing
would be on the average less favorable than Kenya has enjoyed in the past.
However, since export earnings will increase during the period as well,
barring major unforseen developments in Kenya's terms of trade, the debt
service ratio would probably not exceed 16% by the end of the 1970s. By
that time it is estimated that IBRD might hold about 22% (Bank Group: 28%)
of total disbursed debt and receive 15% (Bank Group: 16%) of debt service
payments. Beyond 1980 creditworthiness will depend on Government's ability
to take action in the near future to increase the productivity of invest-
ments, to reduce the import propensity and to increase exports. Temporarily,
higher debt service payments in the early 1980's may be followed by a fall
in debt service ratio in the latter part of the decade if the Government's
action program is successful. However, in spite of the considerable efforts
of the Government to improve domestic resource mobilization, limit:ation on
domestic resources are so severe that it will be necessary to finance from
external resources a substantial part of the costs of the program, including
some local costs.
18.       Kenya is considered eligible for Bank lending on Third lWindow
terms on the basis of the following criteria:
(a) Per capita income
In 1972, Kenya's GNP per capita was $170.
(b) Performance
The Government's development effort has been considerable
as evident from the recent high rates of domestic savings
and gross investments resulting in an average annual growth
rate of about 6%. An increasing portion of the Government's
investment program is directed towards the rural poor.
(c) Ability to pay
In view of its impressive economic management and the
relatively modest debt burden, Kenya is creditworthy
for Bank lending, but a substantial part of future
borrowing should continue to be on concessionary terms.
(d) Access to alternative sources of finance
Kenya's need for external financial assistance wil:L increase
dramatically in the medium term. The Government has, therefore,



-8-
intensified its efforts to obtain financial support on
concessionary terms. While numerous donors have been
active in Kenya for many years, their support has not
increased appreciably. Kenya, therefore is obliged to
borrow more on commercial terms in order to carry on its
restructuring program and development target.
PART II - BANK GROUP LENDING TO KENYA
General Lending Policy
19.       The fundamental aim of the Bank Group's lending program to Kenya
is to support projects that simultaneously increase resource based pro-
duction while promoting incomes and employment. While in the past our
emphasis was on the development of infrastructure, we are now moving towards
directly productive projects that provide support for the lower-income
groups of the population and are concentrating on projects in rural areas
of Kenya.  The Bank Group has become a major source of external finance for
llenya. However, despite our increased level of lending in recent years,
fhe capital constraints are high and we are expanding our functions to
include promotion of co-financing both with export/suppliers' credit
institutions and bilateral and multilateral aid agencies.
Onagoing Projects
20.       Kenya  has to date received 19 Bank loans and 18 IDA credits
amouniting to $332.9 million and $145.7 million, respectively, supporting
34 operations. In addition, Kenya has beer one of the beneficiaries of
ten loans totalling $244.8 million which have been extended for the develop-
ment of common services (railways, ports, telecommunications and finance
for industry), operated regionally for the three Partner States of the East
African Community -- Kenya, Tanzania and Uganda. Annex II contains summary
statements of Bank loans and IDA credits to Kenya and the East African Corpo-
rations, a summary of IFC investments in Kenya, and notes on the execution
of ongoing projects.
21.       The progress on Kenya's ongoing projects has, on the whole, been
satisfactory but with a few projects particularly in the agriculture,
transport and population sectors behind schedule. One reason for this is
the manpower constraints in certain fields requiring time consuming re-
cruitment from abroad.      With greater  efforts in attracting qualified



-9-
expertise, and the gradual increase in suitably trained Kenyans to fill such
positions, the problems should eventually be alleviated. In addition, Bank
staff is assisting through frequent supervision and contacts with Government
officials.
Projects Under Preparation
22.       A number of projects are now under preparation, the majority of
which aim at supporting agricultural production and rural development. A
broadly conceived integrated agricultural development project, designed to
benefit a large number of small farmers is being presented at the same time
as the proposed project; an irrigation project in the Lower Tana River Basin
has been appraised; and, finally, preparation is under way for expansion of
sugar production and for another credit tranche to the Agricultural Finance
Corporation.
23.       Concurrently  with efforts to support agricultural production, we
foresee a need for complementary development of rural infrastructure,
including rural access roads and rural water supply schemes. While the
major emphasis will continue to be on agriculture and the development of
the rural economy, the Bank recognizes the need for continued support to
infrastructure and services necessary for sustained growth of the economy
as a whole. And in an effort to strengthen Kenya's industrial development,
particularly in resource-based manufacturing with emphasis on intermediate
technology, we expect to support a small scale business project and continue
supporting the Industrial Development Bank.
East African Community
24.       The East African Community Corporations have experienced diffi-
culties in recent years. While the 1967 Treaty for East African Coopera-
tion is one of the most far-reaching and comprehensive economic cooperation
agreements in existence among sovereign states in the developing world, in
practice, the degree of economic integration and cooperation among tZhe
Partner States is much less than what was envisaged in the Treaty. Poli-
tical developments in the Partner States have created tension within the
Community and impaired the growth of interstate trade. These difficulties
have been compounded by the balance of payments constraints which all three
Partner States experienced.
25.       Of the Community Corporations,  the East African Railways Corpora-
tion (EARC) has been the most severely affected. As a result of long d 'lays
by the Partner States in appro%ing increases in tariffs and restrictions on
the interstate transfer of corporate funds, EARC was unable to order essential
spare parts and supplies with the result that its operational capacity has






IFC
28.       IFC has committed a total of $35.0 million for four companies in
Kenya (Pan African Paper Mills, Ltd.; Kenya Hotel Properties, Ltd.;
Tourism Promotion Services (Kenya), Ltd.; and Rift Valley Textiles, Ltd.).
As of April 30, 1976, IFC held for its own account $25.9 million comprising
$18.4 million of loans and $7.5 million of equity.
PART III - TOURISM AND WILDLIFE RESOURCES
The Tourism Sector
29.       Kenya's tourist potential lies in its great diversity in topography,
climate, vegetation, scenery and wildlife, which together have contributed to
the development of a highly sophisticated tourist industry. The tourist
attractions include: (i) wildlife game viewing in the parks and reserves,
(ii) opportunities for a range of sports and hobbies, such as hunting, trout
fishing, golf, mountain climbing, riding, sailing and some of the best bird
watching in the world; (iii) extensive palm-fringed white sand beaches,
protected by coral reefs; (iv) an agreeable climate as well as scenery that
varies from desert to tropical rain forest, including views dominated by the
highest mountains in Africa; and (v) important paleontological sites in settings
of natural beauty. Kenya also has well developed international and national
transport and communication facilities, supported by an active local tourist
industry including hotels and lodges, many operated at high standards. In
addition, Nairobi has become a center for Eastern Africa and has a well equipped
facility for major international conferences.
30.       Since mid-1960s, the number of visitors has grown by an average of
15 percent annually. In 1974, some 43,000 people visited Kenya ona business,
300,000 for holidays and 26,000 in transit. The number of holiday visitors
to Kenya has remained high in the past two years, despite recession in the
tourist generating countries. With the likely levelling off of increases in
transport costs and with economic recovery, rapid expansion in tourist flows
to Kenya can be expected. Tourism earnings now gross about $74 mLllion and
next to coffee have become the largest single foreign exchange earner.
31.        Kenya is one of the few African countries still endowed with
large herds of wildlife. The main commercial uses of wildlife resources
are viewing, hunting and cropping.  Of these, viewing is by far the mi  t
important revenue earner, and w,,ildlife is considered a major toturist attrac-
tion. There are some 26 game viewing areas in Kenya. Most of these, however
are not self-contained units and game disperses during the dry periods to
surrounding areas, typically also used by pastoralists. Increasingly because
of population pressures and shortage of arable land, the ran-el.ands are being



adjudicated and commercial and cooperative ranches are being established.
This development clearly aggravates the conflict between wildlife and
livestock. Although owing to different grazing behaviour, wildlife and
domestic animals are in some respects complementary, they often compete for
the same scarce feed and water and in some cases upset the fragile ecology
in the area. There is, therefore, a conflict in development of rangelands
and the goals of wildlife conservation programs. These opposing views have
crystallized in recent years. For example, many Kenyans today feel that
wildlife conservation is being achieved at the expense of the welfare of the
local people - especially those in the dispersal areas. Wildlife supporters
and environmentalists, on the other hand, claim that considerable damage is
caused to the ecology of the area adjacent to the parks by the increased
farming activities in hitherto marginal lands, thus jeopardizing the long
term viability of the land both for domestic and wildlife use.
32.       An attempt to work out a compromise between the interests of the
landowners and wildlife interests was made in connection with the Second
Livestock Project supported by IDA in 1974 together with Canada, United Kingdom
and the United States. The project aims at introducing sound range manage-
ment on group ranches being established in dispersal areas. In return
for provision of water supplies on their ranches in the dispersal areas,
the landowners agreed to keep their livestock away from the national parks.
The Government has also allowed the landowners to earn direct benefits
from wildlife through a system of sharing tourist revenues in return for
the landowners' commitment to letting the wildlife traverse their land.
To assist in determining the movement of wildlife and cattle, the Govern-
ment has established a Rangeland Ecological Monitoring Unit which on the
basis of close monitoring would make recommendations on returns to be
offered to ranchers affected by wildlife movements.
33.       This revenue sharing feature would be extended under the proposed
project on a large scale. In this project the Government would undertake
to assist ranchers to earn direct returns from wildlife through lodges and
camps, hunting, cropping of animals, etc., and to guarantee a minimum return
from these activities. On their part, the ranchers would agree to manage
their lands in ways consistent with sound range management practices and give
free access to migrating wildlife herds. Conclusion of agreements to this
effect with landowners would be a condition of disbursement of the proposed
loan to specific areas (Section 3.07 and paragraph 4 of Schedule 1 to the
draft Loan Agreement).



-13-
34.       The utilization of the park areas themselves presents another
environmental threat. Serious congestion of visitors in certain areas
is apparent. Poorly sited road networks and extensive off-track driving
have clearly caused adverse effects on the vegetation of some areas and
eventually on its animal carrying capacity. These problems are particularly
acute in the Amboseli, Masai-Mara and Nairobi gameviewing areas. To halt
the damage to the ecology of the parks and reserves which unplanned tourism
has caused, the Government intends to provide more careful plaanning through
the establishment of a Wildlife Conservation and Management Service under the
Ministry of Tourism and Wildlife. More sensitive road networks should be
planned and employment of qualified guides will play an important role in
limiting damage to the environment and in raising the visitors capacity
of the land. To improve the standard of management of these gameviewing
areas under County Council jurisdiction, the Government intends to manage
those areas, paying the Council part of the receipts. (Section 3.07(d) of
draft Loan Agreement).
35.       Another threat to Kenya's wildlife resources has in recent years
been the expansion of harvest quotas for species with high conmercial values
such as elephants for ivory and zebras, lions and leopards for skins and
trophies. The high prices fetched by these products, particularly ivory,
have led to widespread illegal slaughtering which may endanger the species.
The future of the tourist industry will be in part determined by the
Government's ability to strengthen its control of illegal trade in game and
wildlife trophies through tighter legislative and administrative instru-
ments. Accordingly, the Wildlife (Conservation and Management) Act,
among other things, provides for fines or prison terms or bothL for various
offenses associated with indiscriminate slaughter of wildlife as well as
unlawful possession of any animal or game trophy within or outside of
National Park. The Government has also issued a legal notice prohibiting
private import or export of raw ivory. It has also agreed to lim4t trade
in raw ivory and has established a date for purposes of closing private
dealing. In addition, the Government has agreed to take other stringent
anti-poaching measures (Section 3.12 and 3.13 of draft Loan Agreement).
PART IV - THE PROJECT
36.       An agricultural sector mission which visited Kenya -in the fall
of 1972 niigailighted the potential of tLle wildlife resources as well as
the threats to it. The Government decided that a project to develop tourism
should be prepared and sought assistance from the Bank's Regional Mission in
Eastern Africa. An appraisal mission visited Kenya in July 1975 and negotia-
tions were held in Washington in February 1976. The Kenyan Delegation was led



-14-
by Mr. Yudi Komora, Permanent Secretary, Ministry of Wildlife and Tourism.
A report entitled "Appraisal of a Wildlife and Tourism Project in the
Republic of Kenya" (No. 1022a-KE) dated March 31, 1976 is being circulated
to the Executive Directors separately. A project and loan summary is
given in Annex III.
Objectives and Description of the Project
37.       The objective of this project is to assist the Government in the
implementation of its policy for (i) conserving its wildlife resources
and developing attractions for foreign and local tourists, (ii) increasing
the impact of tourism on the overall development of the economy with special
emphasis on rural incomes, (iii) supporting more thorough planning for wildlife
development, and (iv) providing training facilities in wildlife conservation
and management.
38.       The proposed project comprises a coordinated package which would
include investments for improvements in the parks and reserves, headquarters
for game staff in three locations, game-proof barriers, training in wildlife
and fisheries management, a planning unit, research and planning studies,
anti-poaching activities, and other items which would assist the Government
in its wildlife conservation and tourism promotion efforts.
Improvements in Wildlife Areas
39.       Three wildlife areas -- with a total land surface of about 2250
square kilometers -- have been selected for specific development. These
are the Amboseli National Park and its dispersal area, the Masai Mara Game
Reserve and its dispersal area and the Inner Northern Circuit. The project
will provide facilities within the parks (blinds for animal and bird viewing,
entrance gates, major expenditures on construction and tracks) and park
headquarters, staff housing and community facilities in centers near the
parks to service park staff and their families, some lodge staff, and the
local inhabitants of the wildlife areas. In addition, the impressive
paleontological findings at Lake Turkana will be protected and site museums
and signposts along with limited community facilities will be set up.
Game-Proof Barriers
40.       The project will include the construction of game-proof barriers
in various locations in the country where this is the most cost-ef,ective
method of avoiding game-damage to the crop and, killing of wild anirals by
farmers. Depending upon the terrain and the animal species, such barriers
consist of high tensile wire fence, ditches or moats. Maintenance of such
barriers has been poor in the past, but the Government has agreed to make
adequate budgetary provision for maintenance of game-prouling barriers
(Section 3.11(b) of draft Loan Agreement).



-15-
Wildlife and Fisheries Training Institute
41.       An important aspect of the project is the establishment
of the Wildlife and Fisheries Training Institute. Its objective
would be to train the staff of the Wildlife Conservation and
Management Service and the Fisheries Department. This is piarti-
cularly important in view of the need for intensive management of
wildlife and fisheries. The curriculum would emphasize the
basic and upgrading training for junior and intermediate staff.
The Institute will also provide policy and administrative orienta-
tion courses to staff entering at senior levels who have completed
basic technical training at the University of Nairobi, the College
of African Wildlife Management at Mweka in Tanzania, and universi-
ties abroad. The Institute would also provide courses for guides
of private tour operators and for other private sector personnel
engaged in the wildlife and fisheries industry. The initial
student intake at the Institute would be 175 and staffing is
expected to be carried out by the Government with assistance from
other donors.  Plans for the Institute staff schedules, program
for training courses and administration plans would be reviewed
by the Bank (Section 3.05 of the draft Loan Agreement). The
Principal and Vice Principal would be appointed in consultation
with the Bank (Section 3.10(a) of draft Loan Agreement).
Wildlife Planning Unit
42.       The project will finance a Wildlife Planning Unit for
the first five years. Its main responsibility would be detailed
planning of individual parks and reserves and their dispersal areas
to ensure that visitor capacity is maximized, the amenity of parks
preserved and that adequate returns are earned from wildlife.
The Unit would include economists, physical planner~;, ecologists
and a cartographer and the head of the Unit would be appointed by
October 31, 1976 in consultation with the Bank. The Unit wouici
also assist the Government officers with formulation of proposal"
and negotiation for agreements with landowners.



-16-
Policy and Planning Studies
43.       The most urgent policy question requiring attention is the future
management of the very large herbivores, including elephants. Much ecological
and economic information exists on these animals, but it has not been analyzed
from the point of view of formulating a consistent long-run management policy.
The study, which would be commissioned within six months of Loan signing,
would make recommendations on how best to protect the existence of large
herbivores, including additional investments in anti-poaching activities.
The Bank will review with the Government the recommendations of the study
and agree on measures for implementation. Another study would examine
current policies in pricing of tourist services including park entry fees.
Funds would also be provided for feasibility studies of some major new tourist
circuits for further development. The terms of reference and the consultants
chosen for studies costing more than KShl50,000 (US$18,400) would be submitted
to the Bank for approval (Section 3.03 (a) of the draft Loan Agreement).
Anti-Poaching Measures
44.       Several safeguards against poaching are built into the project.
The payment of direct financial returns to inhabitants of wildlife areas,
when they have previously received only indirect returns to compensate them
for the direct costs of wildlife, should go some way towards inducing them
to husband wildlife and to oppose its illegal exploitation by outsiders.
The training activities of the Wildlife and Fisheries Institute should
also produce staff better able to carry out extension efforts necessary to
this end, to say nothing of producing more efficient anti-poaching
personnel.
45.       Although the Wildlife Act makes provision for preventing illegal
animal slaughter and trade in ivory (para 35), difficulties could -till
be encountered in its implementation. Accordingly, the project provides for
support to the WCMS for establishing, equipping and operating anti-poaching
units to make existing efforts more effective. This should strengthen the
existing anti-poaching activities of the Government, thereby controlling the
indiscriminate capture of certain endangered species of wildlife. The
Government has also agreed to covenants prohibiting private trade in raw
ivory (para 35), and the head of the anti-poaching section in the WCMS
would be appointed in consultation with the Bank (Section 3.10(a) of
draft Loan Agreement).
Project Costs and Financing
46.       The project is estimated to cost about US$36.4 million.
The proposed Bank loan of US$17.0 million would cover the estimated
foreign exchange costs of the project (about 47 percent of project cost).



-i7-
The local costs would be provided from budgetary alLocations of the
Government, which would also meet any cost overruns.  Contingencies
amount to about $10.2 million or 28 percent of project cost.
Organizat:on and Project Implementation
47.       A  omajor institutional reform has now taken place.  Hitherto the
respocnsibillty for management of Kenya's wildlife resources rested with the
Game Department of the Ministry cf Tourism and W41dlife (MTW), the Trustees
of the Kenya National Parks (KNP) and the County Councils which admintistered
Game Iteserves.  The Government has now taken steps to unify the management
and administration of its wildlife services   The Wildlife
(Conservation and Management) Act establishes a Wildlife Conservation and
Management Services (WCMS) under the MTW which will integrate the functions
of both the Game Derartments and the KNP with a Director responsible
for consistent policies and practices of the Service.  The Ministry of
Wildlife and TOurism will also assume responsibilities for the running of
game reserves Gn behalf of the County Councils so as to ensure higher
management standards.
48.       The project would be implemented by a Project Management Unit
(PI1J) in the Ministry of Tourism and Wildlife, which will be responsible for
ccrdination and supervision of the various project components.  The PMU
would be directed by a Project Manager who would be directly respcnsible to
the Permanent Secretary. The PMU would maintain close links with the WildlIJfe
Planning Unit (WPU), to be set up under the Wildlife Conservation and Manage-
merit Service. The WPU would be responsible for the detailed planning of
individual parks and reserves and their dispersal areas to ensure that
visitor capacity is maximized within the constraints posed by wildlife and
environmental considerations. The PMU, being the executing agency, would
then implement these plans. The head of the PMU, who would be appointed
prior to effectiveness of the loan,and the Assistant Project Director would be
appointed in consultation with the Bank. The individual project compo-
nents would be the responsibility of the relevant ministries, departments
and Wildlife Clubs of Kenya. For instance, the National Museaum would be
responsible for the paleontological sites at Lake Turkana while the
Ministry of Works would be responsible for the design, preparation and
supervision of all construction works; the Ministry of Water Development
for water supply; the Ministry of Health for park clinics; and the Ministry
of Education for the schools at the parks and headquarters. A system of
records and accounts acceptable to the Bank would be set up not later than
October 1, 1976 (Section 4.02(b) of draft Loan Agreement).
Procurement
49.       Major equipment and vehicles are estimated to cost about US$5.0
million. Orders exceeding the equivalent of US$100,000 would be procured
under international competitive bidding in accordance with Bank guidelines;
orders would be bulked to the extent possible. Orders of less than US$100,000



-18-
equivalent would be obtained under Government procurement procedures which
are satisfactory to the Bank. In evaluating the bids, domestic manufac-
turers would be allowed a preferential margin of 15 percent of the c.i.f.
costs of competing imports or the prevailing level of customs duty, which-
ever is lower.
50.       Park Headquarters will be located in remote rural areas, and
consequently civil works are not expected to attract the interest of
international contractors. Contracts for these and for the Wildlife and
Fisheries Institute would be awarded under competitive bidding following
local advertising.  Kenya has a well-established building industry which is
expected to provide adequate competition. In the case of the game-proof
barriers construction will exclusively be done by local contractors. The
contracts would be locally advertised but in remote locations where compe-
tition is unlikely, they would be negotiated by wardens in charge of the
area. Game-viewing tracks and minor park and reserve civil works not
estimated to cost more than US$20,000 equivalent, would be executed by
the Government on force account.
Disbursements
51.       The proceeds of the proposed loan would be disbursed on the
following basis:
(a) 100 percent of the c.i.f. cost of imported equipment,
100 percent of the ex-factory cost of manufactured or
70 percent of locally procured but imported equipment
and furniture;
(b) 40 percent of total expenditure on civil works;
(c) 100 percent of foreign exchange cost, or 50 percent
of total expenditures for studies and professional services,
and of operating costs of project management.
52.       Disbursements against (a) above and the foreign exchange items of
(c) would be fully documented. Disbursements for local expenditures under
(b) and (c) would be made against certificates of expenditures certified
by the Project Manager and approved by the Ministry of '7inance, the
documientation of which would not be submitted but would be retained by the
Borrowver for review during project supervision. Retroactive finaiacing
for expenditures incurred after March 1, 1976 not exceeding $50,000 s
recommended to cover miscellaneous items such as salaries, equipment, travel
allowances and other operating costs for the Wildlife Planning Unit and
the Project Management Unit. Agreements with landowners and county councils
in the game dispersal areas would be a condition of disbursement for civil
works construction. In respect of expenditures for anti-poaching units, the
Government will prepare a program for its anti-poaching act-. - ties accept-
able to the Bank before funds can be disbursed for this component ("c-he65APŽ 1,
paragraph 4(iv) of draft Loan Agreement).



-19-
Project Benefits and Justification
53.       The tourist industry has high growth potential.  Conservative
estimates indicate that earnings from tourism may rise from $66 million
in 1974 to about $110 million in the early 1980s (at 1974 pricesi). Such
growth, however, presupposes major improvement in the management. of wildlife
resources. The benefits of the project therefore have to be seen in light
of its contribution not only to the physical but also the organizational
and environmental aspects.
54.       The project would provide for the expansion of visitors capacity
of the three wildlife areas. The Masai Mara and Amboseli are outstanding
attractions on established tourist circuits, but Amboseli in particular
is reaching environmental and physical limits of existing facilities.
The proposed project would redesign some of the routes inside thLe Parks
to accommodate a greater number of visitors within acceptable limits
of environmental impact and visitor satisfaction. The development of the
Inner Northern Circuit would provide the tourists with a different attrac-
tion to complement those further south and would form a logical extension to
the well-established circuits around the Mount Kenya and the Aberdares.
The gross benefits resulting from the investment program in each of the
three game viewing areas would be the incremental expenditures by the
tourists. Because of the current constraints on existing game viewing
areas and the complementary nature of wildlife tourism to beach tourism,
the receipts generated by the project, therefore, would not represent
a diversion of tourist demand away from other destinations within Kenya
and are considered as incremental to the economy as a whole.
55.       Although it is not possible to predict very precisely the
future course of wildlife tourism without the project, recent trends are
both clear and alarming: the near elimination of certain animal species
in important game-viewing areas; serious 'nvironmental deterioration in
the more frequented game parks (e.g., Amboseli); and the marked decline in
visitor satisfaction in particular parks as a result of congestion. It
is reasonable to assume, therefore, that witilout the project the country
xwould suffer a continuing decline in the economic benefits currently being
derived from wildlife tourism. In estimating thne incremental net benefits
resulting from the project, it is assumed that the curreit level of net
revenue from wildlife tourism would be maintained without the project.
The combined economic rate of return on the investments proposed for
the three game viewing areas is estimated at about 22 percent.
56.       Another important feature of this project is its income distri-
bution effects. Apart from the Government, including County Councils, the
landowners (mainly Masai group ranchers) living in the dispe,-.,l aire7s



-20-
would receive substantial benefits from the proceeds of the game viewing
activities in return for their cooperation in allowing wildlife to traverse
their lands. In addition, it is anticipated that the project would generate
direct employment of about 840 and indirect employment of an additional
850 by 1980. Total employment generated is estimated to be about 5,600
by 1990.  The project would also have important balance of payment effect.
After deducting the import content of operating and investment costs, the
project is expected to yield net foreign exchange earnings of about US$2.1
million in 1980 and US$14.5 million in 1991.
57-       The project is expected to have important environmental benefits
through the introduction of better management of the country's wildlife
resources, application of appropriate pricing policies for the tourists,
properly planned track network, trained and disciplined guides and drivers
and more effective anti-poaching measures. But most important to the en-
vironment, as well as to the wildlife, is the local landowner's cooperation
which is being sought in return for their cooperation in husbanding their
livestock and wildlife. Apart from changes in living standards resulting
from the receipt of increased cash incomes, the project is not expected
to have a substantial social impact.
Risks
58.       The main risks associated with this project lie not on the side of
tourist demand or investor interest in tourism facilities; they consist,
instead, of the uncertainties connected with the shift in values, insti-
tutions, and management practices in the range areas in response to the
various policies being followed by the Government and also of the uncertAinty
which surrounds the ability of the Government to implement these policies.
As to the capacity of the Government to implement its policies, it is quite
clear that it will have to depend on the competence of the Wildlife
Conservation and Management Service to administer the policies
and programs. Equally important, but most difficult, will be actual imple-
mentation of satisfactory arrangements with the landowners in dispersal
areas. It may take time as it will to some extent involve changing cultural
values. Ilowever, the experience gained through the Second Livestock
Project (Credit 477-KE) has proven that the concept will work. It is
recognized that the project presents unusual difficulties but, despite the
high risks, there is no question that the foundation of much of Kenya's
tourist attractions and consequently the associated net economic benefits
would be seriously jeopardized if the wildlife were eliminated in many parts
of Kenya through a failure to act.



-21-
PART V - LEGAL INSTRUMENTS
59.       The draft Loan Agreement between the Republic of Kenya. and the
Bank, the Report of the Loan Committee provided for in Article lII (Sec-
tion 4 (iii) of the Articles of Agreement, and a draft Resolution approving
the proposed Loan are being distributed to the Executive Directors separately.
60.       Special features of the draft Loan Agreement are referred to
in paragraphs 33, 34, 35, 40, 41, 43, 45, 48 and 52 above.   Condi-
tions for disbursement for civil works on project components in
each major project area would be the signing of agreements between the
Government and landowners (paragraph 4(ii) of Schedule 1 to draft Loan
Agreement) in the dispersal areas providing for guaranteed minimum
wildlife returns and the signing of agreements by the Government
to manage certain Game Reserves on behalf of the County Councils (para-
graph 4(iii) of Schedule 1 of draft Loan Agreement). Appointment of
an acceptable project manager would be a condition of effectiveness
(Section 6.01 of draft Loan Agreement).
61.       I am satisfied that the proposed Loan would comply with
the Articles of Agreement of the Bank and with the established criteria
for Third Window Loans.
PART VI - RECOMMENDATION
62.        I recommend that the Executive Directors approve the proposed loan.
Robert S. McNamara
President
Attachments
Washington, D. C.
June    15, 1976






ANNEX I
TABLE 3A                                             Page 1 of 1. Pages
KENYA- SOCIAL INDICATORS DATA SHEET
LAND AREA (THOU KM2)-------------------------
---------------                           ~~~~~~KENTA                                 REFERENCE CCUNTRIES (1970)
TOTAL        58 2.6                                              HOST RECENT
ARABLE           .                            1960         1970    ESTIMATE              TANZANIA         KOREA (SOUTH) MAURITIUS-O
GNP PER CAPITA (USS)                              9 0 .0      140. 0        17 0.0                 1 10.0        270.0a        2 8 0.0
POPULATION  AND VITAL STATISTICS
POPULATION (HID-YR.  MILLION)                    8.3         11.2          12.5                   12.9          31.4           0.8
POPULATION DENSITY
PER SQUARE KM.                               14.0          19.0          21.0                  14.0         319.0         408.0
PER SQUARE KM. ARABLE LAND                     .              ..                              14 7.0        749. o        7A617.0
VITAL STATISTICS
CRUDE AB1RTH RATE PER THOUSAND               50..0 /a.b    498.0        4 7.0                  47.0 /a       2 8. 0        2 6.0
CRUDE DEATH RATE PER THOUSAND                20.0  a       18.0        1I7.0                   22.0 7a-?       8.0           0.0
INFANT MORTALITY RATE (/IHOUI                  ..         i. C/a           .                  160.07a           .          5 7.0
LIFE EXPECTANCY  AT BIRTH (YRS)              45. 0 /a.b    48. 0        50.1                   4 3 .0        E5.0          6 3.0
GROSS REPRODUCTION RATE                        .            3. 4          3 .4                  3 .2          2. 6          2.4
POPULATION GRDATH RATE Ill
Tg TAL                                        3 .0          3. 1          3 .2                  3 .0          2. 4          Z.4
URBAN                                           .7. 0 /b                    .5 . 0/a,b                         6 .0          1 .6
URBA N POPULA T ION C(1 OF TO TAL)8 9.0 /a                   1 0.0             .6 .0 /a                         4 1. 0        4 4 .0
A GE STRUC TURE (PERCENT)
0 TO 14 YEARS                              46.       c   4 8.4             .44 .41                          4 2 .1        4 1.9
15 TO 64 YEARS                               4.             80.                                53.0          ! 4. 6        54.5
65 YEARS AND OVER                             4.08 /a.c     3.8 6                               2.A/a          3. 3          3 .6
AGE DEPENDENCY RATIO                             1 .0         1.1              .                   0 .9          0. 8          0.8
ECONOMIC DEPENDENCY RATIO                        1 .3 /d      1.1I/c           .1 .2 /a                          1. 4          1.5 /a
FAMILY PLANNING-
ACCEPTORS (CUMULATIVE, THOU)......
USERS (0 OF HARMRIED WOMEN)                    .                            ..
EMPLOYMRENT
TOTAL LABOR FORCE (YTHOUSAND)                3 300.0       510 0 .0 /d    540C.C               5 6 000abI4 0                250.0
LABOR FORCE IN AGRICULTURE CZ)                               go 9.0o7d            0. 0            910/ab            1 .0a     00. 0
UNE4PLOTED  (2 OF LABOR FORCE)                    .....5. 0 L                                                                 1 7.0
INCOME DISTRIBUTION
O OF PRIVATE INCOME RECID BY-
HIGHEST  S%OFo POPULATION                      ..         2 0.2                                3 3 .5 /c     2 0.1I
HIGHEST 201 OF POPULATION                      ..           2                                  6    3 .3 ~    4 7.
LOwEST   201Z OF POPULATION                     .3. .97 e                                       2.3/           4.1 
LOwEST   401 OF POPULATION                     ..           1.7/ e          .                    7.8         1 6. 2
TISTRIO3UTION OF LANO OWNERSHIP
O OWNED BY TOP 102 OF OWNERS                      ......                                                        2B. 0
O OWNED VT SMALLEST 10Z DWNERS                    ......2. 0
HEALTH AND N4UTRITION
POPJLATION PER PHYSICIAN                  IEI000 0 Ia e 7830.0 /f   4550.C/                   215 70 .0 /b   2 2 10.0 Ab   4 09 0. 0
POPULATION PER NJURSING PESN                 1410.0  a a 1470.0 7?            .                48390.0 7? 1760.0 7?    80.
POPULATION PER HOSPITAL BED                   310.0 /a    810.0C.                                700.0 7    19 20. 0        2-50.0
PER CAPITA SUPPLY OF
CALORIES (0 OF REQUIREMENTS)                103.0        101.0         102.0                   73.0         103.0         104.0
PROTEIN  (GRAMS PER DRY)                     75 .0         71 .0         4 7.0                 4 3 .0        6 5.0         5C.0
-OF WHICH ANIMAL AND PULSE                32 .0         29.0C.                               2 3 .0        R9. 0         1 9.0
DEATH RATE I/THOU) AGES 1-4......
EDU CAT ION
ADJUSTED ENROLLMENT RATIO
PR IMARY SCHOOL                              4 9 .0        47.0             .3 7 .0                         104.0         1 05.0
SECONDARY SCHOOL                              3 .0 /r       9.0 I          .                     3 .0        AI.0a          30.0 /b
TEARS OF SCHOOLING PROVIDED
(FIRST AND SECOND LEVEL)                     13.0          1 3.0         13.0                   13 .0        1 2. 0        1 4.0
VOCATIONAL ENROLLMENT
C% OF SECONDARY)                             12:.0 If       2. 0 ZE       2.0 /b                4 .0         15.0a           1.0
ADULT LITERRCY RATE 10)                            .         3 0. 0        3 5 . 0                              9 2. 0 /
HOUS END
PERS- ONS PE    OM(AVERAGE)                       2.5 /a         .              ..                                  .
OCCUPIED DWELLINGS WITHOUT
PIPED WATER (%)                                 .             ..                                30.0 /a_.d   10. 0 Id
ACCESS TO ELECTRICITY
C% OF ALL DWELLINGS)                            ...                         ..                                 0.0a
RURAL DWELLINGS CONNECTED
TO ELECTRICITY  (2)                             .....                                                         3 0. 0
CON SUMPT ION
RADIO RECEIVERS (PEM THOU POP)                   9 .0         4 8. 0       4 1. 0                 11 .0        1 26. 0       1 02.0
PASSENGER CARS (PER THOU POP)                    8.0           9. 0          9.0                    3 .0         2.0a         1 5.0
ELECTRICITY (KWH/YR PER CAP)                    50. 0         6 8. 0       78..)                  29.0  Ab    30a9 .0        2 71 .0
NEWSPRINT (KG/YR PER CAP)                        0. 4          0.5           C.6                   0 .1           3. 4         C.?
SEE NOTES AND DEFINITIONS ON REVERSE



Page 2 of I, Pages
Unless otherwise noted, data for 1960 refer to 1959-61, for 1970 to 1968-70, and for Nost Recent Fetisate to 1971-73.
0* Mauritius has been selected as an example of a predominantly agricultural economy, vhich is following some enlightened policieo designed to diversify
production and promote accelerated industrialization.
KENYA          1960  /   1962;     a  African population;      /a Based on complete enumeration of non-African population and of urban African population,
and on a 10 percent sample of rural African population aged 0-14, 15-59 and 60 years and over, respectively;       /d  Ratio of
population under 15 and 60 and over to total labor force;      /e  Registered, not all practicing in the country; nursing personnel
includes midwives ard assistant midwives;     I   Includes teacher training at the third level.
1220   a  Registered only;       b 1962-69;    /,  Ratio of population under 15 and 65 and over to labor force age 15-59 years;
d  labor force age 15-59 years;      I   Urban households;     I   Registered, not all practicing in the country;       /r  Includes
teacher training at the third level.
MZST RECENT ESTIMATE  L   -gistered, not all practicing in tie country;        b  Including teacher training at the third level.
TANZANIA       1970  /a  1967;     /b Tanganyika only;    /j  Households;    /d  Urban only.
KOREA (SOUTH)  1970  /a  Registered;     ab  Registered, not all practicing in the country;      /, Ten years and over;    Ed  Water piped inside.
MAURITIU3      1970  /a  Ratio of population under 15 and 65 and over to total labtr force;      a  Excluding vocational education.
R8, February 26, 1976
DEFINITIONS OF SOCIAL INDICATORS
Land Area(thou la,2)                                                                Popuation per nursing person - Population divided by no-oer of practicing
TotalI-*Totalosurface ares comprising land area and inland waters,                    sale and fsale graduate nurses, trained" or 'certified" nurses, and
Arabic - Most recent estimate of land aorea ..ed temporarily or permanently           auxiliary personnel with training or experience.
for cultivation, pastures, market and kitchen gardene or to lie fallow.           Population per hospital bed - Population divided by number of hospital beds
available in public and private general and specislized hospital and
GNP per capita (US$) - ONP per capita estimates at market prices, calcu-              rehabilitation centers; exclues nursing homes and establishments for
lated by oame conversion method as World Bank Atlas (1972-74 bhase).                custodial and preventive care.
Per capita supply of calories (, of requirements) - Computed from energy
Popaioaand vital statistics                                                           equivalent of net food supplie  available in coutry per capita per day;
Ppulatio ,mid-yr. million  - As of July first; if not available, average              available supplies comprise domestic production, imports loss exports,
of two end-year estimates,                                                          and changes in stock; net supplies exclude animal feed, seeds, quanti-
ties used in food processing and losses in distribution; requirements
Population density - per square km - Mid-year population per square kilo-             were estimated by FAO based on physiological needs for normal activity
meter (100 hectares) of total area                                                  and health considering env-ironmental temperature, body weights, age and
Populatios  density - per square iba a  acble land - Camputed  s above for            sex distributions of population, and allowing 10% for waste at household
arable land only                                                                    level.
Per capita supply of protein (grams per day) - Protein content of per
Vital statistics                                                                      capita net supply of food per day; net supply of food is defined as
Crude birth irate per thousand - Annual live births per thousand of mid-              above; requirements for all countries established by USDA Economic
year population; usually five-year averages ending in 1960, 1970 and                Research Services provide for a minimum allowance of 60 grams of total
1975 for developing countries.                                                      protein per day, and 20 grams of animal and pulse protein, of which 10
Crude death rate per thousand - Annual deaths per thousand of Mid-year                grams should be animal protein; these standards arellower than those 'f
poplaton   usaly five-year  vavrages ending, in 1960, 1970 and 1975           75 g-a  .f totalWas   ens if grain uf animal protein as an average
for developing countries,                                                           for the world, proposed by FAO in the Third World Food Survey.
Infant mortalit  rate C,/thou) - Annual deat,hs of infants under on year            Per capita protein supl  frs aia and pulse - Protein supply of food
of age per thousand live births,                                                    derived from animals and pulsesin grams per dlay.
Life  expectancy at birth (yrs) - Average nusber of years of life remain-           Death rate (/thou  aes 1-  - Annual deaths per thousand in age group 1-i
tog at birth; usually five-year averages ending in 1960, 1970 ard                   yeartcildren in this age group; suggested as an indicator of mal-
1975 for developing countries.                                                      nutrition.
Gross reproduction rate - Average number of live daughters a woman will
bear in har normal reproductive period if she experiences present age-            Education
specific fertility rates, usually five-year averages ending in 1960,              Adlusted enrollent ratio - Fimary school - Enrollment of all ages as
1970 and 1975 for developing countries,                                             percentage of primary school-age population; includes children aged
Population growth rate (6) - total - Compound annual growth rates of mid-             6-11 years but adjusted for different lengtho of primary education;
year population for 1950-60, 1960-70, and 1960 to most recent year.                  for countries with universal education, enrollment may exceed 100%
Population zrowth rate (%) - urban - Computed like growth rate of total               since some pupils are below or above the official school age.
population; different definitions of urban areas may affect compare-              Adjusted enrollment ratio - secondary school - Computed as abovet second-
bility of data among countries.                                                     ary education requires at least four years of approved primary instruc-
Urban ppulation(% of total) - Ratio of urban to total population; dif-                tion; provides general, vocational or teacher training instructions for
ferent definitiops ofurban  areas may affect comparability of d ta                  pupils of 12 to 17 years of age; correspondence courses are generally
among countries,                                                                    excluded.
AgK's t  otur APercent) - Ihildren (0-14 years), working-age (15-64 years),         Years of schooling provided (first and second levels) - Total years of
and ired  65 years and over) as percentages of mid-year population.                 schooling; at secondary level, vocational instruction may be partially
Age deDendencv ratio - Ratio of population under 15 and 65 and over to                or coapletely excluded.
those of ages 15 through 64.                                                      Vocational enrFo     t (S of secondary) - Vocational institutions include
Economic dependency ratio - Ratio of population under 15 and 65 and over              technical, industrial or other programs which operate independently or
to  the labor force in age group of 15-64 years.                                    as departments of secondary institutions.
Family planning - acceptors (cumulative, thou) - Cumulative number of               Adult literacy rate (W) - literate adults (able to read and write) as per-
acceptors of birth-control devices under auspices of national family                centage of total adult population aged 15 years and over.
planning program since inception.
Family planping - users (8 of married women) - Percentages of married               Rousing
women of child-bearing age (15-44 years) who use birth-control de-                Persons pr room (avsra e) - Average number of persons per room in occupied
vices to all married women in same age group,                                       conventionai dweilingsin urban areas; dwellings exclude non-permanent
structures and unoccupied parts.
Employment                                                                           Occupied dwellings without piped water (i) - Occupied conventional dwell-
Total labor force (thousand) - Economically active persons, including                  ings in urban ard ceral areas without inide or outside piped water
amed forces and unemp oyed but excluding housewives, students, etc.                 facilities as percentage of all occupied dwellings.
definitions in various countries are not comparable.                              Access to electricity (8 of all dwellings) - Conventional dwellings with
labor force in agriculture (t) - Agricultural labor force (in farming,                electricity in living quarters as percent of total dwellings in urban
forestry, hunting and fishing) as percentage of total labor force,                  and rural areas.
Un:7.loZed (' oflbo1,r force) - Unemployed are usually defined as per-              Rural dwellings connected to electricity (8) - Computed as above for rural
w are ae and willing to take a job, out of a job on a given                     dwellings onlYr
day, remained out of a job, and seeking work for a specified minimum
period not exceeding one week; may not be comparable between coun-                 Consmtio
tries due to different definitions of unemployed and source of data,              Reio reeeivors (per thou pOP) - All types of receivers for radio broad-
e.g., employment office statistics, sample surveys, compulsory unem-                 casts to general public per thousand of population; excludes unlicensed
ployment insurance,                                                                  receivers in countries and in years when registration of radio sets was
in effect; data for recent years may not be comparable since most coun-
Income distribution - Percentage of private income (both in cash and                   tries abolished licensing.
kind) received by richest 5%, richest 20%, poorest 20%, and poorest                Passenger cars (per thou pop) - Passenger cars comprise motor cars seating
40% of popsiatio.                                                                    lass than eight persons; excludes asbulances, hearses and military
vehicles.
Distribution of land ownership - Percentages of land owned by wealthiest            Electricity (kh  r r ea)  - Ann cl consumption of industrial, commer-
10% and poorest 101 of land owners.                                                  visl public ad privte electricity in kilosatt hours per cpita; gen-
erally based on production data, without allowance for losses in grids
Health and Nutrition                                                                   but allowing for imports and exprts of electricily.
Poplation Der physioian - Population divided by number of practicing                 Newprint4kfyr Per pap) - Per cpita annual consumption in kilogram
physicians qualified from a medical school at university level,                      estimted from demestie production plus met imports of newsprint.



K- E N I 
Annex 0
ECONOMIC D.EVEItENSpT DATA
(Amounts in millions of U.S. dollars)                                               Page 3 of 4 Pages
Pro] imi-
Actual                   nary        Projectzed        1964-   1974 -   1975 -   1976 - l973    195               98
1964 1/  1973         4  2/ 1Q74!9175      19/6     19t        1972    1975       1976      1981       --       _197     191
NATIONAL ACCOUNTS
At 1973 Prices & Exchange Rates           Average Annual Growth Pates            A.E Percent of GDY
Gross Domestic Product               1,030     2,322     2,445        2,502     2,637   3,3           6CT      2.3       5.4       5.0      100.0   107.5   107.0
Gains from Terms of Trade (+)           10         -     - 113        - 175    - 144   - 210                          -         -       -               7,5     -7,0
Gross Domestic Income -770 2O  72    272                              7737      717;3   T;Ri6         6.5    -0.2        7.1       4.7      ItTr0    =00   0 O
Import (incl. NFS)                     296       718       767          635       766      896        6.1   -17.2       20.6       3.2       20.9    32.9    28.6
Exports_  ''  (import capacity)        350       686        588         525       640      840        2.8   -10.7       21.9       5.6        29.5    25.2    26.8
Resource Gap                            54        72     t779         fTo       r176      -'56         -        -         -         -         T.4      77 17       8
Consumption Expenditures               838    1,686      1,810        1,866     1,933   2,351         6.6      i.1       3.6       4.0        i2.6     80.2    74.7
Investment   "  (incl. stocks)         149       668       701          571       686      851      11,6   -18.7        20.4       4.4       28.8    24.5    27.1
Domestic Savings                       202       636        522         461       560      785        5.9   -11.7       21.5       7.0        27.4    19.8    25.0
National Savings                       211        511       462         429       519       718       5.0    -7.2       21.0       6.7        22.0    s8.4    22.8
MERCHANDISE TRADE                              Annual Data at Current Prices                                                                As Percent of Total
ImPorts                                                                                                                                      1973     1974
Capital goods                        122.4    170.5    175.2         200.8                                                                 27.7    19.6
Intermediate goods (scfuels)    173.2    214.2    272.6              435.9                                                                 43.1     42.5
Fuels and related materials           41.3      47.4      67.0       227.2                                                                 10.6    22.1
of which:  Petroleum              (41.3)   (47.4)   (67.0)    (227.2)                                                                   (10.6)  (22.1)
Consumption goods                    105.8    128.1    117.6          161.9                                                                18.6    15.8
Total Merch. Imports (cif)           442.7    560.2    632.4       1,025.8                                                                1CO.0   100.0
Exports
Primary products (gDml. fuels)       144.7    135.8    256.2          291.5
Fuels and related materials           40.3      51.4      61,7        127.7
of which:  Petroleum               (40,3)   (51.4)   (61.7)    (127.7)
Manufactured goods                   103.6    112.6    150.1          172.3
Total March, Exports (fob)           288.6    299.8    468.0          591.5
Tourism and Border  Tracne            25        76        70
Merchandise Trade Indices              1973      1974      1975       0981
Export Price Index                   100       130       138         221
Import Price Index                   100       161       181        267
Terms of Trade Index                 100        81        76          83
Exports Volume Index                 100       110        93        140
VALUE ADDED BY SECTOR                Annual Data at 1964       Prices and Exchange Rates               Average Annual Growth Rates          As Percent of Total
1964      1972       1973      1974 21                        1964-1972      1972-1973   1973-74 1964  1972  1973  1974
Agriculture                          156       246       266        264                               5.8/.          8.1%         -0.8X   23    20    20    20
Industry and Mining                 119        229       253        264                               8.57,         10.5%          4.37,  20    21    22    20
Service                             400        722       774        816                               7.6%           7.2%          5.47  57    59    58    60
Total                                675    1,197      1,294      1,344                               7.47           8.17,         3.9%  100   100   100   10
POEtIC FINANCE                                  In current prices and exchange rates
(Central Government)                  64/65      71/72   72/73      73/74    74/75    75/76
Current Receipts                    138       398        419        493    669        711
Current Expenditures                159      337         374        395    569        644
Budgetary Savings                   -21        61         45         98    100          67
Other Public Sector
Expenditure in Development           38      145        173         191    246        381
Budget
'JS $ million
CURRENT EXPENDITURE DETAILS                      Actual         Prelim.   Est.    Pro'.           DETAIL ON                                  At end 1975/6 P  and ER
As 9  Total Current Expend. ) 1964/65    1972/73  1973/74  1971/75  1Wfl176  977/78             PUBLIC SECTOR                         First, Plan    % of Total
Education                        11            28       27        28        28       27         INVESTMENT PROGRAM                     (19 74 /75  - 19 77 /78)
Other Social Services             8                     I                                       Social Sectors                             L7s            16
Agriculture                       9                      ,,                                     Agriculture                                274            22
Other Economic Services           3           11       I         12         13       15         Wa er Development                         :71            13
Administration and Defense   30               26       25        28         27       21         Industry and Mining                         42            3
Other  (incl. C.P. Espent.)  39               18       17         14        15       21         Power                                       78            6
Tota1 Current Espenditures  jO3              100      100       100        100      100         Transport and Comeunications               232           18
Total  Curren   E.p..diture    100  TOO  T60 YOO   1700    TOO          Other                                 - 280              22
Total Expenditures                Us$  1,276 oil        loot
SELECTED INDICATORS                             1965-1970    1975-1980        1981-1985           FINANCING
(Calculated from 3-year averaged data)
Average  ICOR                                         3.3           4.7             3.3                 Public Sector Savings                389            30
Import Elasticity                                   1.0            0.6             0.7                 Program aid counterpart              347            27
Marginal Domestic Savings Rate                      0.29           0.29            0.29                Foreign Project Aid                _540             43
Marginal National Savings Rate                      0.22           0.30            0.29                Total Financing            US$    1,;!76 mil.    1007,
LA8OR FORCE AND                                      Total Labor Parce                                     Value Added Per Worker (19 71  -    Prices 6  Exc. Rates)
OU'TPUT PER WORKER                         In Millions          7. of Total                                        in U.S. Dollars            Percent of Average
-1971                     1971                                                1971                          1971
Agriculture                                      4,647               86                                                  109                           36
Industry                                           142                3                                               1,426                           475
Service                                            301                6                                               1 28642
Total                                            5,377              100                                                 3,0                           429
not applicable            -  nil or negligible         1/ It  1967-69 prices and eschange rate.
not available            --  less than half the        2/ Revised figures,
smallest unit shown.   3/ Preliminary figures.                                                         June 15, 1976



K E N Y A
B3l0N0}  FP PftTS1. ENCNAL ASSISTANCE AND DEBT                                                          Page 4 of 4 Yaget
(aswcunts in milicate   of        a7S; Aolers at current prices)
Avg. Annua
Actual        -- -             Pr   minc -r                   Projected         G__ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ __ _ _ _ _ _ _ _                     rnath   Rate
1970  1971   1912          1913     Preln19  y15          3             L7 9         9gn1                                                  1973-191
mo    amIR OF maIIT
15=orte  Cinel. NFl)                           473         509           632           686            953              969        1,203         2.333                                                     16.5
525         659           560           72           1,! 92          1 104         1 399         2.340                                                     16.6
Resotvrce 7Js7Wnc {I4t) 5 ~~~~~~~~~~~~Ts-15 -5             _rT           -156                                      ---9           7!07
Facntr Seit.e. (Net)                          -23          -25           -34          _101            tO1I            -98           -88          -173                                                    17.4
C       wrr snt Tr fw     s                    26           58    f     i          3     L -3  9                        i4sn .                                                                             7-5
-3 L09                             _;_____
Privat  Diret Dwee*ut                           59          48            43             89            17o              66            63            75                                                     6.6
Official CapitWa  IrAte                          1            1/           1/            2/             1/               17             ./          1
PUbl.ic MiLT I3ew
Dieabvuaveatu                                30 3/        48 3/         68 3/        61 3/          -80             103           142           337                                                    23.0
-Re - ert4                                     -7 3/       -8 31        -11 3/       -13 31          -12 3/          -20 3/        -27          -115                                                    31.0
Net Dibwraeiints                         Z3                                  31                    4     l 7J - 68  20
U.e of De  Faetl"tiee                                  -                   -             -              39              45            44            -5
Short Tee  Credit (Nt)                           -          -2             6            16              41              -9            10            33
Use . f Necernee (4)                           -50          72           -25           -29            (              (              (           (
E-cee a*nd E1sieons                             11         -52           -13            11           L,45               IC             8             5
Aet. I
DENf A                             1914       19712         2_2 1932               1974
Public Debt Ou   & Disbred   283.7            307.5       347.4      400.9         455 .8
ORANT AND 7"0"t Ct711kTS                           1970      1971           19727       1973
0ffic1ialA riii   1 T riiiilie                                                                                       Interest at Public Debt           11.3       12.2        14.5       16.1          16.7
Nepaynnte at Public Debt           7.3         7.8       10.3        12.7         11.5
Public llLT IN                                                                                                       fetal Pblic Debt Serice            18.9       20.0        24.9       2898          28.2
IBR0                                         863          23.0          29.0         34 0                          Other Debt Service (o_t)
IDA                                          19.7           -           0890            -                          Total Debt Service (rat)
Other                                           -           -             -             -
Othr Multilateral                              1.5         3.5            -            1.1                        irodon on Eport Bernings
G-averbnee                                    10.5        40.4          20.0         55.2
Suppliere                                      I.1         73             -             -                          Public Debt Service                 4.0        3.9         4.6        3.1           3.0
Finmenial Imtittutioen                          -          2.5          17.3           1.6                         Total Debt Servi-
Bonds                                                       -             -             -                          TDSDirect  -nvet.   c               9.8        9.2         9.8       10.3 7        is.
Publin Laces m.e.l.                            2.1          -                           -
Tnta1 K7ubic 3W5 7na.                           l27 1             761 7   943           91                         Av-rage Ter,uc of Public  Debt
Actual Dabt Outetatcdig on  4o. 51104 'nt. ae 9 Pricr Tear U0&D                                        4.3        '.3         4.7        4.4           4.5
xOCERNAL 1DEb                                        D-ebure   Ony                  Perce                              Att2rt. ax S Prior Yer DOD    2 .7              2.6         3.4        3 .5          4.6
IDA                                                      74 6                       16.4                           75D Debt Out. & Dibur-ed
Other  Itltilateral                                       2.8                         0.6                                - ax % Public Debt O&D          1.9         3.8         8.9       12 4          13.6
3Onerrnente                                             252.0                       55.3                                 - as % Public Debt Service      7.6         2.1        5.4        10.0          15.1
3uppliere                                                04 7                        3.2
FiAcucial SnetitutXcne                                   19 4                        4.3                           IDA Debt Out. & Diaburced
Bends                                                    30.0                        6.6                            c . S Public Debt O&D               11.2        11.2       12.0        1538
Publin  C Dei  n..4                                                                                                                                                                                      2b.,
ubt3ic pubtn   i                                                                    _ebt                              us    PUblic Debt Service         0.8         1.2        1.3         1.7
-rotal Fublic MIY      De1 bt                           z7                         o100.0
Other 14T Debts                                          38.0
Short-t-r  Debt (dib. only)
nct applicable                                                         e  staff estiDmte                    11  incloded in curnent inannfcex
not av ilble-  nil cr -egligible                                                                            2/  italoded in Public MI4T L..on.
nxt available aperatily                                                --  le.s than hali the               3/        -   W-1ord  xterca1 Debt Statioti-c (Kenya only).
but included in total                                                      sallest nit chcwn               -
Zute 15, 1976



ANNEX II
Page 1
THE STATUS OF BANK GROUP OPERATIONS IN KENYA
A. Statement of Bank Loans and IDA Credits as at April 30, 1976
Loan or
Credit #    Year   Borrower    Purpose                  Amount (less Cancellations)
Bank IDA 1/ Undisbursed
Six (6) loans and nine (9) credits,
fully disbursed                                        87.7  40.0
185        1970   Kenya        Education                       6.1         1.8
714        1970   NCC          Water Supply              8.3               1.5
224        1970   Kenya        Road Maintenance               12.6         2.5
276        1972   Kenya        Highways                       22.0         5.2
826        1972   Kenya        Nairobi Airport          29.0               4.9
344        1972   Kenya        Agricultural Credit             6.0         1.7
932        1973   Kenya        Highways                 29.0              21.9
946        1973   IDB          DFC                       5.0               1.0
468        1974   Kenya        Population                     12.0        11.0
477        1974   Kenya        Livestock                      21.5        21.2
993        1974   Kenya        Tea Factories            10.4               8.8
1093        1975   Kenya        Group Farm Credit         7.5               7.5
537        1975   Kenya        Group Farm Credit               7.5         7.5
1105        1975   Kenya        Site and Service          8.0              8&0
543        1975   Kenya        Site and Service                8.0         7.8
565        1975   Kenya        Agriculture-Forestry           10.0         9.6 2/
1132        1975   Kenya        Agriculture-Forestry   10.0                 9.2 -
1133        1975   Kenya        Transportation-
Pipeline             20.0              19.9
1147        1975   TRDC         Hydroelectric Develop. 63.0                51.9
1148        1975   IDB          DFC                      10.0               9.8
1167        1975   Kenya        Mombasa & Coastal
Water Supply        35.0              35.0
1184        1975   Kenya        Education III            10.0              10.0
TOTAL                  332.9 145.7       257.7
of which has been
repaid              8.1   0.1
Total now outstanding 324.8 145.6
Amount sold    5..1
of which has
been repaid  4.4        .7
Total now held
by Bank & IDA          324.1 145.6
189.4  63.3        257.7
Total undisbursed
1/ Prior to exchange adjustment.
2/ Includes $6.6 undisbursed grant participation.



ANNEX II
Page 2
B. Statement of IFC Investments in Kenya as at April 30, 1976:
Amount in US$ Million
Year             Obligor            Type of Business    Loan    Equity    Total
1968 &
1973      Kenya Hotel Properties    Hotels                 5.2       2.7       5.9
1970 &
1974      Pan African Paper Mills   Pulp & Paper          11.9       5.7      17.6
1972       Tourism Promotion
Services                   Hotels               2.4       -          2.4
1975       Rift Valley Textiles,
Ltd.                        Textiles            6.3       2.8        9.1
Total Gross Commitments                  25.8      9.2       35.0
less cancellations,
terminations, repay-
ments and sales                        7.4      1.7        9.1
Total Commitments now
held by IFC                           18.4      7.5       25.9
Total Undisbursed                         9.0        .7       9.7



ANNEX II
Page 3
C. Projects in Execution -/
Credit No. 185-KE - Education: $61. million Credit of May 20,
1970; Effective Date: August 5, 1970; Closing Date: December 31,
1977:
The project is practically completed; only one school, the Nyeri
Secondary Technical School is behind schedule. It is now under construction
and making satisfactory progress. Nearly all furniture and equipment have
been installed and are in use. Current estimates shows a modest. cost
overrun of about US$0.5 million. The Closing Date was extended from
December 31, 1975 to December 31, 1977.
Loan No. 714-KE - Nairobi Water Supply Project: $8.4 million
Loan of December 11, 1970; Effective Date: March 26,, 1971;
Closing Date: September 30, 1976:
Good progress was made on the main project items, and water was
delivered in Nairobi on schedule in March 1974. However, the CLosing
Date was postponed to September 30, 1976, to enable completion of disburse-
ments for ancillary project components which are behind schedule and a
request for another extension of three months is expected. Costs are about
30 percent over the appraisal estimates, due mainly to local cost increases.
The Water and Sewerage Department has continuing problems attracting and
retaining staff for its engineering and commercial sections. The financial
results of water operations have been generally satisfactory; the increased
project costs have been met from internal cash generation. A water tariff
increase early in 1975 proved to be inadequate to maintain a sound financial
position through 1976 and another substantial increase has been implemented
with effect from January 1, 1976.
Loan No. 224-KE - Road Maintenance: $12.6 million Credit of
December 28, 1970; Effective Date: March 18, 1971; :losing
Date: June 30, 1976:
The project is going well, though its final completion may be
delayed till December 1976 -- 18 months behind schedule.
The delay    is mainly due to  a slow start in construction of regional
workshops on account of unforeseen difficulties experienced in acquisition
These notes are designed to inform the Executive Directors regarding
the progress of projects in execution, and in particular to report
any problems which are being encountered, and the action being taken
to remedy them. They should be read in this sense, and with the
understanding that they do not purport to present a balance evaluation
of strengths and weaknesses in project execution.



ANNEX II
Page 4
of sites and procurement of steel. These difficulties have now been
resolved and no further major problems are anticipated on this
project. The Closing Date was postponed from June 30, 1975 to
June 30, 1976.
Credit 276-KE - Highways: $22.0 million Credit of June 5,
1972; Effective Date: March 22, 1972; Closing Date:
December 31, 1977:
The project, due for completion in March 1975, which is
jointly financed by a Swedish Credit of $6.0 million, has slipped
considerably behind schedule and is now expected to be completed by
December 1976. Completion cost of the project is anticipated to
exceed the appraisal estimates of 42 million KSh by a little over
25 percent on account of imflationary price escalation and the
adoption, where necessitated by tariff conditions, of specifications
and design standards higher than those envisaged in the appraisal
estimates. The Closing Date was postponed from March 31, 1976 to
December 31, 1977.
Loan 826-KE - Nairobi Airport: $29 million Loan of June 2,
1972; Effective Date: July 7, 1972; Closing Date:
December 31, 1977:
Completion is now estimated in February 1977, one year
later than originally anticipated. Most of the delay is covered by
time extensions granted the principal contractor for unforeseen
delays. There is also a serious cost overruns on the project
(estimated at US$20 million. Additionally, the principal contractor
is experiencing financial problems which could influence his ability
to continue. Establishment of the Aerodromes Department is well
underway and plans for personnel training are now being prepared.
The consultants to establish the unified commercial and cost accounting
system for the Aerodromes Department have been engaged and are now
at work.



ANNEX II
Page 5
Credit No. 344-KE - Agricultural Credit: $6.0 million Credit
of November 29, 1972; Effective Date: March 2, 1973; Closing
Date: June 30, 1976:
The project progresses well and disbursements will be completed
by the Closing Date (June 30, 1976). Performance of the Agricultural
Finance Corporation (AFC), the project executing agency, has improved.
After several years of losses it will make a small profit in FY 1975/76.
AFC has consolidated its staffing position, developed sound Loan making
procedures and has become more oriented towards advanced plamning and
loan follow up. Its decentralization program progress will but its
Finance and Accounts Department requires strengthening. Internal as well
as external reporting procedures, particularly regarding loans in arrear,
also requre further development.
Credit No. 477-KE - Livestock: $21.5 million Credit of June 5,
1974; Effective Date: December 2, 1974; Closing Date:
December 31, 1980:
Project implementation has been slow and there are substantive
problems on organization, cost overruns and pricing. Government has
requested a detailed review of the project and a joint IDA-ther donors
mission has undertaken an indepth review. Their report is expected shortly.
Loan No. 993-KE - Tea Factories: $10.4 million Loan of June 5,
1974; Effective Date: September 23, 1974; Closing Date:
June 30, 1980:
The first four factories should have been completed by March 1975,
but due to delays in original planning and by the contractors, one commenced
processing on 8th December 1975 and on 5th January 1976 and the remaining
two in March/April 1976. Tenders have been received and awarded for the
building and machinery for two more factories, bids are awail:ed tor the
erection of the machinery and the electrical work and the sites are now
being cleared and levelled. They should be operational by the end of this
year.   The new KTDA departments to be established under the project are
functioning but will require strengthening if KTDA is going t:o handle
satisfactorily its additional commitments. Yields, lower than envisaged
at appraisal, and high construction costs are either going to reduce the
number of factories built in the period or the period may havre to be
extended.



ANNEX II
Page 6
Credit No. 537-KE/Loan 1093-KE - Group Farm Rehabilitation:
$7.5 million Credit and $7.5 million Loan of March 27, 1975;
Effective Date: September 30, 1975; Closing Date: December 31,
1981:
Recruitment of staff has been slow, and selection of farms
is in progress but slow particularly for the mixed farms. The project is
estimated to be about 6 to 12 months behind schedule.
Credit No. 543-KE/Loan No. 1105-KE - Site and Service Project:
$8.0 million Credit and $8.0 million Loan of May 6, 1975;
Effective Date:  September 25, 1975;  Closing Date:  June 30, 1980:
Key project staff have been appointed and project execution is
proceeding satisfactorily. Construction of off-site infrastructure and
preparation and servicing of the first 1,000 site and service lots are
well under way. Design and engineering for the rest of the project is
being carried out by consultants and all studies under this project have
commenced.
Loan No. 1117-KE - Program Loan: $30 million Loan of May 27, 1975;
Effective Date: August 26, 1975; Closing Date: June 30, 1976:
The loan has been fully disbursed. Progress on policy aspects of
the project is proceeding satisfactorily.
Loan No. 1133-KE - Mombasa-Nairobi Oil Product Pipeline Project:
$20 million Loan of June 27, 1975; Effective Date: December 3
1975; Closing Date: February_l. 1978:
Engineering and procurement are on schedule, and construction
started. Barring unforeseen delays, the project should be completed on
schedule.
Loan No. 1132-KE/Credit No. 565-KE - Second Forestry Plantation
Project: $10.0 million Credit and $10.0 million Loan of June 27,
1975; Effective Date: September 25, 1975; Closing Date: December 31,
1981:
Development of nurseries and preparation for plarting is now
well underway.  However, delay in procuring vehicles may cause a set back in
the planting program. Higher minimum wage for the forest workers an'>
general infestation has increased the cost of the project. The Land Use
Committee has now been est,ablishad under the Ministry of Lands and
Settlement whose members are compused of the Permanent Secretaries of the
Ministries involved with the use of land.



ANNEX II
page 7
Loan No. 1147-KE - Gitaru Hydroelectric Power Project: $63.0
million Loan of July 25, 1975; Effective Date:  January 2
1976; Closing Date: December 31, 1979:
Procurement and construction is well underway but effect:iveness
of the loan was delayed because of need to amend Trust Deed.
Loan No. 1148-KE - Second Industrial Development Bank Project:
$10.0 million Loan of July 25, 1975; Effective Date: October 7,
1975; Closing Date: July 1, 1979:
Commitments under the project are well underway.
Loan No. 1167-KE - Mombasa and Coastal Water Supply: $35
million Loan of October 15, 1975; Effective Date: January 13,
1976; Closing Date: December 31, 1980:
Progress is satisfactory. The initial equipment supply contracts
have been awarded. Tenders for the major pipe supply and pipeline construc-
tion contracts are due in May 1976.
Loan No. 1184-KE - Third Education Project: $10 million Loan of
December 31, 1975; Effective Date: March 17, 1976; Closing
Date: December 31, 1981:
The project is off to a good start. The Project Unit is fully
staffed, a survey of the physical facilities to be extended of the
17 primary teachers colleges has been conducted. Consulting architects
for the Educational Broadcasting and Multi Media Service Station design
and construction supervision are being established. The National Committee on
Educational Objectives and Priorities is at work, with an interimn report
to be prepared by July 1976.



ANNEX   II
Page 8
D. East African Community
General
Owing to delays in meeting debt service on various loans to
the East African Corporations disbursements to the East African Railways
Corporation, East African Harbours Corporation, the East African Posts
and Telecommunications Corporation and the East African Development Bank
were suspended on April 28, 1976. Following receipt of outstanding pay-
ments the suspension was lifted on June 1, 1976.    The background to
these events is described in paragraphs 23 to 26 above.
Loan 674 EA - Third Railways Project: $42.4 million
Loan of May 25, 1970; Date of Effectiveness -
October 30, 1970; Closing Date - June 30, 1977
The physical execution of the original project has been seriously
delayed due to administrative and political problems within the Community
and the East African Railways Corporation's unsatisfactory procedures for
procurement, investment planning and coordination. In November 1974, the
Executive Directors approved a reallocation of the uncommitted balance of
the Loan to be used for consultant services and emergency investments.
Agreement was reached in July 1975 for the hiring of consultants to assist
EARC with outstanding organizational and financial issues. Coopers and
Lybrand (financial consultants hired by ODM) completed their asset studies
in early 1976 and CANAC (technical consultants) are proceeding with the
decentralization study.
Loan No. 638 EA - Second Harbours Project: $35.0 million
Loan of August 25, 1969: Date of Effectiveness -
December 16, 1969; Closing Date - December 31. 1976
Loan No. 865 EA - Third Harbours Project: $26.5 million
Loan of December 18, 1972: Date of Effectiveness -
April 16, 1973; Closing Date - June 30, 1977
Considerable delays have occurred in implementing the project
financed partly by Loan 638-EA. However, construction is now more than
95% complete. The Closing Date has been postpone from December 31, 1975
to December 31, 1976. The major civil works financed partly by Loan 865 EA
were completed in September 1975, six months behind schedule. Some smaller
project elements intended to be financed under Loan 865_EA, will have to
be deleted. Serious cost overruns for cargo handling equipment, tugs
and lighters financed by CIDA have occurred, and its credit has been
increased accordingly from Can.$26.0 million to Can.$33.5 million. Port
labor productivity has stagnated in Mombasa and declined in Dar es Salaam.
At the same time cargo throughput has declined considerably for Mombasa



ANNEX II
Page 9
and increased above forecasts for Dar es Salaam, where the three berths
financed under Loan 865-EA are now being used, although transit sheds
and open storage areas for them have not yet been completed.
Loan No. 843 EA - East African Development Bank Project:
$8.0 million Loan of June 28, 1972; Date of Effectiveness -
September 28, 1972; Closing Date - June 30, 1977
Operations of the Bank have been decentralized and the newly
formed regional office teams are now competent in dealing with all aspects
of development financing operations. The entire first loan has now been
committed by EADB.
Loan No. 1204 EA - East African Development Bank Project:
$15.0 million Loan of March 1, 1976: Date of Effectiveness -
June 7, 1976; Closing Date - March 31, 1980
This loan was declared effective on June 7, 1976.
Loan No. 914 EA - Third Telecommunications Project:
$32.5 million Loan of June 22, 1973; Date of Effectiveness -
September 19, 1973; Closing Date - December 31, 1976
Problems within the EAC have only marginally affected the Posts
and Telecommunications Corporation due to the considerable existing decen-
tralization of operating authority. Deterioration of the corporate cash
position and rate of return has been slight in comparison to other Com-
munity Corporations and the situation has improved by a rate increase
allowed by the Community in February 1975. All major items have been
completed by mid-1975, except two microwave links which, due to a long
lead time for delivery, will be delayed by 12 months.



ANNEX II
Page 10
E.  SUMMARY STATEMrENT OF BANK LOANS FOR CO0MON SERVICES GUARANTEED
BY KENYA, TANZANIA AND UGANDA AS AT APRIL 30, 1976
(US$ million)
Amount  less cancellations
No.          Year    Borrower      Purpose                         Bank      Undisbursed
Three loans fully disbursed                                        75.0
638  EA      1969    EAHC          Harbours                        35.0          2.3
674  EA      1970    EARC         Railways                         42.4         12.0
675  EA      1970    EAPTC         Telecommunications              10.4           .0*
843  EA      1972    EADB          Development Finance              8.0          1.0
865  EA      1972    EAHC          Harbours                        26.5         11.8
914  EA      1973    EAPTC         Telecommunications              32.5         10.4
1204  EA      1976    EADB          Development Finance             15.0         15.0
Total                                       244.8          52.5
of which has been repaid                   32.3
Total now outstanding                       212.5
Amount sold                     24.4
of which has been repaid      24.4          0
Total now held by Bank                      212.5
Total undisbursed                            52.5
*   $21,251.23 remains undisbursed



ANN'EX III
Page 1
KBNYA - WILDLIFE AND TOURISM PROJECT
LOAN AND PROJECT SUNYTiARY
Borrower:                           The Republic of Kenya
Afaount:                            $17 million equivalent
Terms:                              Standard Third Wiridow Terms
Interest:                           4.85% per annum
freject Description:                Tihe purpose of the project is to support
the Gcvernment in implementAng its 'DoThcies
on the conservation of wildlife resourcese
and development of tourist attractions by
providing finarLce for the following:
(i)  facilities to increase the tourist capacity
and local dezelopment impacts of ths AraToseli
National Park, the Masai Mara National Reserve,
and the Reserves of the Inner Northern Circuit
comprising Samburu National Reserve, Buffalo
Springs National Reserve, Shaba National
Reserve, and the Marmar Ranch;
(ii) improvements at Lake Turkana (formerly Lake
Rudolf) National Park;
(iii) game-proof barriers;
(iv) a Wildlife and Fisheries Training Institute;
(v)  buses for the Wildlife Clubs of K,Cnya;
(vi)  a Wildlife Planning Unit;
(vii)  policy and feasibility studies on wildlife and
tourism development;
(viii)  support for anti-poaching activities
(ix)  Project Management.



ANNEX III
ESTIMATED COST                  Page 2
U.S. Dollars                    % of
(thousands)                 Baseline
Local    Foreign       Total           Costs
Amboseli National Park and dispersal
area, Lemongo                               1,941.0    1,035.2       2,976.2         11.6.
Civil Works                              1,626.3       688.5      2,314.8          9.0
Equipment                                   93.8       199.4        293.2          1.2
Professional services                      220.9       147.3        368.2          1.4
Masai Mara and dispersal area,
Migwarrur                                   1,788.1       949.3      2,737.4         10.7
Civil Works                              1,532.8       684.8      2,217.6          8.7
Equipment                                   64.6       137.4        202.0          0.8
Professional services                      190.7       127.1        317.8          1.2
Samburu, Buffalo Springs, Shaba, Marmar
and dispersal areas, Archers Post           1,641.0       802.5      2,443.5          9.5
Civil Works                              1,417.8       561.1      1,978.9          7.7
Equipment                                   55.7       129.7        185.4          0.7
Professional services                      167.5       111.7        279.2          1.1
Lake Rudolf National Park                      84.9       159.8        244.7          1.0
Civil Works                                 54.5        38.4         92.9          0.4
Equipment                                   30.4       121.4        151.8          0.6
Road Construction Units                       794.6    3,015.6       3,810.2         14.9
Game-proof barriers                         1,146.3       382.1      1,528.4           6.0
Wildlife and Fisheries Training
Institute, Naivasha                         2,063.3    1,600.3       3,663.6         14.3
Civil Works                              1,470.1       738.8      2,208.9          8.6
Equipment                                  279.7       652.5        932.2           3.6
Professional services                      313.5       209.0        522.5           2.1
Wildlife Clubs of Kenya
Equipment                                   11.4        45.2         56.6          0.2
Anti-Poaching Units                         1,758.0    2,162.7       3,920.7         15.3
Civil Works                              1,015.2       417.9      1,433.1          5.6
Equipment                                  596.1    1,646.4       2,242.5          8.8
Professional services                      146.7        98.4        245.1          0.9
Wildlife Planning Unit and Studies          1,182.0    1,825.5       3,007.5          11.7
Project Management Unit                       700.1       524.5      1,224.6           4.b
Baseline Cost                           13,110.7   12,502.7    25,613.4          100.0
Contingencies:                              6,324.8    4,497.3    10,822.1           42.3
Physical Increase                        1,326.6       715.6      2,042.2          8.0
Price Increase                           4,998.2    3,781.7       8,779.9         34.3
GRAND TOTAL                       19,435.5   17,000.1    36,435.5



ANNEX III
Page 3
Local     Foeign       Total
($ million equivalent)
Financing Plan:
IBRD                                  -          17.0       17.0
Government                           19.4        -           19.4
Total                                19.4        17.0        36.4
Estimated Disbursements:         1976    1977    1978    1979    1980    1981
Annual                    1,975   4,880   4,335   3,510   1,990         310
Cumulative                1,975   6,855  11,190  14,700  16,690   17,000
Procurement:                   Major equipment and vehicles are estinated to cost
about US$5.0 million. Orders exceeding the equiva-
lent of US$100,000 would be procured under
international competitive bidding in accordance
with Bank guidelines; orders would be bulked to the
extent possible. Orders of less than US$100,000
equivalent would be locally obtained uLnder Government
procurement procedures satisfactory to the Bank.
In evaluating bids domestic manufacturers would be
allowed a preferential margin of 15% of the c.i.f.
costs of competing imports or the prevailing level
of customs duty, whichever is the lower.
Technical Assistance and        Consultants:                   @ $33.600
Consultants:                        Very Large Herbivores Study - 6 manyears
Pricing Study                 - 1 manyear
Technical Experts:             @ $33.601D
Staff for Project Management Unit - 5 manyears
Rate of Return:                 The overall estimated rate of return is
22 percent.
Map:                            A map of the proposed project (IBRD 11845)
is attached.
Appraisal Report:               Report No. 1022-KE dated  March 31, 1976.






- cC-~ ~x~*
- .!  ; ,: :'.  .t ,)        Fergusons GulAe   0                                                                                     >F.
I
: E '  f ,LOd                                                                                                                                                                                                   E-''L , fr  / - !
Okl~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~.~~~~~~~                                                ~I
9;-~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~. 1.0 irfhSI    2',__                              tYlhku  8\ lGll---:
Al IO~b                                                                                                      I ~~gIi
*mm eau wmooa Mwe  h~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~   ~tOOlwpot
MA,# vodes                                                                                                                                                                          o     C,Iies i  .  wnS
-                                                                              -                                                                       MOdASrA              E             YE qAe;     :fI4r    'XO C dAN
moo. '                                                                                                                                                                                                              AEE  r o.,
ARMI i            AS                                                                1Oi
do                                                                                                                                                                                                 W1.0 sr,,      0               u,dd +   ;   r2\\=_/i   C oc oi
-l  ,      .4 w    ,    mi".                                                                   -                                                                                             WEldtirfo    ftdr
'n; A320;75- 2L'w;0<0'_r\ t'i-I' i'1 't,'L;atVW  01
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~a'IdPf
-PIVO*AL A"z ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~~~~~~~~~~~-IIrlOinIOonOe



