Report No. 1022-KF
Republic of Kenya: Appraisal of
the Wildlife and Tourism Project
March 31, 1976
Tourism Projects Department
FOR OFFICIAL USE (ONLY
Document of the World Bank
This do( ument has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients
only in the pertormance of their official duties. Its contents may not
otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



1/
CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
Currency Units             Pound (Kh)
Shilling (K Sh)
US$1.00             =      KSO.O4025
=     K Sh 8.05
1 Kh                 =     US$ 2.484
1 K Sh               =     US$0.124
1 million Ka         =     US$2,84,50o0
1 million K Sh       =     US$124,220
The official unit of currency in Kenya is the Kenya Shilling (K Sh).
However, in accordance with the practice of the Kenyan Government,
some large values in the report are expressed in Kenya Pounds
(Kt = K Sh 20).
WEIGHTS AND MEASURES EQUIVALENT
1 meter (m)                3.28 feet
1 kilometer                0.62 miles
1 square meter (m2)        10.76 square feet
1 hectare           =      2.47 acres
1 kilogram          =      2.205 pounds
ACRONYMS AND ABBREVIATIONS
MT           =           Ministry of Tourism and Wildlife
MOW                      Ministry of Works
MOE          =           Ministry of Education
MgOWD        =           Ministry of Water Development
MIG          =           Ministry of Local Government
MNR                      Ministry of Natural Resources
MOH                      Ministry of Health
KTDC                     Kenya Tourist Development Corporation
ICP          =           Kenya National Parks
UNDP=                    United Nations Development Program
FAO                      Food and Agriculture Organization
WCK                      Wildlife Clubs of Kenya
CAW.         =           College of African Wildlife Management
CIDA                     Canadian International Development Agency
WCMS         =           Wildlife Conservation and Management Service
KREMU        =           Kenya Rangeland Ecological Monitoring Unit
WPU                      Wildlife Planning Unit
ItoJ                     Livestock Marketing Division
GMRW         =           Guaranteed Minimum Return from Wildlife
IUCN                    International Union for the Conservation
of Nature
GOVERNMENT OF KENYA FISCAL YEAR
July 1 - June 30
1/ As from October 27, 1975, the Kenyan Shilling is officially valued at a
fixed rate of K Sh 9.66 to the SIR. The US Dollar/Kenya Shilling exchange
rate is, therefore, subject to change. Conversions in this report were made
at US$1.00 to K Sh 8.05,, which is close to the short-term average exchange rate.



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
KENYA:  WILDLIFE AND TOURISM PROJECT
TABLE OF CONTENTS
Page No.
SUMMARY AND CONCLUSIONS                                                   i - ii
I.  INTRODUCTION                                                          1
II.  BACKGROUND
A. General                                                      2
B.  Kenya's Tourism and Wildlife                                2 -  7
III. THE PROJECT
A.  Objectives                                                   7
B.  Project Description                                         7 - 14
C.  Project Cost                                               1  - 15
D.  Procurement                                                16 - 17
E.  Disbursement                                               17
F.  Accounts and Audit                                         18
IV.  ORGANIZATION AND MANAGEMENT                                          18
V.  JUSTIFICATION                                                        19 - 26
VI.  RECOMMENDATIONS                                                      27 - 28
ANNEXES:
1        Project Cost Estimates
2        Tourism in Kenya
3        Game Park/Reserve Improvements, and Park Headquarters
4        Wildlife and Fisheries Training Institute
5        Wildlife Planning Unit
6        Gpme-proof Barriers
7        The Wildlife Clubs of Kenya
8        Study of Very Large Herbivores
9        Anti-poaching Measures
10        Economic Justification
11        Project Implementation and Supervision
Statistical Appendix
Map, IBRD # 11845R
This report is based on the findings of an appraisal mission in
July 1975 consisting of Messrs. Hayman, Calkins, Hechtenberg, Mitchell, and
Lamprey (Consultant, IUCN). Water and sewage components were appraised by
Mr. E. LaBahn. Mr. J.F.A. Russell of the Resident Mission assisted in the
preparation of the project. Ecological studies of the project areas were made
for the appraisal by Consultants, D. Western and M. Rainy. Game park/reserve
costs and benefits were estimated with the help of a computer model developed
by the resource economist of the UNDP/FAO Wildlife Management Project, Mr. P.
Thresher.
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance
of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.






K E N Y A
WILDLIFE & TOURISM PROJECT
SUMMARY AND CONCLUSIONS
(i)       Kenya maintains Game Parks and Reserves primarily because under
proper management they can generate much higher returns to land than any
currently feasible alternative use. This project would conserve wildlife
resources and develop attractions for foreign and local tourists, increase
impacts of tourism on rural incomes, support the establishment of more
thorough planning for wildlife development, provide training facilities,
aid efforts to eliminate poaching and assist conservation education in
secondary schools.
(ii)      Outstanding beach and wildlife attractions and a sophisticated
tourist industry have established Kenya as a major destination, attracting
332,000 foreign visitors in 1974, the great majority of them on holiday.
Future prospects for the industry are favorable, given reasonable political
stability and effective management of wildlife resources. The survival of
large herds of wildlife in some areas is seriously threatened by rising
human populations, conflicting land uses, and poaching. Government has
identified programs to deal with these problems, which the project would
support.
(iii)     Responsibility for management of Kenya's wildlife resources has
rested with the Game Department of the Ministry of Tourism and Wildlife (MTW),
the Trustees of the Kenya National Parks (KNP), and those County Councils
which administer Game Reserves. A Bill came into effect in February 1976 to
create an integrated Wildlife Conservation and Management Service (WGMS)
under the MTW to incorporate all functions of KNP and the Game Department.
Government also intends to take over management of former Game Reserves
(now designated "National Reserves") on behalf of County Councils in order
to ensure higher standards of management of these areas.
(iv)      The project would be implemented over five years and would include
investments to increase the tourist capacity and amenity of three major
areas -- Amboseli National Park and its dispersal area, Masai Mara National
Reserve and its dispersal area, and several Reserves within the Inner Northern
Circuit (Samburu, Buffalo Springs, Shaba, and the Marmar Ranch, and their
dispersal areas). Modest but urgent works for protection of the paleonto-
logical attractions of Lake Turkana National Park would also be included.
A Wildlife and Fisheries Training Institute would be established at Lake
Naivasha to provide basic and upgrading training for Government and private
sector personnel in the wildlife and fisheries fields. Game-proof barriers
between valuable wildlife and agricultural activities would be constructed.
The project would also include funding for its first five years of a Wildlife
Planning Unit in the MTW. The Government is also concerned that adequate



- ii -
attention be given to defining policies for management of wildlife outside
the project areas, and for pricing of tourist services in Kenya, and the
project would include funds for studies on these matters as well as detailed
planning studies for some proposed tourist circuits. Funds are provided to
assist the Government in taking more effective measures against poaching.
Small-scale assistance would be provided to the Wildlife Clubs of Kenya for
buses to take Kenya residents to and around Parks and Reserves.
(v)       The project as outlined above is estimated to cost about US$36.4
million, including physical contingencies of US$2.0 million and price con-
tingencies of US$ 8.8 million. US$17.0 million would be foreign exchange.
The greater part of the project cost would be related to the specific
wildlife areas covered in the project, and for the training component.
(vi)      Major equipment and vehicles would be procured under international
competitive bidding in accordance with Bank guidelines.  Most civil works
are located in remote areas and are not expected to attract serious inter-
national interest; local bidding is expected to be genuinely competitive
within the very active Kenyan construction industry. Minor works would be
implemented under force account, or, in the case of game-proof barriers,
locally negotiated contracts.
(Vii)     It is recognized that the project will be difficult to implement
and will initially require a major supervision effort.
(viii)    It is estimated that the economic rate of return on the investments
proposed for the Amboseli National Park, the Masai Mara National Reserve,
and the Inner Northern Circuit would be of the order of 22%. These esti-
mates do not take account of important unquantifiable net benefits.
(ix)      The project is exnected to generate direct employment by 1980 of
840 and indirect employment of a similar number. Total employment generated
by the project is estimated at over 5,600 by 1990. Net foreign exchange
earnings generated by the project are estimated at US$2.0 million in 1980,
rising to US$1.5 million per year by 1990. Perhaps the most significant
benefits of the project, however, derive from its assistance to the Government
in its efforts to ensure the long-term survival of Kenya's potentially valu-
able but seriously threatened wildlife resources. The project should have a
favorable ecological impact by bringing about improved wildlife resource
management.
(x)       The project is suitable for a loan through the Third Window of
US$17.0 million equivalent.



K E N Y A
APPRAISAL OF THE WILDLIFE AND TOURISM PROJECT
I.   INTRODUCTION
1.01         A Bank mission concerned with identifying pre-investment
studies visited Kenya in November 1970. The first priority was seen as
the comprehensive master planning of a major new resort on the coast.
The Bank has advised the Government in its commissioning of consultants
to carry out this work, which was completed in December 1975. Other
proposals included studies for development of various wildlife attractions
and circuits based on them.
1.02         An agricultural sector mission which visited Kenya in the fall
of 1972 highlighted the potential of the wildlife resource as well as the
ecological problens which, along with inadequate planning, threaten it.
The Government decided that a project to develop wildlife tourism should
assume the first priority and accordingly established an inter-ministerial
Working Party which, with assistance from the Bank's Regional Mission in
Eastern Africa, prepared a Project Identification Report in July 1974. This
was reviewed by a pre-appraisal mission in November 197h, at which time spe-
;ific project items were selected for further preparation.
1.03         The project provides for improvements to a National Park and
three National Reserves, training for wildlife and fisheries, a planning
unit and policy planning studies, game-proof barriers, and minor items to
assist the Government in its conservation efforts.
i.o4         The second ILA Livestock Project (Credit No. 477KE) contained
some items (water supplies, census and monitoring unit) to assist wildlife
management. This project would, however, represent the first Bank loan to
Kenya exclusively for wildlife and tourism.



- 2 -
II. BACKGROUND
A. General
2.01       Kenya has an area of 583,000 km  (of which 8,000 km2 is water),
which supports a population of some 12.9 million (mid-1974), growing at
about 3.3% per year.  Its varied climate, topography, and soil range from
a limited Afro-Alpine zone in the center to a tropical coastal strip, and
from near desert in the north to high rainfall forest in the southwest.
Only some 18% of the total land area has a high or medium agricultural
potential. Some 90% of the population live in rural areas, where the
average annual per capita income is estimated at K Sh 480 (US$60) as against
K Sh 1,290 (US$160) for the country as a whole. Agriculture is the single
most important sector, employing some 90% of the labor force and contributing
34% of GDP. Most of the 1.2 million smallholders are engaged in subsistence
farming, which still accounts for over half of agricultural value added.
Exports consist mainly of agricultural commodities with coffee the principal
product, earning K Sh 769 million in 1974. Earnings from tourism ranked
second in 1974, yielding K Sh 530 million 1/ equal to 7% of total receipts
on the current account of the balance of payments.
B.   Kenya's Tourism and Wildlife
Tourism
2.02       Kenya's is one of the most highly developed tourist industries in
Africa.  The country's attractions of climate, magnificent scenery, fine sand
beaches and clear seas, cultural diversity and rich wildlife constitute a
range of attractions which can be matched by few other destinations.
2.03       Tourism has been an important economic activity in Kenya for over
50 years. Current patterns in the industry evolved from the mid-1960s, when
reductions in airfares and rising incomes in Western Europe and North America
brought within the reach of increasing numbers of people holidays to this
destination, hitherto associated in the popular mind with luxury safaris by
the rich and the famous.
2.04       Since the mid-1960s, visitors from outside East Africa- have in-
creased from about 65,000 (in 1964) to 257,000 in 1974, an average growth
rate approaching 15% annually. Growth was maintained until 1972; since then,
with the onset of the world recession and the increases in transport costs
/ Excluding receipts from visitors on transport account. The estimating
procedure used underestimates receipts from tourists on inclusive tours by
K Sh 60 to 80 million.
2/ Here defined as Kenya, Tanzania and Uganda.



- 3 -
associated with the large increase in oil prices, visitor numbers from
outside East Africa have remained practically unchanged. The large in-
creases in visitor arrivals over the last decade were matched by com-
parable increases in the supply of accommodation capacity and other
visitor facilities.  Hotel capacity capable of accommodating foreign       1/
visitors increased from 3,470 rooms in 1965 to some 9,400 rooms in 1974. -
A dynamic private sector, including resident and foreign firms, responded
rapidly to investment opportunities, and the Government assisted in creating
such opportunities through the provision of infrastructure, promotion of
the industry, and the development of wildlife attractions with the creation
of new National Parks and Game Reserves.
2.05      The most rapid growth in tourist arrivals has been of persons on
holiday. Among these, the fastest growth has been from Europe, North
America, Japan and Oceania. Persons visiting friends and relations
(especially from the U.K., India and neighboring East African countries)
are still important, however, as are demands by residents of Kenya for
hotel accommodations. Thus 52% of total visitor nights in Kenya were spent
outside commercial accommodation in 1974, and residents took 30% of total
hotel bednights occupied in that year.
2.06      Holiday visitor flows to Kenya have remained high in the past
two years, despite recession in the main tourist-generating countries.
Excluding visitors from East Africa, holiday visitors 2/ rose by 1.8%
between 1972 and 1973, and fell by only 0.4% in 1974, as compared with a
fall of about 5% in world tourist arrivals in that year. Sharp falls in
visitors from Britain and North America were compensated by continued in-
creases from most European countries and the Far East. Hotel bednights
spent by non-residents of East Africa increased by 4.5% and 9.5% in 1973
and 1974. They held up better than visitor flows for a variety of reasons:
more extended wildlife viewing in Kenya rather than in neighboring countries,
higher airfares (leading to longer lengths of stay), and a decline in prices
of services in Kenya relative to overseas price levels. The recent deval-
uation of the Kenya shilling should continue the latter trend.
2.07      With the likely levelling off of increases in transport costs, and
economic recovery in the main tourist-generating countries in the next sev-
eral years, renewed rapid expansion in tourist flows to Kenya can be expected
Returns for the first quarter of 1975 show a growth in bednights spent by
non-residents of East Africa of 11% over the first quarter of 1974. Bookings
have been very heavy for the 1975/76 season, particularly at the coast. By
the early 1980s, growth of visitor numbers by about 8-10% annually may rea-
sonably be expected, provided that the necessary investments in new capa-
city are made and that measures to safeguard Kenya's endangered wildlife
resources are carried out.
1/ Average rooms available during the year. Capacity installed is slightly
greater.
2/ Arrivals of persons who have not visited Kenya within the last 30 days.
Total arrivals were some 1h% higher, since they include the multiple
entries of persons who also took excursions to neighboring countries.



Wildlif e
2.08       In the last century, great herds of wild herbivores and their
associated predators ranged over almost every part of Kenya. In the past
75 years, they have disappeared from areas of high and medium agricultural
potential. The initial reductions were associated with European agricul-
tural settlement of the former "white highlands". More recently, they have
been associated with the encroachment of subsistence agriculturists into
ever more marginal land. In the rangelands which cover 70-75% of Kenya,
wildlife is threatened by a combination of growing livestock numbers, bred
to provide subsistence for a pastoral population rising by over 3% per annum,
changes in land tenure, and illegal hunting.
2.09       From the beginning of this century, the Government of Kenya has
attempted to preserve the wildlife, both for aesthetic reasons and also
because it felt that this resource might later yield high economic returns.
It has relied upon two main lines of policy to achieve this. The first was
to pass laws requiring licenses for all hunting of game animals for sport
or profit. These laws were and are administered and enforced by the Game
Department (now the Wildlife Conservation and Management Service). Not all
killing of game was prohibited. Possessors of alienated land (freehold, or
on leasehold from the State) could kill wildlife in defense of property,
including grass and water. That the wildlife survived in the commercial
ranching areas was due in part to the preference of commercial ranchers to
carry some wildlife on their estates, in part to lack of intensive manage-
ment. Some commercial ranchers successfully eradicated game, however. The
legal situation was entirely different in the majority of the rangelands
which were held in trust for, and used in common by, subsistence pastoral-
ists. There, unlicensed killing of wildlife, except in defense of human
life, was prohibited. This prohibition probably had its main effect in
restricting hunting by non-pastoralists.  Among the pastoralists themselves,
the traditions which had accounted for the survival of wildlife in pre-
colonial days continued to operate. Specifically, having no right to
exclude others from using the range, no group could hope to secure for
itself benefits in increased forage from the costly and organizationally
demanding tasks of eradicating wildlife from a particular area. Moreover,
the pastoralists ranged seasonally over much larger areas than those under
the control of any well-knit social or political unit. More positively,
many pastoral people regarded the wildlife as their "second cattle", which
provided emergency food supplies in the event of periodic (every one to two
generations) decimations of cattle through drought and disease.
2.10       A second and more recent policy was the declaration of Game
Reserves (within which hunting was prohibited) and National Parks (in which
all activities in conflict with wildlife preservation were prohibited). 1/
Reserves and parks were established in areas harboring high densities of
wild animals whose survival was believed to be threatened by other land uses.
Most Game Reserves were on Trust Lands. They were established by decisions
1/ The first National Park, at Nairobi, was gazetted in 19h7.



1/
of the County Councils in which the Trust Land was vested.    National Parks
and National Reserves were the responsibility of the Trustees of the Kenya
National Parks, a statutory body which derived its revenues from entry fees,
private donations and Government grants. Prior to February 13th, 1976 there
were 8 County Council Game Reserves, 3 National Reserves, and 14 National
Parks. Under legislation coming into effect on that day, former Game
Reserves have been designated as National Reserves.
2.11       Many parks and reserves (and all of those included in the pro-
posed project) are not self-contained ecological units. Most of their
herbivores disperse during the rains to surrounding pastoral areas several
times the size of the parks themselves. Maintenance of the large herds of
herbivores, which provide subsistence for large predators and are the prime
attraction for tourists, therefore depends upon their continued access
to the dispersal areas. The traditional mechanisms which secured the sur-
vival of wildlife in the dispersal areas are rapidly eroding. The dispersal
areas are being divided into ranches held by small groups of families on
freehold, largely in order to provide the basis for higher livestock pro-
ductivity through controlled stocking rates and range improvement. These
efforts are being supported by the Bank Group and other donors. Having now
the legal right to eradicate wildlife on their lands, pastoralists have the
incentive to attempt to do so.   Moreover, preservationist game laws are
causing pastoralists to re-define the wildlife as no longer "our second
cattle" but instead "the Government's cattle", a change reinforced by the
exclusion of domestic stock from parks and reserves.
2.12       Perhaps the most immediate threat to the country's wildlife is
the apparent expansion of previously limited harvest quotas of commercial-
ly valuable species, and weak enforcement of such quotas as remain, with
the result that some valuable herds are being seriously depleted. This
has occurred at least in part due to the very high prices fetched by some
game products in recent years (especially ivory), and the inability of the
administration to withstand the pressures for higher exploitation. The
sources of this pressure, and the beneficiaries, are not, however, the
pastoralists who must bear the costs of the wildlife. The pressures are
frequently from other parts of the country, and the inhabitants of wildlife
areas have little or no incentive to resist them.
2.13       Another threat to wildlife arises from serious visitor congestion
in some parks and reserves, reflecting inadequate and badly-sited road
networks, and extensive off-track driving with serious adverse effects on
the vegetation of the area and eventually on its animal carrying capacity.
These problems are particularly acute in the case of some National Reserves,
where growth in visitor numbers has been much more rapid than in National
1/ Government advised Councils on these matters, and the legal notice
declaring the Reserve and the by-laws were issued by the Minister for
Tourism and Wildlife under the Wild Animals Protection Act. Government
also supported Reserves financially, through small grants for capital
works and, in some cases, through the secondment to Councils of Game
Department officers to act as Wardens.



Parks, but where investment in tourism infrastructures has been less. In-
adequately designed road networks also limit unnecessarily the tourist
capacity of some parks as well.
2.14       The Government is aware of these problems.  It has set out a
series of policies designed to overcome them in its latest Development Plan
(1974-1978) and in Sessional Paper Number 3 of 1975 (Statement on Future
Wildlife Management Policies in Kenya). A fundamental policy is to en-
courage landowners (pastoralists) to harbor wildlife on their land by
enabling them to earn direct returns from it. The returns may come from
consumptive utilization (hunting, cropping) or from tourism (rentals from
lodges and campsites, for example). In the dispersal areas of parks and
reserves, the Government will seek formal agreements with landowners
under which the landowners will undertake to follow ranching practices
consistent with continued wildlife migrations, and under which the Government
will be committed to assisting landowners to earn direct returns from their
wildlife and to paying ranchers such sums as are necessary to enable them
to earn a Guaranteed Minimum Return from Wildlife (GMRW). The conclusion
of such agreements, after review by the Bank, would be a condition for dis-
bursement for project components in the wildlife areas included in the project.
2.15       To halt the damage to the ecology of the parks and reserves whicn
tourism growth has brought about, the Government intends to provide more
careful planning of parks and reserves, and more sensitive development of
track networks. In some parks, employment of qualified guides will play an
important role in limiting damage to the ecology and in raising visitor
carrying capacity. New administrative buildings and staff housing are to
be placed outside the boundaries of reserves and parks, and new rural
centers established. Besides protecting ecological and amenity values,
these measures will give access to a wider range of social services to staff
of parks and lodges, services to which local inhabitants of the wildlife
areas will also have access, and are expected to create local markets for
the sale of produce, thus enabling parks and reserves to provide more
stimulus to the local economy than is now the case. To improve the stan-
dard of administration of Reserves (which also requires substantial capi-
tal investments), the Government intends to undertake their management on
behalf of County Councils, paying the Councils a share of receipts, and
ensuring that Councils receive no less (in real terms) in the future than
the surpluses they earned in the past.
2.16       In an attempt to limit the poaching of ivory in the short run,
the Government has issued a legal notice abolishing private trade in raw
ivory. In the longer term, the administration must be strengthened to
enforce the relevant laws and also to define and implement viable policies.
To guide it in establishing comprehensive policies for the management of
very large herbivores, including elephant, the Government will commission
a special study by consultants. The Government is also embarking on a
number of other research activities related to detailed definition and
implementation of its policies. For example, the Kenya Rangeland Ecological
Monitoring Unit (KREMU) established with the assistance of CIDA will provide
authoritative and up-to-date information on stocking rates by species and



- 7 -
area, habitat changes, location of agriculture in the pastoral areas,
and other data, from early 1976 on. Wildlife research capacity is also
being strengthened. Funds are to be provided under the project for
direct support of anti-poaching activities.
2.17      The Government realizes that if its policies are to be imple-
mented, the administration of wildlife must be strengthened. The Wildlife
(Conservation and Management) Act to replace the Wildlife Animals Protection
Act and the National Parks of Kenya Act, which came into effect on February
13, 1976, provides for the merger of the Game Department and the Kenya
National Parks into a single Wildlife Conservation and Management Service
(WCMS), within the Ministry of Tourism and Wildlife. The fundamental
objective of this Act is to adapt the administration of wildlife to the
ecological situation where the health of Parks and Reserves depends as
much upon what happens outside as inside their boundaries. The appointment
of competent officials to the key positions in the new Wildlife Service will
be critical to its success, and the Government has indicated that the merger
will be accompanied by the appointment of personnel with the ability to
secure a major improvement in the administration of wildlife policies.
III. THE PROJECT
A. Objectives
3.01       The proposed project is designed to support Government in im-
plementing its policies for wildlife-based tourism as described above.
These policies are in line with the recommendations of the Bank's 1973
Agricultural Sector Review. 1/   There are several actual or potential
impediments to implementation of these policies, however. These include
administrative inertia, insufficient number of personnel with the skills
required, and lack of finance to carry out some of the most urgent capital
investments. The proposed project is designed to help overcome the most
serious of these impediments. It would do so through financial support
of certain staffing, training, and investment activities.
B. Project Description
3.02       The project would consist of a coordinated package of capital
and some incremental operating expenditures on:
- Agricultural Sector Survey, Kenya, December 20, 1973 (254a-KE).
See especially Annex 15, Wildlife and Tourism in Rural Development.



- 8 -
(i)  facilities to increase the tourist capacity and local
development impacts of the Amboseli National Park, the
Masai Mara National Reserve, and the Reserves of the Inner
Northern Circuit comprising Samburu National Reserve,
Buffalo Springs National Reserve, Shaba National Reserve,
and the Marmar Ranch;
(ii)  improvements at Lake Turkana (formerly Lake Rudolf)
National Park;
(iii) game-proof barriers;
(iv)  a Wildlife and Fisheries Training Institute;
(v) buses for the Wildlife Clubs of Kenya;
(vi)  a Wildlife Planning Unit;
(vii) policy and feasibility studies on wildlife and tourism
development;
(viii) support for anti-poaching activities, subject to agreement
in detail between the Bank and the Government; and
(ix)  a Project Management Unit.
Development  of Selected Wildlife Areas
3.03       Amounting to K Sh 1h9 million out of a project total of
K Sh 293 million, the developments proposed for the selected wildlife areas
would constitute the largest component of the project. The areas covered
would include the 390 sq. km. Amboseli National Park and its dispersal
area, the 1,550 sq. km. Masai Mara National Reserve and its dispersal area,
and the Reserves of the Inner Northern Circuit, totalling in all about 310 sq.
km. The project would include some improvements on the approximately 200 sq.
km. of the Marmar ranch once it has been acquired by Government, and to the
Samburu group ranches in its dispersal areas on the Leroghi Plateau, thereby
extending the variety of attractions on the Inner Northern Circuit.
3.04       The developments for these areas would include some minor facili-
ties within the parks (blinds for animal and bird viewing, entrance gates,
protection and display of archaeological sites (Turkana), site museums, sign
posting, etc.), and major expenditures on construction of tracks, and of park
headquarters, housing for staff of parks, and of community facilities in
centers near the parks to service park staff and their families, some lodge
staff, and the local inhabitants of the wildlife areas. The park headquarters
and community centers would be located at Kimana l/ for Amboseli, Migwara for
the Masai Mara, and Archers Post for Samburu, Buffalo Springs, and Shaba.
1/ Two alternative locations, Kimana and Lemongo, are currently being studied.



3.05       Although many of the 25 Parks and Reserves in Kenya require
improvements, those chosen for this project exhibit characteristics
requiring priority attention. Amboseli, Mara, Samburu and Buffalo Springs
have all been run as County Council Game Reserves, and provide striking
examples of the consequences of lack of planning, insufficient investment,
and amenity-destroying urbanization. They are also among the most attract-
ive wildlife areas in Kenya and have enjoyed the largest visitor growth of
all Kenya's Parks and Reserves in the last ten years. In Amboseli, the
problems are more acute than elsewhere, since the low visitor carrying
capacity resulting from past neglect compounds the substantial ecological
damage by tourists. Destruction of forage by tourist vehicles crossing the
grasslands away from the established tracks exceeds the trampling effect of
the 40-50,000 animals (mostly domestic) 1/ which graze there. The areas
chosen also merit priority since their viability is completely dependent
upon continued survival of wildlife in their respective dispersal areas,
and hence upon the successful implementation of Government's new policies
to induce group ranchers to maintain the wildlife.
3.06       Shaba is a new Reserve, located close to Samburu and Buffalo
Springs.   It is included in the project since the park headquarters and
community center to be established at Archers Post would also conveniently
serve it; it will increase the range of attractions on the Inner Northern
Circuit, and relieve some of the visitor pressure on Samburu and Buffalo
Springs. The development of the Marmar Ranch for tourism would fill a gap
in the Inner Northern Circuit, and so would be complementary to the
reserves on this circuit. The ranch is currently privately owned, but after
its acquisition by the Livestock Marketing Division (IMD) of the Ministry of
Agriculture, 12MD would manage it for tourism as well as livestock. If such
management proves successful, it might be copied by private ranches in the
future.
3.07       The improvements proposed for Lake Turkana (Rudolf) differ from
those in the other areas in that they consist of conservation of paleonto-
logical sites rather than maximization of economic returns from wildlife-
based tourism. The main priority would be to protect exposed deposits
from trampling by animals and disturbance by visitors. There would be
minor expenditures on signposts and exhibits near excavated sites.
1/ Amboseli was placed under the administration of Kenya National Parks
in November, 1974. The domestic stock which traditionally grazed
within the Park will continue to do so until the alternative sources
of water and grazing being constructed by Government ( with the finan-
cial assistance of the New York Zoological Society and IDA Credit
KE 477) are completed and accepted as adequate compensation by the
traditional users of the area.



- 10 -
3.08       Track construction and maintenance would be carried out by three
road units allocated respectively to Amboseli, Mara, and the Inner Northern
Circuit. Since the location of viewing tracks, taking full account of
ecological characteristics and visitor preferences, is probably the most
important factor in maximizing returns from park development, it is essen-
tial that these units follow plans prepared by the Wildlife Planning Unit
and approved by the Ministry of Tourism and Wildlife. Assurances were
obtained during negotiations that the Government would submit these plans
to the Bank for approval prior to the start of  construction.   It is
possible that the Planning Unit would be able, within a short time of its
establishment, to approve and elaborate upon the layouts formulated for
the Amboseli National Park on the basis of several years' ecological studies
and in the light of visitor surveys carried out in that Park. Similar work
has not yet been done elsewhere, however, and it is unlikely that road
construction could commence before the second year of the project in the
other areas.
3.09       The project would provide equipment for each road unit, and would
meet the maintenance and running costs of the equipment for four years as
well as labor and materials required for road construction. Housing for
the labor of these units is included in the park headquarters.
3.10       The headquarters consist of offices, maintenance shops, store-
rooms, etc., plus housing, utilities and community facilities such as primary
schools, dispensaries, and community halls, depending upon existing facili-
ties in each center. These proposals have been prepared with the assistance
of the Department of Urban and Rural Physical Planning and meet the stan-
dards established for the development of rural centers in Kenya. Assurances
were obtained during negotiations that the Government would submit plans for
each headquarters to the Bank for approval prior to the start of any con-
struction.
3.11       Due to the importance of wildlife access to the dispersal areas
for the viability of the Amboseli National Park and the Masai Mara National
Reserve, a condition for disbursement for park improvements, roads, and
park headquarters in those areas would be conclusion of satisfactory agree-
ments with group ranchers there. The same condition would apply to develop-
ments undertaken in the Marmar Ranch. In the case of the Masai Mara, Samburu,
Buffalo Springs and Shaoa National Reserves, disbursement would also depend
upon conclusion of agreements under which Government would manage these
reserves on behalf of the local County Councils.
Game-proof Barriers
3.12        In areas where the highest valued uses of adjoining land units
are agriculture (or forestry) and wildlife, the most cost-effective method
of avoiding game-damage to crops, and killing of wild animals by cultivators,
is the construction of game-proof barriers. Depending upon the terrain and
the animal species, such barriers consist of high tensile wire fence, or game
ditches.  The proposed project would finance construction of some 500 km. of



- 11 -
such barriers on the boundaries of the Aberdares, Mount Kenya, and Meru
National Parks, the Shimba Hills National Reserve (where the game is in
conflict with smallholder agriculture), and at the northern limit of the
Mara dispersal area near Narok (where the conflict is with large-szale
wheat schemes). During negotiations assurances were obtained that ade-
quate budgetary provision would be made for the maintenance of game-proof
barriers included in the project, to amount to not less than K Sh 2,000
per kilometer per year in 1976 prices.
The Wildlife and Fisheries Training Institute
3.13        The project would finance the capital costs of an Institute at
Naivasha mainly to train staff of the Wildlife Conservation and Management
Service and of the Fisheries Department. The Game Department, Kenya
National Parks, and Fisheries Department had 3,169 established posts in
1975/76. The main emphasis would be on basic and upgrading training for
junior and intermediate staff, but there would be special courses for all
levels of staff. The Institute would also provide policy and administra-
tive orientation courses to staff entering at senior levels who have com-
pleted their basic technical training at other institutions such as the
University of Nairobi, the College of African Wildlife Management at
Mweka in Tanzania, and universities abroad. This training component is
particularly important in view of the requirements for more intensive
management of wildlife and fisheries, including extension efforts. The
Institute would also provide courses for guides of private tour operators
and for other private sector personnel engaged in production and marketing
activities related to wildlife and fisheries.
3.14        Capital costs are based on preliminary engineering studies and
the assumption that the Institute would accommodate 175 trainees initially.
Since most of the trainees would be government employees, the Institute may
be a government training institute. There may be advantages, however, in
setting up the Institute as a statutory body under the control of a board
of governors. Assurances were obtained during negotiations that, should
the Institute be established in such a way as not to be under the direct
control of the MTW, an agreement satisfactory to the Bank would be made
between the MTW and the Institute for the management and operation of the
Institute. This agreement would be concluded before the facilities at
Naivasha would be made available for the Institute's use. Assurances were
also obtained that the appointment of the principal and vice principal
would be made after prior consultation with the Bank, and that other qua-
lified staff would be provided as needed, perhaps with the assistance of
other donors. Assurances were also obtained that the Bank could review
plans for the construction of the Institute, its staffing, and curricula.
Wildlife Clubs of Kenya
3.15        The Wildlife Clubs of Kenya is a non-governmental association
of member clubs in many of the secondary schools of Kenya supported by grants
from the Ministry of Tourism and Wildlife and private donors (Annex 7). The
Clubs encourage an interest in wildlife conservation through field visits,



- 12 -
a newsletter, a roving cinema van, and guest lectures. Public awareness of
the issues involved in wildlife conservation is probably the xost funda-
mental requirement for its success. The Clubs are a modest beginning in
stimulating such awareness and they have met with an enthusiastic response.
The project would include finance for the purchase of three 40-seat buses
to transport Kenyan residents to Parks and Reserves. During negotiations,
assurances were obtained that the Government would ensure that the Clubs
have resources adequate for the operation and maintenance of the buses.
Wildlife Planning Unit
3.16        The Wildlife Planning Unit, for which finance would be provided
for its initial five years, is a critical element of the project (Annex 5).
The Unit would have two major responsibilities:
- detailed planning of individual parks and reserves and their
dispersal areas (commencing with those for which the project would
fund improvements) to ensure that visitor capacity is maximized and
the amenity of parks preserved. In order to carry out this function,
the Unit will include economists, physical planners, ecologists, and
a cartographer (who would also serve KREMU); and
- assistance to other Government officers with formulation of propo-
sals and negotiation of agreements with landowners (on the conti-
nued access of wildlife from parks and reserves into the dispersal
areas) and with County Councils (for the management of their
reserves by Government).
Administratively, the WPU would form part of the MTW planning function under
the Principal Planning Officer, but would maintain close links with the WCMS.
Due to the importance of planning for the timing of many project components,
Government expects to seek staff for and to establish the WPU at the earliest
possible date. During negotiations, assurances were obtained that Government
would consult the Bank on the qualifications and experience of candidates for
the post of Head of the 'KPU, whose appointment would be made not later than
August 31, 1976.
3.17       In order that the V&U staff can devote themselves exclusively to
wildlife planning, assurances were obtained that adequate staff for other
MTW planning activities would be provided, and the project would also include
finance for a four-year period for an economist to assist the Senior Planning
Officer of the MTW in non-wildlife policy and planning tasks.
Policy and Planning Studies
3.18        The project would include finance for two main type of studies:
studies on urgent polizy questions and feasibility and planning studies of
future projects. The most urgent policy question requiring attention is the
future management of the very large herbivores, including elephant. Much
ecological and economic information exists on these animals, but it has not



- 13 -
been analyzed from the point of view of formulating a rational long-run
management policy. The proposed study would make detailed policy recom-
mendations; it should be commissioned within six months of the date of
loan signing, and be completed within 18 months of commissioning. The
Bank would review and agree with the Government on the recommendations of
the study and the measures for implementation.
3.19       Another policy area requiring attention is that of pricing for
tourist services.  Prices of such services in Kenya have not kept pace with
inflation elsewhere. For example, the real cost to foreign tourists of
park entry fees is presently only 48% of its 1968 level (taking account of
exchange rate changes and rises in the cost of living indices of the main
tourist-generating countries). Current park pricing takes no account of
different pressures of demand on different parks, or at different periods
of the year. Less is known about evolution over time of prices for other
tourist services, although these are all subject to varying degrees of
Government control. Since prices are of critical importance for the bene-
fits to be secured from tourism, this subject requires more focussed atten-
tion than it has secured to date. Although the Wildlife Planning Unit may
be able to handle the problems of park pricing, other aspects of this prob-
lem may have to be studied by consultants. 1/ During negotiations, assu-
rances were obtained that Government would arrange for such a study to start
within 12 months of loan signing.
3.20       The Wildlife Planning Unit would arrange for the carrying out of
the necessary master planning and feasibility studies for development of
all new circuits and attraction areas. Of particular importance here are
the development of the Nguruman Escarpment area including the completion of
a proposed new circuit linking Nairobi and the Mara via Lake Magadi and
Nguruman and the formulation of a tourism and wildlife development strategy
for the Tana River, Garissa, Lamu area. Daring negotiations, it was agreed
that the terms of reference and the choice of consultants for any study
costing more than K Sh 150,000 (US$18,600) should be acceptable to the Bank.
Anti-poaching Activities
3.21       The project provides funds for the establishment, equipping and
operating of up to three anti-poaching units - to supplement the one unit
now operating in the Samburu/Isiolo area. Daring negotiations, it was agreed
that the Government would provide, by September 30, 1976, a program in such
detail as the Bank may require, setting out the justification for each of
such units, their organization, staffing, location, capital and recurrent
budgets, and arrangements for training of personnel and maintenance and
operation of equipment. The Government has prohibited the private trade in
ivory, and plans to consider other aspects of the poaching problem - as for
example, the illicit trade in wildlife products. Daring negotiations, it was
agreed that the Head of the anti-poaching section would be made after con-
sultation with the Bank.
1/ Annex 10 (especially paras. 39-43) identifies several pricing issues
which need attention.



- 14 -
Project Management Unit (PMU)
3.22         The initial responsibilities of the Project Management Unit
would be to coordinate the implementation of tne present project. The
Ministry of Tourism and Wildlife would, however, intend to retain the unit
later to coordinate other development projects. Assurances were received
during negotiations that the Head and Deputy Head of the PMU would be
appointed after consultation with the Bank. Appointment of the Head would
be a condition of effectiveness of the loan.
Land Acquisition
3.23         Assurances were received during negotiations that the Government
would acquire all land as and when needed for the project.
C. Project Cost
3.2h         Total project cost is estimated at K Sh 293.3 million
(US$36.4 million), with the foreign exchange requirement estimated at
US$17.0 million. Detailed cost estimates are given in Annex 1, and
are summarized below:



- 15-
KENYA: WILDLIFE AND TOURISM PROJECT
ESTIMATED PROJECT  COSTS
Kenya Shillings                    U.S. Dollars              % of
(millions)                       (thousands)            Baseline
ILocal   Foreign   Total        Local   Foreign   Total        costs
Amboseli National Park and dispersal area,
Lmaongo                                        15.6       8.3      23.9      1,9,41.0  1,035.2  2,976.2       11.6
Civil Works                                 13.1       5.5      18.6       1,626.3    688.5  2,3114.8       9.0
Equirpment                                   0.8       1.6       2.4         93.8    199.4    293.2         1.2
Professional services                        1.7       1.2       2.9         220.9    147.3    368.2        1.4
Masai Mara and dispersal area, Migwarrur       14.4       7.6      22.0       1,788.1    949.3  2,737.4       10.7
Civil Works                                 12.3       5.5      17.8       1,532.8    684.8  2,217.6        8.7
Equipment                                    0.5       1.1       1.6          64.6   J137.4    202.0        0.8
Professional Services                        1.6       1.0       2.6        190.7    127.1    317.8         1.2
Samsburu, Buffalo Springs, Shaba, Manaar and
diispersal areas, Archers Post                 13.1       65       19.6      1,641.0    802.5  2,443.5         9.5
Civil Works                                 11.,4      4.5      15.9       1,417.8    561.1  1,978.9        7.7
Equipnent                                    o.4       1.1       1.5          55.7    129.7    185.4        0.7
Professional services                        1.3       0.9       2.2        167.5    111.7    279.2         1.1
Lake Turkana National Park                      0.7       1.3       2.0          84.9    159.8    244.7        1.0
Civil Works                                  0.4        0.3      0.8         54.5      38.4      92.9       0.4
Equiprent                                    0.2        1.0      1.2         30.4    121.4    151.8         0.6
Road Construction Units                         6.4      24.3      30.7        794.6  3,015.6  3,810.2        14.
>8nP-wroof uriel%j                             9-3        3.0     12.3       1,146.3    302.1  1,52d-4         6.o
Wildlife and Fisheries Training Institute,
Naivasha                                       16.6      12.9      29.5       2,063.3  '1,600.3   3,663.6     114.3
Civil Works                                 11.9       5.9      17.8      1,470.1    738.8  2,208.9         8.6
Equipment                                    2.2       5.3       7.5         279.7    652.5    932.2        3.6
Professional Services                        2.5       1.7       4.2         313.5    209.0    522.5        2.1
Wildlife Clubs of Kenya
Equipment                                    0.1       0.4       0.5         11.4      45.2      56.6       0.2
Anti-doadcing Units                           134.2      17.4      31.6       1,758.0  2,162.7  3,920.7       15.3
Civil Works                                  8.1       3.4      11.5       1,015.2    417.9  1,433.1        5.6
Equipment & Running Costs                    4-9      13.2      18.1         596.1  1,646.4   2,242.5        8.8
Professional Services                        1.2        0.8      2.0         146.7     98.4    245.1        0.9
Wildlife Planning Unit and Studies              9.5       14.7     24.2       1,182.0  1,825.5  3,007.5        11.7
Project Yinaganent Unit                         5.7        4.2      9.9         700.1    524.5  1,224.6         4.8
Baseline Cost                              105.6      100.6    206.2      13,110.7  12,502.7  25,613.4     100.D
Contingencies:                                 50.9       36.2     87.1       6,324.8  4,497.3  10,822.1       42.3
Physical Increase                           10.6        5.8     16.4       1,326.6    715.6  2,042.2         8.0
Price Increase                               40.3      30.4     70.7       4,998.2  3,781.7  8,779.9        34.3
GRtAND MTAL                         156.5      136.8    293.3      19,435.5  17,000.0  36,435.5



- 16 -
3.25        The cost estimates for civil works and equipment are based on
preliminary engineering for the project components in December 1975 prices.
Physical contingencies of 15% are included, with the exception of Archers
Post Park Headquarters where 20% was used because the preliminary engineer-
ing data available for the site were still incomplete. Price escalation
has generally been calculated at 15% overall in the first year, 12% each
in the second and third years and 10% each in the fourth and fifth years.
Road construction equipment and vehicles are expected to be procured in
the first year or at the beginning of the second year, and a price increase
of 20% over end-1975 is assumed. Costs include duties and sales tax, amount-
ing to about K Sh 24.3 million (US$3 million) in total.
3.26        A loan tnrough the Third Window of US$17 million is proposed,
amounting to about 47% of total costs. The balance, including provision
for any cost overruns, would be provided by the Government.
D. Procurement
3.27        Major equipment and vehicles, estimated to cost in total about
US$5 million, in orders exceeding the equivalent of $100,000 would be
procured under international competitive bidding in accordance with Bank
guidelines; orders would be bulked to the extent possible. In evaluating
bids domestic manufacturers would be allowed a preferential margin of 15%
of the c.i.f. costs of competing imports or the prevailing level of customs
duty, whichever is lower. Orders of less than $100,000 equivalent would
be obtained under Government procurement procedures which are satisfactory.
3.28        Park Headquarters will be located in remote rural areas, and
civil works there are not expected to attract international bidding.  Con-
tracts for these and for the Wildlife and Fisheries Training Institute
would be awarded under local competitive bidding and the well-established
building industry is expected to provide adequate competition.  Minor
Park and Reserve civil works estimated to cost not more than $20,000
equivalent would be carried out on force account.
3.29       Local contractors would construct the game-proof barriers.
The contracts would be locally advertised but in remote locations where
competition is unlikely, they would be negotiated by wardens in charge of
the area. Works should be carried out under the direction and suDervision
of the game or forest warden in charge of the respective park or reserve.
The wardens would be guided and assisted by the engineer of the Project
Management Unit and subject to park/reserve plans prepared or approved by
the Wildlife Planning Unit.



- 17 -
3.30        The game-viewing tracks to be constructed in Parks and Reserves
would be executed by departmental forces (force account) with the road
construction equipment provided under the Project. The tracks would be
laid out according to Wildlife Planning Unit plans and constructed under
the supervision of the warden with the assistance of the Project Management
Unit. Since these works are simple, require little engineering preparation,
and the quantities of work cannot be well defined, force account would be
the most effective method of execution. In addition, implementation by
park personnel under direct supervision of the park wardens would best
protect the environment of the parks.
3.31        Responsibility for advertising requests for tenders, issuing
tender documents, evaluating bids and awarding contracts for each of the
project components would be that of the Ministry of Works in coordination
with the other specialized ministries and with the Central Tender Board
where applicable (see Annex 11). Overall coordination of all such acti-
vities would be exercised by the Project Management Unit.
E. Disbursement
3.32        Disbursement from the Loan Account would be made as follows:
(a)  100% of c.i.f. cost of imported equipment, lO0  of
ex-factory cost of locally manufactured, or 70% of
locally procured but imported equipment and furniture;
(b) 40% of total expenditures on civil works;
(c) 100% of foreign exchange cost, or 50% of total ex-
penditures for studies and Professional Services and
of operating costs of the Project Management Units.
3.33        Percentages of expenditures would be adjusted as necessary to
ensure continued disbursement thrcughout the construction period.
3.34        Disbursements against (a) above and the foreign exchange items
of (c) would be fully documented. Disbursements for local expenditures
under (b) and (c) would be made against certificates of expenditures cer-
tified by the Project Manager and approved by the Ministry of Finance, the
documentation of which would not be submitted but would be retained by the
borrower for review during project supervision. Conditions of disbursement
are as outlined in para. 3.11.
3.35        Retroactive financing for exDenditures incurred after March 1,
1976 not exceeding $50,000 is recommended to cover initial expenditures.
3.36        The estimated schedule of disbursements under the Loan is shown
in Annex 1, Table 1.4.



- 18 -
F. Accounts and Audit
3.37        A system of records and accounts acceptable to the Bank should
oe set uD by the Project Management Unit within three months of loan
effectiveness. Project accounts would be audited annually by independent
auditors acceptable to the Bank, and audited accounts would be submitted
to the Bank no later than six months following the close of the financial
year.
IV. ORGANIZATION AND MANAGEMENT
".01        It is recognized that the project will be difficult to imple-
ment, since it involves the negotiation of numerous agreements with rural
landowners, the construction of facilities in relatively remote areas, and
the application of new techniques of wildlife planning, which will be ac-
companied by major organizational changes within the MTW. A major super-
vision effort will therefore be needed, at least initially.
4.02        The project would be implemented by the Ministry of Tourism
and Wildlife. The Project Management Unit would coordinate and supervise
the execution of the various project components and maintain proper cost
records of the entire project. The Unit would be directed by a Project
Manager based in Nairobi who would report directly to the Deputy Director
of Administration of the WCMS, and have access to the Permanent Secretary
of the MTW for guidance on policy matters. A schedule of implementation
and a table showing responsibilities for different phases of project imple-
mentation are shown in Annex 11.
4.03        The Project Management Unit would include an Assistant Project
Manager, who may be an expatriate if no suitable Kenyan is available; a
Finance Officer who would be responsible for cost accounting; a Project
Engineer, three Clerks of Works, and supporting staff.
4.04       The appointment of the Project Manager would be a condition
of effectiveness of the loan; other staff should be appointed within three
months thereafter.
4.05        Operation and maintenance of the facilities to be provided
under the Project would be the responsibility of the relevant ministries,
departments of government and of the Wildlife Clubs of Kenya. The National
Museum would be responsible for the paleontological sites at Lake Turkana.
The Ministry of Water Development would be responsible for water supply,
the Ministry of Health for clinics, and the Ministry of Education for
szhools at the Park Headauarters.  Operation of the Wildlife and Fisheries
Training Institute, if established as a Government training institution 1/
,   para. 3.14.



- 19 -
would be the responsibility of the Ministry of Tourism and Wildlife. The
appointment of the Principal and Vice Principal would be made after con-
sultation with the Bank.
V. JUSTIFIGATION
Growth of Demand
5.01        The growth of Kenya's tourist industry, and its future poten-
tial are reviewed in Annex 2.  Even on rather conservative assumptions,
receipts from foreign tourism may be estimated to rise from K Sh 530
million in 1974 to around K Sh 900 million a year in the early 1980s
(in 1974 prices). Such growth, however, presupposes major improvement
in the management of the wildlife resource as a whole, and of individual
parks and reserves. The benefits of the project therefore have to be seen
in the context of its contribution to the long-term future of an industry
expected to become Kenya's leading source of foreign exchange.
5.02        The project will provide the means whereby the capacity of the
three wildlife areas can be increased. Capacity is defined in terms of
the maximum number of vehicles that can be accommodated on a busy day, with-
in acceptable limits of environmental impact and visitor satisfaction. The
best estimate growth rates in visitor arrivals are:
Amboseli and Masai Mara    Inner Northern Circuit
> p.a.                    % p.a.
Years                  Non-resident   Resident   Non-resident  Resident
1                           5            0            10            0
2-4                        17             0           22            0
5-9                        12            5            15            5
10 - until capacity
is reached              8            5             8            5
Only modest growth is assumed in resident visitors due to increases foreseen
in the prices they pay for park entries. This may be over-conservative in
view of a widening appreciation for wildlife among Kenyans and the continued
growth of Nairobi as an international business center with a large resident
expatriate community. 1/
1/ No account is taken of entries by school children and Kenyan groups on
subsidized tours since the revenue implications of these visitors are
insignificant.



- 20 -
5.03      Amboseli and Masai Mara are outstanding attractions on estab-
lished tourist circuits. The project would provide for an improved level
of visitor satisfaction and also an increase in the visitor "capacity" of
these parks. The growth rates in visitors that have been assumed for
Amboseli and Masai Mara are considered attainable and are, in fact, less
than has been achieved in the southern game areas. in the recent past;
bednights occupied by non-residents 1/ in the southern game areas grew
at an average rate of nearly 19% p.a. between 1970 and 1973.
5.04      The Inner Northern Circuit represents a somewhat different case
from Amboseli and Masai Mara. Its development is in response to a demand
from tour operators for a different attraction to complement those of the
south, and one which forms a logical extension to the well-established cir-
cuit around Mount Kenya and the Aberdares. As present visitor numbers are
small compared with the southern parks, a somewhat higher growth rate assump-
tion appears justified. Bednights of non-residents 1/ in Kenya's 'North'
area grew between 1970 and 1973 at 34% per annum.
5.05      The rapid growth in non-resident 1/bednights in the wildlife areas
of the Project does not require equivalent rates of growth in total visitor
arrivals in Kenya. Non-resident bednights in the three project areas were
about 5% of Kenya's total non-resident bednights in 1974 as contrasted with
0.9% in 1966. On the best estimate assumptions, this share would rise to
7.6% in 1985 if all non-resident bednights rise at only 8% per year, or to
6.4% of the total if the overall non-resident growth rate is 10% per year.
Economic Justification
5.o6      In the three project areas, the main benefits of the project
consist of:
(a) the incremental receipts to Kenya from wildlife-viewing
tourism due to these developments;
(b) the incremental returns from other wildlife activities
in the dispersal areas (hunting, cropping of animals, etc.)
based on the herds conserved there due to the project; and
(c) the social and economic benefits from the creation of new
park headquarters and community centers to the local popu-
lations (improved educational and health facilities, re-
creational facilities, creation of a larger market for
locally produced foodstuffs, etc.).
/ i.e. residents of countries other than Kenya, Uganda, or Tanzania.



- 21 -
Although all three types of benefits are in principle quantifiable, it has
in practice been possible to make systematic estimates only for the first.
5.07       The gross benefits resulting from the investment program in each
of the three game-viewing areas would be the incremental expenditures by
non-resident tourists in each area plus the opportunity cost of the items
of expenditure of residents in the absence of the project. The economic
boundaries of each project area include both the park or reserve itself and
the surrounding area into which the wildlife disperses during certain parts
of the year and within which the bulk of the private sector investments
(such as those for accommodation facilities) are expected to be made.
Because the growth of wildlife tourism complements the development of
beach-oriented tourism, and because of the capacity constraints which cur-
rently affect each game park or reserve, the receipts generated by the proj-
ect would not represent any significant diversion of non-resident demand
away from other destinations within Kenya and may, therefore, be considered
as incremental to the economy as a whole. The adjustment for residents
switching from other activities was assumed to be insignificant (given the
unimportance of resident expenditures in the total).
5.08       Although it is not possible precisely to predict the future
course of wildlife tourism without the project, recent trends are both clear
and alarming: the near elimination of certain animal species in important
game-viewing areas; serious environmental deterioration in the more fre-
quented game parks (e.g. Amboseli); and marked declines in the level of
visitor satisfaction in particular parks as a result of congestion. It is
reasonable to assume, therefore, that without the project the country would
suffer a decline in visitors and the economic benefits currently being de-
rived from wildlife tourism. In order to be conservative in estimating the
incremental net benefits resulting from the project, however, it is assumed
that the current level of net revenue from wildlife tourism would be main-
tained without the project.
5.09       The average receipts per visitor in parks, reserves, and their
environs have been estimated, in 1975 prices, at around US$40.00 for non-
residents and US$15.00 for residents. 1/
1/ These receipts include park entry fees, guide fees, payments for trans-
port within the park/reserve, and expenditures on shopping, meals and
beverages, and accommodation net of commissions. The figures vary some-
what from one park/reserve to another, depending upon the importance of
day as contrasted with overnight visitors. The substantially lower
figure for residents is largely a result of their preference for staying
in bandas (self-service cottages) or camping, as contrasted with the
fully catered lodges which accommodate the vast majority of non-residents.
In addition, a larger proportion of resident than non-resident entries
consists of children, who spend less than adults. The detailed esti-
mates on visitor expenditures, lengths of stay, types of accommodation
used, etc., are set out in Annex 10.



- 22 -
5.10         The 14% devaluation of the Kenya shilling in October 1975 will
undoubtedly result in some price changes. If short-term leads and lags are
ignored, however, these changes will affect the economic return of the proj-
ect only to the extent that the devaluation is effective in causing a per-
manent change in the prices of domestic factors relative to foreign exchange.
The economic benefits of the project are calculated on two alternative as-
sumptions: first, that the devaluation is ineffective in changing relative
prices; second, that it is completely effective. 1/ The outcome would pro-
bably lie between the two.
5.11         Operating costs of each park or reserve have been derived from
projected requirements for staff, equipment, and administrative facilities.
Operating costs for transportation, shopping, meals, and accommodation have
been estimated on the basis of financial results of existing commercial
operations. Capital costs for improvements to each game-viewing area are
derived from project cost estimates, while the private sector investment
program is based on recent construction cost estimates for similar faci-
lities in each area. All costs and revenues have been adjusted for taxes,
duties, and subsidies and are based on 1975 prices, except park entry fees
which are assumed somewhat higher than current levels, although still below
their 1968 levels in constant prices.
5.12         In calculating the "best-estimate" economic rate of return on
investments in the wildlife areas, shadow exchange rates of 30% and 15.34%
higher than the official rate have been used in the ineffective and effec-
tive devaluation cases respectively. A shadow wage rate of 25% below the
market wage rate for unskilled labor has been used. In calculating the
rates of return on the three areas combined, the costs of the Project
Management Unit and half the costs of the Wildlife Planning Unit have been
included. The costs of the Training Institute, game defenses, anti-poaching
and the small investments at Lake Turkana and in the Wildlife Clubs of Kenya
have been excluded, as have their benefits.
5.13         With an estimated economic life of the project of 25 years, the
internal economic rates of return are as follows:
Inner    Three areas combined
Masai   Northern      (inc. PMU and
Amboseli    Mara    Circuit    half costs of WPU)
Ineffective devaluation
Without shadow prices        18.9      15.7      16.1             15.7
With shadow prices           28.0      24.9      24.6              n.c.
Effective devaluation
Without shadow prices        18.6      15.7      16.2             15.6
With shadow prices           24.3      21.2      21.5               n.c.
n.c. = not calculated
1/See Annex 10, paras. 10 and 34.



- 23 -
The use of a shadow wage rate makes a difference of only about one percentage
point in the rate of return.   The use of a  shadow exchange rate i.akes a
much more significant improvement since foreign exchange is a larger pro-
portion of receipts than of costs. It should be noted that the lower "best
estimate" internal economic rate of return with "effective" devaluation is
somewhat counterbalanced by reducing the risk attached to the demand fore-
casts.
5 14         These rates of return do not reflect the net benefits listed
under paragraph 5.06 (b) and (c) above, nor do they reflect "offsite"
benefits and costs of the investments in wildlife areas (such as additional
expenditures and costs in Nairobi hotels and shops, in coast hotels, on
East African Airways, and from additional embarkation taxes) which the addi-
tional traffic to the wildlife areas is likely to bring.
Distribution of Net Benefits
5.15         The project's net benefits would accrue to five main groups:
(i) the national government which will receive the profits
on operating parks and reserves, and taxes on related
tourist expenditures;
(ii) the local County Councils which will receive a share
of revenue surpluses of reserves;
(iii) the group ranchers 1/ within the dispersal areas who
will receive in addition to returns from hunting,
revenues from rentals of lodges and campsites;
(iv) private sector investors; and
(v) employees receiving more from tourism employment than
in their best alternative occupations.
In addition, consumers' surpluses accruing to Kenya citizens (including
school children and organized groups entering parks and reserves on con-
cessionary terms) would be part of the real economic benefits of the project.
However, consumers' surpluses accruing to foreigners would benefit the Kenya
economy only indirectly if at all.
5.16         The Government would receive the net benefits generated by the
operation of the parks and reserves and tax receipts generated by tourist
spending on accommodation, transportation, and shopping. On a discounted
cash flow basis, the financial rate of return to the Government on its invest-
ments in the wildlife areas is estimated at 14.7%. 2/
1/ Group ranches are lands held on freehold by groups in which families hold
equal undivided shares. On ranches registered in Kajiado, the average
holding is 175 hectares per member.
2/ See Annex 10, Table 4.



- 24 -
5.17         The local County Councils and the group ranchers would receive
the concession fees paid by operators of lodges, campsites, shcps, and
petrol stations. These concession fees are quite substantial, and, by the
time the game-viewing areas have reached their estimated capacities, the
Government, County Councils, and group ranchers together are expected to
receive 70% of the net operating benefits generated by the project, witn
the balance accruing to private sector investors. Depending on the location
of new accommodations (whether on group ranches or County Council land), the
concession, together with hunting fees, could yield relatively large sums to
group ranchers (Annex 10). Although only a very rough estimate is possible,
annual yields to group ranchers in the three areas of the project might well
be over Us$500,000 equivalent by 1985, or over uS$0.50 per ha. per year.
Employment and Balance of Payment Effects
5.18         For the three areas together, the direct employment generated
in game park or reserve operations and in the accommodation, shopping, and
transportation facilities would amount to 840 new jobs by 1980 and 2,800
new jobs by 1990. Indirect employment created in the production of handi-
crafts, agriculture, and related supporting sectors is estimated to equal
direct employment, raising the total to 5,600 in 1990. These estimates of
new jobs relate only to increases in traffic after 1975 and do not take
account of employment in construction, nor in anti-poaching operations.
5.19         The proposed project is expected to earn about US$3.9 million
in foreign exchange by 1980 and about US$16.7 million per year from 1991,
when capacity is reached in all three areas. To give some idea of the
"size" of the project, total tourist receipts to Kenya in 197h came to an
estimated US$74 million. 1/
5.20         Net foreign exchange earnings from the project areas, after
deducting the import content of operating and investment costs (including
the Project Management Unit and one-half of the cost of the Wildlife Planning
Unit), are forecasted at around US$2.1 million in 1980 and at over US$14.5
million in 1991 and following years. These figures may be compared with the
largest cumulative foreign exchange deficit on account of non-financing flows
during the investment phase of the project, which would reach its maximum of
about US$3 million in 1977. In fact, if financing flows are included (the
proposed Bank loan and likely additional loans which would at least cover
the foreign exchange element of the accommodation investment program), the
project might involve no net foreign exchange cost, although the net foreign
exchange earnings in later years would be lower by the amount of debt service
payments (see Annex 10, Table 6).
1/ The forecasted receipts (and also the costs in the next paragraph) are
in 1975 dollars.



- 25 -
Social Impacts
5.21     Enhanced respect for wildlife laws would have positive social imp'i-
cations.  The project is not expected to have any other substantial social
impacts over those implied by the improvements in living standards of lodge
and park staff, and of inhabitants of the wildlife areas. Because wildlife
tourists are relatively isolated from local populations, the chances for
social friction between tourists and residents are minimized, as are the
opportunities for socially valuable interchange. Masai and Samburu manyattas -
will have some contact with tourists who enter them to take photographs and
observe the 'pastoralist's way of life', but provided that this activity is
systematically organized under the control of the manyattas themselves, it
would not entail any adverse social impacts which might offset the economic
gains from fees paid.
Environmental Impacts
5.22         One basic objective of the project is to assist the Government
in introducing better management of the country's wildlife resources. Eco-
logical studies have indicated that more intensive development of tourism
in the parks and reserves would involve some environmental deterioration
compared with less intensive use. But they also indicated that the choice
lay between, on the one hand, environmental deterioration due to present
levels and types of park use and management, rapid depletion of the wildlife
resource and ecological degradation through continuation of current trends
of land use in the dispersal areas, and declining returns from tourism; and,
on the other hand, more effort devoted to planning parks and tourism, larger
economic returns, distribution of a larger share of those returns to inha-
bitants of the wildlife areas, and reversal of the trend to depletion of the
large migratory wildlife herds.
5.23         A major ecological problem is caused by rapid growth of human
population, consequent increases in subsistence herds of cattle, sheep, and
goats, and then deterioration in the range as stocking rates exceed long-
term carrying capacity of the land. It is believed that the ultimate solu-
tions to this ecological problem will lie in securing additional sources of
employment for local populations and in shifting from subsistence production
to production for the market, which will enable an increasing proportion of
food to be purchased from other areas. Evidently, these shifts involve a
whole series of interrelated policies and programs and presuppose a far-
reaching series of adjustments in technologies, institutions, and life
styles. The IDA Livestock Loans are concerned with aiding some aspects of
these changes. The current project would also have some impact, both through
creation of additional 'non-traditional' employment opportunities in the
range areas and through providing a new source of income, thus reducing
local inhabitants' dependence on subsistence stock.
.25         Safeguards against environmentally deleterious consequences of
tourism are, by comparison, relatively easy to implement.  Tourist numbers
may be effectively limited by appropriate pricing policies.  The track net-
works to be planned and constru-ted under the project would also ensure the
"maanyattT` - tr2ditional nomestead of pastoral people, usually comprising
a number of huts within a -ircular stockade.  Also applied
Go the corresponding social organization.



- 26 -
best possible dispersal of vehicles within project areas. Trained and
disciplined guides and drivers will also be able to reduce disturbance to
wildlife and damage to the environment.
5.25         Safeguards against poaching are more difficult to establish.
The payment of direct financial returns to inhabitants of the wildlife
areas, when they have previously received only indirect returns to com-
pensate them f or the direct costs of wildlife, should go some way towards
inducing them to husband their wildlife and to oppose its illegal exloi-
tation by outsiders. The training activities of the Wildlife and Fisheries
Training Institute should also produce staff better able to carry out ex-
tension efforts necessary to this end, to say nothing of producing more
efficient anti-poaching personnel. These policies will only have their
full effect over a long period of time, however.   In the short run, perhaps
the main requirement is to secure a greater degree of organization and dis-
cipline in the WO1MS than in its predecessor organizations, and here the
intention of Government to ensure that the WCMS is competently administered
from its commencement will be crucial. In addition, the anti-poaching com-
ponent of the project may be expected to reduce the poaching threat to the
continued survival of the wildlife resource.
5.26         When account is taken of all of the above factors, the envi-
ronmental impact of the project is expected to be highly positive.
Risks
5.27         The main risks associated with the net benefits expected from
this project lie not on the side of tourist demand or investor interest in
the tourism facilities; they consist, instead, of the uncertainties con-
nected with the shift in values, institutions, and management practices in
the range areas in response to the various policies being followed by the
Government and also of the uncertainty which surrounds the ability of the
Government to implement these policies. It is quite clear that the effec-
tiveness of the director of the WJCMS will be of critical importance in
ensuring that those policies have a significant chance of working.



'-'7
VI.  REC 0MNNDA T IN0S
6.01         During loan negotiations, assurances were obtained that:
(i)  agreements to be reached between Government and
the landowners in game dispersal areas would be
reviewed with the Bank (para. 2.14);
(ii)  plans for park and reserve development and for
park headquarters would be approved by the Bank-
(para. 3.08 and 3.10);
(iii) plans for the Wdildlife and Fisheries Training
Institute, staff schedules, the program of training
courses, and the plans for administration of the
Institute should be reviewed by the Bank (para. 3.14);
(iv)  the terms of referen^e, and the consultants chosen,
for studies costing more than K Sh 150,000 to be
financed under the project should be acceptable to
the Bank (para. 3.20);
(v)  studies of Very Large Herbivores and of Pricing in
the Tourist Industry will be commissioned within
6 months and 12 months of loan signing, respectively
(para. 3.18 and 3.19);
(vi)  a system of records and accounts acceptable to the
Bank would be set up by the Project Management Unit
not later than three months after effectiveness
(para. 3.36);
(vii) all land needed for the project would be acquired as
and when necessary (para. 3.23);
(viii) project accounts would be audited annually by inde-
pendent auditors acceptable to the Bank and audited
accounts would be submitted to the Bank no later than
six months following the close of the financial year
(para. 3.36);
(ix)  the Head of the Wildlife Planning Unit and the Principal
and Vice Principal of the Training Institute would be
appointed after consultation with the Bank (paras. 3.16
and 3.17);
(x)  the Project Manager and the Assistant Project Manager,
would be appointed after consultation with the Bank
(para. l.^j5);
(xi)  the Head of the an;i-poach4ng section would be appointed
after consultation with the Bank (para. 3.91);



- 28 -
(xii)  the Finance Office and tohe Project Engineer would be
appoin-ed within three months of the date of effec-
tiveness of the loan (para. 4.04);
(xiii) qualified staff to operate the water sulpply systems,
clinics and schools at the park headquarters to be
established under the Project would be appointed by
the Government as required (para. h.05);
(xiv) adequate budgetary provision would be made for the
maintenance of game-proof barriers (para. 3.12);
(xv)  adequate provision would be made for the operation
and maintenance of the buses to be provided for the
Wildlife Clubs of Kenya (para. 3.15); and
(xvi)  the Head of the Wildlife Planning Unit would be
appointed not later than August 31, 1976 (para. 3.16).
6.02        A condition of effectiveness of the proposed loan would be
the appointment of the Project Manager (para. 4.04).
6.03        Conditions for disbursement for civil works on project com-
ponents in each project area would be:
(i)  the signing of agreements between the GoverrLnent and competent
authority (i.e. group ranchers or County Councils in cases where
land is not adjudicated) in the dispersal area of that area
providing for guaranteed minimum wildlife returns (GMWR) in
return for compliance with specific livestock and wildlife
management practices (para. 3.11);
(ii)  the signing of agreements between Government and the relevant
County Council for the management by Government of National
Reserves in that area and included in the project (3.11);
this provision would apply to developments at Archers Post
(where the relevant County Councils are the Samburu and
Isiolo Councils), Samburu National Reserve (Samburu County
Council), Isiolo Buffalo Springs and Shaba National Reserves
(Isiolo Colnty Council), and to the Park Headquaruers and
other facilities for the Mara area (Narok County Council).
6.04      A condition of disbursement for anti-poaching activities wfould
be agreement with the Bank on a detailed plan of operation and rationale
for the proposed program, to be submitted not later than September 30, 1976
(para. 3.21).
6.05      The proposed project is suitable for a loan through the Third
'Window of UJS$17.0 million equivalenu.



Annex 1
Page 1
KENYA: WILDLIFE AND TOURISM PROJECT
Project Cost Estimates 1,
1.        The total project cost is estimated at US$36.4 million. Minor
adjustments to this figure may be required when design is complete for
the Parks Headquarters. Also, detailed plans for expenditures on anti-
poaching are to be prepared by the Government not later than September
30, 1976. Revised schedules of expenditure will be prepared when this
information is available.
2.        Costs of vehicles and road equipment are based on December 1975
prices from suppliers in Nairobi. Costs of the Naivasha training
institute have been prepared by consultants, based on recent experi-
ence of a very similar building which they supervised near Nairobi.
3.        Total contingencies amount to US$10.8 million, or 30% of total
project cost, excluding minor specific contingencies applicable to some
project items (as for example, to allow for encountering black cotton
soil, or for unforeseeable requirements for the fisheries station at
Lake Naivasha). Physical contingencies amount to about 8% on base
line costs, which is considered reasonable given the extent of design
work and experience of similar works in Kenya, and given that no physi-
cal increases are to be envisaged for road equipment, vehicles, pro-
fessional services for technical assistance and project administration
(which all together account for about 47% of baseline costs).
4.        Price contingencies are inevitably more uncertain, but the
estimated 32% on the total of baseline costs plus physical contingen-
cies is considered reasonable. This is partly because major expendi-
tures, on vehicles and road equipment, will be made early in the pro-
ject. For the purposes of estimating project price increases, an in-
flation rate of 15% for the first year, 12% p.a. for the next two years,
and 10% p.a. has been assumed. A 20% increase over end-1975 prices has
been assumed for vehicles and road equipment.
5.        The foreign exchange component, estimated at 47% of the total
project cost, is defined as the sum of direct payrmnts made in foreign
currencies for building materials, equipment, consultants and contrac-
tors, plus estimates of the import component of goods and services that
are currently paid for in Kenya currency.
1/ Costs are for the project, as described in sections (i) - (viii) of
para. 3.02 of the main text, i.e., excluding anti-poaching and
Kongo-Diani preparation.



Annex 1
Page 2
Project Cost Estimates
1. General Cost Estimates
Table 1.1   Breakdown of Total Project Cost
1.2   Breakdown of Costs by Project Items
1.3   Schedule of Expenditures by Project Items
1.4   Forecast of Disbursement
1.5   Contingency Allowances
2. Detailed Cost Estimates
Table 2.1   Amboseli National Park Improvements
2.2   Masai Mara Game Reserve Improvements
2.3   Samburu/Buffalo Springs/Shaba Game Reserves Improvement
2.4   Lake Rudolf National Park Improvements
2.5   Amboseli National Park Headquarters
2.6   Masai Mara Parks Headquarters (Migwarrur)
2.7   Samburu/Buffalo Springs/Shaba Parks Headquarters
(Archers Post)
2.8   Road Construction and Maintenance Unit
2.9   Game-Proof Barriers
2.10  Wildlife and Fisheries Training Insititute
2.11  Wildlife Clubs of Kenya
2.12a)Wildlife Planning Unit
b)Study of the Management of Very Large Herbivores
c)Project Management Unit
2.13 Anti-poaching Unit



KENYA: WILDLIFE AND TOURISM PROJECT
BREAKDOWN OF TOTAL PRDJECT COST
Exchange Rate: US$1.00 - KlbO. 14025
Equipment and      Professional                               Technical       Pmject
Civil Works      Running Gost       Services            yicl UFacilities       Assistance      Adnin.          TOTAL PROJECT COST
--ff (00)         Kt(OOO)            1h(00          KE(OO)   US$(000)          KL(OOO)       Kt(OOO)         KE(OOO   USS(OOO)
I. Amboseli National Park Area                        931.7             118.0              148.1        1,197.8   2,976.4                                         1,197.8    2,976.4
II. Masai Mara Game Reserve Area                       892.6              81.3              127.9        1,101.8   2,737.4                                         1,101.8    2,737.4
III. Samburu, Buffalo Springs, Shaba Game Reserves
Area                                           796.5              74.6              112.4          983.5   2,443.5                                           983.5    2,443.5
IV. Lake Rudolf National Park                          37.4               61.1                              98.5    244.7                                             98.5      244.7
V. Road Construction and Maintenance Units                            1,533.6                           1,533.6  3,810.2                                          1,533.6   3,810.2
VI. Game Proof Barriers                               615.2                                                 615.2  1,528.4                                           615.2   1,528.4
VII. Wildlife and Fisheries Institute                  889.1              375.2              210.3         1,474.6  3,663.6                                         1,474.6   3,663.6
VIII. Wildlife Clubs of Kenya                                               22.8                               22.8      56.6                                           22.8       56.6
IX. Anti-poaching Units                               576.9              902.7               98.7        1,578.3   3,920.7                                         1,578.3   3,920.7
X. Wildlife Planning Unit and Studies                                                                                             1,210.4                         1,210.4    3,007.3
XI. Project Administration                                                                                            _                              492.9           492.9   1,224.6
Base Costs                                     4,739.4            3,169.3              697.4        8,606.1  21,381.5         1,210.4           492.9        10,309.4  25,613.4
Physical Increase                                710.8              111.2                             822.0  2,042.2                                            822.0   2,042.2
Price Increase                                 2,186.4            1.145.8                           3,332.2  8.278.9            127.6            74-1         3.533.9   8,779.9
Total Contingencies                            2,897.2            1,257.0                           4,154.2 10,321.1            127.6            74.1         4,355-9  10,822.1
GRAND TOTAL                                    7,636.6            4,426.3              697.4        12,760.3 31,702.6         1,338.0          567.o         14,665.3  36,435.5
Foreign ExchanRge Gomponent
Percentage                                         28.1              76.2               40.0            45.5    45.5             59.7            42.8             46.66     46.66
Total                                           2,147.3           3,375-.              279.0         5,801.3 14,413.2           798-5           242.7          6,842.5  17,000.0
February 1976
a X
5.



KENYA: WIIDLIFE ANID TOURISM PROJECT
BREABOWN OF COSTS BY PROJECT ITES 1/            xchaange Ratea  US$1.00 - 0.4025
Prof.                             Foreign Exch.
Civil Works   Equipment   Contiencis Services         Total Cost             Comp t               Year I    Year II   Year III  roar IV   Year V
CODE            ITE25                BO           IE(O)         K     )(000)   US$(000)   BO                           US 0(7OOO          (O0)     00      aW50       NT)   Ebr)
Park Improvemgnts:
A    Amboseli National Park            259.2         67.0         210.1       -          536.3  1,332.4        163.3     405.7           66.6      88.9      146.0      114.4     120.4
B    Masai Mara Game Rese6rve          318           21.4         225.2       -          563.4  1,399.8        147.1     365.5           35.1     163.2       135.2     o09.5      120.4
c    S3/      lBuff'1o Spr./Sha Game Res.Z81.o       31.6         206.0       -          518.6  1,288.4        139.9     347.6           38.3      99.8      136.9      123.3     120.3
D    Lake Rudolf National Park          37.4         61.1          34.2       -          132.7    329.7         81.9      203.5          71.2      29.5        32.0
Park Headquarters:
E    Amsboseli (Ima )                  672.5         51.0         561.7       148.2    1,433.4  3,561.2        502.7   1,248.9           91.2     294.1       457.8     430.2     160.1
F    Masai Mars (Migwra)               575-8         59.9         454.0       127.9    1,217.6  3,025.1        466.4   1,15.7            78.7     257.8      386.2      362.7     132.2
G    SsmburufRuffalo Springs           515.5         43.0         400.3       112.4    1,071.2  2,661.4        364.3     905.1           69.2     227.7       339.2     318.6     116.5
H    Road Construction Units            --       1.533.6         444.6         -       1,978.2  4,914.8      1,566.9   3,892.9       1,028.2      237.5      237.5      237.5     237.5
I    Ga_e Proof Barriers               615.2                     351.6                   966.8  2,402.0        241.7     600.6         203.3      227.9      255.0      280.6
J    Wildlife & Fisheries Institute    889.1       375.2          713.2       210.3    2,187.8  5,435.5        978.5   2,431.1          268.0     625.1      958.5      336.2
K    WI ~ 3bs oi K4enya                             22.8           4.6                    27.4     68.1         21.8      54.2          27.4
L    aa1-poieg Thite                   570.Q       902.7         5148.7        98.7    2,127.0  5,284.5      1,126.9   2,799.5          500.1     631.5      634.3      171.6     189.0
Technical Assistance:
M    Wildlife Planning Unit                                       127.6                  799.7  1,986.8        439.1   1,090.8          213.3     166.6      172.1      139.5     108.2
N    Studies                                                                             538.2  1,337.1        359.4     893.0         129.3      209.7       66.4       66.4      66.14
Project Administration
0    Project Management Unit                                       74.1                  567.0  1,408.7        242.7     603.0         124.8      101.2      107.3      113.5     120.2
GUD TOTAL                                                                        14,665.3  36,435-5    6842.5  17,000.0         2,944.7 1336o.5    4064.9   2.804.0   1.,4S1.2
1/ Costs are for the project, as described in sections (i) - (viii) of para. 3,02 of the main text, i.e., excluding anti-poaching and Kongo-Diani preparation.
February 1976



0080A0 W1LDLIFE AND T2U21SM PROJECT
SCHELULE OF EXPENDITURES tY P3)7ECT ITE0M51-
--    1 b7 '000 )
Ooda               It_                           al        Q2        03    A_           AS        A6        A7        4C        Q9       ULO        @11       Q12        UL3        015                   Ad16       Ql?       A18        OV        _
A.    A.bai Ntioal  P.*                                  30.0      65.0     70.5      50.0    5.0        55.0      65.9     90.0       900        92.7       90.0       70.0      70.0       72.1       72.1       74.0       74.0       75.0      76.1        1,332.4  A.
B.    N i Ca SMr Ga b                                              27.2     60.0    100.0    102.5    103.0    100.0         90.0o      900        85.0       70.9      70.0       69.3       66.0       67.0       70.0       74.0      75.0       8o 1        1,39.8   B.
C.    S-bun G-- 40rr.                                    10.0      30.2     55.0      60.0      60.0      64.8     64.o      80.0       900        90.0       80.1      77.0       76.5       76.5       76.3       74.0      74.0       75.0       75.8        1288.4  0.
D.    L. Fhalf Ibt.o.n.                                            86.5     88.4      18.0      18.0      18.5     18.0       20.0       1.          .          .                                                                                                 329.7  D.
E.    AboZli                                                                         100.0    160.0    200.0    235.2    270.0         275.0      275.0      267.7     260.0      255.0      256.6      255.0      2D0.0      150.0      33.5                   3,193.0   K.
F.   HlaoI s-00l0                                                                              150.0    179.9    180.0    200.0        240.0      240.0     236.8      220.0      220.0      220.0      204.3      170.0     100.0       46 3                   2 7073  F.
F.  EaSal flora                                 100.0    150.0    179.9    100.0    700.0         260.0         .                                                     .       170.8         .                               2"''~~~~~~~~~~21.  20.3 20D0  DO.  1D.015.0  B,2:32.   G
C.    - 5_1r100.0    130.0    138.9    170.0    201.3                                                                             201.3      201.3      201.3     200.0      200.0      180.0      179.3      150.0      80.0       48.8                   2,382.2  0
H.    b'O  oontrotioo   Ulit.                           200.0  1,OCO.0  1.354.5    117.5    147.5    147.5    147.5    147.5           147.5      147.5     147.6      147.5      147.5      147.5      147.6     167.5      147.5      167.5      147.6        4,91U.8  H.
I.    Os. Proof Barfl*r                                 100.0    360.0    245.1    11,3.1    143.1    140.0    140.0    158.1          158.1     150.4      156.4      174.4      174.4      174.3     174.0                                                    2,402.0  I.
J.    0)1Gfb and Fisheries Thetitt.                              100.0    228.4    300.0    350.0    400.0    436.7    500.0             0        600.0     590.9      450.0      200.0      157.0                                                              4,13.0   J
K.    Wildlf. Clb.                                                28.1     40.0                                                                                                                                                                                6,8.1  K.
L.    Anti-po.oohlg oUit,                              100.0    400.0    652.0    353.3    353.3    353.3    353.3    394.3            394.3      334.3    394.3      106.6      106.0      106.0      106.6      117.4      l7.14     117.4      117.4        5,039.3  L.
N.  Toohidol A^irtotc                          10.0     80.0    380.5    3NO.6    250.0    250.0    217.5    217.6    150.             1W.75      117.5    147.5      130.0      127.2      127.2      12T.2      110.0     108.0 601.0           107.8        3,323.9  WK.
0.    Pro$ot Ad itrtion                        20.0     60.0    150.0    100.1        62.8     62.9      62.5      62.9      66.6       66.6       0b.2     66.7       70.5       70.5       70.5       70.5       74.6      74.6       74.7       74.7        1,408.7  o.
X.    Prof.oaial Seri...                      70.0    161.4    390.0    399.14        75.0      60.0     79.9      8.2       55         5A       55        551        35.0        5                   34.6       15.0       15.0        71                    1,732.9   X.
Total by Qoart-r                       100.0    721.4  2,819.5   ,6714.   1,859.7   2,057.3  2,160.3  2,271.9  2,423.1   2,575.7
Total TS r 1                                                        315.W
TOYi Tar II                                                        'b3,9
Total T-r IIT
Total Tar  7                                                                                                                                     Z.73W47                                     32737W
Total C   oos0l-tive)
3/ Coste aro toerthe ptoJct, s drs,orlr, i ec..ons Ii) - Vl)tf5pa.a3.0Jt7fLhrna.rteo c ,xt, tc,etltd,ng  tnr-ptacltng and ot0-sn   reaal



Annex 1
Table 1.4
KENYA: WILDLIFE AND TOURISM PROJECT
FORECAST OF DISBURSEMENT
DISBJRSE T                              ISB
IMPLEMENTATION                                 CMUATIVEBALCS
QUARTER       US$(00O)           %      US$(0OO)          %   US$(000)            %
1       -               -         -             -     17,000           100.0
FIRST       2    * 40               0.2       40              0.2  16,960           99.8
YEAR        3      335              2.0      375             2.2  16,625            97.8
4    1,600              9.4    1,975            11.6  15,025            88.1
5    2,200             13.0    4,175            24.6  12,825            75.4
SECOND      6       820             4.8    4,995             29.4  12,005           70.6
YEAR        7      910              5.4    5,905            34.8  11,095            65.2
8      950             5.6    6,855             40.4  10,145            59.6
9    1,000             5.9    7,855             46.3   9,145            53.7
THIRD      10    1,070              6.3    8,925            52.6   6,075            47.4
YEAR       11    1,135              6.7   10,060            59.3   6,940            40.7
12    1,130             6.6   11,190             65.9  5,61O             34.r
13    1,110              6.5   12,300            72.4   4,700            27.6
FOURTH     14      885              5.2   13,185             77.6-  3,815           22.4
YEAR       15      770              4.5  13,955              82.1  3,045            17.9
16      745             4.4  14,700              86.5   2,300            13.5
17      665              3.9   15,365            90.4   1,635             9.6
FIFTH      18       530             3.1  15,895              93.5   1,105             6.5
YEAR       19      445              2.6   16,340             96.1     660            3.9
20      350              2.1   16,690            9b.2      310            1.0
SIXTH     21       310              1.0   17,000           100.0        0            0.0
YEAR
TOTAL          1l,000             100.0
Fi-hrmarv 1 976



KENYA: WILDLIFE AND TOURISM PROJECT
Contingency Allowances
Civil Works             Equipment            Prof. Services         Tech. Assistance     Proj. Administration
Local    Foreign       Local    Foreign       Local    Forim          Local     Foreign       Local    Foreign      TOTAL
Allowance for Physical Increase        15.0%                                          n.a.                    n.a.                    n.a.
Allowance for Price Increase           42.1%                  42.1%                   n.a.                   10.6%                   14.8%
Total Project Cost Before
Contingencies
(US$ millions)               8.26        ).51       1.93        5.95         1.04      0.69         1.18        1.83        0.70        0.52       25.61
Allowance for Physical
Increase
(US$ millions)             l.2)1       0.53       0.07        0.20               n.a.                   n.a.                   n.a.              2.04
Sub-Total
(US$ millions)                   9.50        4.o4       2.00         6.15        1.04      0.69         1.18        1.83        0.70        0.52      27,65
Allowance for Price Increase
(US$ millions)           3.65        1.31       1.09        2.23               n.a.             0.16        0.16        0.10       0.08        8.78
TOTAL, including contingencies  L3.15        5.35       3.09         8.38        1.04      o.69         1.34        1.99        0.80        0.60      36.43
February 1976'
m x
- ,-~
%A



Annex I
Table 2.1
KENYA: WILDLIFE AND TOURISM PROJECT
COST ESTfKATKS: AMDSELI NATIONAL PARK IMPROVEMENTS
Rate of exchange:  US$1.00 - X.4025
Forei   Exch.
CODE                                               Unit Coat  Civil Works    EU1    t           TOTAL COST              1oiient          Year I      Year II     Year III      Year IV      Year V
(000) l      a4  (0                  US$(000)    K(0a (          (0)K  (oo00o)   55)                                              ) (
.1      WJRKS                                                                               ( 270.7)     672.Y)     (63.4)    ( 157.6)
A.1.1   Game Viewing Tracks (300 kI.)                  0.8        240.0                      240.0      596.3        4 8.0      119.3                  60.0        60.0          60.0        60.0
A.1.2   nitrance Gates Improvemnts (3)                  2.7         8.1                        8.1        20.1         2.4        6.0                               5.4           2,7
K.1.3  Museum (200 m2)                                  0.054       9.7             1.1       10.8        26.8        4.3        10.7                              10.8
A-l.4  Furniture, Fixtures and Equipament                                          10.4        10.4       25.8         8.3       20.6                              10.4
A.1.5  Caretaker's House                                1.4         1.4                         1.4        3.5        0.4         1.0                               1.4
A.2     VEHICLES                                                                             (55.6)    (138.0)      (44.4)    (110.3)
A.2.1   Landover, LM  (1 ea.)                         4.9                         4.9         4.9        12.2         3.9        9.7        4.9
4.2.2   Landrover, Pick-up (2 ea.)                     4.0                         8.0          8.0       19.9         6.4       15.9        8.0
A.2.3   Minibus (2 ea.)                                 3.8                        7.6          7.6       18.9         6.1       15.2        7.6
A.2.4   VW 1200 (3 ea.)                                 2.6                        7.8          7.8       19.4         6.2       15.4        7.8
A.2.5   Five-ton trucks, open-sided (2 ea.)            12.5                       25.0         25.0       62.1        20.0       49.6       25.0
A.2.6   Kerosene Tank Trailer (2 ea.)                   1.1                        2.2          1.2        5.5         1.8        4.5        2.2
Sub-Total                                                259.2            67.0       326.2       810.5      107.8       267.8       55.5       60.0        88.0          62.7        60.0
CONTINGENCIES                                                                       (210.1)    (522.0)      (55.5)    (137.9)
Physical Increase (15% on Works)                                                     40.6        100.9       9.5        23.6                    9.0        13.2          9.4          9,0
Price Increase (on Works)                                                           158.4        393.5      37.1        92.2                   19.9       44.8          42.3         51.4
Price Increase (20% on Vehicles)                                                     1L.1         27.6       8.9        22.1       11.1
TOTAL COST                                                                          56.       -..          16;.3..0.7              66.6        88.9       146.0        114.4        120.4
December 1975



KENYA: WILDLIFE AND) TOURISM PRCJECT
COST ESTIMATES: MASAI MARA GAME RESERVE IMPROVEMENTS
Rate of exchange: US$1.00 - KlhOA425
Foreign Exch.
CODE                                            Unit Cost  Civil Works  Equipment         TOTAL COST            Component        Year I    Year II    Year III       Year IV     Year V
Kh 000)    8B (000)    Ke       E000)   xb (000)  us$ (000)       ) u)   Kh 000)   Ko
B.1      Gie Reserve/Dispersal Area
B.l.l   Game Viewing Tracks (240 In.)               1.0       240.0                     240.0      596.3     48.0        119.3                60.0       60.0         60.0         60.0
B.1.2   Entrance Gates (6 ea.)                      5.9        35.4                      35.4       88.0     10.6        26.3      5.9       17.7         11.8
B.1.3   Accommodation at Gates (120 m2)             0.08        9.6                       9.6       23.8       2.9         7.2     3.2        6.4
B.1.4    Ticket Office, 4O ms  (2)                  2.1         4.2                       4.2       10.4       1.3         3.2                2.1          2.1
B.1.5   MAnager's House (1)                         6.7         6.7                       6.7       16.6       2.0         5.0                 6.7
B.1.6    Subordinate Staff Houses (6)               1.6         9.6                       9.6       23.8       2.4         6.0                4.8          4.8
B.1.7   Admin. Hq. 70 mL (1 ea.)                    3.7         3.7                       3.7        9.2       1.1         2.7                 3.7
B.1.8    Water Supply                                           2.6          4.0          6.6       16.4       4.6        11.4                 6.6
B.1.9    Water Holes (Dams) (5)                     0.55        2.8                       2.8        7.0       0.6         1.5                 1.1         1.7
B.1.10   Sign Posts                                             2.2                       2.2        5.5       0.9         2.2                 1.1         1.1
B.1.11   Landrover, LWB (1)                         4.9                      4.9          4.9       12.2       3.9         9.7     4.9
B.1.12   Five-ton Truck, 4 x 4 (1)                 12.5                     12.5         12.5       31.1      10.0        24.8    12.5
Sub-Total                                            316.8         21.4        338.2      840.3      88.3       219.3    26.5       110.2        81.5         60.0        60.0
Oontingencies:                                                                 (225.2)   (559. 5     (58.8,     (146.1)
Physical Increase (15%)                                                          50.7      126.0     13.2        32.8      4.0       16.5        12.2          9.0         9.0
Price Increase                                                                  174.5     433.5      45.6       113.3      4.6       36.5        41.5         40.5        51.4
TOTAL OOST                                                                      563.4   1,399.8    147.1        365.4    35.1       163.2       135.2        109.5       120.4
December 1975                                                                                                                                                                - D



KENYA: WILDLIFE AND TOJRISM PROJECT
COST ESTIMATES: SAMBURU/BUFFALO SPRINGS/SHABA GAME RESERVES DlPROVMENTS
Rate of exchange: US$l.OO = IhO.4025
Foreign Exch.
CODE                                             Unit Cost  Civil Works   Equpent             TOTAL COST              Cor  nent          Year I      Year II      Year III      Year IV     Year V
____          KX O      (       000)    11 (000)-US$ (000)    K  (000)US  (000) KM                               XF              7 O(0) 0(0
C.l     WDRKS                                                                             (284.6)   (707.1)       (-62.1)   ( 154.3)
C.l.l   Game Viewing Tracks (240 km.)               1.0         240.0                      240.0      596.3         48.0     119.3                     60.0        60.0            60.0        60.0
C.1.2   Entrance Gates (4 ea.)         2             5.9         23.6                       23.6       58.7          7.1       17.6                      5.8       17.8
C.1.3   Acccamodation at Gates (120 m )              1.6          6.4                        6.4       15.9          1.9        4.7                      1.6         4.8
C.1.4   Airstrip, gravel (1,000 m)                 11.0          11.0                       11.0       27.3          2.2        5.5                                                 11.0
C.1.5   Tentage and Equipment                        3.6                        3.6          3.6        8.9          2.9        7.2         3.6
C.2     VEHICLES                                                                           (28.0)    (69.5)        (22.4)    ('55.6)
C.2.1   Five-ton Track, 4 x 4, open-sided
(l ea.)                                12.5                        12.5         12.5       31.0         10.0       24.8       12.5
C.2.2   Landrvver, LWB SIW (1 ea.)                   4.9                        4.9          4.9       12.2          3.9        9.7         4.9
C.2.3   Landrover, Pick-up (2 ea.)                   4.0                        8.0           8.0      19.9          6.4       15.9         8.0
C.2.4   VW 1200 (1 ea.)                              2.6                         2.6          2.6       6.4          2.1        5.2         2.6
Sub-Total                                               281.0          31.6        312.6      776.6         84.5     209.9        31.6         67.4        82.6            71.0        60.0
CONTINDNCIES                                                                    ( 206.0)   ( 511.0       ( ss.4    ( 137.7)
Physical Increase (15%, Works)                                                      42.7      106.0          9.3       23.1        0.5         10.1         12.4            10.7         9.0
Price Increase, Works                                                              157.7      391.8         41.6     103.4         0.6         22.3        41.9            41.6        51.3
Price Increase, Vehicles (20%)                                                       5.6       13.9          4.5      11.2         5.6
TOTAL COST                                                                         518.6   1.288.4         139.9     347.6        38.3         99.8       136.9            123.3      120.3
e e  1
December 1975                                                                                                                                                                                 



KENYA: WLDLIFE AND TOURISM PFJECT
COST ESTIMATES: LAKE TURKANA NATIONAL PARK IMPROVEMENTS
Rate of Exchange: US$1.00 K KO. 4025
Unit      Civil                                             Foreign Exch.
Cost      Works       Equipment        Total Cost              Component           Year I    Year II   Year III
WT  00     KL 'OO            O       K01  '0000    0$ I 000    nT1O US$ '000        KE '000   KI '000   Ks ' 000
D.1   Works:
D.1.1 Boundary demarcation                                19.8                       19.8       49.2         7.9       19.6                    9.9       9.9
fl.l.2 Site exhibits, sign posts                          11.0                       11.0        27.3        4,4        10.9                   5.5       5.5
D.1.42Water wel1                                           6.0         1,8           o7,.8      1l9 54      03.19      9 27                  3.9        3.9
D.1.3 Workshop, stores                                     06.          0. .8                    19.4         .           .                   0.6
D.1.4 Water well0.06                                                                             150102
Sub-total                                       37.4          1.8          39.2        97.4       16.3        40.4                  19.9      19.3
D.2   Equipment:
D.2.1 Wind pump/generator                     4.0                       4.0           4.0         9.9        3.4         8.4         4.0
D.2.2 Distillation units (3)                  1.7                       6.8           6.8        16.9        5.8        14.4         6.8
D.3   Vehicles:
D.3.1 Landrover pick-ups (2)                  4.0                       8.0           8.0        19.9        6.4        15.9         8.0
D.3.2 4 x 4 trucks (2)                       13.8                      27.6          27.6        68.6       22.1        54.9        27.6
D.3.3 Water tanker (1)                        8.5                       8.5           8.5        21.1        6.8        16.9         8.5
D.3.4 Spares at 10%                                                     4.4           4.4        10.9        3.5         8.7         4.4     -
Sub-total                                       37.4         61.1          98.5       244.7       64.3       159.6        59.3      19.9      19.3
Contingencies:                                                               (34.2)      (85.0)     (17.6)      (43.7)
Physical increase (15% of works)                                               5.4        14.7        2.4         6.0                   3.0       2.9
Price increase on works                                                       16.4        40.7        5.6        13.9                   6.6       9.8
Price increase on equipment and vehicles (20%)                                11.9        29.6        9.6        23.8         11.9
TOTAL COST                                                               132.7       329.7       81.9       203.3         71.2    29.5       32.0
-ecember,9-                                              -        -      7
December, 1975



ENTrA; WILDL3E MD TMURISM PROJLCT
COST ESTIMATES; AMBOSELI NATIONAL PARES HEADQUARTERS                  Rate of exchange: US$3.00 - 10.4025
Floor Axea/                                                      Foreig Exoh.
0OBE                                        No. of  Unit Cost         it-   Civil Works    Lquipnt           TOTAL COST             CONicon nt       Year I    Isr I           I       Yr IT   Year V
~~~~~~~~RIO                                MUnTa    11 (M -wOOO)  K b (OCO) US (000)                           1                    00)US )JJMJ) (tO
1.1    BUILDINS                                                                 (472.2)        (22.4)     (494.6) (1,228.8)     (141.6)   (351.8)
1.1.1  Senior Staff Houne with S/Q            2         7.0         17.           14.0                      14.0      34.8         4.9      12.2
*.1.2  Inteomedat. Staff Houses with S/Q    9           5.6         91            50.4                      50.4    125.2         15.1      37.5
5.1.3  Junior Staff Housas (2 roos)         107         2.6         37           278.2                     278.2    691.2         69.6    172.9
X.1.4   Subordinate Staff Houses (I room)    57         1.34        19            76.4                      76.4    189.8         19.1      47.5
*.1.5   Dispeariy                             1         3.4         60             2.8           0.6         3.4       8.4         1.0       2.5
1.1.6  Priary School (2 classrooms)           1        12.8        272            12.8                      12.8      31.8         3.8       9.4
L;.7   o_. H&J/Canten                         1         8.0        150            8.0                        8.0      19.9         2.4       6.0
1.1.8   Akin. Hqs.                            1         8.3        155             8.3                       8.3      20.6         2.5       6.2
.1.9  Vehdols Workshop/Office                1        26.8        580            21.3           5.5        26.8      66.6        13.4      33.3
Z.1.10 F?-it-, FixtJ         and 1quipua-t             16.3                                    16.3         16.3      40.5         9.8      24.3
1.2     IWRASTRUCTURE                                                           (200.3)       (28.6)      (228.9j   (568.7)    (108.0)   (268.3)
1.2.1   rernal Works for Buildings                                                 5. 5                      5.5      13.7         1.1       2.7
1.2.2   1eds sad StoDw_ter Drainage                                               50.0                      50.0    124.2         20.0      49.7
F.2.3  Water AhMl, iml. DiWtribution                                              84.8           6.1        90.9    225,8         45.4    112.8
I.2.4   Seerage                                                                   30.0           2.5        32.5      80.8         6.5      16.1
1.2.5   Ilectricit'                                                               30.0          20.0        50.0    124.2         35.0      87.0
Sub-Total                                                                672.5          51.0       723.5  1,797.5        249.6    620.1                   181.0       253.0    217.0         72.5
CONTIWICS                                                                                         (561.7) ( 1,395.5)    ( 193.8)  (481.5)                 (98.8)     (184.8)  (196.2)       (81.9)
Pbsioal Incrase (20%)                                                                               144.7    359.5        49.9    124.0                    36.2        50.6      43.4        14.5
Price Inzorase                                                                                     417.0  1,036.0        143.9    357.5                    62.6       134.2    152.8         67.4
PROFESS10MA1L SERVICES                                                                            (148.2)  ( 368.2)      (59.3)   (147.3)
Final  Design and Tender Documents (8%)                                                             91.2    226.6         36.5      90.7        91.2
Supervision (5%)                                                                                     57.0    141.6        22.8      56.6                   14.3        20.0      17.0         5.7
TOTAL COST                                                                                        1,433.4   3,561.2      502,7  1,248.9         91.2      294.1       457.8    430.2        160.1
Dece.ber, 1975



UNYAl WILDLI7  AND TOURISM PROJECT
COST ESTIMATESt NSA I MARA PAMS HEADQUARTERS (NIIIOR4)
Rate of e-hangs   US$1.00 -DA025
Floor Area/                                                         Fori
00DB                                           No. of   Unit Coat      Unit       Civil 9iorce   3quiD nt         (TO  CC  T                                 n n t  Year I  Tear II  Yr III        YYr V
___t            1                                              Kb                                    0001 (OO)               uT                               o  (ooo)
F.1      BUnIIDDOS                                                                   (%48.4)        (15.1)     (363.5)   (903.1)       (106.0)  (263.4)
F.1.1   Senior Staff Hoes inel. S/Q                         7.0        117            21.0                       21.0      52,2          7.4      18.4
F.1.2    Intermediate Staff Hbomes icl. S/Q   4             5.6        91             22.4                       22.4      55.6          6.7      16.6
F.1.3    Junior Staff Hoe.  (2 ro)             64           2.6        37            166.4                      166.4    413.4          41.6     103.4
F.1.4    Subordinate Staff Ihusa               57           1.34       19             76.4                       76.4     189.8         19.1      47.5
F.1.5    Dispenary                               1          3.4        60              2.8            0.6         3.4       8.4          1.0       2.5
F.1.6    Primary Soheol (2 class roa)            1         12.8       272             12.8                       12.f      31.8          3.8       9.4
7.1.7    Gomity Hal/Canteen                      1          8.0       150              6.0                        8.0      19.9          2.4       6.0
F.1.8    AnI. Hq,.                               1          8.3       140              8.3                        8.3      20.6          2.5       6.2
F.1.9    vehicle WIokshop/office                 1         26.8       580             21.3            5.5        26.8      66.6         13.4      33.3
F.1.10  F7rxitai,, PFit-m  &   odp-t                                                                  9.0         9.0      22.4          5.4      13.4
F.1.11  Tented Cip (SO laborers)                                                       9.0                        9.0      22.4          2.7       6.7
F.2      ,DLSTMCTURZ                                                                (227.4)         (44.8)    (272.2)   (676.3)       (136.6)   (339.3
F.2.1     mnteral Wor  for Bldg..                                                     11.0                       11.0      27.3          2.2       5.5
F.2.2   Boads and Srface Wlter Drainage                                               70.0                       70.0     173.9         28.0      69.6
F.2.3    Witer Supply, inol. Distribution                                             47.4             6.3       53.7     133.4         26.9      66.8
F.2.4    Sewerage                                                                     55.0             2.5       57.5    142.9          11.5      28.5
F.2.5    latrticity                                                                   44.0            36.0       80.0     198.8         680 1A8i              -                                              -
Sub-Total                                                                   575.8            59.9      635.7   1,579.4        242.6    602.7                    159.0      222.5      190.7        63.5
0UfMUCIS                                                                                              (454.0) (1,127.9)     (172.6)   (428.8)                  (86.5)    (146.5)    (157.2)       (63.8)
Foundation in Black Cotton Soil                                                                        1U.0       24.8         3.0        7 .5                   10.0
Physical Increse (15%)                                                                                  95.4     237.0        36.4       90.4                   23.9        33.4       28.6         9.5
Pri** Incrse                                                                                           348.6     866.1       133.2      330.9                   52.6       113.1      128.6        54.3
PRUMS&0mL 58VICBS                                                                                     (127.9)   (317.8)       (51.2)   (127.2)
F=Ia Desiup and Tender Doents (6%)                                                                      78.7     195.5        31.5       78.3         78.7
Supervision                                                                                            49.2      122.3        19.7      48.9                    12.3        17.2       14.8        4.9
IQTAL COST                                                                                           1,217.6   3,025.1        466.4   1,158.7         78.7     257.8       386.2      362.7       132.2
Deceeber, 1975



EwlA   WILDLIFE AND TOURI9t PF?JECT
COST ESinATER;  SAJ4BURU/BUFnA10 SPRINGS/SH&BA PAP   HEAQUARTERS (ARCHERS POST)
Rate of exohanges US$1.OO - KEO.4025
Floor Area/                                                           Fcreig nFxch.
OOE                                            No. of   Unit Cost        Uni         Civil Woiks    Equient           TOTAL COST              CisDnnt          Yler I       Tear II      Year III    Yar I           Year V
Unts                                                                        a^      (    00 E(0) ^(0)1toO   00 (000)  USt  (00)   w-O0) Ith   000
G.1       BUILDINGS                                                                    (332.4)        (15.1)       (347.5)   (863.4)    (101.9)   (253.2)
G.l.1    Senior Staff Housea with S/Q             2         7.0         117              14.0                        14.0       34.8        4.9       12.2
0.1.2    Intermdiate Staff Houses with S/Q    6              5.6         91              33.6                        33.6       83.5        10.1      25.1
0.1.3    JvUior Staff Houses (2 roc_)            65          2.6         37             169.0                       169.0      419.9       42.3      105.1
0.1.4    Subordinate Staff Houses (1-rom)    40              1.34        19              53.6                        53.6      133.1        13.4      33.3
0.1.5    Diq i.nr.                                1          3.4         60               2.8           0.6           3.4        8.4         1.0       2.5
0.1.6    Sel Improvmnts                                                                  12.8                        12.8       31.8         3.8       9.4
G.1.7    Omnaity Haf/Cnteen                       1         8.0         150               8.0                         8.0       19.9         2.4       6.0
G.1.8    AAin. Hqe.                               1         8.3         140               8.3                         8.3       20.6         2.5       6.2
G.1.9    Vehicle Yorkehop/Offioe                  1         26.8        580              21.3           5.5          26.8       66.6       13.4       33.3
G.1.10  Furnitare, Fixtrres and Zquipmnt                                                                9.0           9.0       22.4         5.4      13.4
G.1.11   Tented C_p for 50 Laborers                                                       9.0                         9.0       22.4         2.7       6.7
0.2      DER5STRUCTtUiE                                                                ;183.1)        (27.9)       (211.0)   (524.2)      (91.6)   (227.5)
0.2.1   Erternal Works for Bldge.                                                         3.5                         3.5        8.7         0.6        1.5
0.2.2    Reads and Stormnt_ r Drainage                                                   50.0                        50.0      124.2        20.0      49.7
G.2.3    Wter Supply, inl. Distribution                                                  37.6            7.4         45.0      111.8        22.5      55.9
G.2.k    Smvrags                                                                         69.0            3.5         72.5      180.1        14.5      36.0
0.2.5    Electricitw                                                                     23.0          17.0          40.0       99.4        34.0      84.4
Sub-Total                                                                      515.5         43.0         558.5   1,387.6        193.5     480.7                   139.6        195.5        167.5           55.9
COONTIN8IDCIS                                                                                            (400.3)   (994.5)    (125.8)   (312.6)                   ( 77.3)      (1 0.)       (138.1)         (56.3)
Fodtion in Black Cotton Soil                                                                                10.0      24.8         3.0        7.5                   10.0
Pbysical Icrease (15%)                                                                                      83.8     208.2        29.0       72.1                   21.0         29.3         25.1            8.4
Price Increase                                                                                            306.5      761.5        93.8      233.0                   46.3         99.3        113.0           47.9
MRFSIO3LL SERVWIClS                                                                                       (112.4)   (279.3)      (45.0)   (111.8)
Final Deeip and Tder DDomnts (8%)                                                                          69.2      171.9        27.7       68.8          69.2
Supe.wisi- (5%)                                                                                            43.2      107.4        17.3      43.0                    10.8          15.1         MCI            4.3
TOTAL ODST                                                                                              1,071.2   2.661.4        364.3      905.1        . 69.2    227.7         339.2      i3186.          116.5
Deceeber, 1975



KENYA: WILDLIFE AMD TOURISM PROJECT
COST ESTIMATES: ROAD CONSTRUCTION AND MAINTENANCE UNIT
Exchange rate:  US$1.00 - 1LO.4025
Forden Exch.
CODE                                                 NO. of         Unit Cost              TOTAL COST                    MCan-ce and                                                 Cost
Is  (0OOJ         [ OKb (M --     (000)         F                                         MUHr.        nE7Hr.
H.1      EQUIPMENT (Capital Cost)
H.1.1    Bulldoser, D-5 or equivalent,
c/v Ripper and Blade                         2             26.7              53.4        138.7             42.7        106.1                         7.4          18.4
H.1.2    Motor Grader (125 HP) with Scarifier            2            28.3               56.6       140.6              45.3        112.5                         5.5          13.7
H.1.3    Front-end Loader (65 HP; 1.25 cu. yd.
Bucket)                                      1             12.4              12.4         30.8              9.9         24.6                          2.8           7.0
H.1.4    Tractor (77 HP)                                 4             4.0               16.0         39.8             12.8         31.8                         5.3          13.2
H.1.5    Trailer, 4-wheel                                3              1.7               5.1         12.7              3.1          7.7                         1.8           4.5
H.1.6    Loader Attachmant                              1              0.8                0.8          2.0              0.6          1.5                         0.2           0.5
H.1.7    Blade Attachmnet                               1              0.6                0.6          1.5              0.5          1.2                         0.2           0.5
H.1.8    Low Loader Trailer (20 t.)                      1              6.4               6.4         15.9              4.5         11.2                         0.7           i.7
H.1.9    6-ton Tipper Truck                             10              8.0              80.0        198.8             64.0        159.0                        14.4          35.8
H.l.10   Water Tanker (1,200 gal.)                       2              8.5              17.0         42.2             11.9         29.6                         2.8           7.0
H.l.1l   Vibrating Compactor                             2              7.6              15.2         37.8             12.2         30.3                         4.0            9.9
H.1.12   Concrete Mixer (250 Ltr.)                       1              1.2               1.2          3.0              1.0          2.5                         0.6           1.5
H.1.13   Landrover, Pick-up                              1              4.0               4.0          9.9              3.2          8.0                          1.3           3.2
H.l.14   Spare Parts (5% of capital cost)                                                13.4         33.3             10.6         26.3
H.1.15   Tentage and Equipm ent                                        3.5               3.5          8.7              1.8          4.5
Sub-Total                                                                     285.6        709.7            224.1         556.8                        47.0         116.9
CONTINGENCIES
Price Increase (20%)                                                            57.1       141.9              44.8        111.3
H.1      TOT4L CAPITAL COST                                                             342.7        851.6            268.9        668.1  (78.5%)
H.2      MiINTENANCE AND RUNNING
Costs for 4 years                   4 x 1,200 hrs.        Kh  47.0            225.6        560.5             180.5        448.4
Price Increase (10% p.a.)                                                       91.1       226.3              72.9        181.1
TOTAL MAINTENANCE AND MhNNING                                                  316.7        786.8            253.4        629.5  (80%)
SUMMARY
H.1      Capital Cost                                                                   342.7        851.6             268.9        668.1                                                           I ,
H.2      Maintenance and Ranning                                                        316,7        786.8             253.4        629.5
TOTAL COST (per unit)                                                          659.4     1,638-3             522.3      1,297.7  (79.2%)                                                  0
December, 1975



KENYA: WILDLIFE AND TOURISM PROJECT
COST ESTIMATES: GAME-PROOF BARRIERS
Rate of Exchange: US$l.00=KLO. 4025
Civil                                   Foreign Exchange
Works            Total Cost                 Cormnnent            Year I       Year II       Year III    Year IV
KE (0O0)    KE (000)    US$ (000)   K1g  (000)         US$ (000)    KE(000)    Kk(OOO)    KE(000)    KE(OOOj
I.  Game-Proof Barriers (350 km)              430.8        430.8       1.070.3         107.7        267.6         107.7         107.7       107.7        107.7
Subtotal                              430.8        430.8       1,070.3         107.7        267.6         107.7         107.7       107.7        107.7
Contingencies:                                        (246.2)       (611.7)       (61.6)       (153.0)
Physical Increases                       64.6         64.6         160.5         16.2          40.2          16.2          16.2        16.2         16.2
Price Increase                                       181.6         451.2         45.4         112.8          18.6          35.7        54.8         72.7
TOTAL COST                                              677.0       1,682.0        169.3        420.6          142.5         159.6       178.7        196.6
3D
December 1975



KEIYA: WILDLTFE AND TOURISM PROJECT
COST EISTIMATES: WILDLIFE AND FISHERIES TRAINING INSTITUTE               Excharnge rate:  US$1.00 - KWE.4025
Foreign Nich.
CODE                                           Floor Area      Civil Works      Equisent           TOTAL COST                Comhonen                  Year I      Year II      Year III    Year IV
-sq.               ( )              0             (000)   US$ (000)         (00)     i (000)
J.
J.1   Tuition                                   582               45.0                           45.0      111.8          15.7        39.0
J.2   Administration                            481               37.0                           37.0       91.9          13.0        32.3
;.3   Coomsmal Facilities                     1,200               88.8            16.2          105.0      260.9          36.8        91.4
J.4   Museum/Herbarium                          29Q               24.0                           24.0       59.6           8.4        20.9
J.5   Library                                   150               12.3             3.0           15.3       38.0           6.9        17.2
J.6   Students' Hostel                        1,350              102.2                          102.2      253.9          30.7        76.3
.17   Staff Housing                           4-40              236.1                          236.1      586.6          70.8       175.9
J.8   Medical Unit                              106                8.6                            8.6       21.4           3.4         8.4
J.9   Fisheries Field Station                    839              85.5                           85.5      212.4          25.7        63.8
J.10  Fisheries Field Station, Water & Sewerage                    5.3             2.7            8.0       19.9           4.0         9.9
J11  Service Facilities                          888              46.5            20.5           67.0      166.4          30.2        75.0
1.12  Sport/Physical Training                    127              54.1                           54.1      134.4          16.2        40.3
J.13  External Works                                              84.2                           84.2      209.2          21.0        52.2
114  Water Supply                                                 19.5             7.3           26.8       66.6          13.4        33.3
J.15  Sewerage                                                    40.0             5.0           45.0      111.8           9.0        22.4
j.16  Loose Furniture                                                             66.0           66.0       164.0          56.1      139.4
T.17  Equipment                                                                   53.5           53.5       132.9         37.8        93.9
j.18  Vehicles                                                                   201.0          201.0      499.4         160.8       399.5
Sub-Total                                          889.1           375.2        1,264.3    3,141.1         559.9    1,391.1               100.0       417.2        569.0        178.1
CONTINGENCIES:                                                                           (713.2)  (1,771.9)        (334.4)   (830.8)             (32.2)      (181.2)      (353.1)      (146.7)
Physical Increase                                                                         159.5      396.3           84.0      208.7              15.0         47.4         70.4         26.7
Price Increase                                                                            553.7    1,375.6          250.4      622.1              17.2        133.8        282.7        120.0
PROFESSIONAL SERVICES:                                                                   (210.3)    (522.5)         (84.2)   (209.2)            (135.8)
Final Design & Tender Documents                                                           129.4      321.5           51.8      128.7             129.4
Supervision                                                                                80.9      201.0           32.4       80.5               6.4         26.7         36.4         11.4
TOTAL COST                                                                    2,187.8    5,435.5           978.5   2,431.1              268.0       625.1        958.5        336.2
December, 1975



KENYA: WILDLIFE AND TOURISM PROJECT
COST ESTIMATES: WILDLIFE CLUBS OF KENYA
Rate of Exchange:  US$1.00 = KWO. 4025
UnitCost          Total Cost                Foreign Exchange Component        Year I
Code                                                                          KC(O0O)         KbU(000)   US$(000)                KL(OOO)   US$(000)          Kb(OOO)
K.1      Vehicles:
K.l.1    Buses (2 x 40 seats)                                                    7.6            22.8        56.8                    18.2       45.3             22.8
Contingencies (207Z                                                                    4.6        li.3                     3.6        9.1              4.6
T)TAL COST                                                                            27.4        68.1                    21.8       54.4              27.4
c r  X
I,ecernher 197 5Xm



KENYA: WILDLIFE AND TOURISM PROJECT
COST EST1IMATES: a) WILDLIFE PLANNING UNIT bl STUDY OF ThE MANAGOIENT OF VERY LARGE HE81IVORLS (VLH)
) PROJECT MANAGED4NT UNIT                                                                 Rate of ex,change: US$1.00 - i.4025
Personnel Costs    Other Costs          Total Coat            Foreign Exchange            Year I     Year II    YTsr III       Year IV    Year V
Comiponent
K(OOO)          K(OOO)      0b(000)       1s0(000)    0(000)           UI$(000)      flO9         (000)     K} (O 'Of      b(000)    b(000)
a) WILDLIFE PLANNING UNIT:
Personnel costs                                  504.5                          504.5      1,253.3         271.6            674.6        125.95     126.75        120.8        82.6       48.4
Othor costs:
Sgbeistenc                                                       28.0          28.0         69,6           5.6            13.9           5.6        5.6           5.6         5.6        5.6
Congultancies, pl-nning studis                                  332.1         332.1        825.1         232.5           577.6          66.4       66.4          66.4        66.4       66.4
Aircraft and vehicle mintenance and runing                       90,0           90.0       223.6          58.1            144.3         18.0       18.0          18.0        18.0        18.0
Cartographic etc. equitoment                                     15.2           15.2        37.8          11.4             28.3         15.2          -            -           -           -
Vehicles                                                         28.8           28.8        71.6          23.0             57.1         28.8
Recruiment expenses                                               5.6            5.6        13.9           5.6             13.9          5.6
127.6       317.0          63.8            158.5         14.1       16.3          27.7        33.3        36.2
Total Cost                                1,131.8     2,811.9         671.6          1,66.          279.65      33.05        238.5       205.9       174.7
b) STUDY OF VLH:
Personnel costs                                  109.3                          109.3        271.1          79.6            197.5         23.5       85.8                                    -
Other costs:
Aerial mwnitoring                                                13.5           13.5        33.6          10.1             25.2         10.1        3.4
Vehicle  ain.tance and running                                   12.6          12.6         31.3           9.4             23.4          3.2        9.4
Travel outside East Africa                                        8.5           8.5         21.1           8.5             21.1          3.4        5.1
Travel within Ehst Africa                                        27.7          27.7         68.8           4.2            10.4          11.1       16.6
Recruitment  nd aiscellaneous                                    22.6          22.6         56.1           6.8             16.9          5.6       17.0
Total Cost                                  194.2       482.0         118.6            294.          56.9      137.3            -           -           -
) PlJECT MANAGEMNT UNIT:
Personnel costs                                 409.5                           409.5      1,017.3         145.4           361.3          81.9       81.9         81.9         81.9       81.9
Other costs:
Vehicles - Sedan (1)                                              4.8           4.8         11.9           3.8             9.4
Landrovera (4)                                        19.6          19.6         48.7          15.7             39.0
Maintenance and roening                               54.0          54.0        134.2          43.2            107.3
Ai-craft hire                                                       1.6           1.6          4.0           1.1             2.7
Travel                                                              3.4           3.4          8.4           1.9             4.7
Price Increase                                                                   74.1        184.1          31.6            78.5           6.7        7.5          13.6        19.8       26.5
Total Cost                                  567.0     1,408.6         242.7            603.0        124.8       101.2        107.3       113.5       120.2
Daceher, 1975



KENYA: WILDLIFE AND TOURISM PROJECT
COST ESTIMATES: ANTI-POACiING UNIT
Exchange Rate: US$1.00 = K60.4025
Foreign Exchange
Unit Cost   Civil Works   Equip t         Total Cost         Gomponet             Year     Year     Year      Year     Year
PER UNIT                  KL'OOO-      KL'OOO        KL'OOO     KLOOD   US$t000   XLa"00'    US$ I            I       II       III      IV         V
Structures:                                                               (143.3)   (356.0)   (41.8)  (103.8)
Senior Staff House (1)                  7.0         7.0                      7.0      17,4      2,0       5,0
Intennediate Staff Houses (3)           5.6        16.8                     16.8      41.7      4.9    12.2
Junior Staff Houses (17)                2.6        44.2                     44.2    109.8      12.9    32,0
Subordinate Staff Houses (30)           1.3        40.2                     40.2      99,9     11.7      29.1
Admin. HQ (1)                           8.3         8.3                      8.3      20.6      2.4       60o
Vehicle Workshop and Stores (1)        26.8       -26.8                     26.8      66.6      7.8      19.4
Infrastructure:                                                            (49.0)   (121.7)   (14.3)   (35.5)
External Works and Utilities                       43.0                     43.0     106.8     12,5      31.1
Airstrip (800 m)                        6.0         6.o                      6.0      14.9      1.8       4.4                  96.1    96.2
Vehicles and Equipment:                                                   (128.9)   (320.2)  (100.5)  (249.7)
Super  Cub Aircraft                    12.5                     12.5        12.5      31.1      9.7      24.1
4 x 4 Trucks (5)                       12.5                     62.5        62.5    155.3      48.7   121.0
LWB Landrover Pickups (5)               4.0                      20.0       20.0      49.7     15.6      38.8
Trailers (5)                            o.6                      3.0         3.0       7.5      2.3       5.7
Water Tanker (1200 gals.) (1)           8.5                       8.5        8.5      21.1      6.6     16.4
HF Radio Packsets (5)                   1.1                      5.5         5.5      13.7      4.3    10.7
VHF Mobile/Packsets (12)                0.5                       6.0        6.0      14.9      4.7    11.7
Spare Parts (5%)                                                  5.9        5.9     1147       4.6    11.4
Tentage k Camping Equipment             5.0                      5.0         5.0      12.4      3.9      9.7
peratina Costs:                                                           (172.0)   (427.3)  (120.4)  (299.1)
Running and Maintenance (for
four years):
Aircraft                               10.0                                 40.0      99.4     28.0    69.6           10.0     10.0     10.0      10,0     10.0
Vehicles                               33.0                                132.0     327.9     92.4    229.6          33.0     33.0      33.0     33.0     33.3
Continencies:                                                             (182.9)   (454.4)   (85.4)  (212.1)
Physic Icrease on Structures
and Infrastructure                                                      28.8      71.6      8.4     20.9                   14.4     14.4
Price Increase on Structures                                                    
and Infrastruoture                                                      80.8     200.7     23.6     59.6                   31.8     49.0
Price Increase on Vehicles
and Equipment                                                           25.8      64,1     20.1     49.9
Price Increase on Running
and MaintenanCe                                                        47.5    118.0       33.3     82.7                    4.3      9.0      14.2     20.0
Professional Services:                                                      32.9      81.7     13.2    32.8           12.0     20.9
TOTAL:                                                          709.0    1761.5    375.6   933.2



ANNEX 2
Page 1
KENYA: WILDLIFE AND TOURISM PROJECT
TOURISM IN KENYA
Tourist Resources
1.    Kenya has a wealth and variety of tourist resources which, together with an
active and sophisticated tourist industry,have enabled her to establish a leading
place among Africa's tourist destinations.
2.    Within its 583,ooo square kilometers, Kenya has as great a diversity of
topography, climate,vegetation, scenery, and wildlife as perhaps any other country.
There is great human diversity, the modern city of Nairobi contrasting with nomadic
pastoralism, agricultural small holdings, plantation and ranching estates, and
the Islamic communities and ancient towns of the coast.
3.   Kenya's tourist assets can be summarized as follows:
(i) Wildlife, mostly accessible to viewers through a system of
parks and reserves, and also to be encountered on trips to
or from the parks;
(ii) Extensive palm-fringed white sand beaches, protected by coral
reefs, and enjoying an agreeable climate except during the
southeast monsoon in late April through early July;
(iii) Dramatic scenery, from deserts to tropical rain forest, includ-
ing views dominated by the highest mountains in Africa;
(iv) The business, shopping and entertainment facilities of Nairobi,
Mombasa and Malindi;
(v) Paleontological sites of great scientific importance in settings
of great natural beauty, which have attached worldwide interest;
(vi) Opportunities for a range of sports and hobbies, including
hunting, game-fish and trout fishing, golf, mountain climbing,
riding, sailing and some of the best bird watching in the world;
(vii) A temperate climate throughout the year over much of the country,
and only limited and localized health hazards;
(viii) Well-developed international communications, an active local
tourist industry including hotels and lodges, many operated
to high standards, and a well-equipped facility for major
international conferences.
The Growth of Demand
4.    Tourism has been an important economic activity in Kenya for over 50 years.
Until the 1960's, the main foreign tourist flows were by British armed forces'
personnel and their families on leave in the Indian Ocean area, tourists coming



ANNEX 2
Page 2
by car from southern Africa, the Congo, Ruanda-Burundi, and the neighboring
countries of Tanzania and Uganda, and persons visiting friends and relations.
Better known abroad were the visits by a tiny minority of millionaires,
maharajahs and movie stars who come to hunt in Kenya. Hotels, clubs, and beach
resorts were established primarily to cater for the large resident European
community, however, rather than tourists.  British forces visits, and those
from Central and Southern Africa declined in the early to mid-1960's, when
reductions in airfares (including introduction of ITC's - inclusive tour charters)
and rising incomes in Western Europe and North America brought within the reach
of millions holidays to this destination hitherto associated in the popular mind
with luxury safaris by the rich and the famous. At the same time rapid expansion
of mass tourism to the Mediterranean created familiarity with foreign travel,
and demand for more exotic destinations.
5.    A number of distinct market segments can be broadly identified.  For
example:
(i) People from India, Europe and North America, having personal
or family connections with the country or its expatriate
residents. Typically such people will visit for a relatively
long time, much of which will be spent staying with friends or
relatives. Nevertheless, they do visit the tourist attractions
of the country, usually with their hosts, and this is one factor
which accounts for the high use of parks and tourist hotels by
Kenya residents. An important sub-category of such visitors are
the children of British expatriates particularly, who spend their
school holidays in Kenya. They are a sizeable enough group that
expenditures per day of British residents are much lower than those
of most other groups;
(ii) Businessmen from all countries who use city accommodation of
higher standards. Some 40,000 persons visited Kenya on busi-
ness in 1974. Mhe average length of a business trip to Kenya
(around 10 days) is much longer than to most countries,
suggesting that at least some business visitors take the
opportunity for some vacation during their trip, often weekend
visits to game lodges;
(iii) North American holiday makers, generally combining Kenya with
visits to other countries and attracted to Kenya primarily by
its wildlife. Difficulties in Uganda and Tanzania have led to
Kenya being allocated a larger share of these visitors'
itineraries within East Africa. On the other hand, East Africa
is often one stop on tours travelling the length of the
Continent, and the troubles in Ethiopia have had some adverse
effect on American tours. "First arrivals" of Americans and
Canadians were 55,000 in 1972, 49,500 in 1973, and 45,200 in
1974.



A1NNEX 2
Page 3
(iv) European holidaymakers, travelling in groups by charter or ITI
arrangements. These visitors are attracted to Kenya's beaches
during the European winter. At least one-half of them buy a
package including one week on "safari"., together with a one or
two-week stay at the coast. Most of the remainder take excursions
to one or more wildlife areas, usually to Tsavo or Amboseli which
are near to the coast. First arrivals on holiday by residents of
Europe were estimated at 162,500 for 1974, of which the Germars
accounted for 21,, the Swiss for 13%, and the British for 28%.
First visits by residents of Europe grew by 2.5% in 1974 compared
to 1973, particularly strong growth being noted from Italy (+ 16%);
(v) Expatriates resident in neighboring countries, and Ugandan and Tanzanian
residents visit Kenya to visit friends and relations, and to shop.
Visits by Zambian residents (about three-quarters of which were
by expatriates) amounted to some 13,000 in 1974, an increase of
about 4% over 1973. Promotional efforts may enable Kenya to
attract increasing numbers from the growing expatriate communi-
ties of the Middle East where recreational facilities are limited
and disposable incomes high, as well as Arab nationals to whom
hunting may be a major appeal;
(vi) Included in the above are a number of visitors whose specialized
motivations put them into distinct categories. Significant among
these are those attracted by the wide publicity given to important
paleontological discoveries, first in Tanzania and subsequently
around Lake Turkana by ornithological safaris, and by summer
courses and seminars usually sponsored by North American academic
institutions;
(vii) Another distinct sub-group are the hunters who spend rather longer
in the country than other tourists, spending K. 70 - K. 115 per
day for safari outfitters services (tenting, guiding, transport to
hunting grounds), and considerable additional sums on hotel accommo-
dation, drinks, shopping, ammunition, hunting licenses and fees,
and taxidermy. 1,371 game licenses were issued to non-resident
hunters in 1974.  These persons probably brought well over K. 2 million
into the country in 1974;
6.    The main features of foreign travel to Kenya in recent years are shown in
the Statistical Appendix and can be summarized as follows:



ANNEX 2
Page 4
1971        1972         1973         1974
Total departing visitors, '000           399.7       428.4        388.1        379.6
of which:  Purpose of visit:
holiday                      295.5        345-.        309.0       310.3
business                      56.2         42.1         43.7        43.4
transit                      147.9         41.3        35.4         25.9
of which:  Country of residence:
Uganda, Tanzania             132.9        131.6       101.1         92.9
Other Africa                  36.1         38.0         42.0         42.1
W. Germany                    35.6         39.1         36.3        34.9
Switzerland                   13.4         17.0        19.2         21.0
U.K.                          48.7         52.1         49.0        45.8
Other Europe                  41.8         48.4         54.0        60.8
U.S.A., Canada                59.6         71.3         58.1        52.8
of which: Mode of transport:
Air                          257.8        285.7        297.6       301.5
7.    The decline in visitors from Tanzania and Uganda is reflected in the
falling figures for departures on business, by road, and in transit.  Although
some markets, such as Italy and Switzerland have grown steadily from a small
base, the importance of Kenya's reversing the setback in its main market,
North America, is very clear. North American visitors accounted for 14% of
foreign departures in 1974, and also for 14% of all hotel/lodge bednights occupied
by non-residents. However, North Americans make a relatively much greater use
of hotels and lodges in the game areas of Kenya, accounting for 27% of all non-
Kenyan bednights in such accomuodation in 1974.
8.    Tourist flows to Kenya have, however, held up remarkably well in the face
of recent increases in airfares, and the recessions in the main tourist-generating
countries.  Excluding visits from residents of Uganda and Tanzania, "first visits"l/
declined by 0.5% in 1973 compared to 1972, but rose again by 0.2% the following
year. Vlisitor departures by air have risen in every one of the last five years.
Sharp falls in visitors from Britain and North America were compensated by
continued increases from most European countries and the Far East. Foreign (non-
E. African) resident bednights, with increases of 4.5% and 9.5% in the same years,
1/ Arrivals of persons who have not visited Kenya within the last 30 days.
Visitor arrivals were some 14% higher, since they include the multiple
entries of persons who also took excursions to neighboring countries.



ANNEX 2
Page 5
have held up even better than visitor flows. This is due to several factors:
switching from attractions in neighboring countries; higher airfares (the
higher the fare, the longer tourists tend to stay in a country): and to a
reduction in the real price of the Kenya component of tours.2! With the stabili-
zation of transport prices and recovering of the western economies, renewed
rapid expansion can be expected, although this should be dampened somewhat while
hotel prices rise again to levels at which investment in those activities
becomes as profitable as in the early 1970's. After the "catch-up" phase, one
may reasonably expect growth to moderate at rates which, though not matching
the explosive expansion of the 1960's and early 1970's could lead to total
visitor days increasing at 8-10% p.a. in the late 1970's and early 1980's. In
the meantime, there are reports of very heavy bookings for the winter 1975/76
season. The liberalization of regulations governing air charters from the
United States, and the possibility of Advanced Booking Charters (ABCs) from points
in Europe, may also have favorable implications for the growth of tourism to
East Africa.
9.       In assessing Kenya's prospects, it is useful also to examine Kenya's
share of international tourist flows. The figures in the following table are
rough, and, indeed, overestimate Kenya's market shares. Of particular interest
are the relatively low shares from France and Gennany, two countries which are
expected to have faster growth of international tourists in the next 5 years
than most others. It would appear that a substantial potential still exists,
therefore, for Kenya's tourism to expand faster than total international tourist
flows.
(a)               (b)    1/
Total estimated    .Lepartures-
foreign holidays,  from Kenya         (b) as %
1973 millions     1973 thousands      of (a)
U.K.                      8.25                49.0          0.59
France                    6.3                  9.0          0.14
W. Germany               16.22/               36.3          0.22
bwitzerland               2.9jt/              17 0          0.59
Italy                     1.1-                13.74/        1.25
U.S.A.                    6.93/               52.0          0.75
Canada                    1.53'/               6.1          o.41
Japan                     2.3                  5.8          0.25
1/ Including multiple departures of visitors visiting other E. African
countries and then returning to Kenya.
2/ Swiss nationals.
3/ Overseas trips.
I/ 1972.
Sources: National Travel Surveys
Kenya Central Bureau of Statistics
1/ Average receipts per visitor and per visitor night have declined not only on
account of lower real prices, but also due to a reduction in the proportion,
if not absolute numbers, of tourists in the luxury category. This latter
change is to be expected, and is unlikely to be reversed.



ANMEX 2
Page 6
10.       Whether or not that potential will be realized depends, of course,
upon the provision of appropriate facilities at appropriate prices. Whether it
should be realized depends upon whether the benefits less costs of faster
expansion exceed those from slower expansion. The question of costs is dealt
with, in the context of the economic justification of the present project, in
Annex 9.  On benefits, it may be noted that tourist receipts are based upon
estimates of expenditures of tourists within the country taken from sample
surveys (see table below, and statistical annex table 10) plus estimates of
Kenya's receipts on account of payment for services by tourists (called 'pre-
payments' in the statistics).
Estimated
average expenditure in Nenya
per visitor night-/          1st. quarter 1975
Holiday     Business         Total, inc. transit
Country of residence:        KSh/night   Ksh/night                Ksh/night
E. Africa                  44.o        127.7                    75.0
U.K.                       56.2        150.7                    71.6
W. Germany                137.4        344.1                   143.8
Other Europe              120.8        163.2                   131.4
N. America                148.4        187.4                   163.4
All countries             103.0        145.0                   115.2
a/  Excluding payments for accommodation, park entry fees, and local transport
included in inclusive tour prices.
Source: Central Bureau of Statistics
Expenditures within the country vary considerably according to purpose of visit
and residence of visitor, which are in turn correlated with use of commercial
as contrasted with private accommodations and lengths of stay. Total receipts
from visitors are officially estimated at K. Shs. 530 million for 1974, as
compared to K. Shs. 486 million in 1973 and K. Shs. 546 million in 1972. The
figure for 1974 underestimates prepayments by perhaps K. Shs. 60 million to
K. Shs. 80 million, and actual receipts may have been around K. Shs. 600 million
in that year.
11.       There are no systematic studies of the price elasticity of demand for
Kenya and its competitors. Price may be a less critical factor in the choice of
a long-haul destination such as Kenya having a strong combination of attractions
that set it apart from the competition, than in the case of Mediterranean countries
offering very similar "products". As to Kenya's "price competitiveness", compari-
sons of prices offered by tour operators for different destinations are useful,
but reveal only part of the story. First, definition of the "product" is diffi-
cult in terms of the exact services offered (category of hotel, board arrangement,
extras included, length of holiday, etc.) and of the "attraction" offered: con-
sequently prices fall within a wide range, even for the same destination. becondly,
individual tour operators price their holidays according to their "marketing"
objectives, which may lead them to take losses on destinations where they have yet
to become firmly established, and raise margins correspondingly in destinations
or markets where they are dominant. Thirdly, pricing policy is influenced by the
extent to which marketing, transportation, and accommodation are integrated within



ANNEX 2
Page 7
one enterprise. Bearing all of these qualifications in mind, a recent comparison
of tour operators' prices for package tours from the main European market
countries to the Kenyan coast and to competitive beach destinations such as the
Indian Ocean Islands, West Africa, Mexico, the Caribbean, Sri Lanka, and
Thailand, showed that Kenya was competitive and even attractive. The tours to
other destinations which are "comparable" with tours to Kenya including visits
to game parks are more difficult to identify. For each night spent in a game
park, there tends to be an increase over the beach tour cost of $25   -   $33
per night. That is, these tours are considerably more expensive than simple
beach tours. For tourists who decide to purchase game viewing excursions after
their arrival in Kenya, the increase is even greater, since, depending upon the
number of persons in the vehicle, the exact parks visited, and the company chosen,
such excursions cost between $50 and $90 per night.
12.      Kenya appears to be in a rather favorable position as regards the air
fares charged for inclusive tour (IT) passengers on scheduled airlines. For
example, the cheapest IT fares in effect from November 1975 from three main
originating cities show that the airfare component to Nairobi is significantly
lower than for most selected competing long-haul destinations. This probably
accounts for the competitiveness of Kenya's tour prices noted above, since hotel
prices elsewhere are often lower than hotel prices in Kenya.
Index. Nairobi = 100
Cheapest IT 1/ fare November 1975
To:                     From:  Frankfurt      London        New York
Nairobi                                100          100          100
Abidjan                                116         119            66
Banjul                                l14          105           n.a.
Bangkok                                165         170           157
Johannesburg                           144         126           107
Montego Bay                            124         112           n.a.
Seychelles                             144         190           n.a.
Source: Airline Passenger Tariff
1/ These fares carry differing conditions for the minimum size of the
group, and the minimum duration of stay.
13.      Sound pricing policies are essential if economic benefits from tourism
are to be maximized. The Government controls the prices charged for services
provided by Government or parastatal or community agencies, such as National Park
and Game Reserve entries, and airport taxes. Prices of bar items are regulated
under the Price Control Act, and accommodation prices and published prices of
local tours are controlled by the Tourist Industry Licensing Office. Govern-
ment also influences other prices through its taxation policies.



ANNEX 2
Page 8
14.       With some minor exceptions, entry fees for Parks and Reserves remained
unchanged in current prices for 1968 to 1975, despite a rise in the cost of
living index (adjusted for exchange rate changes in Kenya's main tourist markets)
of 92% over the same period. Park and Reserve charges are not used to influence
visitor flows between different locations, nor between different seasons or days
of the week. Control of bar prices has lead to severe difficulties for hoteliers
in remote areas who cannot pass on heavy transportation costs. Introduction of
new taxes without adequate warning has disturbed the travel trade, which typical-
ly advertises and sells tours well in advance, and operates within tight margins.
Recognizing these problems, the Government intends to commission a study of
pricing issues throughout the industry.
Hotel and Lodge accommodation
15.       Kenya has one of the best1 eveloped hotel industries in Sub-Saharan Africa,
offering on an annual average basis_ some 17,600 beds in 1974. This capacity is
largely concentrated in Nairobi and on the beach, the latter having steadily
increased its share of capacity. (See Statistical Appendix, Table 5 .) The rapid
expansion of capacity at the beach has resulted in a slight fall in percentage of
bednights occupied, since new hotels typically need a few years to become firmly
established in the market, and since a surge of new capacity in 1973 and 1974
coincided with a slackening of demand growth in those years.
16.       Although not afflicted by the severe seasonal fluctuations of some
destinations, Kenya has a fairly pronounced seasonal pattern, with peaks between
mid-December and mid-April, and between July and mid-October, and troughs during
the rainy seasons of mid-April through June, and November. All weather roads,
special promotional efforts, and appropriate pricing policies may succeed in
further reducing the seasonality of flows.
Foreign visitor                               1974
departures, 1000  Jan.  Feb. Mar.  Apr. May  June  July  Aug.  Sept.  Oct.  Nov. Dec.
Holiday         37.7  29.2  29.5  26.9 15.0  17.2  27.0  31.8  25.1  22.9  24.2  23.7
Business         3.0   3.4   4.1   3.5  3.5   3.9   4.1   2.8   3.8   4.9   3.6   3.0
Transit          2.5   1.9   2.1   1.8  2.8   3.0   2.8   2.1   2.5   2.4   1.1   0.9
Total a/        43.2  34.5  35.7  32.2 21.4  24.0  33.9  36.7  31.3  34.3  28.8  27.6
Approx. SAF`-  1.33  1.17  1.10  1.02  .66   .76 1.04  1.13   .99  1.05   .91   .85
a/ May not add due to rounding
b/ Approximate seasonal adjustment factor: monthly daily occupancies * annual average
average daily occupancies
Source: Central Bureau of Statistics
1/  i.e., total bednights available per year 1 365. This underestimates physical
stock to the extent that some capacity is seasonally shut.



ANNEX 2
Page 9
17.       Analysis of monthly series of bednights occupied in all categories of
acccmmodation shows that seasonality of visits by non-residents of East Africa
is partly offset by that of East African residents. Hence, use by residents
has greater significance for the profitability of lodges than their share of
total occupancies would indicate. Overall seasonality (as indicated by the
size of the seasonal adjustment factor of the peak month), has not increased
over the period for which monthly data are available. In the "game areas"
(accammodations outside Nairobi, the coast and Westemn Kenya), seasonality
has declined significantly. This is at least in part due to the extension
of all-weather roads in Kenya, and in part also due to the increasing importance
of charter tourism.
Seasonality - Peak Month Season aJ Adjustment
Factor-a/, Bednights_
Non-residents of East Africa              Total bednights
In beach  In game      In         In beach   In'game
In all Kenya     hotels    areas      all Kenya    hotels      areas"
1969         148.0 (1)        178.5 (2)161.3 (1  130.9 (1)   168.5 (1)   142.0 (1)
1970         149.0 (1)        190.9 (1)160.1 (1  130.6 (1)   159.7 (1)   139.5 (1)
1971         140.1 (2)        185.3 (1)159.4 (2  131.0 (1)   160.3 (1)   138.0 (1)
1972         145.9 (2)        178.8 (2)1143.5 (2  130.6 (1)   159.9 (1)   132.2 (2)
1973         142.8 (1)        190.0 (1)146.4 (2  130.3 (1)   166.6 (1)   130.2 (2)
1974         145.9 (1)        183.7 ()W148.2 (2  131.4 (1)   166.7 (1)   129.9 (2)
a/  "Final unmodified seasonal-irregular ratios" of the U.S. Bureau of the Census
seasonal adjustment program. The peak month is indicated by its number in
brackets(e.g., 1 = January). The seasonal adjustment factor is the ratio of
occupancies in that month (corrected for days in the month), to a moving annual
average.
b/ In registered accommodation.
18.       Over the ten years between 1965 and 1974, the peak in total occupancies
has shifted from August to the winter, due to faster growth in demand from foreign
visitors tourism from East African residents. In economic terms, this means that
accommodating foreign tourists is now more costly than in the mid-1960's, when
growth could be accommodated in capacity installed primarily for residents,
but available at other times of the year.
19.       Figures are not available for the three main project areas for a long
enough series for such an analysis. However, the raw figures for 1974 reveal a
broadly similar seasonal pattern to that of the game areas as a whole.



AhI&d& 2
Page 10
1974
Foreign visitor    Jan.  Feb.  Mar.  Apr.  May  June  July  Aug.  Sept. Oct. Nov. Dec.
bednights, 'tOOO/
Amboseli             6.7  6.6   5.0   3.6   2.0   3.o   6.6   6.7  4.6   6.3   4.7  5.6
Masai Mara           5.o  5.4   3.6   1.5   1.4   2.6   5.6   5.2  3.9   1.9   3.1  4.4
Samburu              2.8  2.8   1.9   1.4   0.6   1.3   2.1   2.2  1.7   3.2   1.5  2.2
Total      b/      14.5 14.8  10.5   6.5   4.o   6.9  14.3  14.1 10.2  11.4   9.3 12.2
Approx. SAP-       1.32 1.49   .96   .61   .36   .65  1.30  1.29  .96  1.04   .88 1.11
a/  Accommodation included is Amboseli: New Lodge, Camp, Serena, 01 Tukai,
Masai Mara: Serena, Keekorok, Governor's Camp
Samburu: Game Lodge
b/ Approximate seasonal adjustment factor.
The Organization of Tourism
20.      Government responsibility for the sector has been vested, up to February
1976, in three institutions - the Ministry of Tourism and WEldlife (MTW); the
Kenya Tourism Development Corporation (KTDC); and the Trustees of the Kenya
National Parks (KNP). The main functional divisions of the MTW were between the
Tourism Department, responsible for licensing,national promotion,research, and
planning; and the Game Department, responsible for control of hunting, assistance
to County Councils in the management of the Game Reserves, anti-poaching activities
except in National Parks, and wildlife research. The Ministry of Finance and
Planning, in addition to its central role in setting priorities between and with-
in sectors, is also responsible for regulation of the industry through the Price
Gontrol Act. The KTDC acts as a development bank for tourist projects, and also
operates lodges of which it is an owner, and on behalf of others through a hotel
management company. The KTDC has special responsibility for Kenyanization of the
industry, through providing loans for the purchase of hotels previously owned by
non-Kenyans and finance for Kenyan tour operation (mainly loans for vehicles),
and for the renovation of hotels. KTDC also owns and operates (through a subsidiary)
the Bomas of Kenya which provides displays of traditional dancing and house-
types. The KNP are responsible for management of all Kenya's National Parks and
National Reserves. In addition, County Councils operate Game Reserves on Trust
land for which they are responsible, frequently with Game Department assistance,
and also participate in game lodge or self-catering accommodation ventures. Some
tourist resources are administered by the National Museum, such as the museums
themselves, Fort Jesus, the Gedi ruins, and the fossil sites. Apart from East
African Airways, the East African Community has so far played little part in
regional tourist activities, but it has a small Tourism Unit at Arusha, and it
is understood that the revival of regional East African promotion is under
consideration.
21.        The organization sketched above is changing with the coming into
effect of the Wildlife (Conservation and Management) Act in February 1976. The
Bill provides for the establishment of a single Wildlife Conservation and
Management Service (W)MS), within the MTW, to combine the functions of the Game
Department and the KNP.



ANNEX 2
Page 11
Govermnent policy
22.    Although the targets for the tourism set out in the 1974-1978 Development
Plan have had to be revised downwards substantially in the light of unforeseen
increases in petroleum prices and airfares, and economic problems in the tourist-
generating countries, the basic policies remain the same.  When the Plan was
written, too-rapid growth seemed a danger, and emphasis was given to seeking a
balance between maximizing economic returns at an orderly rate of growth, and
providing employment and investment opportunities for Kenyan citizens.  Tourism
is expected to become the country's main source of foreign exchange, as well as
a major modern-sector employer.
Future Potential
23.    International tourism is subject to many unpredictable influences.  The
broad lines of future development may, however, be sketched with some confidence,
provided it may be assumed that the destination remains politically stable and
sympathetic to the promotion of tourism, that government policies do not con-
strain either traffic movements or investment in productive capacity, and that
the market generating countries return to broadly similar trends in social
evolution, leisure patterns and growth in real per capita disposable income as
those that have prevailed prior to recent economic upheavals.
24.    It was recognized that the targets of the 1974-1978 Development Plan
(formulated in 1973) represented a rate of growth somewhat below that which was
at that time generally accepted as achievable. Nevertheless, some downward
revision in those targets seems appropriate. At the same time, it should be
stressed that, with the exception of one or two markets (mainly visitors from
the U.S. and other East African countries) Kenya has maintained tourist traffic
over the last years better than many other destinations. This may in part be
due to prices being largely frozen    (indeed Park entry fees remain at their
1968 level). Bookings for the 1975/76 season are very heavy, and seem to
indicate a return to steady growth.
25.    As with all long-haul destinations, the ability to tap large middle-
income markets depends on reducing the air travel component of holiday prices
to a minimum, which can only be achieved through charter operations with high load
factors and low overheads. Policy on charters has been somewhat restrictive in
order to protect East African Airways, and uncertainties regarding policy may
also have retarded the introduction of ABCts.
26.    The forecasts below are considered to be no better than reasonable
orders of magnitude in the light of the past development of the sector,
supportable assumptions about economic recovery in the main markets, and
consideration of the constraints imposed by capacity likely to be available in
1978. Rather strong revival is assumed in the North American market.



ANNEX 2
Page 12
5-Year                 Growth rate Grewth rate
Plan        Mission   1974-1978   1972-1978
Visitor days in                   Recorded       target      Projection       %           %
Kenya '000                      1972    1974      1978          1978        pa..        p.a.
Holiday visitors from:
North America                    670      552     1,734           980         15          7
U.K.                             709      601     1,313           860          9          3
W. Germany                       469      422     1,467           740         15          8
Other Europe                     676      909     1,291         1,590        15          16
Other, excluding E. Africa       568      643       832           870          8          7
Total holiday, non-E.Africa  3,092   3,127       6,537         5,040         13          9
Business   non - E.Africa        275      280       496           320          3          3
Transit, non - E. Africa          52       37       112            50          8          -
Total non - E. Africa         3,419   3,h44      7,245         5,41o         12          8
Total E. Africa               1,350      961     1,000           900         -2         -7
GRAND TOTAL               4,769   4,405      8,244         6,310         9           5
Source:  5-Year Plan, Ministry of Tourism and Wildlife and Mission estimates.
27.     Beyond 1978, there are a number of reasons for a generally optimistic view
to support the assumption of a return to steady growth. Kenya's assets are un-
paralleled: the tourist industry is solidly established: standards of service enjoy
a good reputation, and much infrastructure for tourist development is already in
place: and Government recognizes the importance of a soundly planned and expanding
tourist industry, and is pledged to its support.
Growth of demand for the project areas
28.     The assumptions underlying the projections of visitor bednights in the
project areas are given in Annex 10. These were checked against the exDected trend
in overall visitor arrivals to Kenya, and the likely distribution of the resulting
bednights between hotels and lodges as against other forms of accommodation, and
between game areas as opposed to Nairobi and the coast.
29.     Assuming that there will tend to be an increasing trend towards the use of
commercial accommodation, as against private houses and other alternatives; and
that the relative share of Nairobi and the coast of total commercial bednights
will decline somewhat as game circuits become better established, then the projections
used for foreign resident bednights in the project area are compatible with a modest
growth rate in total visitor days. Such growth rates are considered to be
conservative assumptions, provided no unforeseeable factor, such as a major epidemic
or political crisis intervenes.



ANNEX 2
Page 13
"Best Eat.iate" Ebdnights by Non-residents of E. Africa
in Hotels and Lodges '000
1972    1975     1980     1985      1990
Amboseli                                      48.0    48.2      90.7     154.1   266.5
Masai Mara                                    32.0    38.1      71.8     122.0    179.2
Samburu/Buffalo Springs/Shaba                 13.5    21.1     48.5       91.6    134.6
Total                                     93.5   107.4    211.0      367.7    580.3
Bednights by non-residents of
E. Africa in hotels and lodges,           a).1718   2225       3269      4804    7058
all Kenya 1/                              b) 1718   2225       3583      5771    9294
Bednights by non-residents of E. Africa
in project areas as % of total for        a) 5.4%   4.8%       6.4%       7.6%    8.2%
all Kenya                                 b) 5.4%   4.8%       5.9%       6.4%    6.2%
1/  Bednights by non-residents in all Kenya projected at (a) 8% p.a.,
(b) 10% p.a. from 1975
Sources:  1972 occupancies in Project Area - Central Bureau of Statistics
and Samburu County Council
Hunting and Consumptive Wildlife Utilization
30.       Kenya can appeal to many special tourist markets, such as the naturalists,
fishermen, ornithologists, and archaeologists. The hunting market represents an
opportunity which is under-exploited. That few individuals participate, is clear
from the table below:
Jan-June
1973     1974          1975
1/
Game licenses  issued to:
residents                       916      976            501
non-residents                   731    1,371            470
Total                     1,647    2,347            971
1/ An individual may hold more than one license. Game Department figures
show 835 non-residents holding licenses in 1974.
Source:  Game Department
Per capita expenditures are high, however, and non-resident hunters contributed over
E 2 million to Kenya's foreign exchange receipts in 1974.



ANNEX 2
rage 14
31.       In addition, Government's hunting revenues have not been insignificant,
and taken together with proceeds of sale of trophies, have enabled the same
Department to make a net contribution to the Government's budget in each of the
last four years (see below). In this, the Department has a much better record
than National Parks, which are still receiving subsidies on recurrent and
development account.
Kr '000
1970      1271      1972       1973     197h
Revenues           1/
Hunting licenses-            172        262       350        468       423
Trophy sales apd permits     114        176       400        300-/     483
Capture fees4J                 5         10        15          8        14
Total revenues               291        448       765        776       920
Expenditures5/                  1969/70   1970/1   1971/2    1972/3    1973/4
Recurrent  6/                 291       335       465        505       548
6evelopment/                 113         83       158        208       212
Total expenditures           404        418       623        713       750
Surplus (deficit)               (113)       30       142         63       170
1/  Excludes fees paid to County Councils and to landowners for animals actually
shot. Controlled area fees collected by Game Department were 1138,836 in
1973 and 1126,288 in 1974. The decline was due to the ban on hunting of
elephant by hunters. Main reason for increase over time is increasing fees
rather than increasing numbers of licenses issued.
2/ Provisional estimates of revenues.
3/ This was a year of record exports of ivory, but this was carried out by
private firms and normal Government ivory auctions were not held.
4/ Fees for capture of animals for zoos and research.
3/ Estimates. In fact, development estimates are usually underspent and
the expenditures here therefore overstate the costs and understate the
surpluses.
6/ Excludes Government grants for development of County Council Game Reserves.
Sources: Kenya, Economic Survey, 1975, and Estimates of Current and
Development Expenditures 1969/70-1973/4.
32.       Kenya attracts an infinitesimal share of the 16 million U.S. hunting
license holders reported by the U.S. Fish and Wildlife Service in 1974. In
many states, acute pressure on wildlife resources is developing and hunters
are having to travel further afield, at high cost, in pursuit of their sport.



ANNEX 2
Page 15
33.      Kenya's potential for attracting an increasing number of hunters from
Germany seems promising. German controls on hunting licenses - only 250,000
being currently issued for the whole of W. Germany, and stringent regulations
on hunting concessions and their high cost, effectively put hunting beyond all
but the few. Moreover, game habitats within reach of major towns are
frequently crowded with excursionists. The opportunities to hunt the largest
species, such as elk, are extremely limited, and reserved in many state
forests for only highly privileged guests.
34.      Kenya offers excellent opportunities for bird shooting, a sport which
is becoming increasingly expensive and hard to get in Europe. Bird shooting
safaris, which do not involve contact with dangerous animals, nor the use of
heavy rifles, are simpler to organize than game hunting, and could provide
another means whereby Kenya's attractions for the foreign visitor are enhanced,
and the Kenyanization of the hunting profession accelerated. Bird shooting is
now popular mainly with residents, but there seems to be considerable potential
for increasing government revenue from bird licenses above the K. Sh. 57,000
in 1974.
35.      For Kenya to tap these markets, new methods of safari operation will
have to be evolved, and the numbers of professional hunters qualified to lead
plains-game hunts greatly increased. This may provide significant employment
opportunities for Kenyans from the pastoral areas, thus reducing dependence
on subsistence pastoralism. Promotion of this business also presupposes the
continued existence of large wildlife herds, the negotiation of appropriate
concession agreements with landowners, and a soundly based system of harvest
quotas. Hunting agreements have been successfully made on a pilot basis
in the Kajiado District, under the UNDP/FAO Wildlife Management Project. The
Wildlife Planning Unit, to be established under the project, will draw on
this experience, and will have a critical role in ensuring an orderly expansion
of soundly conceived hunting programs.
Fisheries
36.        The project includes the construction of a Training Institute,
primarily for staff of the Ministry of Tourism and Wildlife, which is responsible
for sport and commercial fishing.
37.        Kenya's lake, river, and deep-sea and farm fish-pond fisheries can
probably contribute much more than they do both to food resources and to
foreign exchange earnings through recreational fishing, although the potential
is far less on a per capita basis than in Uganda. Kenya is currently a net
importer of fish and fishery products. Marine catches declined sharply in
1974, just over 3,000 tons being landed, as compared to 7,411 tons in 1972.
Landings of freshwater fish, mainly from Lake Victoria, have steadily increased,
to over 25,000 tons in 1974.



Annex 2
Page 16
38.        More research is needed to establish the potential, and it appears
that some early estimates, notably for the commercial fishing of Lake Rudolf,
were much too optimistic. Commercial fishing is mostly by traditional methods
which are highly labor-intensive, and it appears that the number of people
engaged primarily in fishing for a livelihood is rapidly increasing. A major
problem has been excessive off-takes, and non-observance of regulations o?
mesh sizes of nets, and seasons designed to protect breeding areas. Improve-
ments in the enforcement of these rules are to be sought partly through training
of staff so that they are better able to educate fishermen on the rationale
for regulations, and partly through expansion in staff members.
39.        Possibilities for sport fishing seem promising, but have not yet
been systematically evaluated. Fishing for trout in the rivers, for Nile
perch and tiger fish in Lake Turkana, and black Bass and Tilapia in Lake
Naivasha, and for marlin, sailfish, wahoo and kingfish and shark in the Indian
Ocean, has long been popular with residents. Fishing competitions at the coast
attract entries from all over the world, and there is a steady demand from
holidaymakers at the beaches for fishing expeditions. Many of the trout
streams have suffered from neglect and poaching, but could be readily reha-
bilitated with appropriate staffing.
40.        It is expected that the Naivasha Training Institute will play an
important role in enabling Kenya to realize her fisheries potential.



ANNEX 3
Page l
KENYA: WILDLIFE AND TOURISM PROJECT
GAME PARK/RESERVE IMPROVEMENTS, AND PARKS HEADQUARTERS
General
1.      The project areas are shown on map IBRD 11845R.  Both Amboseli and Masai
Mara are part of well-established tourist circuits linking them with other game
viewing areas in Kenya and Tanzania, and already attract substantial numbers of
visitors. The Samburu, Buffalo Springs, and Shaba Reserves are more remote,
although road access to them is now good. In time, these three Reserves
are expected to develop as a key attraction on what is known as the 'Inner Northern
Circuit', which embraces the Aberdares and Mount Kenya National Parks, Meru National
Park and with suitable improvements, the Mathews/Ndotos range, Maralal, Marmar, and
Lake Bagoria. Lake Rudolf is situated in the remote and arid north, and access
will continue to be by air for most visitors or a hardy few travelling in convoys
of four wheel drive vehicles.
Game Park/Reserve Improvements
A. Amboseli
2.      Situated beneath Mount Kilimanjaro, Amboseli provides a great diversity
of animal species in a magnificent setting. Rising visitor numbers have led to
damage by vehicles of the fragile vegetation area, and harassment of animals.
These have reached serious proportions, requiring urgent management action if the
tourist assets are not to be irreparably damaged. Amboseli has, however, been
the subject of continuing research in the problems of tourist and wildlife manage-
ment, which provide a sound basis from which to plan for its regeneration, and
for the maintenance of substantially higher volumes of visits with a better
standard of amenity.
3.      The items to be financed under the project include the construction of an
estimated 300 km of game viewing tracks, which will be designed both to minimize
ecological damage, and to raise the Park's visitor capacity through the creation
of new circuits having minimum intervisibility. Three improved entrance gates
would be provided. A small museum to provide visitor information and facilities
for conservation education, together with a caretaker's house would be constructed.
Vehicles for the transport of Parks staff would be provided, together with a
kerosene tank trailer, which would be used for habitat management through fire
control.
4.      A Parks Headquarters complex would be built at Kimana  outside the Park
boundary, to provide senior staff housing, 107 junior staff houses, and 57
subordinate staff houses. There would also be social services, including a
primary school and dispensary. An administrative headquarters would be provided,
together with vehicle maintenance facilities.
1/ Two alternative locations, Kimana and Lemongo, are being studied.



ANNEX 3
Page 2
B. Masai Mara
5.      The Masai Mara National Reserve is situated in Southern Kenya on the
border with Tanzania between Lake Victoria in the West and the Rift Valley
in the east. It abutts on the Serengeti National Park in Tanzania and
consists of some 1,500 km2 of grasslands, woodlands and wooded and forested
hill with acacia communities as the dcainant vegetation over the greater part
of the region.  The general elevation of the region is 5,000 ft. (1,600 a) above sea
level with hills rising to 6,500 ft. (2,000 m). The Mara River rising on
the Mau Massif is an important feature, being bordered by a superb gallery
forest.
6.      The Reserve forms part of the Serengeti ecological region (or eco-
system), lying within the migratory range of the enormous herds of wildebeeste
and zebra which spend the greater part of the year in the Serengeti Park and
the Ngorongoro Conservation Area. In most years some 500,000 wildebeeste and
100,000 zebras enter the Reserve in the months of August, September and
October (in dry years in July) and return to the Serengeti Plains to the South
with the first rain in October or November.
7.      In addition to the great herd of migratory wildebeeste and zebra, the
Mara is the habitat of considerable number of resident large mammals including
elephant, buffalo, topi,, hartebeeste, impala, Grant's and Thomson's gazelle,
black rhino, hippotamus, waterbuck, lion, and also herds of zebra and wildebeeste
which migrate seasonally to dispersal areas to north and east of the Park.  The
abundance and diversity of wildlife in the Mara Reserve compare favorably with
the best National Parks in Africa and provide an outstanding spectacle.
8.      The Reserve is situated 400 km. by road from Nairobi which places it
at the outer limit of an acceptable daily trip for tour operators and about an
hour flight by light aircraft.      With three excellent lodges (one a tented
camp), it is one of Kenya's main tourist attractions. It lies on a main visitor
circuit of Southern Kenya and northern Tanzania and its development should be
considered in conjunction with parallel development in Tanzania so that an un-
obstructed flow of visitors can be achieved. Nevertheless, provision exists
in the Mara for a local circuit which is independent of the Tanzania circuit and
which connects up with the Lake Victoria region, the Rift Valley and the Mau
Massif in Kenya. A new connection with the Nairobi circuit via the Nguruman
Escarpment and Lake Magadi in the Rift Valley, presently a remote region of out-
standing natural contrasts and tourism potentials, would provide one of the most
spectacular routes in the world. It is intended that some of the funds for
studies under the project will be allocated to assessing the feasibility of this
development and carring out design studies.
9.     Extensive improvements are proposed for the Masai Mara National Reserve,
including tracks, gates, signposts, and vehicles. This would be complemented
by a headquarters complex outside the reserve at Migwara,   providing
64 junior and 57 subordinate staff houses, plus senior staff housing. The Head-
quarters would also have common facilities similar to those for Amboseli, but
in addition it would provide for a tented camp for up to 50 laborers.



ANNEX 3
Page 3
C. The "Inner Northern Circuit"
10.     Most game-viewing in Kenya has taken place in Nairobi National Park and
on the southern Tsavo, Amboseli and Mara circuits, with links through Tanzania.
Mount Kenya, the Aberdares, and Lakes Naivasha and Nakuru, all to the north of
Nairobi, have also been long established as tourist attractions. If Kenya's
tourist traffic is to expand, "new" circuits must be developed to provide more
capacity and a greater variety of attractions. The clearest priority is for
the so-called Inner Northern Circuit, which is already for the most part easily
accessible by all-weather road from Nairobi.
11.     The "circuit" is better described as a collection of attractions within
one area, since there are many possible alternative tourist itineraries that
can be arranged. The extent to which visitor amenities are developed varies
greatly, ranging from famous attractions such as Treetops and the Mount Kenya
bafari Club, to newly gazetted game reserves which are as yet virtually untouched
by any form of development.
12.     The main attractions of the "circuit", or attractions that are reached
en route to it, include:
- the Aberdares National Park. Only 100 miles from Nairobi, the Park
has dense forest, spectacular scenery, and a variety of game. East
Africa's first game viewing lodge, Treetops, is located here. The
project provides for some extensions to the system of game proof
barriers in the Aberdares.
- the Mount Kenya National Park is some 20 miles to the east of the
Aberdares, and provides a variety of scenery, wildlife, and the
opportunity to scale the country's highest mountain (17,000 ft.).
- Meru National Park spans the transition between the lush mountain
parks and the arid north. The Park offers an attractive variety
of scenery and wildlife, and tourist traffic is building up to a
significant level since the opening of a catered lodge in the Park.
- Shaba National Reserve has recently been gazetted. The Reserve is located
in a barren area, to which animals are drawn by the vegetation surround-
ing seven major springs. It has no facilities as yet, other than gates
and ranger accommodation still under construction. The reserve covers
some 130 km2, including some 34 km of the south bank of the Uaso Nyiro
river. Potential sites for a lodge and bandas have been identified
for future consideration as traffic builds up, and a network of tracks
passable by two-wheel drive vehicles will be needed. The reserve
complements the Samburu and Buffalo Springs reserves which lie a few
miles to the west.
- Samburu and Buffalo Springs National Reserves lie on opposite sides of
the Uaso Nyiro river which forms the boundary between the Isiolo and
Samburu County Council jurisdictions. They are administered jointly
by the two Councils, and together make up one wildlife viewing area.
There is a game lodge in the Samburu Reserve overlooking the river,
and self-help bandas in Buffalo Springs Reserve. The wildlife
attractions are largely concentrated along a narrow riverine
strip, where the present limited track system results in serious



ANNEX 3
Page 4
congestion during peak periods, even though total visitor numbers
are still small.
Marmar Ranch.  This ranch is currently in private ownership, but
negotiations are under way for its acquisition by the Livestock
Marketing Division of the Ministry of Agriculture.   When acquired,
LMD would expect to exploit the ranch for tourism use as well as
livestock.
Occupying some 200 km.2, Marmar has considerable
diversity of habitat, including savannah grassland, dense ever-
green shrubs, and an extensive riverine and lava scarp with mixed
grass and acacia bushland, including a number of springs and dams.
Marmar carries the Kenya hartebeeste, an attractive animal unique
to Laikipia, as well as high densities of groups zebra, eland,
buffalo, etc. If the dispersal areas on the Leroghi plateau and
in the forests of the Karissia Hills are also taken into account,
the Marmar area represents a tourist resource of high potential.
For this potential to be fully realized, game conservation manage-
ment, including appropriate agreements with landowners on newly
adjudicated ranches, has to be extended to the dispersal areas.
Located between the Samburu/Buffalo Springs/Shaba reserves and
Lake Baringo, it also forms a convenient departure point for
attractions to the north such as Maralal, Marsabit, or Lake Turkana.
Development of Marmar would greatly increase the number of alterna-
tive tourist itineraries - one calculation showing over 30 addition-
al routes made possible through the addition of Marmar. The
improved road to Lake Baringo and thence Lakes Bagoria and Nakuru
will ensure that Marmar secures a large flow of visitors, always
provided that the basic resource is sensitively developed.
- The Mathews/Ndoto ranges offer spectacular scenery within reach
of the Samburu-Maralal road. In the future, an access road would
provide the opportunity to develop safaris and treks in "wilderness"
surroundings.
- Maralal is situated in the Samburu highlands near Marmar, and
offers an invigorating climate and fine scenery. The Game Sanctuary
located very near the town contains a simple lodge. The Samburu
culture is highly colorful, and of interest to many visitors.
- Lake Bagoria will become more readily accessible from Maralal by a
spectacular scenic drive under planned road improvements. An alkaline
lake with hot water geysers on its shoreline, populated seasonally
with large numbers of flamingos and some bush and game species, and
surrounded by rugged escarpments which seem to isolate it from the
rest of the world. This lake provides a complete contrast to the
neighboring freshwater Lake Baringo, which supports fish and
crocodiles. Jonathan Leakey's serpentorium is located here, and
there is a small lodge.



ANNEX 3
Page 5
13.     The project would provide for the construction of viewing tracks at
Samburu/Buffalo Springs/Shaba, but is essential that detailed plans are drawn
up for each reserve before any major new program of track construction starts.
Four entrance gates would be provided, with accommodation at each. The airstrip
would be given a gravel surface.   Tentage  and equipment would be provided
for road gangs. The project would further provide for two landrovers, a truck,
and a car, for the use of reserves staff.
14.     A Headquarters complex would be built at Archers Post, situated on the
main Nairobi-Marsabit road, between Samburu/Buffalo Springs and Shaba to serve
the staff of all three reserves, and to improve social amenities for the
existing population. 65 Junior and 40 intermediate staff houses would be
provided. A tented camp would be provided for up to 50 laborers, and a school,
dispensary, community hall, administrative headquarters, and a vehicle workshop.
D. Lake Turkana
15.     Lake Turkana (formerly Lake Rudolf), lies in the remote arid north of
Kenya's  if t Vailey system.  250 km. long and a maximum of 56 km. wide,
it is the largest alkaline lake in the world. It is fed from the highlands of
western Kenya and Ethiopia, through the Kerio, Turkwell, and Omo rivers. It has
no outlet, though once connected to the Nile. The lake supports great variety
and numbers of birds, and is famous also for its crocodiles and huge Nile perch.
There is abundant wildlife along its eastern shore. Most visitors find the
lake exceptionally beautiful, and a spectacular experience unlike anything else
in Kenya.
16.     The scenery and wildlife alone would justify the gradual development of
Lake Turkana as a tourist attraction. But near to the present shores of the
lake lies one of the largest and most important prehistoric sites yet known in
Affrica. The discovery there of the remains of earliesti man and of countless
extinct animals, and evidence of technology going back about 2.6 million years,
has been given wide publicity, and an active international research program
continues.
17.      Some 1,500 km.2  on the eastern shore of Lake Turkana were gazetted
as a National Park in 1973.
18.     The paleontogological explorations at Lake Turkana are being supervised
by the National Museum authorities. The National Museium has established one
permanent camp at Koobi Fora, four temporary camps, and a number of tracks and
airstrips to give access to the excavation sites. As of 1974, some 70 people
were employed there, including 28 scientists. The National Parks employ about
50 staff at Lake Turkana, and is building a permanent headquarters a few miles
north of Koobi Fora.
19.     Very few visitors reach the eastern shores of Lake Turkana at present,
and accommodation there is limited to the hospitality of the National Museum
and National Parks. Some visitors make the trip by boat or air from the lodges
on the western shore.



ANNEX 3
Page 6
20.    Although the visitor volumes to Lake Turkana are expected to remain
small for the foreseeable future, the wide international interest created by
the discoveries there will bring an increasing demand for travel to the area.
However, uncontrolled touring of the fossil sites, and the possible pilfering
or accidental destruction of fossils and artifacts cannot be allowed. The
project therefore provides for the demarkation of boundaries of the archaeological
area, site exhibits, signposts, a workshop, and water supplies. Two landrovers,
two trucks, and a water tanker would be provided for the Parks/Museum staff.
Museum staff.
Road Construction and Maintenance Units
21.    The project would provide equipment for three road construction and
maintenance units, to be based in the areas of Amboseli, Masai Mara and Samburu/
Buffalo Springs/Shaba, and would also finance operating costs for 4 years. Each
unit would consist of two bulldozers, two motor graders, a front-end loader, four
tractors, three four-wheel trailers, loader and blade attachments, one twenty-
ton low-load trailer, ten six-ton tipper trucks, two twelve hundred gallon water
tankers, two vibrating compactors, a concrete mixer, a landrover, tentage and
other equipment. Great importance is attached to the preparation of detailed
parks and reserves plans which would govern the use of this equipment, and ensure
that the roads and tracks to be built are designed in accordance with ecological
and tourist management considerations. No disbursements under the loan for the
oDeratina costs of each unit would be made until a detailed Dlan for the relevant
area had been prepared by the Wildlife Planning Unit and reviewed by the Bank,
and unless the unit were used to construct roads according to those olans.



Annex 4
Page 1
KENYA: WILDLIFE AND TOURISM PROJECT
WILDLIFE AND FISHERIES TRAINING INSTITUTE
1.       The Institute, to be built near Naivasha, will provide basic training
for new junior staff, and rangers and scouts of the Wildlife Conservation and
Management Service and the Department of Fisheries; it will upgrade existing
staff, and provide a variety of specialized courses for assistant wardens and
fisheries officers at the senior level. These departments had a combined
establishment of 3,169 persons in 1975, and no regular formal training program.
The Institute will therefore fill an important gap. In addition, the Institute
will provide formal training for guides and mechanics, and for driver/guides
from the private sector.
2.       The Institute will lay special emphasis upon courses designed to
enable Government staff to deal effectively with local populations in areas
where game and/or fisheries may yield substantial returns. Government officers
in these resource management departments have two principal relationships with
local populations: that of enforcing regulations against poaching, overfishing,
etc., and secondly, that of extension agents, advising and assisting local
inhabitants to incorporate wildlife/fish into their ranching/farming activities.
To a large extent, effective enforcement depends upon public understanding of
the purposes of regulations, and hence on extension education. In the past,
many game and fisheries staff have not understood these issues, nor have they
had much practical knowledge of local agricultural and ranching practices.
The Naivasha Training Institute is expected to play a major role in filling
this specific need.
3.       The schedule of acccmmodation to be provided, the initial enrollment,
and the curricula of courses to be provided, are preliminary and tentative.
They have been worked out by the Game Department, Kenya National Parks, and
the Department of Fisheries. Architectural consultants, experienced in the
design and supervision of a very similar facility recently built near Nairobi,
were retained by the MTW for preliminary design and engineering. The Bank's
appraisal team included a consultant whose experience included running the
College of African Wildlife Management in Tanzania. Nevertheless, detailed
designs will only be finalized when the governing body of the Institute has
been appointed.
Relationship to Other Training Institutions
5.       The College of African Wildlife Management (CAWM), Mweka, Tanzania,
provides technical and subprofessional training in a two-year diploma course
and a one-year certificate course. It accommodates about 75 suitably qualified
students from most English-speaking countries in Africa. Kenya normally sends
about eight or ten, divided approximately equally between the diploma and
certificate courses. A prerequisite for the certificate course is a "school
certificate" or its equivalent. A lst-class Diploma from Mweka normally
qualifies the recipient for admission to universities in East Africa.  Diploma
holders normally join the KNP or GD I/ as assistant wardens, and certificate
holders enter these services as game assistants.
1/ KNP and the Game Department were merged, as of February 13th, 1976, in the
new Wildlife Conservation and Management Service.



Annex 4
Page 2
6.       At present Mweka cannot train more than half the wardens that
the Kenyan Government needs to staff an expanded system of parks and
reserves and keep pace with the training of new scouts at the Naivasha
Institute. The demand for places at Mweka from other African countries is
steadily increasing, and unless accommodation can be expanded it seems
likely that the number of places for Kenyans will be reduced even further.
It may therefore be necessary to consider a supplementary course for wardens
at Naivasha, which would raise the question of withdrawing all Kenyans
from Mweka rather than dividing the students. In view of the lack of a
reasonable prediction of Mweka's capabilities in three or four yearts time,
it is not now possible to foretell the exact future demands to be placed
on it. Plans for the Naivasha Institute should therefore be flexible
enough to make room for a warden's course if necessary. In any event,
the Institute should include a course for wardens covering Kenya's policies,
laws, administrative practices, etc. This may reduce somewhat the need
for training of wardens in aspects of law enforcement at the Police College,
Kiganjio.
7.       A small number of students take degree courses in wildlife manage-
ment and related subjects at universities in North America and Europe and
return to take up professional appointments in the Kenya Game Department
and national parks. The small Pansiani School at Mwanza in Tanzania offers
the only formal instruction for junior wildlife conservation staff in East
Africa.  It trains game scouts for the Tanzania Game Jivision, and it is
unlikely that the Government of Kenya would wish to make use of it.
Fisheries
8.       A Fisheries Training Institute has been proposed for some time.
The planned combination of wildlife and fisheries training affords economies
as compared to establishing two separate institutes. The proposed site of
the Institute, at Lake Naivasha, is appropriate for fisheries training,
supplemented by the use of existing facilities on the coast.
A. Organization
9.       The great majority of students at the Institute will be govern-
ment employees, staff of the Wildlife conservation and Management bervice.
But courses are to be offered for private sector employees, and the
nature and quality of training given to government wildlife staff will
be a matter of concern to ranchers in the dispersal areas, game lodge
operators, and indeed the tourist industry at large. If, as is currently
proposed, the Institute be set up as a purely government training institution,
then a system has to be established whereby non-governmental interests can



Annex 4
Page 3
have an appropriate say in its curricula, staffing, and management. It should
also be accepted as a principle that commercial enterprises benefitting from
the training, including public enterprises such as game reserves, should
contribute to the Institute's operating costs.
10.          An alternative arrangement under consideration by Government is
the establishment of the Institute as a statutory body, with a Governing
Counci] broadly on the lines of the Egerton Agricultural College. Under
such an arrangement the Council would be empowered to approve curricula and
regulations, employ and dismiss staff, administer funds, select and dismiss
students, set and mark examinations and grant legplly valid certificates of
competence to successful students. The Council would be the legapl custo-
dians of the Institute's facilities. It could sue and be sued and would
elect and dismiss members within the legally established framework. Members
of the Council would for the most part be ex-officio representatives of
organizations to be specified in the lw and suggested initially by the
Minister of Tourism and Wildlife. There would also be provision for indi-
vidual membership in the case of certein benefactors.
12.          The following organizations, among others, might be considered
for membership on such a Governing Council, if established:
- The Ministry of Tourism and Wildlife
- Wildlife Conservation & Management Service
- Fisheries Department
- The Ministry of Natural Resources
- The Ministry of Agriculture
- E.A. Agriculture & Forestry Research Organization
(E.A. Community)
- Department of Zoology and Botany, University of Nairobi
- Kenya Farmers' Association
- Authorized representatives of:
- dispersal area landowners
- commercial fishing enterprises
- hunting, safari, and tour operators
- the hotel industry
- National and International Conservation Organizations.
Ministerial Responsibility
13.          The Institute would  be  the  responsibility  of the Minister
of Tourism and Wildlife who would be responsible for obtaining
the necessary funding from or through the Kenya Government. The Council
(if established), would be able to solicit funds from donors for particular
needs of the Institute. All fund-raising activities would be coordinated
with those of the Wildlife Fund Trustees. 1/
1/ Established under the Wildlife (Conservation and Management) Bill, 1976.



Annex 4
Page 4
Selection of Students
15.          Candidates should be chosen by a Selection Board which would
use interviews, examinations and physical tests to select students in every
way suited to undertake the course of instruction. Women would be as eligible
as men for selection, and the physical facilities of the Institute are to be
designed to enable women to be increasingly accommodated as their employment
in the sector grows.
Examination Board
16.          The Principal of the Institute would be responsible for select-
ing examiners.
Legal Status of Certificate
17.          It is suggested that the Institute be empowered to grant legally
recognized certificates of competence to successful students and that the
signature of the Principal of the Institute (and Chairman of the Governing
Council, if established) be necessary to validate each certificate issued.
The certificate should be distinguished from the Mweka subprofessional diploma
and may be issued for various grades.
Financing
18.      The Institute would be built and equipped by the Government. Assistance
in the financing of recurrent costs would be sought from official and private
agencies having an interest in the sector.   Formulae shall be evolved whereby
the full recurrent costs of the Institute shall be recovered, on the principle
that enterprises benefitting commercially from the training program bear an
appropriate share of such costs.
The Physical Facilities
19.          The Institute is to be sited on about 1,200 has. of land approxi-
mately 1 miles southeast of Naivasha town, on the low plateau above the first
ridge to the east of Lake Naivasha. It is bounded by a road and a railway.
20.          The building complex would occupy about 500 has.  The remainder,
including a steep rocky escarpment, would be set aside for small demonstration
herds of game animals. There is a possibility that about one third of the
site, at the western end, may be needed for the Trans-African Highway, as shown
in the Naivasha Development Plan of 1974. This would not affect the planned
buildings but would reduce the area proposed for game ranching.



Annex 4
Page 5
21.        The main part of the site is about 120 m. above the Lake with
magnificent views across the Lake westwards to the Mau Escarpment, northwards
along the Rift, and a glimpse of the peak of Longonot over the ridge to the
south. The terrain is covered with shrubs and grass, with some rock break-
ing the surface and local small gullies and undulations. The site slopes
gently upwards from north to south and more steeply downwards to the west.
The provision of water, sewerage and electricity presents no difficulty.
22.        The building complex, designed to blend with the landscape, will
include the following facilities: laboratories and lecture rooms, assembly
hall, offices, museum and library, common rooms and dining rooms, kitchen,
hostel accommodation, sports facilities, workshops, stores, garages, staff
housing and appropriate site works.
23.        At Lake Naivasha there will be a fisheries-processing building,
stores, fish ponds and a jetty.
Administration
Principal:                           The field of experience of the Principal,
and his academic discipline is less
important than his proven ability as an
administrator. He should, however, have
experience of resource management, which
might heve been in agriculture, fisheries,
forestry, wildlife, or livestock. Proven
skill in the handling of public relations
would be an asset.
Vice-Principal/Adviser:              The Vice-Principal fwbuld also be an
experienced administrator, whose back-
ground should complement that of the
Principal. If the Principal has a strong
background in resource management, this
will be less of a requirement for the
Vi^e-Principal, and conversely.
The selection of both Principal and Vice-Principal would be made after
consultation with the Bank.
Bursar/Administrator:                 The Bursar should have substantial
exnerience in the administration of
similar institutions.
The administrative staff would be completed by an accountant,
secretaries, typists, and clerical officers (estimated at 12 in total).



Annex 4
Page 6
Lecturers and Instructors
24.       The definition of the teaching staff, and the qualifications
needed for each post, would be the responsibility of the Governing
Council.  It is expected, however, that teachers will be mostly
graduates having some years practical experience in East Africa, and
qualified in zoology, botany, biology, natural history, resource management,
ecology, hunting, geology, law and administration, extension services, civil
engineering, veterinary science, fishery technicues, fish marketing, etc.
There will in addition be a need for vehicle and boat maintenance, field-
craft, firearms, and drill instructors. It is estimated that around 20
lecturers/instructors would be needed.
Support Staff
25.       Provision would be made for museum, audio-visual, and photographic
technicians, and a librarian. Other support staff would include telephone/
radio operators, armorers, sports officers, gardeners, drivers, and some
40 junior staff.
Recruitment
26.       The Principal and/or the Vice-Principal should be appointed about
18 months prior to the expected opening of the Institute, and provided with
a small secretariat. Recruitment for all posts would be based initially on
responses to advertisements in Kenya, with the possibility of recruitment
of expatriates for any posts for which suitably qualified Kenyans are not
forthcoming. To the extent that posts are funded from external assistance,
recruitment would follow the practices normally used by the Government and
the institution concermned. All posts are expected to be progressively filled
by Kenyans.
27.       It is expected that the curriculum could be divided into four main
categories:
I Syllabus for scouts, rangers and assistants
II Advanced courses including education (largely used for guides)
III Fisheries courses
IV Seminar courses
Category I would be a regular course for about 55 rangers and scouts divided
into four classes and lasting 22 weeks. A very similar course also lasting
22 weeks would be run for park assistants who have not had the benefit of
formal training but who need to be brought up to at least the same level of
proficiency as the scouts and rangers.
Category II would be a series of advanced courses for wardens and prospective
conservation education officers, and where appropriate, fisheries officers.
These subjects wo-uld be largely administrative and organizational.



Annex 4
Page 7
Category III, fishery instruction, is sufficiently specialized to need a
curriculum of its own and several specialized instructors to teach it.
Category IV covers unspecified seminars and refresher courses that would be
organized on an ad hoc basis when a special need arises. It nould reach a
wide range of people such as teachers and administrators with some contact
with wildlife, ecology, land use, planning and fisheries and could be used
to disseminate information on wildlife conservation. Short instructional
courses could be held for senior school children perhaps in cooperation with
the Wildlife Clubs of Kenya, who have already done much to publicize career
opportunities in wildlife management.



Annex h
Page8
Recurrent Expenditure - Annual Estimates
(Provisional)
K L
A. Teaching expenses
Books, equipment, ammunition, stationery, etc.                10,000
B.  Workshops & vehicles & boats                                      12,000
C.  Building & grounds maintenance                                     2,000
D. Domestic & general expenses
Outstations, medical, uniforms, electricity,
gas, catering, food and messing expenses                       30,000
E.  Aircraft                                                           5,000
F.  Fish processing                                                    2,000
G. Administrative expenses
Salaries                                                       75,000
H. Office and service expenses
Equipment, stationery, postage, telephone,
audit bank charges, shipping and forwarding,
legal expenses, insurance                                      10,000
I. Staff training expenses
Conference and seminars, research grants and
publications                                                    1,000
J.  Miscellaneous and contingencies                                   16,000
ANNUAL RECURRENT GRAND TOTAL                       K E 173,000
The above preliminary estimates have been adapted from those of the College
of Wildlife Management for 1975/76 and adjusted for additional students.



Annex 4
Appendix
Page 1
WILDLIFE AND FISHERIES TRAINING INSTITUTE
KENYA: WILDLIFE AND TOURISM PROJECT
ANALYSIS OF ACCOMMODATION AND EST1ATED COSTS
(Note: Areas shown are total building areas
including circulation and walls.)
2
F U N C T I O N                                              m         m
TUITION
6 classroom to accommodate up to 25 students                   312
2 laboratories, one for 25 students, one for 15
students, including a store and an office                165
2 group/seminar rooms                                           75
Toilets                                                         30
Total                 582       KL 45,000
AIMINISTRATION
Principal                                                       25
Secretary                                                       12
Waiting and information                                         25
Vice-Principal                                                  20
Administrator/Bursar                                            15
Secretary                                                       12
Accountant                                                      15
Accounting Office                                               30
4 Typists                                                       30
10 teachers' offices, each accommodating  2 teachers           140
Conference/teachers' room                                       25
Telephone and radio room                                        10
Printing room                                                   15
Stores - stationery, books archives                             25
Visual aids store                                               12
Tea and cleaner's room                                          10
Toilets                                                         10
Circulation                                                     50
Total                 L81      KU 37.000
COMMUNAL FACILITIES
I2ining facilities for 250 people                              350
Kitchen for 250 x 3 meals a day, including cold
stores, stores, equipment, counters, etc.                   180
Students' common room                                          100
Assembly/lecture hall for 300 people including foyer,
stage, projection room, adapted for activities such
as: lectures, conference, cinema, theatre,
ceremonies, etc.                                            450



Annex 4
Appendix
Page 2
_                                          ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~2
F U N C T I O N                                            m         Kt
COMMUNAL FACILITIES (continued)
General shop (newspaper, magazines, stationery,
toiletry, etc.)                                 40
Entrance area and circulation                                  50
Toilets                                                        30
Total              1,200       Kt 105,000
MUSEUIM/'ERBARIUM
Main hall/aquarium                                             60
Herbarium                                                      15
Workshop and store                                             75
Trophy strong room                                             15
Trophy store                                                   50
Office                                                         10
Entrance and circulation                                       15
Visual aids-darkroom                                           12
Studio/Workshop                                                20
Of fi ce/store                                                 12
Toilets                                                         6
Total                290      KU  24,000
LIBRARY
for about 5,000 volumes including shelving.
Main reading hall for 50 students                             100
Book store/binding                                             25
Entrance lobby                                                 15
Office                                                         10
Total                150      K1  15,300
STUEENTS' HOSTEL
6 single story blocks, total 75, double study/
bedrooms and service facilities (sitting room,
toilets, kitchenette, showers, stairs, washing
room, etc. for 150 students                               1,050       Kh  78,700
Single story block comprising 25 single study/
bedroom and service facilities for postgraduate
students                                                    300           23,500
Total              1,350      Kt 102,200



Annex 4
Appendix
Page 3
FUNCT ION                                                   m         KB
STAFF HOUSING
Senior staff
1 Principal house, 5 rooms                                150
1 house, 5 rooms                                          120
10 houses, 4 rooms each                                 1,000
8 houses, 3 rooms each                                    560
Subtotal              1.830        KB 118,400
Junior & Subordinate Staff
15 houses, 3 rooms each                                 1,050
20 flats, 2 rooms each                                    700
Subtotal              1,5750       KB  93,600
Staff common room/kitchen                                   100             7,500
Servants
12 flats, 2 rooms each                                    360            16,600
Total            4,o4o       KL 236,100
MEDICAL UNIT
Doctor's office                                            15
First aid room                                              15
Sick bay for 6 (3 x 2) beds                                 40
Medical Store                                              10
Servery                                                     6
Entrance hall and  irculation                               20
Total              106       KL   8,600
FISHERIES FIELD STATION
(on a site to be determined on shore of Lake Naivasha)
Boatyard:   Workshop                                       100  )
Engine room                                    20  )
Fuel store                                     12  )   KB   7,500
Office                                         12  )
Teaching facilities:
Laboratory                                     50  )
Classroom 25 students                          50  )   KB   9,600
Toilets & showers                              15  )



Annex 1
Appendix
Page 4
F U N C T I O N                                           m          Ki
FISHERIES FIELD STATION (continued):
10 houses for subordinate staff, 2 rooms each            350            13.500
Total areas                 609
8 concrete lined fish ponds, each 12 x 18 m
and .3 to 1. meters deep                                            15,000
Pontoon/Jetty 50 m long                                                   2,700
Slipway 50 m long x 3 m long                                             2,100
Concrete hardstanding 30 x 18 m                                          3,800
Sewage system - septic tank, etc.                                        8,000
External work4 landscaping, roads, and electrical
services, say                                                        18,200
Fish processing building, open industrial type            230            8,600
5% contingency                                            4 500
Total                        -          KX  93,500
SERVICE FACILITIES
Boiler plant room and boilers                              30            7,200
Main electrical switchboard room and 50 kw
standby generator                                      20             8,800
Laundry and store and equipment                          100            14,400
General stores (housekeeping, furniture, etc.)            150            7,500
Water storage tank 100,000 litres                                        2,700
Maintenance workshops                                      60            3,000
Maintenance engineer's office                              25            1,200
Armory:                                                                  4,200
Arms store                                             12
Workshop                                               15
Office                                                 12
Entrance hall and counter                              15
Vehicle workshops:                                                      13,300
Service sheds, concrete paved                         150
Covered car park, tarmac paved                        150
Tools store                                            15
Mechanic office                                        12
Aircraft hangar 10 x 12 m at the Naivasha airstrip
light weight structure, tarmac paved                  120             1,700
Total                       886        Kt 67,000



Annex 4
Appendix
Page 5
F U N C T I 0 N                                        m           EE
SPORTS/PHYSICAL TRAINING
Football/athletics/parade pitch 120 x 80 m                                19,130
Swimming pool - for teaching
and leisure 25 x 10 m                                         17,800
1 basketball/volleyball/badminton court                                    6,900
Squash court                                            60                 4,500
Toilets, shower                                         20                 2,400
Dressingrooms                                           20                 1,500
Sport store                                             15                   960
Sports officer's office                                 12                   770
Total           127           Kh 54,100
(Rifle range included in "external works"; a site
is available against an escarpment)
EXTERNAL WORKS
Tarmac access roads about 800 m long and 6 m wide                         24,600
Tarmac parking for 30 visitors cars                    750                 4,400
Fencing all around the compound 3 km long                                 13,200
Main gate and gatehouse                                                    1,800
Footpaths                                                                  3,300
Service yards for kitchen plant rooms and stores       800                 4,400
Animal enclosure (about 2 acres)                                           2,200
Infrastructural Services:
a.  Water supply                                                       26,800
b. Electrical supply                                                    5,500
c.  Telephone supply                                                   2, 800
d. Sewerage and disposal ponds                                        45,000
e.  Stormwater drain                                                   4,400
f.  Security lighting                                                   5,500
Landscaping, planting and gardening                                       11,000
Signboards/notices, etc.                                                   1,100
Total                         Kh 156,000
LOOSE FURNITURE AND FURNISHINGS
(including cutlery, bed linen, curtains, etc.)
Total                          KE 66,000



Annex 4
Appendix
Page 6
F U N C T I O N
EQUIPMENT
Teaching equipment,maps, diagrams, calculators, cash
registers, visual aids, projectors, etc.                                 8,400
Library books - 1,000 volumes                                              7,200
Office equipment:
4 typewriters, printing machines, filing cabinets etc.                 6,ooo
Photography:
Cameras and lenses, darkroom enlarger, etc.                             4,200
Radios                                                                     7,200
Camping equipment: - tents for 75 people, sleeping bags, etc.             10,800
16 m/m cine projector                                                      1,200
Fishing gear                                                               2,400
Miscellaneous, spares, etc.                                               6,100
Total                        Kh  53,500
TRANSPORT
4t Landrovers                                                             19,600
10 lorries 4 x 4                                                         125,000
2 buses for 40 people                                                     15,200
1 airplane                                                                10,000
2 10 passenger boats  with outboard motors,
2 service dinghies                                                       8,000
Spares                                                                    17.200
Total                        Kh 201,000



Annex 4
Appendix
Page 7
SUMMARY OF ESTIMATED COSTS + PHYSICAL AND PRICE CONTINGENCIES
I t e m                                                 m2   Kh Cost
Tuition                                                        582           45,000
Administration                                                481            37,000
Communal facilities                                         1,200          105,000
Miiseum/herbarium                                              290           24,000
Library                                                       150            15,300
Students hostel                                             1,350           102,200
Staff housing                                               4,040           236,100
Medical unit                                                   106            8,600
Fisheries field station                                        839           93,500
Service facilities                                             886           67,000
Sports/Physical Training                                      127           54,100
External Works/Infrastructure                                               156,000
Loose furniture                                                             66,000
Equipment                                                                    53,500
Vehicles, etc.                                                              201,000
Total of items:   Base line cost                K1  1,264,300
Physical Increase                                                           159,500
Price Increase                                                             553,700
Sub-total, Contingencies                                      Kh   713,200
Professional services:
Design                                                                129,400
Supervision                                                            80.900
GRAND TOTAL                                            Kn 2,187,800



ANNEX -5
Page 1
WILLIFE FLAMNNIG UNIT
A. Objectives
1.      The Wildlife Planning Unit (WPU) will draw up detailed management and
development plans, and assist in implementing Government policy in parks, reserves
and the wildlife areas more generally. Functions of the WPU will be to:
(a) draw up financial, ecological, economic and tourism objectives
and priorities for each of Kenya's parks and reserves and for
the system as a whole;
(b) prepare a management plan for each park or reserve. These
plans would be approved by the Ministry of Tourism and Wild-
life and the authority directly responsible, as for example,
the County Council;
(c) monitor the implementation of the management plan for each
park or reserve, though final responsibility will lie with
the warden. Once accepted, each plan will be strictly adhered
to but there will be specific procedures for review and amend-
ment to meet changing needs or circumstances;
(d) collect and collate data on livestock and wildlife in the dispersal
areas, survey attitudes of ranchers, and assist in negotiating
agreements with landowners on the continued access of wildlife to
their land. WPU personnel will discuss the fundamental problems
with responsible authorities, interpret current Government
proposals, and act as a bridge between local inhabitants and the
Government;
(e) make the financial analyses necessary for Government management
of reserves and assist with negotiations of agreements with
County Councils;
(f) collect and collate statistics relevant to park and reserve
planning, including management-related surveys on behavior and
preferences of tourists in the wildlife areas;
(g) make recommendations on pricing policy of parks and reserves,
including concession fees; and also upon economic aspects of
consumptive wildlife utilization (hunting, cropping, game ranch-
ing, animal capture, etc.).
(h) prepare, with the wardens, estimates of capital expenditures
consistent with the long-term plans for each park, reserve
and dispersal area;
(i) prepare proposals for financial support of wildlife projects
by donors;



Annex 5
Page 2
(j) formulate terms of reference and supervise consultants' studies
on tourism development in wildlife areas; and
(k) in the initial phase, train Kenyan Government personnel.
2.       The initial priorities of the WPU will be the parks, reserves and
dispersal areas for which financing is being provided under the project.
3.       Thereafter, the Unit will extend its attention to other Parks and
Reserves in Kenya, and to planning wildlife programs more generally.
B. Organization
4.       The WPU will be located administratively within the Planning Department
of the MTW.  The WPU will, of course, cooperate closely with the Conservation
and Management Service (WCMS). It is possible that the WPU will be adminis-
tratively located within the WCMS after initial experience with the above
organization.
5.       It is expected that the biologists, ecologists and systems analyst
of the Kenya Rangeland Ecological Monitoring Ujit (KREMU) will provide data
and other inputs for the WPU. The Cartographic Section of the WPU will also
serve the KREMU. The engineer in the Project Management Unit will advise
on standards of roads and other physical structures within parks and reserves.
The WPU will make surveys of visitors using parks and reserves and may under-
take more thorough analysis of some statistics collected byihe Central
Bureau of Statistics.
C. Staffing
6.       It is proposed that there be about 16 man years of senior experts
on contract during the first four years of operations. Professional Kenyan
staff are 4 initially, rising to 8 within 5 years, at which point the unit
should be handling all wildlife planning questions. Sub-professional staff
come to 20 persons.
7.       The project would finance an expatriate economist for four years
in the MTW Planning Department. Their Planning Officer would deal with a
range of non-wildlife tables which come under the responsibility of the
Ministry.
8.       It is proposed that the first head of the WPU be an economist
familiar with financial analysis and experienced in land-use planning,
preferably in range areas. He should be supported by a graduate in economics/
business administration. The unit should contain a senior ecologist and one
graduate in ecology as well as a senior physical planner. An experienced
cartographer will be needed to establish the Cartographic Section to serve
the WPU, the KREMU and the research division of the Wildlife Service.  To



Annex 5
Page 3
incorporate the attitudes and practices of local people in wildlife manage-
ment and ensure that plans are understood at the local level, the WPU will
include a senior extension agent for its first 2 years and one graduate
assistant. In addition, the WPU would have a budget amounting to 6 man-
months per year for hiring short-term consultants in specialized fields.
The Bank would wish to be consulted on selection of the head of the WPU and
the deputy to the Senior Planning Officer.
9.       Below the professional level, there will be a need for 4 statistical
clerks, two draftsmen, and one personal secretary. Three copy-typists will
be required initially, with one more when the personal secretary leaves the
project at the termination of the contract of the initial project head. Three
drivers, two messengers and a clerical officer complete the staffing.
10.    In estimating costs, it is assumed that all senior experts are expatriates.
Should suitably qualified Kenyans be available for some of these posts, the costs
would be correspondingly lower. It would appear, at least for the extension
agent posts, that suitable Kenyans may be available. In order to ensure that
the WPU is fully operational before the departure of the contract personnel, it
is proposed that the project head and deputy to the Senior Planning Officer
remain in place for four years, and the other experts for two or three years.
11.    The Government of Kenya intends to seek grant finance for specialized
professional training of Kenyans in the WPU, once detailed needs for such training
are identified.
D. Studies
12.    The WPU will be unable to carry out all planning activities connected with
the development of wildlife-based tourism in Kenya. It will also be necessary,
from time to time, to employ consulting firms for master-planning and feasibility
studies. The project includes provision for K Sh 3.1 million ($436,ooo) for major
studies - related to future tourism projects in the wildlife areas. It is proposed
that the WPU assign priorities to the studies under consideration and formulate
terms of reference, but it is expected that first priorities will be planning
studies for the development of the Nguruman and Lamu/rana River areas. Duiring
the life of the project the Bank would approve terms of reference and consult-
ants selected to carry out any studies costing more than K Sh 150,000.
1/ In addition to the study of large herbivores (Annex 8).



Annex 5
Page 4
E. Costs
13.    The costs of the first 5 years of operation of the WPU are detailed in
Annex 1, Table 2.12. Initial capital costs are low largely because the Unit
will function more effectively if it shares quarters with the WOMS. The Carto-
graphic Unit may be conveniently located elsewhere, and room may be found with
the UNDP/FAO Wildlife Management Project in the short run and perhaps with
KREMU in the longer run. Total capital and recurrent costs, including allowance
for price increases, are estimated at K. Sh 15.3 million (US$ 2.1 million), of
which US$ 1.2 million would be in foreign exchange.
F. Implementation
14.    The early operation of the WPU has great importance for the implementation
of the &ldlife and Tourism Project. Several project components cannot proceed
until agreements have been worked out with County Councils or local landowners
and detailed plans drawn up for siting of particular facilities. It is essential
to create posts in the WPU for the Kenyan personnel in time for the commencement
of the project and to find suitable personnel for the contract positions in
advance of loan effectiveness. It is therefore recommended that appointment of
the head of the WPU be made a condition of effectiveness, and that retroactive
finance be available for these positions should they be filled before effectiveness.
G. Functions and Qualifications of Staff
Head of Planning Unit: Economist
15.    His function will be to direct overall operation of the unit, carry out
economic and financial aspects of park plans.
16.    He should be experienced in land-use planning and capable of understanding
and securing the collaboration of personnel with different disciplinary back-
grounds. He should understand financial analysis and have some experience in a
developing country, preferably in Africa. Ideally, he will have had experience
in a university, as a consultant, and in Government service.
Ecologist
17.    His function will be to insure that all ecological information is taken
into account in making park plans and negotiating with landowners in dispersal
areas.
18.    He should preferably be familiar with range ecology, the nature of pastoral-
ism, ranching and the biology of African wildlife. He should have knowledge of



Page 5
statistics in order fully to exploit the information from the Kenya Range and
Ecological Monitoring Unit and define necessary minor surveys to complete park
plans. He should be capable of dealing with biological and ecological
researchers to ensure that research programs reflect management needs and
that research results are applied as quickly as possible. He must be prepared
to apply his knowledge and skills to economic and social objectives as well as
purely ecological or conservationist ones.
Physical Planner
19.   His function will be to assist with formulating the physical aspects of
plans, taking account of tourist preferences (including the demand for amenity)
and ecological constraints.  He will work out detailed alignments of roads and
ensure that the technical aspects of all physical developments (roads, lookout
points, lodges, etc.) are consistent with the objectives of the Park.
20.   The physical planner will preferably have had experience with many
different types of facilities and areas and be able to find solutions to what,
in the case of African parks, are in many ways new problems.
Cartographer
21.   He must be an experienced cartographer, well-qualified in the field of
air photogrammetry. He should be able to set up and organize a new unit from
scratch, and train his successor and required draftsmen.
Extension Agent
22.   The main functions of the extension agent will be to carry out such
surveys as are necessary for a thorough understanding of the role of wildlife
in the values and economy of the dispersal areas of each park and reserve and
then to ensure that this knowledge is taken fully into account in the formulation
of plans and in the terms of agreement sought between local landowners and authori-
ties regarding wildlife. He will also play a direct role in discussing proposed
plans with inhabitants of the areas around the parks and reserves, an extremely time-
consuming function which will require the agent to spend most of his time in the fie]d
23.   He should be experienced in carrying out social surveys in difficult
conditions, familiar with pastoral societies and motivated toward development
rather than academic explanations of past social patterns. Ideally he should be
experienced in negotiating development projects with pastoral peoples and
extremely patient in his approach. He should also be prepared to spend consider-
able amounts of time ensuring that the views of the local people are understood
by other members of the Planning Unit and Government administrators and taken
fully into account as the plans evolve. The extension agent should have some
knowledge of the economy of pastoralism as well as of modern ranching, and be
prepared energetically to remedy any gaps in his background at the earliest
opportunity.



ANNEX5
Page 6
Deputy to Senior Planning Officer
24.   He should be an economist with the ability to analyze projects and
policy problems from both an economic and financial point of view. Ideally
he should have varied experience in academic institutions and research, govern-
ment, and consulting on business. He should also be interested in the possi-
bility of training other members of the Planning Division in their tasks.
25.   For all these posts, age should not be equated with experience.  The
problems involved in resource planning in the wildlife areas are extremely
complicated and demand solutions unique to each case.  A strong ccmmand of
methods and ability to engage in quantitative analysis of problems are prefer-
able to extensive experience with wildlife management problems in other parts
of the world. Personnel should be chosen who are still in the early or middle
part of their careers, rather than those who would regard the assignment as
an interesting final post before retirement.



Annex 6
Page 1
KENYA: WILDLIFE AND TOURISM PROJECT
GAME-PROOF BARRIERS
1.        The project includes a component of K Sh 19.3 million (US$2.4
million, including contingencies) for construction or reconstruction of about
500 km.of game-proof barriers to keep wildlife from conflicting with
adjacent land uses when the value of both wildlife and the other uses
justifies the expense. When the expense is not justified, other measures
of game control, such as thunder flashes or occasional shooting are used.
2.        Table 2 indicates the locations of the barriers, the agencies
responsible for their construction and maintenance, the length of existing
barriers and identified major stretches that are proposed to be reconstructed,
or constructed under the project, the land uses on both sides of the barriers,
and notes on location. Provision is also made for a number of other short
stretches in scattered locations, principally in Narok, estimated to come to
around 150 km. in total.
Justification of Barriers in the Project
3.        Data is lacking on the amount of damage caused by game in different
areas and the cost effectiveness of different methods of curtailing this
damage. The collection of reliable information would be more expensive than
the investments would justify, although the study on policy on large herbi-
vores under the project will include estimates of elephant damage in some
areas. Decisions on where game-proof barriers are justified should rely
largely on the judgment of the departments concerned, whicn is based on
years of experience in dealing with the problem.
4.        The columns in the table showing wildlife and non-wildlife uses
indicate the crops being protected from game damage on the one hand and the
types of wildlife revenues being protected from incursion by agriculture on
the other. It should be noted that most of the exotic forest shown is
currently indigenous. The aforestation process includes first the clearing
of areas and the cultivation of maize and potatoes mainly by migrant small-
holders, then the plantation of exotics. The construction of moats is
therefore desirable from the earliest stages of the exotic aforestation
process.
Institutional Responsibilities for Barriers
5.        Game barriers abutting gazetted forests and national parks have been
normally constructed and maintained by the Forest Department of the Ministry
of Natural Resources and the Kenya National Parks respectively. Barriers
elsewhere have been the responsibility of the Game Department. The two latter
responsibilities are How to be merged in the WOMS.



Annex 6
Page 2
Technical Description and Costs
a) Game Moats
6.        Moats are constructed where elephant and rhino are important,
although they also serve to contain other species. They consist of a trench
6 feet deep with a bottom width of 2 feet and a top width of 8 feet. A
sloping bank on the game side permits animals to escape should they fall
into the moat, and the material dug from the trench is piled in a mound on
the cultivation side. The moat is covered with brushwood so that animals
are unable to see the bottom and are thus deterred from entering it.
Where animals are especially dense and in river gullies, moats are
reinforced by a fence either on top of the mound on the cultivation side or
in the middle of the trench; sometimes cedar pilings reinforce the sides of
the trench.
7.        Game moats are constructed by contractors who employ local labor.
Payment is per kilometer of moat completed. The current price is around
K Sh 20,000/km, although this varies with the difficulty of the terrain.
Fencing or pilings required are supplied by the department contracting the
work.
8.        The re-digging of some moats is included in the project to repair
the effects of erosion or repeated broaching by animals. It consists mainly
of implanting cedar posts and filling the area behind them to create stronger
walls.
b) Game Fences
9.        Fences are constructed to prevent access by the game species of
the plains. A fence consists of 11 strands of wire (galvanized, high-tensile
steel, 10 gauge, 7 tons per square inch) on posts set at 40-yard intervals
in concrete bases, with droppers every 8 feet, and straining posts i mile
apart. The cost of material was estimated (July 1975) at K Sh 30,000/km.
Construction by casual labor under the supervision of game wardens adds
K Sh 2,000/km to the cost.
10.       The costs of the barriers  identified for inclusion in the project are
set out in Table 1. The foreign exchange cost of moats includes transport of
workers and tools. In the case of the fences, it covers the cost of the wire
and transport.
Maintenance of Barriers
11.       Barriers are, in principle, patrolled by rangers of the Department
responsible, and repairs are carried out by casual labor under the supervision
of the warden responsible for the area. Adequate maintenance requires appro-
ximately one casual laborer per kilometer of moat per year. This comes to



Annex 6
Page 3
K Sh 1,800 in payroll with an additional K Sh 200/km for tools, cedar posts,
etc., for a total of K Sh 2,000/km per year. In the 1975/76 estimates of
recurrent expenditures, only K Sh 44,000 is provided explicitly for main-
tenance of game-proof defenses, all for the Game Department (including
defenses outside the project). Maintenance costs for much of the Department's
defenses and all the Parks and Forest Department's are covered by various
allocations for boundaries, dams, casual labor, etc.  Maintenance therefore
is often inadequate because other work is given priority. This results in
a reduction of the protection afforded by the barriers and also much higher
eventual costs for repair than continuous maintenance, particularly of moats.
12.       Barriers must be adequately maintained in future.  Consideration
was given to setting up specialized units with a senior ranger in charge of
transport and casual labor exclusively for moat maintenance in particular
areas. Given the extreme difficulty of the terrain, however, plus the fact
that most of the moats successively pass through areas under different
forest or game stations, it would seem that the existing allocation of
responsibilities is likely to achieve the best results if sufficient funds
are available. Assurances were obtained during negotiations that
(a) the recurrent estimates for each station responsible for moats within
the project area should include an item for their maintenance,(this has
been the case    only for the Game Department) and (b) the amounts should
equal at least K Sh 2,000 per kilometer (in 1976 prices) of moat for which
that station is responsible.
13.       Implementation of this condition would imply the budgetary alloca-
-tions given below for the current year (1975/76) and the year of com-
pletion of the project for moats included in the project. It is to be
noted that several other moats surrounding particular forest plantations
are not taken into account here.



Annex 6
page 4
Table 1: RECURRENT COST OF IDENTIFIED GAME BARRIERS IN THE PROJECT (At K Sh 2,000/km)
1975/76      Cornletion of Project
K Sh '000          K Sh '000
Aberdares
Forest Department                            26                 102
Game Department       )
Kenya National Parks )                      188                 294
Mount Kenya
Forest Department                           216                 410
Meru
Kenya National Parks                          8                 134
Shimba Hills National Reserve
Kenya National Parks                          _                  50
Narok
Game Department                               _                  80
438              1,071



annex o
Table 2:    LAND USES PROTECTED BY IDENTIFIED BARRIERS                                                                   Page 5-
GAME PROOF BARR ERS                        WILDLIFE USES              NON-WILDLIFE USES           POPULATION          TYPE OF BARRIER.
DENSITY
Loc-ation                   Sta us                                                                       (POP/KM2)
Aberdares   _    GO   3/94  30   5/53  8/14  1. Sport hunting                  1.  Smsallholder             2   Nrh
F D   9/13           25138 34/    2. Aberdares National    agriculture (coffee,             100 (East)                 MOAT
1974 Visitors - 39,973 gardening (potatoes,
beans, cabbages).
2. Exotic Forest
plantations (up to
3,5004-in East)
Mt. Kenya         -    FD   '2/10E  8   65197 137/_
205   1.  Sport hunting            1.  Exotic Forest            20+ (West)
2.  Mt. Kenya National  Plantations (up to
Park.                  6,000  in South and
1974 Visitors - 8,151    up to 2,000  in North)
2.  Smaltholder             150  (South)
Agericltres   (a           -400  (East)                MOAT
Meru             -   KNP   .3|4    _   0163 53167  Meru National Park
1974 Visitors - 21,418   Smallholder agricultul       e  20  (North)
_           P .                      wh(maize, wizsb, millet       50 (est
beanans, cabgsugr)nc .
to west of park (rapi and growving
population increases)   raptdly).                      MOAT
and mission
agricultural schemes
to North and East of
concentrating on
bananas  and maize
Shfinba Ni1ll
-  KNp1      -      _  20/25 20/25  Shiamba Hills National
Reserve
1974 Visitors - 11,119  Settlement schemes:
cashems, maize               50+                       MOAT
Narok              -  CD      _    _   30/40 30/40  1.  Sport hunting               Masal  wheat schemes.          7+                       FENCE
2.  Dispersal area of
Masai/Nara
1974 visitors:  n.a.
TOTAL:                      147/    38  225/  372/
219         3 16    535
a)  Figure above the stroke refers to length of barrier on e:50,000 scale maps.
Figure below stroke makes allowance for  4op addition in case of defenses
on Mt. Kenya and ia the Aberdares, and 25% elsewhere due to hilly terrain and
serpentine alignments.
b)  These are figures which will eventually  be  planted.  Much of the area is now
indigenous forest.



Annex 7
KENYA: WILDLIFE AND TOURISMI PROJECT
THE WILDLIFE CLUBS OF KENYA (WCK)
1.        The WCK is a non-governmental association of member clubs,
established in secondary schools throughout Kenya. It is supported by
grants from the MTNW, and foundations such as the African Wildlife Leader-
ship Foundation (AWLF). and the Elsa Fund.
2.        The WCK were founded in 1968 for conservation education, a
program at that time unique in Africa. There are now 275 clubs in secondary
schools and colleges throughout Kenya, including some in very remote areas,-
with a membership of over 12,000. The WGK's objective is to educate the
young generation of Kenyans, and through them their parents, about the
value of wildlife and the need for its conservation. Membership has now
been extended to those no longer in school on an individual "associate"
basis, and it is hoped ultimately to extend the program to the primary
schools, of which there are some 7,000.
3.        The WCK publish newsletters, bulletins, booklets, run a radio
prograrm, organize seminars and a series of field courses, and oDerate a
mobile film unit that visits some 60 schools each term. A mobile library
unit was purchased in 1971 with funds provided by the World Wildlife Fund.
4.        The great success of the WCK is due to the support and interest
of thousands of Kenyans and tends to refute the widely held view that
Africa's wildlife is mainly of interest to non-Africans.  Moreover, the
enthusiesm stimulated by 'the WOK for wildlife conservation may bring a
wider understanding of the broader issues of conservation of natural
resources. Hence, the WCK have a part to play in efforts towards reversing
the trend toward large-scale ecological degradation. The WOK's emphasis.
on the possibilities for worthwhile careers in wildlife conservation is
expected to encourage good candidates for the Naivasha Lnstitute and a
lower dropout rate.
5.        The project provides for some limited assistance to the lWildlife
Clubs of Kentya by financing the purchase of three 40-seater buses to take
members to game-viewing areas. Their cost is estimated at K Sh 27,400
(US$68,100) including contingencies, of which some 80% (US$54,400) is estimated
as being in foreign exchange. The Chairman of the WCK has indicated that the
World Wildlife Fund and the AWLF would each donate $10,000 per annum for
operation and maintenance of these buses.   Daring negotiations, assurances
Vere received that the lovernment would ensure that the WCK receive adequate
resources for this purpose.



Annex 8
Page 1
KENYA: WILDLIFE AND TOURISM PROJECT
DRAFT OUTLINE OF A STUDY ON THE MANAGEMENT OF VERY LARGE HERBIVORES
IN KEN YA
A. Background
1.         The very large herbivores -- the rhino, the elephant, and -bhe
buffalo -- are economically important to Kenya in terms of the returns they
yield and the damage they cause. They conflict more with the rising human
population and other land uses than do most other species and account for
most of the human injury and loss of life due to game. Elephant and 'auffalo
are particularly destructive of field crops, and the buffalo is also a carrier
of bovine diseases.
2.         The high economic benefits that the very large herbivores 'vlh) now
yield would be even greater with more rational and intensive managemrerLt. Gross
revenues to Kenya from wildlife viewing alone are probably at least L 15 mil-
lion annually. Sport hunting is also highly profitable in spite of the pre-
sent ban on elephanT and rhino. 1/ Non-sport hunting of these species also
yields high returns. Tn 1973 Kenya's share of the $50 million international
ivory trade probably amounted to around $8 million. The meat and hides of
vlh could also be utilized to yield economic returns and help relieve the
protein deficiency in local communities.  Because both the rhino and elephant
are valued as trophies, they are killed even when this is inconsistent with
optimal utilization and land use, and the rhino is currently a threatened species.
3.         Very large herbivores exhibit some biological and ecological
peculiarities that require special management attention.  The elephant, for
example, tolerates a wide range of environmental conditions and is more broadly
distributed than other species.  It places more pressure on its habitat than
any other spe^ies except man, and because its population processes work over
externded periods, errors in stocking rates take a long time to correct. Present
ev-idence indi-ates that the distribution of elephants varies considerably with
long term (100 and more years) cycles in rainfall and primary production.
Management plans must therefore take explicit account of the dynamic interactions
of populations, their habitats, climatic conditions, and rates of utilization.
4.     Alth.ough there has been consiaerable research on very large herbivores in
recent decades, this has not been coherently analyzed for management purposes and
moreover some of it is subject to considerable controversy. The formulation of
specific management proposals will also require additional informatiorn on the exist-
ing status and distribution of the resource, the extent of conflicts between very
large herbivores and other land uses in different parts of Kenya, and on the size
and organization of markets for different products. The Government of Kenya has
therefore decided to commission a study by independent consultants to collate exist-
ing informatior on the very large herbivores and their utilization ano to carry out
such further ecological, economic, marketing, and social studies as may be necessary
to miake detai]ed practical proposals for the future management of this resource in
,enya .
1L ihe recernt bar, on elel-hant, hunting in Kenya has resulted jit a substantial rise
TIn bcokin-s tcr safaris in other African countries, especiall the 6uaan :nri
boz'0-swan<;.



ANNEX 8
Page 2
5.      The Consultants will  identify possibilities for integrating
management of other species with that of the large herbivores, particularly
in areas where long-term management of the vlh would appear to be a suboptimal
use of land, but where returns from other species might justify their continued
survival. The proposals by the consultants are to be prepared in the form of
feasibility studies sufficiently detailed so that immediate implementation will
be possible if they are accepted by the Government. Within 12 months of receipt
of the report, and after discussing the report with the IBRD and the consultants,
the Government intends to formulate and implement definite policies for the
management of the large herbivore resource.
B.  Objectives of the Study
6.      To review all existing information on the elephant, rhino and buffalo,
their ecology, biology, distribution and economic costs and benefits in Kenya.
7.      To carry out additional inquiries necessary to define the existing
situation of these animals and their utilization.
8.      To make proposals for the management of each population of vlh in Kenya
including the monitoring, the organization and development of production, the
marketing of their products, and the measures to be taken in areas where the v1h
are in conflict with other land uses.  The proposals should include recommendations
on the allocation of costs and returns of exploiting the resouice.
9.      io identify priorities for further management-related research on vlh.
G. .co-pe of Consultantst Services
10.     The consultants shall investigate the markets for "consumption" of very
large herbivores (sport hunting, cropping for meat and other trophies, live
arnnaI capture). irn the course of this work, they shall:
(a) attempt to quantify the volumes and the prices of each main product,
and describe the uses of products, and the channels of production and
distribution in Kenya and abroad;
(b) forecast possible future markets;
(c) evaluate past consumptive utilization, including the extent of the
"harvest", the efficiency of utilization, the quality of the products,
and the amount and distribution of returns;
(d) make proposals for more efficient use of vlh in the future, including
the processing and marketing of products, pricing formulae to be
employed, fees to be levied by the state and returns to be paid to
landowners, regulatory arrangements, staff training, etc.
11.     The consultants shall assess the importance of particular populations for
non-consumptive utilization (wildlife viewing) but rely mainly upon Government
estimates of future market potentials for tourism.



ANW EX 8
Page 3
12.     The consultants shall specify the conservation or scientific
objectives which would be served by maintenance of each population identified
or maintenance of certain of its characteristics.
13.     The consultants shall identify the existing vlh populations in Kenya
which may suitably be managed as units. For each, the consultants shall:
(a) describe the seasonal migration patterns, size, age and sex
structure of each population and recent changes in these
characteristics;
(b) describe its present utilization and;
(c) indicate conflicts with existing or proposed land uses, anid
estimate damage caused;
(d) provide some explanation of past changes in population
characteristics;
(e) provide forecasts of the future size and structure of each vlh
population under alternative assumptions about land use and
utilization patterns. The consultant shall formulate a basic
model of population growth and structure which can be used to
simulate population changes on different hypotheses about
climate, levels of predation, population density, and identify
the mininum population which represents the threshold for
continued viability or extinction;
(f) make recommendations for its future management, including
technical modifications possible in the development of other
land uses to accommodate the vlh, use of game-proof barriers, etc.
1l.     The consultants shall evaluate the importance of the large herbivores
for sport hunting, evaluate the potential overseas and local market for hunting
in Kenya, indcicate measures which would result in higher returns, and make
recommendations on hunting quotas, pricing of trophy animals, hunting regulations,
training of hunting guides, and such other measures as are necessary to ensure
that hunting makes its optimal contribution to the Kenya economy and to the
economy of the areas where hunting takes place.
15.     hle consultants shall indicate in detail the measures necessary to ensure
landowners return from vlh's that is at least as much as they would receive if
the vlh s were eradicated.
16.     The consultants shall make a detailed assessment of the attitudes and
behavior of local inhabitants toward wildlife, especially the vlh, with a view
specifically to finding means for local inhabitants to participate directly in
their managem?nt.
17.     The consultants shall provide est-mates of receipts and expenditures of
all agencies concerned with consumptive exploitation of large herbivores under
their proposals, including Government bodies, local authorities, landowners and
private firms.



ANNEX 8
Page 4
18.     The consultants shall provide detailed recommendations on the legal and
administrative aspects of implementing their proposals, including drafts of
special legislation or regulations, criteria for monitoring performance, setting
quotas, etc., and pro-forma contracts among agencies engaged in large herbivore
management. In formulating these recommendations, the consultants shall seek
to ensure minimum scope for discretionary power consistent with efficient
resource management and where discretion must be used, to consider means by
which administrative decisions may become matters of public record through
Gazettement or other means.
19.     If the consultants should recommend that Government or a parastatal
body should take charge of marketing of trophies of large herbivores, they
shall make sufficiently detailed recommendations upon the legislation setting
up this body, its financing, its administrative structure, its staffing and its
operational procedures, so that if the proposal is accepted by Government, that
body may be set up immediately.
20.     In carrying out this work, the consultants shall:
(a) have access to all pertinent information at the disposal of the
Government;
(b) consult all available results of relevant research;
(c) carry out additional aerial or ground surveys of wildlife
populations, land uses in areas harboring large herbivores
and local attitudes or opinions as necessary;
(d) communicate with persons engaged in different enterprises
concerned with large herbivore utilization, in Kenya and
abroad, as necessary;
(e) employ other experts on specific aspects of the study at
the consultants' discretion.
D. Reporting and Timebable
21.     Within 6 months of signing the contract, the consultant shall have
assembled the study team.
22.     Wi-QAin 12 months of the signing of the contract, the consultants shall
prepare an interim report, which:
(a) indicates the biological and ecological aspects of large herbi-
vore management which can be ascertained from existing sources
and the steps being taken to compile other information on the
wildlife populations;
(b) sets out the initial findings on people's attitudes toward
wildlife;



ANNEX 8
Page 5
(c) describes preliminary infonnation on the value of large
h.erbivores and on the extent of their damage.
23.     Within 18 months of signing the contract, the consultants shall present
their final report to the Government
24.     The consultants shall be prepared to carry out further work connected
with implementation of their proposals or proposals decided by Government for
fees negoitable at the time of such further work, but which shall in no case
be higher than the fee schedules charged for the initial study (adjusted for
changes in the Nairobi Cost of Living Index between the date of the second study
and the signing of the first study).
E. Preliminary Estimate of Staffing and Costs of the Study
25.      Detailed cost estimates are shown in Annex 1, Table 2.12.  Total cost is
estimated at K. Sh 3.9 million (US$ 482,000) of which about US$ 29.5,O00  would be
in foreign exchange.  Personnel costs would amount to about 56% of the total.
There should be at least five senior researchers, supplemented by part-time
consultancies in other disciplines (law, meat technology, finance, etc.):
(a) The scu    director.
Appointed by the firm contracting the work, the director
may be an eco'logist, econamist, business administrator, or wild-
life expert. His exact background is less important than his
capacity to secure the collaboration of experts in many different
fields and pursue complex tasks to a conclusion on schedule.
The director will spend much of his time as liaison with the
steering committee supervising the study.
26.     The exact qualifications and backgrounds of the other staff members will
depenrd in part upon the qualifications of the director and other individuals
se-ured.  Neverztheless, the following list indi.ates the types of per,3onnei
requi red.
(b) One economist for resource management and social surveys:
This economist will be concerned with land-use, incliding
costs and returns to landowners from vlh' s and estimates of
damage from these animals. He will also be responsible for the
survey of attitudes and behaviors of local inhabitants, and will
supervise the two graduate social-survey assistants/informants.
(c) One economist for mark eigand administration:
This economist will be responsible for the studies of
the different markets, including the analysis of the hunting
industry. He will prepare the feasibility studies for the
firms or agencies to implement the policies proposed.



ANNEX 8
Page 6
(d) Two Ecologists/Biologists:
Both should be capable of carrying out aerial and ground
surveys relevant to the study and have some familiarity with
large herbivores and range ecology.
(e) Three Senior Assistant Researchers:
Their initial tasks will be to review existing literature
and infDrmation in association with the director, economist and
ecologists. One assistant should be a graduate in biological/
ecologic;il sciences, one in economics and the other either in
business auministration or law.
f) Two Social_ burvey Assistants/Informants:
They will carry out field studies and analyze results of the
social surveys under the supervision of the social-survey
economist ani should be graduates (preferably in the social
sc.enzes).
g) Six Junr -*Cr Assistants:
Tr.-y will probably but not necessarily have a secondary
educaJi-n and will. assist the ecologists with field studies
and var, cas analytical tasks in Nairobi, e.g., analysis of
aeria' phbotos, preparation of statistics, etc.



Annex 9
Page 1
KENYA: WILDIIFE AND TOURISM PROJECT
ANTI-POACHING MEASURES
1.        An issue which has received extensive publicity recently concerns
excessive off-takes of wildlife species with valuable trophies (ivory, skins,
etc.). According to press reports and official and unofficial inforrmants
these off-takes have been partly illegal (due to 'poaching') and partly
legal, although not in conformity with maximization of long-run r-eturns
from the wildlife resource. In order to assist with reducing the illegal
excessive off-takes, it has been proposed that additional resources should
be devoted to establishing anti-poaching units organized on para-military
lines to apprehend poaching gangs. Such units might have a useful role
to play, particularly in northern Kenya area. On the other hand, their
usefulness would also depend upon firmer control of the legal off-take
levels, and upon improvements in the enforcement of the law against
persons who are found in illegal possession of game products. Government
intends to review all aspects of the question of off-take rates and the
regulation of trade in -the case of very large herbivores, including elephant,
on the basis of a study to be carried out by consultants.  During negotia-
tions, it was agreed that Government would submit a detailed program of
anti-poaching activities not later than September 30th, 1976.
2.        The estimated project costs contain an item of K Sh 42.5 million
(US$5.3 million), of which US$2.8 million equivalent would be foreign ex-
hange. These estimates are based on the capital requirements of three new
anti-poaching units (housing, tentage, vehicles, and radio equipment), anci
vehicle operating and maintenance costs for four years.   It is provision.l-
ly expe--Ged that the units would be based in Narok, Samburu, and Tana River
Districts, but these locations, and the personnel and equipment to be
allocated to each, have yet to be given a detailed justification.  In view
of the imortance of the improvement of anti-poaching efforts to the oo-
jectives of the proje^t, it was agreed during negotiations that the head
of the anti-poaching se-tion in the WCMS would be appointed after con-
sultation witn the Bank.   Subsequently, the Bank would review the find-
ings of the consultants' study of the management of very large herbivores
with a view to developing with the Government longer term measures for
elimination of poaching. The project itself is expected to make a materia.:
,,)nriblution to su3n long-term objectives through:
- requirirng the negotiation of agreements whereby lccal
landowners have a vested interest in the wildlit'e on
their land, so that they will cooperate with the
authorities against poacdiers;
- providing systematic training for game scouts, some
of whom will be engaged in anti-poazhing;
- improving facilities for wildlife bnased tourism,
resulting in a wider appreciation of the value of



Annex 9
Page 2
legitimate exploitation of wildlife; and
- encouraging understanding of wildlife conservation issues
among the rising generation of Kenyans, through support of
the Wildlife Clubs.



Annex 10
Page 1
KENYA: WILDLIFE AND TOURISM PROJECT
ECONOMIC JUSTIFICATION
Introduction
1.         For purposes of economic evaluation, the total proposed program
of investments has been divided into two parts: (a) the investments di-
rectly associatedX with the three main game-viewing areas which are to be
improved and expanded under the project; and (b) the investments associated
with more general improvements to the tourism and wildlife sector as a whole.
2.          The direct investment program for each of the three game-viewing
areas comprises: (i) the construction of minor improvements and vehicles,
park headquarters and community centers, track construction and maintenance,
all included in the proposed project, and (ii) private sector investments in
accommodation, shopping and tour operations. The economic evaluation of each
project area has been carried out separately, on the basis of projected costs
and benefits generated in the area, and economic rates of return have been
calculated. The assumptions and the resulting conclusions are described in
detail below.
3.          In addition to investments in specific game park areas, the project
would provide finance for:  (i) the development of a national training insti-
tute for wildlife and fisheries personnel; (ii) a Project Management Unit and
a national Wildlife Planning Unit within the proposed new Wildlife Conservatiorn
and Management Service under the Ministry of Tourism and W'ildlife; (iii) game-
proof defenses outside the three main game-viewing areas; (iv) some improvements
for develoDment of the tourism and wildlife sector; and (vi) further develop-
ment of the 'Wildlife Clubs of Kenya. The rationale for the training institute,
arid a (iescriptioml of its proposed operation, is contained in Annex h. The
game-proof defenses and their justification are discussed in Annex 6, while
the Lake Turkana improvements are described in Annex 5. The proposed studies
and the assistance to the Wlildlife Clubs of Kenya are discussed in para. 3.1`5
of tne main report.  The proposals for the Project Management and Wildlife
Pianning Units are described in paras. 3.22 and 3.16 of the main text.  The
operatirng zosts of the Project Management Unit, and an appropriate shpre of
the operating costs of the Planning Unit have, however, been in.luded in a
cormbined rate of return calculation on investments in the wildl ife areas
(see para. 3.17).



Annex 1(
Page 2
Project Benefits in Game Viewing Areas
4.      Benefits have been quantified as adjusted incremental on-site tourist
expenditures in the Amboseli, Mara, and Inner Northern Circuit ecosystems. The
ecosystem is defined for purposes of this analysis as including the game reserve
or park, and the area to which the wildlife herds from that reserve or park
disperse during the rains.
5.      The adjustments to incremental on-site expenditure should, in principle,
consist of:
(a) increments/decrements in economic profit of other activities within
Kenya for which demand increases/decreases as a result of the addition-
al wildlif'e viewing opportunities opened up in the project areas;
(b) adjustments due to price changes due to the project /deduction of the
difference between prices and marginal revenues for non-citizen
tourists, and the addition of increased consumers surpluses earned by
citizen tourists7; and
(c) shadow pricing of f'oreign exchange receipts.
'faking these in turn, no estimate has been made of 'off-site' benefits and costs
associated with the project areas. This lends a conservative bias to the
benefit estimate for non-residents since (a) for them, wildlife tourism is
complementary with tourism to Nairobi and the beach; (b) there are capacity con-
straints on the expansion of wildlife-based tourism; and (c) the structure of
taxes in Kenya is such that benefits are likely to exceed costs of goods and
services purchased outside the wildlife areas. On the other hand, it is likely
that some f.rac-tion of expenditures in the projec-t ecosystem by residents would
represent substitution for other expenditures in Kenya.  In principle, the benefit
t.o the project areas would consist of the opportunity cost of those items from
which resident expenditures are switched.  In practice, this might be estimated
as the proportion of expenditures switched from purchase of other domestic iter.s
less indlcect taxes on those items plus the proportion switched from foreign
trips weighted by the sliadow rate of foreign exchange.  Given the insignificance
of' resiuents' expenditures in all project areas (less than 2> oi' discounted
receipts), these two adjustmenLs, which would tend to counterbalance each other,
are ignored.  On elasticities, consumers surpluses of citizen visitors to the
wilulife a.ocs are ignored (in any. event, they come to only around 10% of resident
vis'tor., if' entries cf' school children and organizec citizen groups are excluded).
As for nor-residents, no reliable estimn;es exist of the appropriate price
elasticities whiich shoulcn be applied to items purchased in Kenya (whichi comprise
onl o) rL of tot'al tour cost, which includes international transport, mrarketing
costs a!nd ma-rkups of overseas tour operators, and, in Lhe case of multi-destina-
tior, tcurs, prices or se-vices consiued in other destination countries), let
alone Lo thait component of Kenya tour cost which consists of ecosystem receipts.
i.'R hae, however, esJimat-ed the minimlrp price elasticity which would be
consilctnl. wi't  economic benefJits beirn  equal to costs, and this is done in para.
3' beijw.  dyxperilituros by non-resi(dents are weighted by the shadow price of
fIore.] -n exohance.



Annex 10
Page 3
6.     Perhaps the most important exclusion from the quantified economic
analysis of the project are the benefits likely to be secured from
consumptive wildlife utilization (hunting, cropping) and the costs
imposed on the domestic stock enterprise of continued access by wild stock
to the dispersal areas. TIhese benefits and costs should, in principle, be
included but their amount is too uncertain to justify inclusion in the
calculations. Nevertheless, it is possible to indicate orders of magnitude
for some areas. 'The costs imposed on the livestock enterprise by migrating
wildlife herdsdepend upon the rate of substitution between domestic and
wild stock, and the value of domestic stock. Substitution rates in turn
depend upon the nature of interactions between wild and domestic stock in
competition for forage and water, in transmission of disease, and in
limitations imposed on feasible ranching practices (such as grazing rotation
schemes) if wildlife is to be present. The rate of substitution on account of
forage competition is probably lower than one kilogram of domestic for one
kilogram of wild stock standing biomass, since the wildlife tend to use dispersal
areas when water and grass are most plentiful, and because not all wildlife
species compete with domestic stock. It has been estirnated that one stock unit
of zebu cattle yields around K. sh. 134 of subsistence income per year, that the
cost per stock unit (dipping fees, veterinary fees, deaths from disease,etc.)
comies to K. shs. 52 per year, so that the gross profit equals shs. 82 per year.
if the average stock unit is 180 kg. the annual income comes to K shs. 0.46/kg.
year.k/The kilogram-years of wildlife biomass in the dispersal area depend upon
the biomass of the migrating wildlife herds, and the length of time they are
outside the Park. In the case of Amboseli, it is estimated that migrating
herbivores spend 48,000 kilogram-years in the dispersal area annually. Hence,
on the conservative assump)tion of a one-to-one tradeoff, the cost impiosed by
wildlife on the livestock enterprise comes to shs. 218,667 per year or approxi-
mately shs. 2 per ha.  This sum is derisory compared with the returns from
tourism in the area: the Kajiado County Council in 1973 reported a clear
"incrncial surplus cf K. shs. 1,087,8 ,0 from the thern Game Reserve, anc the
level of' surpluses being secured by Government and Council must now be much
hligrer since the opening of the new lodge and implementation of stricter
cortrols on cash receipts to the reserve.  Landowners maf also expect to
make a subztantial return frcm hunting fees and cropping fees.  For example,
t'. 1057  group ranchers'/ on the 86856 na. Kuku and Rombo group ranroes
receivea K. sis. 1_V(,00() in the first year of the hunting concession in that
area.  ji recent bid fcr hunting concessions in the Narok District would have
1/  'hese figures are taken f'rom D.J. 'Jestern and P. Thresher, Amboseli Develop-
ment Ylan, aeptenber, 1',73.  It is to be ncted thct this income exceeds the
cash income which the Masai can be expected to earrn from 'improved' ranching
under which livestock woul(i be sold and subsistence food purchased on the
market.
2/  Grcup ranches are lands held on freehold by groups in which families hold
ecual undivided shares.  The number of members (families) varies frow. 30
to 54LL, and the area from 6,000 ha.to 54,000 ha. Of the ranches sc far
registered in Kajiaao, there is an average of 175 ha. ver member although
the range is from 74 ha. per member to over 300 ha. per member.



Annex 10
yielded between K ihs. 1.2 and K. Shs. 5 per acre per year, depending on the area
or between 9% and 3h4 of potential livestock revenues. In fact, the hunting
returns would be a much larger proportion of actual cash income. In addition
to these returns from consumptive wildlife utilization, ranchers may also
expect to earn substantial returns from tourism employment opportunities in
their areas, and from concession fees for lodges and other facilities placed
in their areas. Concession fee estimates are quantified below.
7.     Another unquantified series of important benefits relates to the
gains accruing to park and lodge staff, their families, and to inhabitants
of the project areas, from the establishment of park HQ complexes and
community facilities, outside the parks and reserves. These gains arise
from a higher standard of facilities than would otherwise be available to
all these groups; in addition, the location of Park HQ's outside the parks
will stimulate larger local economic impacts than has been the case hitherto.
Oosts and Benefits Athout the Project
8.     It is impossible precisely to predict the future of wildlife or
of wildlife-based tourism if the project were not implemented. The trend
of developments in the recent past is both clear and alarming, however;
the near elimination of certain species of animals from dispersal areas
of more important game-viewing areas, environmental deterioration with
substantial negative ecological impacts, and marked declines in the level
of visitor satisfaction in particular game-viewing areas as a result of
congestion and declining wildlife herds and shifts in local attitudes
against wildlife in some cases 17 Indeed, the primary question regarding
the "without" case is not what would happen, but simply how soon. Hence,
although the calculation of costs and benefits with the project is relative-
ly straightforward, the same cannot be said of the without case.  In fact,
some of the costs associated *ith the without case (such as che 'loss of an
important natThnal heritage) cannot be meaningfully quantified.  Other costs,
such as those imposed on other activities from environmental deterioration,
are very difficult to identify and to measure.  To give but one example, the
ecological relationships within the game-viewing areas are dynamic rather
than static, evidencing significant leads and lags in the process of adjust-
ing to the impact of stochastic variables such as rainfall.
94.    ln order to take a distinctly conservative view of the net benefits
of  the project, we have assumed that the current level of net benefits
wouli continue indefinitely without the project--even thoujgh there are
strong arguments for assuming a diecll`e  in  tourist  receipts  if  the
project dii not go forward. In effect, then, we have used the "before and
after" cases as a very conservative estimate of the "with and without" cases.
1/ As evidenced by the recent decline in visitors to Nairobi National Park.



Annex 10
Page 5
Devaluation and Price Assumptions
10.     The devaluation of October 1975 had the immediate effect of raising the
Kenya shilling value of foreign currency by 12.7%.  This change will undoubtedly
have the short-run effect of making Kenya tourism more competitive, since prices
of tourist services-adjust to changing costs and demand.conditions with lags'of,-
a year or more. Of greater importance for the economic analysis, however, is
the ultimate impact of the devaluation upon relative prices of items included
in tourism receipts.and costs. (The level of absolute prices would have an
interest only so far as streams denominated in currency values, such as '..oan
receipts and debt servicing, entered into the economic analysis as well as the
financial analysis.)  Two extreme hypotheses may be identified on the ultimate
impact of the devaluation:.
(a) the devaluation will be completely ineffective.  In this case,.
-the relatiVe prices of 1975 would reestablish themselves, albei.k
at a general price'level of 12.7% higher than it would have.been
in the absence of deValuation;
(b) the devaluation will be completely effective.  In this case,
costs of goods, and hence their prices, would rise, compared
with the non-devaluation situation, only by the.amount of
the increase in landed costs (cif value plus import duties
and sales taxes on imports) of their inputs due to the
devaluation.
In fact, of course, some intermediate outcome is more probable than either extreme.
Rather than making an assumption upon the most.'reasonable' intermediate position,
the economic benefits and costs of the project have been calculated on both
extreme hypotheses, on the understanding that the 'true' economic return will
lie somewhere between the two.  Furthermore, in order to simplify the.text,
price and cost assumptions are presented and discussed at their pre-devaluation
1975 levels (which yield the economic results of the 'ineffective' devaluation.
case).
Rever!ue 's tima es
11.     The scarting point for estimating benefits, is a forecast of visitor
numbers to the game.areas.  The-base-line (1974/5) entry figures have been
derived from a review of both official statistics and the bednight sta{3stit    s
collected from lodges and other accommodation facilities in each area,  and :are
given below.
Estimated Entry Numbers 1974/5
Non-Residents    Residents-/       Total   % Non-.Residents
Amboseli                     52,000         14,,600       66,000          78
Masai Mara                   34,150         io,45o        44,600          77
Inner Northern Circuit       20,40o          9,300        29,700          65
1/  Ziere bednight figures indicated significantly different entry numbers-
than the official statistics, a compronmise figure roughly half-way between
the two estimates was used.
2/  tesident visitors are those who currently reside in Kenya.  Well over 90%
of the "residents" who visit game-viewing areas are, in fact, non-Kenya
citizens,.primarily foreign businessmen, and bilateral or international
civil servants, who are currently stationed in Kenya.



Annex 10
Page 6
12.     Eypansion of visitor numbers, wiJhout causing substantial and
generally irreparable damage to the game-viewing attractions--which would
lead rather quickly to a corresponding decline in visitor numbers--requires
that the v-isitor capacity of each area be increased. The critical determin-
ants of visitor capacity are the size, variety and distribution of wildlife
herds, the nature of the vegetation and topography, the design of the net-
work of tracks and roads, the quality of park management, and the availability
of well-trained guides who can enable visitors to secure the maximum enjoyment
and interest from their visits. Future visitor entries are projected cn the
basis of f'orecast growth rates, and on the capacity of each area after
implementation of the investment program to be financed under the project.
The following table shows the forecast growth rates, including the best
estimate case, and an optimistic and pessimistic variant. Growth is assumed
to finish once capacity is reached. Defined in terms of daily vehicle
entries at busy times, this is estimated at 200 for Amboseli, 140 for Mara,
and 100 for the Inner Northern Circuit. Additional increases in the capacity
of the latter two could probably be achieved by further investments at a
later date. The table indicates the years in which capacity will be reached
in each case.  (_ee Table I for the "Best Estimate" Visitor Forecast.)
Growth Rates of Visitor Entries (%)
Best Esti-mate Forecast
Amboseli                 Masai Mara             Inner Northern Circuit
Years       Non-Resident   Resident   Non-Resident   Resident   Non-Resident   Resident
1(1976)               5            0             5             0             10           0
2-4(77-79)             17            0            17             0             22            0
5-9(80-84)             12            5            12             5             15            5
10-capacity (85- )      8            5             8             5              8            5
Year in whichi capaci-
ty is reached            15(1990)                   16(1991)                     14(1989)
Optimistic Forecast
1(1976)              10            0            10             0             12           0
2-14(77-79)            20            2            20             2             26            3
5-9(8o-84)             15            5            15             5             17            5
10-capacity (85- )      8            5             8             5              8            5
Year in which capaci-
ty is reached             13(7,988)                  14(1989)                     11(1986)
Pessimistic Forecast
1(1976)               0            0             0             0              5           0
2-4(77-79)             15            0            15             0             17            0
5-9(80-84)             10            5            10             5             12            5
10-capacity (85- )       8            5             8             5              8            5
Year in which capaci-
ty is reached             19(1994)                   19(1994)                     19(1994)



Annex 10
Page 7
13.       Slower growth is forecast for resident visitors than for non-
resident visitors. The "resident" population is likely to grow more or
less in line with general economic growth in Kenya. The absence of any
projected increase in resident visitors over the next four years in the
best estimate case reflects an assumed market reaction to increased entry
fees for resident visitors to the same level as for non-residents (see para.
17). While the resident growth rates for both the beat estimate and the
pessimistic cases are the same for the first four years, the pessimistic
case projection also provides for a reduction in the 1974/5 figures --i.e.,
a reduced base line estimate--reflecting a more immediate reaction to
increased entry fees.
14.       The best estimate growth of non-resident visitors has been
related to likely future visitor growth to Kenya as a whole, and its pattern
of distribution between beach-oriented and wildlife tourism bednights. blow
growth is assumed in year 1 (1976) to reflect a slow recovery from recession
in generating markets and also the rise in price of Kenya tourist services
which is likely to occur over the next few years. During the following
three years, however, we assume a significant recovery in market growth,
including an element of "making up" for holidays postponed over recent
years as a result of economic uncertainties. F'ollowing the three year
"recovery period", lower growth rates are assumed for a period of five
years, leveling off at the projected long-term growth rate of demand for
wildlife tourism to Kenya. In fact, tie devaluation of the Kenya tshilling
which occurred in October 1975 will undoubtedly lead to higher vis-tor
increases in the short run, with later "recovery" growth moderated as
domestic prices rise.  The bias in our figures is to understaue beneiits
from tourism.
15.       Growth rates are assumed to be the same for Amboseli and for
Masai Mara. Both of these areas are aLready relatively well established.
The developments in the inner Northern Circuit, however, represent, in
effect, an opening up of a new circuit for visitors to the north (as well
as the improvement of existing attractions) which is expected to result in
a more rapid increase in visitors to this area; hence a higher growth rate
has been projected there than for the other two more established areas.
16.       Although the pricing study to be carried out by the Wildlife
Planning Unit may recommend locational differentials in price as well as
seasonal differentials, we have assumed the same structure of entry fees
for visito-s and for vehicles for each area.  The current and projected
structure of fees is given in the following table:



Annex 10
Page 8
Park Entry Fees, K. bh.
Current                Projected
Non-Resident Adults          20, 1 -a                  30
Resident Adults               5, 1                     22
All Children                  1                         1
Motor Vehicles               10, 20a/                 )20
Aircraft Landing Fee         10                       )
Professional drivers          5                         5
a/  Depending on the area.
The current K. Sh. 20 entry fee for non-resident adults was established in
1968. Consumer price indices of Kenya's major tourist suppliers have risen
since then at 9.8/ p.a. in Kenya currency, implying that the 1976 entry fee should
be K.bh. 38.40 in order to simply maintain its real 1968 level. Although
the Kenya National Parks have proposed that this fee be raised to K.Sh. 40
by July 1, 1976, we have assumed K.Sh. 30 as a reasonable and conservative
figure for the best estimate rate of return.
17.       The current entry fee to Game Reserves for residents varies from
K.Sh. 5 to K.6h. 15. The Kenya National Parks management has recently
(6ept. 1975) raised the resident entry fee to the same level as for non-resi-
dents, largely because of the loss of revenue which has resulted from non-
residents who claim to be residents when entering the parks. bince well
over 90% of resident visitors are, in fact, foreigners resident in Kenya, we
believe that charging the same entry fees for both residents and non-residents
would not be unreasonable..Y We have, therefore, assumed that the official
entry fee per resident adult would be K.bh. 30. At the same time, however,
residents are eligible to purchase annual vehicle passes which allow an
unlimited number of park entries for one vehicle and either two adults or
five adults, and the number of residents who avail themselves of the annual
passes is likely to increase. We have, therefore, adjusted the average
entry fee downward (from K.6h. 30 to K.6h. 22) to account for a revenue
loss of about 25% resulting from the use of annual passes.
18.       'he current entry fees of K.Sh. 1 for both resident and non-resident
children are assumed to remain unchanged. Of the total non-resident entries,
only about 2j are children; for resident entries, about 18%.
1/ This is unlikely to deter wealthier Kenyans from visiting the parks as
individuals while those Kenyans deterred on income grounds were deterred
by past entry fees as well as the costs of transport to and within parks.
They can, however, enter in groups at nominal fees under the special
programs of the National Parks and Wildlife Clubs of Kenya. This should
continue (except on weekends in those areas where congestion is a problem).



Annex 10
Page 9
19.     Entry fees for vehicles are currently Shs. 10 (Shs. 15 for non-residents
including the fee for the professional driver). It is assumed that this fee
will rise to K.6h. 20 (Shs. 25 for non-residents) which would be in line with
increases in price levels. There is an average of 5 non-residents per vehicle and
3.5 residents per vehicle, so that vehicle entry fees per visitor entry come to
Shs. 5 and Shs. 5.71 respectively. In addition to entry fees, the park or
reserve would receive an income from guide services, estimated at K. Shs. 30 per
guide-day used. Estimating receipts froza this item is complicated, since a guide
taken for the day earns the same fee from that client as a guide earns from each
party when he takes one out in the morning and another in the afternoon. Parks
and reserves receive further revenues from sale of found trophies, professional
photography fees for films being made in parks, etc. These receipts are not
incremental for this project, however, and so are ignored.
20.     The various sources of revenue described above would accrue to the entity
which owns/operates the park or reserve.S There would be additional revenue to
landowners within the ecosystem from concession fees on the operation of lodges,
bandas (self-service cottages), campsites, shops, and petrol stations.  Concession
fees are expressed variously as a shilling per bednight fee, a percer.tage of
full board tariff or turnover, or a fixed lump-sum per year. A number of these
facilities are currently located within parks and reserves. Additional facilities
will, however, generally be constructed outside the park or reserve itself in
the interests of sound park management and distributing tourism benefits more
widely among local inhabitants of the wildlife areas.  For purposes of the
analysis, concession income has been assumed at Shs. 17 (or approximately 12.5%
of the full board tariff) per bednight spent in catered lodges or luxury tented
camps, bhs. 10 per bednight in bandas, and Shs. 10 per camper night. It is
assumed further that 0.5% of non-residents', and 1.5% of residents' expenditures
on transport are concession fees (largely on petrol purchased within the reserve)
and that 10% of shopping expenditures goes to landowners (through shop rentals).
T'here are examples of existing concession fees which are higher and lower than
these assumptions. It is expected that the study on pricing policy, and also
the Wildlife Planning Unit, will devote careful attention to these fees to
avoid unnecessary revenue loss.
21.     Ecosystem recetts per visitor entry at 1975 pre-devaluation prices are
given in the first table on the next page. 2/ There is some variation among the
oarks due mainly to slight differences in lengths of stay of visitors within the
narks and also to the number of day visitors. The main assumptions on these
matters are set out in the second table. The most important difference is that
-there are many more day visits (without overnight stay) to Amboseli than to the
otner Darks.
1/ Currently this may be the Kenya National Parks or the local County Council.
In future it is expected to be the Wildlife Conservation and Management
bervice for all three areas.
2/ The fractions of shillings in the table should not be construed to indicate
the degree of accuracy of the estimates. The expenditure per visitor
figures are intermediate results in a long chain of calculations, and it
would be inefficient to round all figures at every step of the chain. The
same remark applies to the first column of figures in the table on page 13.



Annex 10
Page 10
Ecosystem Receipts per Visitor Entry
__S_  Shs/Visit__;r_
Amboseli               Mara           Inner Northern Circuit
Non-                  Non-                   Non-
Residents Residents Residents Residents Residents Residents
Entry fees:  Persons         18.22     29.42       18.22      29.42       18.22      29.42
Vehicles        5.71       5.00       5.71        5.00       5.71        5.00
Guide fees                    9.00      5.40       10.29       6.30        9.00       5.70
bub-total, Reserve/park      32.93     39.82       34.22      40.72       32.93      40.12
Accommodations               46.35    156.10       63.73     189.02       57.94     173.17
Transportation                9.44     62.40       10.69      72.00        9.44      64.80
ihopping                      5.00     10.00        5.00      10.00        5.00      10.00
bub-total "commercial"       60.79    228.50       79.42     271.02       72.38     247.97
of which:
Concession fees           9.74     17.17      13.18       20.56       12.01      18.89
Ecosystem Total              93.72    268.32      113.64     311.74      105.30     288.09
Other Visitor Behavior Ratios
Bednights per visitor entry   .8          .95       1.1        1.15        1.0        1.05
Guide days per vehicle        1.05       .9         1.2        1.05        1.05         .95
entry
Days in Park per visitor
entry                       1.5       1.3         1.7        1.5         1.5        1.35
22.    Ecosystem revenue from accommodation services is based on the assumptions that
95% of non-residents'bednights are spent in catered lodges or luxury tented camps, and
5% in bandas, whilst resident bednights consist of 20% in lodges, and 40% in each of
bandas and camping. Existing patterns are somewhat different than this so far as
residents are concerned, and they also vary between the areas. Residents form such an
insignificant part of total incremental visitors, however, that further sophistication
of this assumption is unwarranted. Receipts are based on actual average receipts
realized by a sample of each type of facility in 1974 and 1975 for which accounts
could be secured. Although different firms achieve different receipt and cost



Annex 10
Page 11
figures, and the bamburu lodge and bandas specifically seem to have received
higher amounts than their counterparts elsewhere, it is believed that this is
due to temporary circumstances (a very rapid expansion of capacity in the
other areas which coincided with the slowdown in visitor growth due to the recession
whereas Samburu capacity remained constant), and it is more reasonable to
assume the same lodge and banda receipts in all areas in the future thani the
persistence of the differential. Finally, it should be noted that ecosystem
receipts for azcommodations exclude commissions paid by hoteliers to tour
operators, and include sales of lodge shops to tourists (approximately Shs. 9
per bednight).
23.      Transportation receipts from non-residents are estimated at Shs. 3 per
vehicle kilometer (including tip to driver) within the ecosystem. On the
assumption that each vehicle day within the park accounts for 80 km (corresponding
to two game drives of 40 km each), this comes to Shs. 240 per vehicle day.
For residents, who usually drive their own cars, only expenditure on petrol from
mileage within the ecosystem has been estimated. On the assumption that resident
vehicles cover 60 km per day in the park, and get 30 km per gallon, which costs
bhs. 11 per gallon, expenditure comes to Shs. 22 per vehicle day.
24.      Shopping expenditures may be conservative, since they reflect the
current undeveloped shopping opportunities in the wildlife areas. The majority
of non-resident shopping occurs in Nairobi or Mombasa. The shopping figures
given refer to expenditures outside lodges, and include expenditures on handicrafts,
fees to local inhabitants for taking their photos, and purchase of minor items
from shops by campers or persons staying in bandas.
Investment 6ost Assumptions
25.      For purposes of calculating economic rates of return on the development
of each game-viewing area, investment costs have been derived from financial
estimates of construction costs (or purchase prices) for project components
within each park or reserve (in 1975 prices), plus the estimated costs of new
accommodation and shopping facilities and the capital costs relating to tour
operations within the relevant ecosystems. The analysis has been carried out
in 1975 prices (rather than the 1976 prices shown in Annex I) since use of the
later prices would have required revising estimates of visitor expenditures
and other cost elements in the light of likely future inflation. Since relative
prices rather than absolute price levels are important for this analysis, nothing
is lost by this. (The estimates of changes due to the devaluation are described
later, in para. 34).
26.      For prciect-finarced components, the following adjustments have been
made to t4 financial cost estimates: (i) price contingencies have been
excluded;_' (ii) taxes and duties have been excluded on relevant items (vehicles
and road construction equipmLent have been estimated at border prices plus local
transportation and handling, road unit operating and maintenance costs have
been reduced by 15% to account f'or taxes and duties on fuel and replacement
parts, and base year construction costs of structures have been reduced by 9%
to account for taxes and duties on materials and fuel); (iii) additional invest-
ments in staff housing requ-red after the five year disbursement period of the
loan ha,ve been included, through the year in which visitor entries reach the
specified capacity.  The investment costs of utilities designed to serve other
1/ Physical contingencies have been left in for the economic cost estimate.



Annex 10
Page 12
than park users, and also investments in social facilities such as schools,
dispensaries, and community centres have been included in the cost streams,
although the benefits arising from these expenditures are not quantified.
This imparts a conservative bias to the estimates of project net benefits.
27.      The investment cost  stream for accommodation facilities has been
built up from the demand for incremental bednights implied by the vi3itor growth
forecasts and length of stay assumptions given earlier, plus assumed occupancy
build-up in individual lodges and luxury camps from 40% in the first year of
operations, to 47.5% in the second, 55% in the third, and 60% in the fourth
and all following years.  Banda occupancies are assumed to rise in eqlual
increments from 35% in the first year to 50% in the fourth and all following
years.  It is to be emphasized that aver_ge occupancy rates remain below the
60% and 50  respectively until all capacity has been installed due to the
presence of capacity in its "start up" phase.  Investment costs of lodges/
luxury camps are based on the assumption that 70 of the beds will be in lodges
(at an investment cost of Shs. 62,000 per bed)1/and 30% in tented carips (at
an investment cost of bhs. 30,000 per bed) yielding a weighted average of
$hs. 52,400, while bandas are assumed to cost Shs. 24,000 per bed. Construction
is assumed to take two years. Foreign exchange cost of these two types of beds
is estimated at 37% and 20% respectively, and economic cost (after deduction of
indirect taxes and duties and, in the case of lodges/camps, of interest during
construction) to Shs. 45,768 and to Shs. 23,040 respectively.
28.      The capital costs relating to the transportation services provided by
tour operators have beer. accounted for on the basis of annual depreciation
cost figures currently experienced by existing firms. Since a mini-bus
typically lasts for only about 2-3 years, there is little distortion
of discounted present values as a result of using the depreciation stream as a
surrogate for the capital cost stream. Since most shopping will be in the open
air, no allowance has been made for investment in shops.
Operating Cost Assumptions
29.      The following table summarizes the main assumptions on the cost
implications of tourist expenditures on different activities. This table has
been based upon an initial analysis of costs of each activity according to
normal accounting categories (salaries, wages, purchases, etc.) and then an
estimation of the c.i.f. cost, duties and taxes on imports, other indirect taxes,
and other domestic cost for each accounting category. The estimates are, due
to partial data availability, rough. At all points, an effort has been made,
in cases of doubt, to over-state rather than to understate costs, so giving a
conservative bias to the estimates of net benefits. Unskilled labor, for
purposes of this analysis, was taken to mean recipients of wages as contrasted
with salaries. Where accounting information gave no basis for this divis-ion,
it was assumed that one-half of labor renuneration went to wage earners. The
following paragraphs comment further on some cost items.
1/ The investment cost per lodge bed also takes into account the possibilities
for extensions to existing and future lodges, with correspondingly lower
additional investment per bed.



Summary of Main Assumptions on Analysis of Costs & Recipts in Fredevaluatioa    1975 Prioes
Receipts or Costs
Shillings       Per                  Analysis into Primary Components (%)
Duties &   Other In-   (b)  Other Domes-  Unskilled  Concession   Economic   Financial
Total   C.I.F. Value  Sales Tax  Direct Taxes       tic Cost        Labor       Fees          Cost       GOP
BANDAS
Receipts(a) & variable cost         149.5   Bednight               100l 0       1.2          o.6         10.1(b            31.5         2.0          20.0         12.7       56.6
"Fixed" operating cost              2050   Bed avail. per year   100.0         10.0          5.0          2.6              82.4        17.1            -          92.4        n.a.
Investment cost                    24000    Bed                    100.0       ?0.0          4.0           -               76.0        25.3            -          96.0        n.a.
LODGES/LUXURY CAMPS(c)
Receipts(a) & variabJe cost          170.69 Bednight               100.0        6.6          3.5          8.6(b)           48.8         5.0 (e)      10.0         45.4       32.5
"Fixed" operating cost              5917.5  Bed avail. per year   100.0        15.4          7.7          2.3              74.6        11.6            -          90.0        n.a.
Investment cost                    52400    Bed                    100.0       36.6          7.7           -               55.7        18.6            -          87.3(d)     n.a.
TRANSPORT RECEIPTS i COSTS
- Non-residents                       3.00  Vehicle Km.            100.0       21.6         12.5           -               62,6        3314   )       0,5         83.7        3.3
- Residents                           0.367 Vehicle Km.            100.0       50.0         31.3           -               18.7          -            1.5         67.2          -
Shopping: Receipts &Costs(g)             5     Resident
10     Non-resident           100.0      21.0          11.0          -               58.0          6.0         10.0         69.o0       100
PARKS & RESERVES
- Variable operating cost             50.0  Vehicle entry          100.0       13.7          6.9          2.6              76.8        30.0            -          90.5        n.a.
- Road maintenance (from year 6)   2000    Km.of road              100.0       41.2         13.5           -               45.3        30.1            -          86.5         n.a.
- Investment (exol, road units)
AMBOSELI                    23,562,000                         100.0       35.4          7.0          2.3              55.3        18.1            -          90.7        n.a.
MARA                        24,1455,200                        100.0       35.1          7.0          2.3              55.6        18.3            -          90.7        n.a.
Inner Northern  Circuit    19,130,800                          100.0       34.5          6.9          2.4              56.2        18.8            -          90.7        n.a.
- Investment in Road Unit        4,980,000  Unit                   100.0       78,6         10.0           -               11.4          -             -         90.0         n.a.
- Operating cost of road unit      940,800  Year                   100l 0      50.0         15.0           -              35.0           -             -          85.0        n.a.
(a)  Ecosystem receipts, excluding commissions.
(b)  Includes accommodation tax at 73% of full board tariff or 10% of room tariff, which in fact increases proportionally with receipts.  The 2% training levy has been
counted as "other domestic cost' rather than an indirect tax.
(c)  Weighted average of 70% lodges and 30% luxury tented camps.
(d)  Excludes 5% for interest during construction.
(e)  Includes 3/4 of 5% service charge on the full board tariff.
(f)  Includes tips paid to driver by tourists, estimated at 1/6 of total.
(g)  Excluding purchases in hotels, which are covered in hotel receipts and costs.
n.a. = not applicable



Annex 10
Page 14
30.      The operating costs of parks and reserves were initially estimated on
the basis of a computor model of operating requirements for staff, equipment,
and administrative facilities in each park.!/ On subsequent analysis, however,
it was found that despite many indivisibilities in detail (e.g. the costs of
adding an assistant warden, or an additional bookkeeper would occur only once
or sporadically) the total varied more or less in proportion with vehicle
entries and came to Shs. 50 per vehicle entry. This assumption was retained
for the analysis. The breakdown of operating cost into primary components was
based upon the initial estimates, which were found to give a very similar cost
breakdown to that found for the Kenya National Parks (excluding road construction).
The cost of road maintenance from year 6 (when the track construction under the
project will terminate) was assumed to be fixed, and to amount to Shs. 2,000 per
km. of track constructed or improved under the project. This figure includes
the labor required to maintain tracks, and costs of running, maintaining, and
replacing road equipment.
31.      Operating costs of accommodations were divided into two components:
costs which vary with bednights taken, such as consumption of food and drink,
some utilities, etc.; and costs which depend upon the capacity installed, such
as most labor expense, repairs, renewals and replacements, insurances, etc.
The division was made on the basis of an analysis of hotel operating costs.
The fairly substantial element of 'unskilled labor remuneration' in the variable
costs of lodges is largely due to the 5% service charge of which three quarters
is estimated to be paid to wage labor.
32.      Operating costs of transport and shopping are all treated as variable
with visitor entries. The indirect tax component of non-resident transport is
high, due to the importance of heavily taxed fuel, parts, and vehicle depreciatic:i
(which is treated as a real cost in lieu of separately estimating investment
in vehicles). These items come to &44 of tour operators' transport receipts.
The importance of unskilled labor remuneration derives from drivers' salaries, anci
also the fact that tips to drivers are estimated at one-sixth of the total. Little
good information is available upon shops, but the estimates shown are believed
to cverstate rather than urderstate costs for handicrafts, photography fees, etc.
1/ This model was prepared by Mr. Philip Thresher, resource economist
with the UNDP/FAO Wildlife Management Unit.



Annex 10
Page 15
33.        The chart below recapitulates the stages involved in estimating the
incremental benefits and costs associated with the project.
Base Year Visitor Entries                                      Ecosystem Heceipts
Visitor Growth Rate Forecasts                                  Ecosystem Costs
C.I.F. value
Duty and Sales Tax Markups
Other Indirect Taxes
Incremental Annual Entries by       Receipts and             Other Domestic Cost, of
Residents and Non-Residents         Variable                 which:
_}Costs              ,Concessioni Fees
Remuneration of Un-
skillel Labor
Financial GOP
stimnated            Forecasts of       Fixed Accommo-        Economic GOP
O)ccupancy            Beds under         dation operating
;ite Buildup          Construction       Cost and Invest-
in Sarly Years        and Beds in        ment Cost
of New Lodges         Operation in
arid Bandas           Lodges and
Bandas
Prc ect Plans         Project Investment Cost and
Fixed Operating Cost of'
Reserves
ilible  2, 3, and 4 show the streams of receipts and costs derived on the basic demand
forecasts in 1975 prices.
ILecel Ls and Cost Streams with "Lffective'1 Devaluation
)i4.       Receipts and costs were also calculated on the assumption that the October
9';75 devaluation would be completely effective.  For each activity on which tourists
spend money, financial costs were raised by the increase in the c.i.f. component plus
the increase in import duty and sales tax markups, and prices by the same amount
(leaving financial GOP's the same). In the case of game reserves, reserve entry and
guide fees were raised by the same percentage as the increase in financial operating
coss in year 6 (the year in which the road maintenance units enter the recurrent cost
stream) in order to enable receipts to cover the increase in investment cost. In the
case of lodges and bandas, financial GOP;s were raised by the same percentage as
investment costs to leave roughly the same level of private profitability after as
befcre devaluation.  (For purposes of this calculation, the breakdown of accommoda-
tions receipts in year 4 of a typical hotel was used.) These assumptions yielded
the following increases in prices over predevaluation levels:



Annex 10
Page 16
Reserve Entry Fees: Amboseli + 4.6%, Mara + 5.0%, and Inner Northern Circuit + 5.1%
Accommodation Prices: Bandas + 2.6%; Lodge/Luxury Camps + 3.4%
Transport:  Non-resident + 4.5%, Resident + 10.5%
Shopping + 5%.
All investment costs were increased by the increase in c.i.f. value for the economic
analysis, and by c.i.f. and domestic markups for the financial analyses. Concession
fees were estimated to rise in proportion to the revenues from the different activi-
ties generating them.
Internal Economic Rates of Return
35.      Economic rates of return have been calculated on each project component
using a 25-year horizon from the first year of investment. For the 'ineffective!
devaluation case (in which it is assumed that the relative prices of 1975 will
eventually reestablish themselves) foreign exchange has been shadow priced at 1.3,
while in the 'completely effective' devaluation case, the shadow price on foreign
exchange falls to 1.1535 (1.3/1.127). The shadow price for unskilled labor is
estimaited at 75% of the market wage rate (incorporated in the analysis by adding
a benefit stream equal to 25% of unskilled labor cost). The following table pre-
sents the basic rate of return (with the above shadow prices) and their sensitivity
to visitor growth assumptions, shadow prices, investment costs, price levels,
slippage of projezt benefits, and assumption about devaluation.
ECONOMIC RATES OF RETURN: SENSITIVITY ANALYSES
.Axboseli                   Mara          Inner Northern Circuit
Devaluation    Ineffect-  Effect-       Ineffect-  Effect-   Ineffect-  Effect-
Assumption        ive        ive           ive      ive          ive       ive
Basic Estimate         28.0      24.3          24.8     22.6         24.6       21.5
bensitivity to:
Growth Assumptions
Optimistic             32.4      28.3          29.0      25.2        27.1       23.5
Pessimistic            24.5      22.0          21.5     18.9         20.5       17.5
Shadow Prices
No shadow prices       18.9      18.5          16.4     17.2         16.1       16.2
Unskilled labor        21.1      n.c.          18.4     n.c.         18.2       n.c.
Foreign exchange       26.1      n.c.          23.0     n.c.         22.8       n.c.
Invesument Cost and Fixed Operating Cost of Reserves
+20%             25.4       n.c.          22.3     n.c.         22.0      n.c.
+10%             26.6       n.c.          23.5     n.c.         23.3      n.c.
-10%             29.5       n.c.          26.3     n.c.         26.2      n.c.
-20%             31.3       n.c.          27.9     n.c.         27.9      n.c.
Prices
+10w             32.1       n.c.          28.6     n.c          28.6      n.c.
-10%             23.6       n.c.          20.7     n.c.         20.5      n.c.
blippage of Tourist Flows by one year
20.1      n.c.          18.1     n.c.         17.9      n.c.
Extension of Horizon by one year
28.0      n.c.          24.e     n.c.         24.7      n.c.
n.c. = not calculated



Annex 10
Page 17
36.      The main conclusion to be drawn from this table is that benefits
appear to exceed costs in each area under all reasonable assumptions about
receipts, costs, and social discount rate. The higher rate of return for
Anboseli is due to the facts that the investments in each area contain
substantial indivisible elements and Amboseli is expected to have a larger
increment in visitors and also to receive a higher
proportion of day visitors than the other areas. The rate of return in the
effective devaluation case is, predictably, less than in the ineffective devalua-
tion case, since effective devaluation implies that Kenya would sell her tourist
services at lower (foreign exchange) prices than in the case of ineffective de-
valuation. That the unshadow-priced rates of return are the same in the two
cases is fortuitous.
37.      When the costs of the project management unit and one half of the
costs of the Wildlife Planning Unit are deducted from the combined net benefit
stream of three wildlife areas, the rate of return (without shadow prices) comes
to 15.7% (15.6% on the effective devaluation assumption).
38.      The estimates exclude the rate of return effects from foreign financing
of part of the program. bubstantial foreign equity financing is not expected,
both because of Kenyanization policies (which currently limit non-citizen, to
say nothing of non-resident, participation to under 50% of the equity in
tourist enterprises), and also because the financial profitability of lodges
is modest (see para. 42 below). Foreign loan finance would, however, be
important. This would include, explicitly, the proposed Bank loan (see Table 6).
In addition, since Kenyats domestic savings are not sufficient to cover total
investments, the loan component of accommodation investment would be at least
implicitly financed from abroad at Kenya's marginal borrowing rate. bince the
rates of return on these foreign flows would be less than the above economic
rate of return, the inclusion of foreign financing flows in the cost-benefit
stream would serve to raise the economic rate of return estimates.
Price Elasticity and Revenue Dilution Effects
3'.      No estimate exists of the appropriate price elasticity which should be
used to adjust tourists expenditures in the wildlife areas to arrive at the
marginal receipts of the project. Je have, however, calculated the minimum
elasticity which is consistent with marginal project benefits being at least
equal to marginal project costs. The results are shown in the fo'lovring table
for two alternat ive assumptions about the social discount rate._  These elastici-
ties are not excessive at least for the "ineffective devaluation" case, given
1/ The procedure followed was to divide discounted non-resident receipts
(including the foreign exchange premidum) by discounted net benefits, i.e.
to take the inverse of the profit margin on sales to non-residents. The
rationale for this measure is that marginal receipts equal tctal receipts
X(l-l/price elasticity).  Hence, the profit margin on sales (the difference
between receipts and marginal receipts) is 1/price elasticity. It is also
implicitly assumed that all net benefits are attributable to non-resident
deman(i.  Given the fact that receipts from residents comprise onLy around
2-, of total incremental ecosystem receipts, the bias due to this assumption
is minimal.



Annex 10
Page 18
the fact that Kenya must compete with other 'winter' and 'special interest'
tourist destinations. On the other hand, they are not so low as to suggest
that Kenya should introduce policies designed to lower prices to secure larger
volumes of tourists. The elasticity is higher in the "effective" devaluation
case since the profit margin on sales is lower in that case. The pricing study
which would be carried out under the project should aim at throwing further
light on this question, including a more refined analysis of Kenya's total
receipts and costs from wildlife viewing tourists rather than just the eco-
system receipts and costs which are analyzed here.
Estimates of the Minimum Price Elasticity of Demand Consistent
with Economic Optimality of the Projec t
Amboseli                Mara           Inner Nortnern Circuit
Devaluationi   Ineffect-  Effect-   Ineffect-  Effect-         Ineffect-i Effect-
Assumption   |   ive          ive        ive        ive          ive         ive
Social Discount
Rate
8%              2.6       3.1         2.9         3.2          2.8       3.4
10%              2.8       3.4         3.2         3.6          3.1       3.8
Financial Analysis
4,0.     A full financial analysis of the receipts and costs of parks and reserves,
taking explicit account of expected inflation, has not been carried out. On the
other hand, incremental financial receipts and costs have been estimated on the
assumption that relative prices remain constant at their 1975 levels (under the
two devaluation hypotheses). The streams for the ineffective devaluation case
are summarized in Columns 3 to 8 of Tables 2 to 4. TYne table below sets out the
resulting 'financial' rates of return to the wildlife Conservation and Management
bervice from entry fees, and to the Service and landowners combined from concession
and entry fees, under a variety of assumptions.  It may be concluded that Government
would re-ovPr all incremental financial cDsts of reserve investment and operations
from reserve entry fees alone, albeit at rates of interest somewhat lower than the
presumed social discount rate for Kenya (10% +). The inclusion of concession fees
in the returns stream approximately doubles the "financial rate of return on the
project.
41.      The rates of return on all commercial activities combined (see column 11
of Tables 2, 3, and 4) are not very high, if it be remembered that Government levies
company income tax at a 45% rate. In examining the component activities it would
appear that provision of transporL to tourists is a highly competitive lield.
Although investor recurns are mediocre, except to a handful of extremely well-organized
and efficient firms, there is no reason not to expect adequate transport services
to be available to hanole future visitor flows. The developmen[t of shopping activi-
ties, handicrafts, etc. has already begun in the Arboseli and Lamburu areas, ani
should expand even more than assumed in this analysis, provided that some attention
is devoted to this activity by the authorities and appropriate advice tendered to
persons in the wildlife areas.



Annex 10
Page 19
Financial Rates of Return to Government and Landowners from
Development and Operation of Parks and Reserves
Amboseli               Mara        i Inner Northern Circuit
Ineffect- Effect-  Ineffect-  Effect-    Ineffect-j Effect-
Devaluation Assumption    ive    |ive            ive        ive          ive     ive
A. Entry and Guide Fees Gn Financial Costs
Basic Estimate             7.7      7.6        4.5      4.5          3.7       3.5
Sensititivity to:
Investment & Fixed  +10%  6.7       n.c.       3.6      n.c.          2.7      n.c.
Operating Cost      -10%  8.9      n.c.       5.6      n.c.         4.8       n.c.
Entry Fees           +10%  9.1      n.c.       5.8      n.c.         5.1       n.c.
-10%  6.1     n.c.       3.1       n.c.         2.2      n.c.
Slippage of one
year in variable
GOP                      7.0      n.c.       4.1      n.c.         3.3       n.c.
B. Entry, rGuide and Coneession Fees on Financial Costs
Basic Estimate            13.1    12.8        10.0      9.8          9.2       8.9
sensitivity to:
Investment & Fixed  +10% 11.9       n.c.       8.9      n.c.         8.1       n.c.
Operating cost      -10% 14.5      n.c.      11.2      n.c.        10.5       n.c.
Receipts +10%             14.6      n.c.      11.3      n.c.        10.6       n.c.
-10%             11.5     n.c.       8.6       n.c.         7.7      n.c.
Slippage of one
year in variable GOP    11.4       n.c.       9.0      n.c.         8.2       n.c.
42.      In the case of accommodations, bandas are very profitable on a straight
financial basis.  The main problem associated writh this type of enterprise is to
ensure adequate management. Successful examples exist both within National Parks
and County Council Game Reserves, and there is no reason to expect that it will not
be possible for these successes to be replicated in the future. Luxury tented
camps are also financially attractive, due to their relatively low investment cost.
Lodges, on the other hand, are estimated to yield real financial rates of return
on total investment of under 7%. Although returns to equity may be somewhat higher
with loan finance at interest rates which do not fully reflect the rate of inflation,
it would appear that lodge prices must rise somewhat over current levels to establish
a level of profitability which would induce large-scale interest by private investors.
A 10% rise in prices would eliminate concern on this issue.l The current 'softness'
1/ It is worth repeating that these remarks apply to the actual receipts per bednight
after deduction of all discounts, commissions, taxes, service charges, and concession fees.
These receipts are very much lower than the full board tariff paid by an individual
client. In mid-1975, for example, the individual (single occupancy) Fu:Ll Board Tariff
was Shs. 240 in one lodge within one of the project areas (033.61 at the pre-devaluation
rate of exchange). Net receipts to the hotelier, per bednight, from the
full board tariff in the present analysis are estimated at only Shs. 96.5 ($13.52), or
40% of the individual rate.



Annex 10
Page 20
of lodge prices is easily explained: following several years of very rapid growth
of demand, rising prices, and substantial excess demand, demand growth moderated
due to the international recession and rising air fares. This slowdown coincided
with the opening of much new capacity commenced during the previous boom period,
leading to a shift from a seller's to a buyer s market. Renew-ed pressure for
prices to rise as demand increases relative to capacity may be expected in the
near future. At that point, however, it will be important that hotels be allowed
to raise prices and that the exercise of Government controls over prices not un-
necessarily reduce the financial and economic profitability of the sector. There
is evidence that the existing controls on beverage prices already reduce revenues
from this source.
Implications of Possible Foreign Exchange Control Evasion
43.      The above conclusions on the private profitability of tourist enterprises
need one further qualification which relates also to the estimates of economic
returns. It is frequently alleged that tourist firms engage in evasion of the
foreign exchange control. The most common allegation is that transport and hotel
operators which sell to foreign tour firms request that the foreign firms remit
to Kenya only part of the payment for Kenyan services, depositing the remainder
in illegal foreign bank accounts of Kenyan residents.  If the Kenyan firm enters
into its accounts only the remnitted payments, it would evidently be evading
income tax as well as the foreign exchange control. Since the present analysis
is based upon accounts of hotels and tour firms, ana to the extent that the above
type of evasion is significant both the economic and financial returns from
tourism would be understated.l/  Alternatively, firms may provide a conduit for
the illegal export of capital by substituting Kenya currency payments from. the
capital exporter for the untransferred foreign payments.  In th_s event, our
estimates of foreign exchange receipts to Kenya (but not Kenya residents) woulc be
overstated, while our estimates of financial profitability would be correct.
Since, however, this second type of evasion is more easily detected than the
former, it seems less likely that it is important.  iinally, there is some traffic
in foreign currency exchanged illegally by tourists within the country. To the
extent that tourists purchase Kenyan currency below the official exchange rates
assumed, foreign exchange receipts would be overstated.  It would be one of the
tasks of the proposecd stuciy on pricing to examine in more detail this cuestion
as wel_ as those ierntioiied in para. L2, to providie a firm basis fcr policy
decisions.
Distribution of Froject Net Benefits
LL.      The 'our mair beneficciaries of incremental ecosystem receipts generated by
the project would be the Central Government, County Councils, landowners in the diE-
persal areas, and workers who woulo. secure more lucrative employment opportunities
due to the project Lhan they would secure without it.  As noted earlier, prices and
costs of accommocation and travel services are such that private investors are
unlikely to earr. returr,s which exceed the returns available in other sectors.
1/ 'The econoric returrns woula be understated since no account would be taken of
fcreign exchange earn'rgs to Kenyans which are illegally retained abroad.



Annex 10
Page 21
45.      The Government would be the principal immediate beneficiary of the
project, and the ultimate beneficiaries would therefore depend upon the
incidence of the Government budget. In addition to its returns from entry
fees (which would be shared with the Narok, Samburu and Isiolo County Councils
in the case of the Mara and lnner Northern Circuit developments), the Govern-
ment would receive the indirect taxes generated by the project.  If these are
added to financial returns on reserve entry fees, the Government's rate of
return on the investment and operation of reserves would amount to 19.7% for
Amboseli,15.9% for Mara,and 15.C%for the Inner Northern Circuit (in the ineffect-
ive devaluation case). If all costs of the project management unit, and one-
half of the costs of the Wildlife Planning Unit are added to costs, Government
return on the wildlife area developments would come to 1.47%.Government would
also benefit from any difference between the rate of return on the Bank loan
and the social discount rate.  66% of the Bank loan would be to finance develop-
ments in the project areas, the Project Management Unit, and (one-half of)
the Wildlife Planning Unit.  The net present value of this to Governmen-; at
10% discount rate would amoumnt to Shs. 32 riillion, compared with entry fees and
indirect taxes (less project costs) of Shs. 37 million. 1/  Finally, since Govern-
ment rations foreign exchange, it woulol determine the beneficiaries of ->he
shadow-price premium on foreign exchange (although it is unlikely that the
rationing procedure would be such that the benefits actually derived would be
the same as the premium). Government would, of course, also receive income
taxes on profits of commercial activities, and receive some of the profits itself
from its investments through the Kenya Tourist Levelopment Corporation. If, how-
ever, the private rates of return on tourist activities are not exceptionally
high, these returns would not constitute a net benefit.
46.      An additional, temporary, liability of Government due to the project
would be the payment of Guaranteed Minimum dildlife Returns to group ranchers in
the dispersal areas of the Parks and Reserves within the project should direct
returrns from wildlife utilization in those areas plus concession fees not equal
some minimum amount. Since these agreements are not yet negotiated, it is
impossible to provide any estimate of this sum. Given the buildup of concession
fees which may be expected from the project, however, to say nothing of the
attractive prospects for hunting concessions (see para. 6 above), it seems un-
likely that Government will be called on to pay G1UR for more than a few years,
if that.
47.      County Councils would receive some income from entry fees (the amount
would depend upon the terms of the agreemenGs to be negotiated between the
Government and County Councils) and, to the extent that they invest in bandas or
lodges, returns from these activities.  Such income would presumably be used
partly to reduce existing subsidies from Government, and partly for the expansion
of local government services to the populations of the Districts within which
the reserves are located.
^! See Tables 5, 6, ernd 7. The gains to Government from foreign financing are
umderestiriated to the extent that inflation of Kenya's receipts and *osts
from t.oiir.sm would ex.ceed the r:te of devaluation of the Kenya shilling vis
a vis thE currencies in which the loan w,Tould be denominated.



Annex 10
Page 22
48.      Dispersal area landowners would receive very substantial concession
fees (see TEobles 2, 3, and 4) from lodges, bandas, campsites, petrol stations
and shops located on their lands.  These receipts would involve virtually no
cost to lancLowners (apart from the excision of small areas of land to accommo-
date these activities, plus access to water sources).  Concession fees would
be used by  kroup Ranchers either for the development of communal fac:Llities,
such as cattle dips, or would be distributed in cash to the members of the group.
The latter system would reduce income inequalities in the pastoral areas where
income is now related almost entirely to (very unequal) cattle holdings. Some
group ranches might decide to construct and operate bandas, or to take a
participation in lodges on their land, securing additional returns on any such
investments. Members of groups would also stand to gain from the availability
of increased employment opportunities in the reserves, lodges, and associated
activities. Some of them would earn income from production and sale of handi-
crafts to tourists, as well as of foodstuffs to park staff, lodge staff, and
lodges themselves.
49.      In addition to employment opportunities for local inhabitants of the
project areas, the project would provide employment for workers recruited from
other parts of Kenya. The premium on unskilled labor (Tables 2, 3, 4) probably
represents a minimum estimate of the gains to local and outside workers.
Employment Effects
$0.      Employment creation in the dildlife Service within the parks and reserves
has been estimated on the basis of the computor model referred to above. Most of
the new staff would be employed as guides/rangers. Employment in accommodation
facilities is based on an estimated employee/bed ratio of 0.8 for lodges and
luxury tented camps, and o.4 for bandas. Jobs in tourist transport and shops are
estimated at 0.4 per accommodation employee. In addition to these 'direct'
employees, the project would stimulate indirect employment in other sectors
(agriculture, food processing, handicraft production, transportation and
distribution, furniture making, etc.) which supply direct tourist activities.
On the basis of admittedly rough estimates, it would be reasonable to assume a
ratio of indirect to direct employment of one. The resulting estimate of
incremental employment generated by developments in the three project areas, and
excluding employment in construction, is shown below.
Incremental Employment Generated (over 1975 Level)
Direct Employment                      Indirect Employment
YearCommerciai Activities
Year     Parks and Reserves   Accommodation  Other  (= rArect Employment) Total
1980              225               442         177               844         1688
1985              360              1045         418              1823         3646
1990              535              1618         647              2800         56oo



Annex 10
Page 23
Balance of Payments Effect
51.      The balance of payments effect of the project is summarized in Table 6.
Excluding foreign financing flows, the investments in the projec- area- would
ccmnence to make a positive impact on the balance of payments fr,im year 3 (1978),
at which point the net foreign cumulative foreign exchange deficits would be
$3.1 million.The net contribution (inflows less outflows) would come,to around
$ 2.1  million in 1980 , and to $ l4.5m at maturity of the project.   qh, the
inflows and outflows associated with the proposed Bank loan are included- the
cumulative negative impact on the balance of payments would come to around
$0.8 million in 1977, and the net flows to $2.4 million in 198f() and to $13.8 million
in 1951 and following years. In fact, the net impacts on the balance of payments
are likely to be more favorable than this, since these estimates do not take
account of inflation, nor of the fact that the foreign exchange content of accommo-
dation investments is likely to be financed by foreign borrowing.
1/ The exact foreign exchange impacts depend, of course, upon the response
of prices to devaluation. In the "effective" devaluation case, foreign
exchange receipts due to the project fall, since prices do not rise by the
full amount of the devaluation. In the ineffective devaluation case,
domestic prices rise by the amount of the devaluation. In order to
convert these shilling figures,  an exchange rate of Shs. 7.l4 is appropriate
for the ineffective devaluation case, and Shs. 8.0s for the effective de-
valuation case. The figures given in the text are the mean of these two.
2/ Excluding price contingenices.



Forecasts of Incrmntal Visitore and Incrmental Beds Available, Basic Demand Forecast
Amboseli                                             mara                                      Imer Northern Circuit
Incrwnental            Incrmnental                Inermental             Incrmental                   Incermntal              Incrental
Visitor Entries         Beds Available            Visitor Entries          Beds Available             Visitor Entries          Beds Available
Year    Non-Residents  Residents   Bandas    Lodges        son-RemiAents  Residents   Bandas    liodges        Non-Residents  Residents   Bandaa    Lodges
1                 2,600         -            1        16             1,708                      1        13               2,040                     1         14
2               11,882          -            4        70             7,803                      4        56              6,977                      3         45
3                22,741         -            8       124            141935                      7        99             13,000                      5         78
4               35,448          -           12       180            23,280                     10       144             20,348                      7        115
5               45S,942         730         16        218           30,171         523         14       174             26,460         465         10        141
6               57,695        1,497         21       267            37,890       1,071         18       213             33,489         953         13        174
7               70,858        2,301         26       326            46,535       1,647         22       260             41,572       1,466         17        214
8                85,601       3,146         32.      393            56,217       2,252         27       313             50,868       2,004         21        262
9              102,113        4,034         39       466            67,061       2,887         32       371             61,558       2,569         25        315
10              114,442        4,965         44        509           75,158       3,554         36       406              68,115      3,163         28        337
11              127,758        5,944         49        562           83,903       4,254         41        448             75,196      3,786         31        366
12              142,138        6,971         55        625           93,347       4,989         46       498              82,844      4,440         34        403
13              157,670        8,049         61        695          103,546       5,761         51       554              91,103      5,127         38        445
14              174,443        9,182         68        768          114562       6,572         57        612            100,023      5,849         40        462
15              192,559       10,371         71        799          126 459       7,423         63       675                n             n          It        n
16-25               "                                               139,308       8,317         66        702               n             "          "
C



AMBOSELI
3enefit and Cost Streams
(Ineffective Devaluation Case, Constant 1975 PriCes, Basic Visitor Growth Forecast)
(K. Shr '000)
-cosystee Receipts                         ipts pts S loara ol Park -ad L-ndownc-e                                   Cososercial Activities            |                                Shadow Price Premia on         B-nefit
from                                   Costs -                                                                                                                                                                 Including
Ii,,ancial    Concession        Total        Accommo-    Cross Op-   Cash Flo          rndirect    Net Benefit          Net           Unskilled      Shadov
Vest        Non-       Re-idtnrf   Entt&   Invest-ent   Variable    Surplus t;,                lees        Surplu-s to      datioc       erting    excl. Debt   TIxeC                without        Foreign          Labor        Prices
Res idents                  Guide      6 Fixed       Operat ing      Operator -                  Landowner    investment    Profit          and Income                 Sh&dOv Pricec   Dxcban8e  /   Reuner4 | (13)+ (14)
Fees      0 eratin      _             (3)-(4)-()                      (6)+(7)l                                    Tcxe5                    ()+(11)+(12)   Earnings -          ation -        +(15)
(1)           (2)          (3)         (4)            (5)           (6)            (7)            (8)            (9)          (10)           (11)          (12)          (13)            (14)            (15)             (16)
698          -           104        8987             76         (8909)            45           (8864)        3776             45         (3731)         1425          (11170)         (1829)          382              (12617)
2           3188          -           473        5271            119         (4920)           204           (4716)         2978           224         (2754)         1297           (6173)           (86)          442               (3817)
3           6102           -          906        7297            227          (6618)          390           (6228)         2559           487         (2072)         1776           (6524)           517            610              (5397)
4           9511           -         1412        5472            354          (4414)          609           (3805)         2387           838         (1549)         1980           (3374)          1635            630              (1109)
5          12327          68         1853        5274            469         (3890)           79t           (3094)         2950          1189         (1761)         2365           (2490)          2341            738                589
6          15481          140        2346         950            598            798          1006            1804          3433           1542        (1891)         2370            2283           3605            728               6616
7          19013         216         2898         950            742          1206           1239            2445          3812          1914         (1898)         2839            3386           4498           862                8746
8          22968         295         3513         950            901          1662           1501            3163          3171          2322          (849)         3229            5543           5613            962              12118
9          27399         378         4199         950           1079          2170           1792            3962          2635          2790           155          3691            7808           6845           1082              15735
10          30707          465        4721         97' 1215                     2556          2013            4569          3171          3213            42          4146            8757           7663           1213              17633
11          34280         537         5323         95(7          1363          2970           2252            2222          3641          3632            (9)         4628            9841           8559           132Z              19752
12          38138          653        5890         950           1521           3419          2509            5928          3915          4048           133          5071           11132           9549           1491              22222
13          42306          754        6543         950           1692           3901          2785            6686          2845          4486          1641          5490           13817          10767           1577              26161
14          46906          861        7248         950           1875           4423          3084            7507           639          4972          4333          5754           17594          12197           1621              31412
15-25          51tt7          972        8010          600          2074           5336           3407           8743            -            5790          5790         6192           20725          13610           1725              36060
PV- 0
5Y         430,47         7,122      659v2       37892          17012          11058         28108           39166         31485         46678         15193         57794          112153         104894          16957             234004
8t         293346         4596       45167        3426:3        11637           (753)         19256          18503         27120          31633          4513        41230           64246          70195          12164             146605
10%         232967         3542       35821        32571          9222          (5972)         15276           9304         24759          24907           148        33872           43324          54664           9978             107966
12%         187852         2766       28853        30794          7422          (9363)         12309           2946         22745          19914         (2831)       28012           28127          43129           8927              79583
Internal Rate of Return,                                                           7, h 7. 1'S                                                             10.05                        18.95                                             28.05
NOTES:  1/ Including indirect taxes.
2/ The Wildlife Conservat-in and Management Service in the fir( t instance, although some fraction of this nay be paid in the early years to landowners in the dispersal area in the form  of Guaranteed
Minimum Wildlife returns
3/ Note that net foreign exchange earnings equal the prenium divided by 0.3,
4/ 25% of unskilled labor remuneration.
_/ Present value.
IO
0



MARA
Benefit and Cost Streams
Ineffective Sevaloation Case, Constant 1975 Prices, Basic Visitor Growth Forecast)
(K. Shs '000)
E-osystem  Receipts                      ReIpts and co-ts of Beserne and l.andowners                                Cosnercial Activities                                             Snadow  Price Premia on
fr tm            |          ( e ~~~~~~~oost"                                                                            Cs.sh Flow  |
Financal1    Concession         Total       Acco-ms-      Gross 0p-   excl. Debt   Indirect    Net Benefit            Net          Unskilled    Net Benefit
Sear        Non-       R-edsmt,s  Entro -.  Innes tmeot   VaraiclI    Sarplu- to               Fees       Surplus to       dation       erating    and Income    Taxes             without        Fore ign          Labor         including
Residents                   Guide  |     Fined      "per-tiuc   operator  I                     Landowner    Investment    Profit            Taxes                    Shadow Prices   Exchange           Rem-ner-   Shadow Prices
Fees   |peratin-g                     (- (4)- (5                     I6)-(7)                                    (10)- (9)                 (8)+(1)+i(12)   Earnings 3'         ation 4/  (13)+(14)+(15)
(1)           (2)         (31          (4)           (5)            (6)           17)            (8)             (9)         (10)           (11)         (12)           (13)            (14)             (15)            (16)
1         532            -            70        1917             17        (1830)             35        (1795)          3030            33          (2997)         585          (4207)           (389)             249           (4347)
2       7432             -           3Si       I1336             7n        1269n)            160       (12736)          2378           172          (2206)        1862         (13080)          (1657)             558         (14179)
3       4656             -          60t         o835           149         (637R)            307        (6069)           2049          379          (1670)        1508          (6231)            247              522           (5462)
4        7257            -           948        5279           233         (4564)            479        (4085)           1904          653          (1251)        1652          (3684)           1117              529           (2038)
5       9406             59        1247         5279           310         (4342)           627         (3715)          2349           932          (1417)        1967          (3165)           1638              620            (907)
6       11812           122         1580         770           394           416             794         1210            2728         1212          (1516)        1853           1547            2742              568            4857
7      14507            187        1951          770           489           692            979          1671           3028          1507          (1521)        2219           2369            3421              672           6462
8      l7525            256         2366         770           594          1002            1186         2188            2545         1833           (712)        2525           4001            4272              749            9022
9      70936            326        6830          770           7 12         l 14R          1417          2765            2125         2206             81         2881           5727            5212              842          11781
10      23430            404         i1)2         '70           Ho)          1609            1592         3201            2530         2538              8         3236           6445            5837              943           13225
11      26156            483         356)3        .70           900          1899            1781         3674            2897         7870            (57)        3tll           7259            0119             11C2           14828
12      29100            567        3972          770          1004          2198            1985         4183            3119         3201             82         3997           8262            7273             1158           16693
13      32279            65)        4413          770           11])         2526            2205         4731            3314         3547            233         4410           9374            8092             1273           18739
14      35714            747        4890          770          1240          2866           2442          5322            2466         3933           1467         4726          11515            9091             1346           21952
15      39422            844         5403         770          1371          3262            2698         5960             743         4349           3606         4964          14530           10258             1388           26176
16-25      43428            945         5958         480           1512         396h            2974         6940              -          5048           5048          5305         17293           11438             1464           30195
PV5/@
SC     342132           6449       46636        36294          11786        (1444)         23314         21870           27136        37955          10820        48457          81147           82968            14032          178147
8'G    233052           4221        31716       32905           8007        (9196)          15861         6665           23045        25596           2551         34387         43603           54948            10063          108614
1071    184237           3239       25043        31038          6318        (12313)          12528          215           20870        20090           (779)       27967          27403           42482             8258           78143
1 27    147963           2518       20087        29527          5063        (14503)          10052        (4451)          19036        16014          (3021)        23234         15762           33270             6898           55930
loteroal  .ote of Return                                                        4.                          10.05                                        9.45                        16.45                                           24.85
NOTES:  1/  Including indirect tales.
2/  The Wildlife Conservation and Man-gene-t Seroice in the firt  -nstance, althoogh soae fraction of this may be paid to the Narok County Cocil and, in the earl  veers. to landow-er  in the dispersal
area in the for-  of Guaranteed Minloor ((ildltfe Rtmnos.
3/ Net Foreign Exchange Eoroisni equal the preni-nr divider) hy 0.3.
4/  255 of uskilled labor reuneratiot .
5/  Present -1a-.
H1D
CD 



IiNER NORTHERN CIRCUIT
Benefit and Cost Streams
(-nefl-ctiec Deval.ation Case, Constant 1975 Prices, Basic Visitor Growth Forecast)
(K. Shs '000)
Ecosystem  Receipts                      Receipts and Cost6 of Reserve and Landowner&                                 Comerrial Activiti*s                                                Shadow Price Pr_mis on             Not
from                                                   l                _Sanefit
Costs i/                                                                                     Casl Flow                                                                    Including
',Financial    Concession         Total       Accoaso-    Gross Op-   excl. Debt   Indirect    Net Benefit                Net           Unskilled       Shadow
Year        Non-       Residents   Entry S   Invest' et -      Vaciable      ,urpluo  to        Fees        Surplus to       dation        erating     and Income    Taxes            without        Foreign            Labor         Prices
Residents                   Gulde      I Fixed       Operating   Operator 2/                     Landowner    Investment    Profit             Taxes                     Shadow Prices   Exchange           Remuner-    (13)+(14)
Fees      Operating   |                (3)-(4)-(5)                     (6)+(7)                                    (10)-(9)                   (8)+(11)+(12)   Earnings 3/         ation 4/       +(15)
(1)           (2)          'l)         (4)            (5)            (6)            (7)            (8)            (9)          (10)           (11)          (12)            (13)           (14)              (15)          (16)
1         5h8                         82        1934            20           (1872)           38          (1834)          2482            38          (2444)         560            (3718)           (314)            228          (3804)
2        2010                        280        9293            70           (9083)          132          (8951)          1882           146          (1736)        1389            (9298)          (1303)            349         (10252)
3        3745                        522        5995           130           (5603)          246          (5357)          1711           308          (1403)        1274            (5486)            142             442          (4902)
4         5862                      1062        5288           203           (4429)          384           (4045)         1618           526          (1092)        1200            (3937)             787             473          (2677)
5         7623          49          1077        4612           272           (3807)          506          (3301)          1997           744          (1253)        1641.           (2913)           1283              516         (1114)
6        9648          100          1375         730           349             296           644             940          2402           975          (1427)        1541             1054            2210              477           3741
7       11976          154         1716          730           437             549          803            1352           1694          1227           (467)        1731             2616            2905             520           6041
8        14655         711          2107         730           538             839           985            1824          2049          1505           (544)        2102             3382            3574              624           7580
9       17734          271          2555         70(           653            1172         1194            2366           1408          1837            429         2392             5187            4458              695         10340
10       19423          333          -o5i         730           126            1381          1325           2706           1818          2108            290         2670             5666            4917              774          11357
11       21663          399          3142         730           806            1606          1465           3071           2166          2370            204         2954             6229            5420              851          12506
12       21866          468          3470          730          891            1849          1618           3467            1618         2618           1000         3153             7620            6061              904          14585
13       26246          540          3824         730           984            2110          1783            3893           469          2873           2404         3300             9597            6814              928          17339
14-2-        28816          616         4206          400          1084            2642         1959            4601              -          3320           3320        3452             11373            7577              973         19923
PV- /(
71      2175284        4641        36884        30835          9409           (3360)       17108           13748          18131         27845           9714        35289            58751           60996            10343         130090
89/%     li4908        3081         25519       27787          6490           (8758)        11818            3060          15895        19061           3166        25453            31679           40949             7529          80157
10^/     139628         2386         20378       26163          5171          (10956)         9426           (1530)         14664        15105            439        20950            19859           31933             6236          58028
12'!     113183         1472         16524       24773          4184          (12433)         7634           (4799)         13602        12150          (1452)       17538            11287           25211             5254          41752
Internal Rate of icturn                                                           3.75                          9.25                                       10.45                         16.15                                          21.55
NOTES:  1/  Including indirect taes.
2/  The Wildlife Conservation and Mnnagement S;ervice in the first instance, althogh omae fraction of thin nay be paid to the Samburu and Isiolo  Conty Concils and, in the early years, to landos-ars
in the dispersal areas in the form of Goaranteed YlMi,mu  Wildlife Returns
3/  Net foreign e-ch-nge earnings equal the premi-:  divided bv 0.3.
4/  251 of -nskilled  lobor re.r   nerarion
5/  Present value.
rCD



Receipts and LosLs to Goverrment from Development of -4ldlife Areas (Predevaluation 1975 Prices)
(K. S~h.'000)
Entry Fees & Indirect Taxes                   Investment and Operating Costs-/                     Goverment
lnner Northern                               Inner Northerm  PM:U andZ              Sur-plus
Year             Amboseli      Mara          Circuit    Total   Amboseli    Mara          Circuit      1/2 WPU  Total       (deficit)
(1)        (2       i   (3)         (4)        (5)        (6)           (7)          (8)      (9) (Nd)
1                  1529        655           642         2826     9013        1934          1954        3960    16861    (14035)
2                  1770       2180          1669        5619      5393       13214          9363        3080    31050    (25431)
3                  2682       2116          1796        6594      7524        6984          6125        3040    23673    (17079)
4                  3392       2600          2262         8254     5826        5512          5491         2700    19529    (11275)
5                 4218        3214          2718        10150     5743        5589          4884         2380    18596    ( 8446)
6                  4716       3433          2916       11065      1548        1164          1079           -      3791       7274
7                  5737       4170          3447       13354      1692        1259          1167           -      4118       9236
8                  6742       4891          4209        15842     1851        1364          1268           -      4483      11359
9                  7896       5711          4947       18548      2029        1482          1383           -      4894      13654
10                  8867       6418          5507        20792     2165        1573          1456           -      5194      15598
11                  9911       7175          6096        23182     2313        1670          1536           -      5519      17663
12                 10961       7969          6623        25553     2471        1774          1621           -      5866      19687
13                12033        8823          7124        27980     2642        1887          1714           -      6243      21737
14                 13002       9616          7658        30276     2825        2010          1564           -      6399      23877
15                 14202      10367          7658        32227     2674        2141          1564           -      6379      25848
16-25             14202       11263          7658        33123     2674        1992          1564           -      6230      26893
3/  3/    3/                               ~~~~~~~~~~4/
Internal Rate of                                                  19.75-/    15.95-         15.05-/                          14.75-
Return
1/ Including indirect taxes
2/ PU = Project Management Unit:  WPU   Wildlife Planning Unit
3/ Rate of return on this park alone
4/ Comibined rate of return without PMU and WPU is 17.15
0 



KENYA: FOREIGN EXCHA.NGE IMPACT OF DEVELOPMENT OF WILDLIFE AREAS (1975 Prices)
(UiS$ '000)
Gross Foreign ExchangeEarang   Net Foreign Exchange Earnings 1/                                     Bank Loan                     TOTAL
Ineffective   Effective              Ineffective   Effective
Year       Devaluation  Devaluation   Mean   Devaluation  Devaluation   Mean   Cumulative  Disbursements  Service   Net   Net FE  Cumulative
(1)           (2)        (3)         (4)            (5)        (6)        (7)             (8)          (9)    (10)    (11)         (12)
1             255           234          245    (1,454)         (1,472)    (1,463)  (1,463)            852 2/       82 3/  770 4/  (693)         (693)
2           1,067           984       1,026    (1,632)          (1,716)    (1,674)   (3,137)         1,878         264    1614       ( 60)       (753)
3           2,031         1,871       1,951         216             57        136   (3,001)          1,752         400    1352       1488         735
4           3,169         2,920       3,045       1,473          1,225      1,336   (1,665)          1,528         518    1010       2346      3,081
5           4,111         3,787       3,949      2,300           1,976      2,138       473            870         586      284      2422      5,503
6           5,174         4,766       4,970       3,995          3,587      3,791    4,264             120         595    (475)      3316      8,819
7           6,372         5,870       6,121      5,053           4,551      4,802    9,066             -           595    (595)    4207    13,026
8           7,724         7,115       7,420       6,283          5,675      5,979   15,045             -           773    (773)      5206    18,232
9           9,249         8,520       8,885       7,710          6,982      7,346   22,391             -           773    (773)      6573    24,805
10          10,331         9,516       9,924      8,598           7,785      8,192   30.583             -           773    (773)      7419    32,224
11          11,498        10,592      11,045       9,570          8,664      9,117   39,700             -           773     (773)    8344    40,568
12          12,760        11,754      12,257    10,683            9,679    10,181   49,881              -           773    (773)      9408    49,976
13          14,122        13,009      13,566    11,98h           10,873    11,430   61,311              -           773     (773)    10657    60,633
14          15,593        14,364       14,979    13,475          12,248    12,862   74,173              -           773    (773)   12089    72,722
15          16,793        15,470       16,132    14,680          13,357    14,018   88,191              -           773     (773)    13245    85,967
16-25        17,354        15,986       16,670    15,231          13,864    14,548  102,739              -            773    (773)    13775    97,742
1/ Excluding financial flows.
2/  The wildlife areas  the Project Management Unit, and 1/2 of the Wildlife Planning Unit, comprise 66.5% of the foreign exchange
costs of the project.  Price contingencies come to 22.66% of pro,ect costs.  Thus, the wildlife area elements in end-19.7  ;rces
come to .665 x (1-.226) or 51.57. of the loan amount.  rhe disbursements shown above are 1/2 of the disbursements in Annlex V  to
allow a minor adjustment for the difference in mid- and end-1975 prices.
3/  The terms assumed are:  commitment fee of 3/4%, interest rate of 8.5%;  repayments of principal commence in Year 8.
4/  Net present value at 10% discount rate = S423,368.                                                                                                         g 
F-J CD
january 1976
FM:mk



KENYA:  FOREIGN EXCHANGE IMPACT OF DFVELOPMENT OF WILDLIFE AREAS (1975 Prices)
(US$ '000)    (Third Window Terms)
Gross Foreign Exchange Earnings   Net Foreign Exchange Earnings 1/                                  Bank Loan                     TOTAL
Ineffective   Effective              Ineffective   Effective
Year       Devaluation  Devaluation   Mean   Devaluation  Devaluation   Mean   Cumulative  Disbursements  gervice   Net   Net FE  Cumulative
(1)           (2)        (3)         (4)            (5)        (6)        (7)             (8)          (9)    (10)      (11)        (12)
1             255           234          245    (1,454)         (1,472)    (1,463)  (1,463)            852 2/       65 3/   787 4/  (676)          (676)
2           1,067           984        1,026    (1,632)         (1,716)    (1,674)  (3,137)          1,878         155    1,723         49         (627)
3           2,031         1,871        1,951        216             57         136   (3,001)         1,752         221    1,531      1,667        1,040
4           3,169         2,920        3,Q45      1,473          1,225      1,336   (1,665)          1,528         277    1,251    2,587          3,627
5           4,111         3 ,787      3,949       2,300          1,976      2,139       473            870         311       559    2,422         6,049
6           5,174         4,766       4,970       3, 995         3,587      3,79L    4,264             120         315       (195)   3,596        9,645
7           6,372         5,870       6,121       5,053          4,551      4,802    9,066             -           315       (315)   4,487       14,132
8           7,724         7,115        7,420      6,283          5,675      5,979   15,045             -           577       (577)   5,206       19,338
9           9,249         8,520        8,h85      7,710          6,982      7,346   22,391             -           577       (577)   6,573       25,911
1C          10,331         9,516       9,924       8,598          7,785      8,192   30,583             -           577       (577)   7,419       33,330
11          1i,493        1Iu,592      11,045      9,570          8,664      9,117   39,700             -           577       (577)   8,344       41,674
12          12,760        11,754      12,257    10;683            9,679     10,181   49,881             -           577       (577)   9,408       51,082
13          14,122        13,009      13,566      11,986         10,873     11,430   61,311             -             77      (577)  10,657       61,739
14          15,593        14,364      14,979    13,475           12,248    12,862   74,173                          577       (577)  12,089       73,828
15          16,793        15,470      16,132    14,680           13,357    14,018   88,191                          577       (577)  13,245       87,073
16-25        17,354        15,986       16,670    15,231          13,864    14,548  102,739              -            577      (577)  13,775    1]O,848
1/  Excluding financial flows.
2/  The wildlife areas, the Project ManagemenL l'nit, and 1/2 of the Wildlife Planning Unit, comprise 66.5% of the foreign exchange
costs of the project.  Price contingencies come to 22.67, of project costs.  Thus, the wildlife area elements in end-1975 prizes
come to .665 x (1-.226) or 51.5% of the loan amount. The disbursements shown above are 1/2 of the disbursements in Annex I, to
allow a minor adjustment for the difference in mid- and end-1975 prices.
3/  The terms assumed are:  commitment fee of 3/4%, interest rate of 4.5%   repa7 nts of principal commnce in Year 8.
4/  Net present value at 10% discount rate - $1,970,251. S
H C
January 1976                                                                                                                                                     CD X
FM:mk                                                                                                                                                           _-  H



Annex 11
Page 1
KENYa: IWILILIFE AND TOURISM PROJECT
PROJECT 2IMPLEMENTATION MI!D SUPERVISION
1.        The difficulties inherent in implementing the project will
initielly require a major supervision effort. These difficulties are
due to:
- the number of separate project items, and their
scattered, and in some cases, remote location;
- She reorganization of goveniment agencies res-
ponsible for wildlife;
- the limited resources and experience currently available
within tne Ministry of Tourism and Wildlife for project
implementation;
- the need for coordination between many different government
agencies;
- problems of neaotirting complex agreements with rural land-
owiers, and with County Jouncils of Samburu, Isiolo, and
Narok DistrLcts:
rte need to establish a new Planning TJnit, and to secure
first pn.se development plans from it, prior to commence-
ment of ^onstruztion works in any Park or Reserve.
2.        The establishment of strong Project Manegement and Pl>nning Units
is exe  tedi to overcome such difficulties, but it is realistic to expect
that ma`or disbursements on construction will not commence before the middle
of the second year after effectiveness.  Table 1    sets out the main a^ti-
vities to be undertaken auring the first two years of the project as a whole.
This will be greatly expanded by the Project Management Unit to form tne
basis of a network diagram for overall supervision.
Key Lndicators
3.        The Project M.anagement UJnit will be responsible for the immediete
estabiisnment of management vontrol systems to cover all aspects of the
project.  Ln addition to such special reporting requirements as may be
advisable to meet particular problems, routine quarterly reports to the
rr;k mapy be expected to inzlude the following, given where applicable on
a calendar month basis: Submission of regular reports would be the res-
-onsibility of the Project Man.-gement Unit during implementation.  The



Annex 11
Page 2
Project Management Unit will also be responsible for establishing systems for
subsequent monitoring, after completion.
A. General (national)
- tourist arrivals, departures, bednights
- hotel/lodge capacity and occupancies
- length of stay, estimated expenditures
B. General (project areas)
- game park/reserve entries, by type
- game park/reserve revenues
- revenues to landowners from direct wildlife returns and
payments of GIUWR
- existing lodge/banda campsite capacity and occupancy
- lodge/banda campsite capacity under construction, by
location and expected completion date
- status of negotiation of agreements with County Councils
relevant to project
- status of negotiFtion of agreements with lnndowners in
dispersal areas for payment of Guaranteed Minimum Returns
from Wildlife
- current tariff of entry fees, bednight royalties and other
charges
- proposed tariff of fees and royalties, and date of effective-
ness.
- employment, by type of employment, location
C. Parks Lmprovements
- status of the acquisition of vehicles
- length and costs of game viewing tracks constructed
- status of implementation of structures.
D. Parks Heado,uarters
- status of preparation of design, tender documents, schedule
for bidding, estimated/actual date for contract award
and construction schedule
- agreements reached with local authorities
- progress of physical construction
- status of arrangements for operation and maintenance.
E. Road Construction/Maintenance Units
- status of acquisition of equipment and vehicles
- employment of operators and mechanics and/or arrangements
for maintenance



Annex 11
Page 3
- number of hours equipment operated
- expenditures on running and maintenance
- hours equipment mechanically inopera-tive.
F.  Game-Proof Barriers
- length and type of barriers constructed and maintained
in each area
- cost per km of barriers construzted
G. vJildlife and Fisheries Training Institute
- status of preppration of design, tender documents, schedile
of bidding, estimated/actual date for contract award,
and construction schedule
- prcgress of physical construction
- employment of training staff.
H.  Wdildlife Glubs of Kenya
- st2tus of acquisition of buses
I. Tecnnical Assistanze
- estsblishjrent of posts, ar,d appointment of key officers
- st tus of consultants' contracts for studies.



Amnex Li
Table .1
KENYA, 1.YLDLIFE AND rCIUHISM 1T0Ojr'-f
INITIAL UiMLNEMETATION 1121
~bril    May        dul                                       an.iJan.
Resomnble'   ~7o    1976, I            976                                     17 I97h
___________ti              ___               A...ri-I,  -1,                                              -             -I     -      SIAL O li                  .13          1-11                        1
Main ActivIties   Authority           -21-i          1    2       3     1 ~~~~~~~~~~  6      7'                                                          1 0 1  1  16  1 15     19     20     21     22      3      2
Authoriz. poject management post.,                 DP/MFP
Authorize planning  -nit p05st                   DOP/ME?
Selection of consultants for priority,
planning atudies                                MIhW
Recruit and appoint key project
management staff                                11TW
Recrui t and appoint planning unit
staff                                           MIh
Negotiate assiatance for staffing
Training Institute                              MTW/MFP                                                                                                                                                             -      -       -
Establish details of ssgreeentsa
to be negtiated with landowner                  NIh
Establish details of agreem,ents t.
be made with County Tounoils                    M'W/MJi'
Tender documents, moad equipenct,
Vehicles                                        MTW
Stud2- of pricing policic z                       MTW'
Do-sultanta
Deaign and tender docnento,
Park 11eadquarters                              mTw/PIow-                             -                    -       -
Final design and tender documents,
Training Institute                              141W/MOW-                                            -      -          
Negotiate agreemeint with landowners
in prject areas                                 147W/MFPP                                                                            contiloig
Study' of large herbivores                        14TW
Declare loan effective                            INFD 
Conclude agreements with CounciLs                 14Th/RIO
Award of contract, equipment A, vehicles          510Wi
First phase Park/Reserve plans for project
areas (to include Marnar)                         I
Design and construct g-.-me~of harriers    MTW/PD                                                                                                                                        th         -s   0l  40._____ - -   -
Constroct Training Institute                      141W/pIn                                                                                                                       to mothT 35       ____             
Construct Parh Headquarters                       m4W/PIth                                                                                                                       iomo tha43  __ 
Construct tracks and other Park/Reserve
inprovements                                    Mw                                                               ~to mu th 61 _____                                                                               
Detailed anti-poachi-ng prog-a  to IBRD             14TW
1/ Responsible far inititing action, suporvising                                             MN   =  Ministry of Tourism  and Wildlife                       ED  =  F-restry Dmparu~net
-and/ar executing ti. work involved.                                                        NOW      Ministry of Works                                     DP         Directorate of Personel
NI-P     Miityo   isc       lnieill =  'niOlsy of Local (lovern-snt



Annex 11
Table l(a)
KENYA: WILDLIFE AND TOURISM PROJECT
PROJECT MANAGEMENT UNIT - INITIAL IMPLEMENTATION SCHEDULE
Responsible  pr.76                    Ju6ly
Authority    -3        -2     -l      1       2      3       4       5      6       7       8
Authorize nosts               'JP/!K.p
Advertise, professional
staff                        MTW
Designate Project
Manager/Asst.                MTW                            x
Appoint Project
Manager/Asst.                MTW
Secure office space            MT:
Tender documents,
vehicles & equipment         MT/VMOW                       x _x
Acquisition, vehicles
and equipment                MTW/MOW
Select and appoint
other professional staff   MTW
Prepare initial work
program                      PMU                                                          x
DP  =  Directorate of Personnel                                       MFP = Ministry of Finance and Planning
MTW = Ministry of Tourism & Wildlife                                  PMU =  Project Management Unit



Design and             Contract         Construction             Operation and
I T E M                     Tender Docmaents            Award           Supervision               Maintennnce
Parks Headquarters
Water supply                      MOW/MOWD                 MOW              MOW/MOWD                   MOWD
Sewerage                          MOW/MOWD                 MOW              MOW/MOWD                   MO0WD
Electricity                       MOW                      MOW              MOW                        MOW
Roads                             MOW                      MOW              MOW                        MOW
Housing                           MOW                      MOW              MOW                        MOW
Offices and Workshop              MOW                      mow              MOW                        MOW
Dispensary                       MOW                       MAW              MOW                        MOH
Primary School                    MOW                      MOW              MOW                        MOE
Training Institute
Water supply                                                                                           MOE
Water distribution                MOW/MOWD                 MoW              MOW/MOWD                   MOW
Sewerage                         MOW/MOWD                  MOW              MOW/MOWD                   MOW
Electricity                      MOL                       MOW              MoW                        MOW
Structures                        MOW                      MOW              MOW                        MOW
External works                    MOW                      MOW              MOW                        MOW
Road Construction and
Maintenance Units
Vehicles and Equipment            MOW                   MOW/Central         Central Tender             MTW
Tender Board         Board
Tentage                           MOW                      MOW                                         MTW
Parks Improvements
Planning Unit                             Project Mgt. Unit          MT  -
Game-viewing tracks
Structures                        MOW                      MOW              MCW                        MOW 1/
Infrastructures                   MOW                      MOW              MOW                        MOW 1/
Vehicles                          MCW                  MOW/Central           Central Tender            MTW T/
Tender Board         Board
Game-Proof Barriers                 MTW/MNR                  MTW/MNR           MTW/'MIR                  MTW/MNR
Wildlife Clubs of Kenya             MOW                      MOW               MOW                       WCK/MTW ND
H



Statistical Aopendix
Page 1
Kenya's Tourism Statistics
1.       Kenya's tourism statistics compare favorably with those of most other
destinations. They have been subject to changes over the years, however, and
it is worth listing the main series, the sources where they may be found, and
the main sources of non-comparability.
2.       Data on arrivals, departures, and total visitor days come from the
analysis of Immigration Department entry and departu)e declarations. Until
mid-1967, residents of Kenya, Tanzania and Uganda filled out no forms when
travelling within East Africa, and residents from other countries filled out
arrival and departure declaration only when arriving in or leaving East Africa.
Information on visits and visitor nights in the three countries came from a
question on the departure form which requested departing visitors to state
how many days they had spent in eacf country. From 1968 through 1970, arri-
vals and departures at Kenya's borders were recorded. Coverage tended to
exclude aitizens of African origin from Uganda and Tanzania at surface bor-
ders, but practices varied from one border post to another and one year to
another. All arrivals and departures by air were recorded. Since 1971,
visitors have been asked their country of residence as well as nationality,
and this has shown more clearly the importance of other African countries
in generating tourist flows to Kenya. In addition, arriving visitors were
asked whether they have entered Kenya within the last 30 days, in order to
arrive at some estimate of visitors as contrasted with visits. As will
be seen from Table 3,         the difference is important, and the decline
in multi-country tours within East Africa is apparent since 1971. The "first
visit" figures are roughly comparable to the series on arrivals up to 1967
for Kenye. Since 1974, arrival statistics have been based on analysis of
a random sample of declarations rather than a total count (to save costs
involved in card punching). Arrival and departure statistics are summarized
in the Annual Economic Survey, the Statistical Abstract and in the Quarterly
Digest of Statistics. The Central Bureau of Statistics also circulates more
detailed information on monthly, quarterly, and annual flows.
3.       Information on hotel occupancies is requested from all hotels and
lodges on a monthly basis. Hotels are requested to enter the daily numbers
of rooms and beds occupied and available. The detail requested on beds
occupied has changed over the years. From 1965 to 1967, the only distinctions
were between residents of East Africa, non-residents of East Africa, and
"permanent occupants" (persons staying on monthly terms, who probably inclu-
de some aircrews, East Africa residents residing in hotels, and perhaps some
longer-staying businessmen from abroad). From 1968 to 1973, hotels were
requested to record bednights by Kenya residents separately from those of
residents of Uganda and Tanzania. Since 1973, hotels have been requested to
break down non-resident bednights between "permanent occupants" and residents
of Uganda, Tanzania, Other Africa, U.K., West Germany, Scandinavia, Other
Europe, USA, Canada, Asia, and All Other Countries.   The main bias in the
reported statistics is that many hotel reception staff still do not understand
the distinction between residence and nationality, leading to overestimates



Statisti cal Appendix
Page 2
of non-resident bednights and under-estimates of bednights occupied by ex-
patriate residents of Kenya. The statistics are published in the same
sources as the immigration statistics. Preliminary monthly returns are
published in mimeographed form, but unllike Jhe immigration data, these are
subject to lster revision as lagging hotel returns come in.
4.       Aviation statistics are collected and analyzed by the East African
Statistical Department of the East African Community.  Summary tables are
presented in the Economi3 and Statistical Review (quarterly) covering all
international air movements, operating statistics of East African airways,
and summary statistics on local (domestic) air charter firms. Information
on scheduled and non-scheduled international traffic is not published but
is available on analysis sheets at the E.A. Statistical Department.
5.       Information on tourist receipts is based upon tnree sources:  a
sample survey carried out by the Kenya Central Bureau of Statistics of depart-
ing tourists at Nairobi and Mombasa airports, plus a sample of tourists crossing
at land borders; an estimate of spending by passengers of ships and ships crews
in transit from the East African Statistical Department (these passengers do not
fill out immigration declarations, and so are excluded from the tourist statistics,
and an estimate of "prepaymnents" from overseas tour firms which sell package tours to
Kenya.  1Xcpenaitures witzhin the countr.  are 'grossed up' on the basis of average ex-
penditures per day by different types of tourists (by purpose and residence groups,
anc sometimes also by length of stay) multiplied by the days spent by each type depart-
ing the country. The main bias in the expenditure estimates in recent years is a seri-
ous underestimate of prepayments (these are assumed at 2 per visitor from outside Last
Africa'
-T. Informntion on entries to Kenyn National Parks is tabulated from a
monthly return (showing daily entries of different clnsses of visitors) by
park Wardens to the Central Bureau of Statistics via Kenya National Parks
.eadou.rters.  Prior to 1971, information or: entries to Parks was derived
from entry gate accounting records.  Cournty Council Game Reserves have been
-.irculated with. the 'BS forms sinc;e 1971, but no reserve has suffioiEzitly
well-trained st--ff to heve 3omrlete annurial returrns for any year.  qcorrpleteci
form,s for some months for some gates may be found at Reserve H(.'s.  Rough
estijnates of visitor entries to reserves may be gained from examining tne
amnual a-counts of tne County Councils, although it would appear thet these
officiKi re-eip's understate visitors as inferred from examining occupancies
of hotels in the reserves and sampling daily entry books at gate houses, where
these are maint!ined.
7.       Althounh the ,entral Burea,u of Statisti^s colle-ts annual data on
emruloyment (in J1une), this is not analyzed by sufficiently detailed sectors
to secure estimates of employment in tourist enterprises.  There have been
various partial surveys over the years whichi have been used to secure such
estimates.  Some information on costs and receipts of hotels and restalirants
is avas.lable from the Surveys of Distribution (1960, and 1967) carried ouit
by the Stati.-tlcs Department (precursor of the Central Bureau of Statistics),
,1 thougn one must rely or- sec-uring information from samples of firms, .clus
informction nvailable to thie Kenya Touirist Development Corporation.



Statistical Appendix
Table 1
KENYA- WILDLIFE LND TOURISM PROJECT
RECORDED OR ESTIMATED ARRIVALS OF FOREIGN VISITORS IN AFRICAN COUNTRIES
R =  recor,ed                 E =  estimated                  H = estimated on  basis of arrivals at hotels
Country            _ _   *             1972      ;                                                94  ___ %___
Eastern Africa                          1,185,154                1,158,058     -  2.7             1,175,027    +  1.5
Kenya 1/                        R     444,300          R      397,700      - 12.6        R      387,510        -
Botswana                       E      100,000          R      117,700      + 18          E      140,i000    + 23
Burnindi                       H       14,828          R       17,514      + 18          R       3!,i35    + 80
Ethiopia                        R      63,940                  73,662      + 15          R       50,220    - 32
Lesotho                         R     105,000          E      112,500      +  7          E      120,000
Madagascar                      E      24,000          E        20,000     - 16.6        E       20,000       -
Malawi                          R      48,794          R       51,070      +  5          E       40,423       -
Mauritius                       R      48,797          R       67,994      + 39          E       68,000
Rwanda                         E       23,000          R       23,886        -           E       24,000       -
Somalia                        R        9,086          E       10,000        -           E       10,000       -
Swaziland                      H       98,950          H      103,523      +  5          E      108,000
Tanzania                       E      100,000          R      124,000      + 24          E      120,000
Uganda                          E E    40,000          E         7,000                   R        9,E39
Zambia                          R      64,459          R       41,109      - 36          R       46,COO    + 12
West Africa                               306,560                  373,205     + 22                 386,893    +  3.7
Dahomey                        E       10,000          R       14,905                    R       20,282    + 36
Gambia year ending
30 June                R       8,031          R        15,623     + 94          R        21,653    - 39
Ghana                          R       62,381          E       60,000                    R       30,419
Tvory Coast                    H       59,484          H       70,938      + 19          H       72,800    +  3
Liberia                        E        1,715          E        1,750                    E        1,700
Mali                           R        9,348          E       11,000                    H       12,000
Mauritania                     H       10,298          H        11,500     + 12       | H        15,612    + 36
Niger                          E        5,500          R        5,628                    E        5,500
Nigeria                        R       49,408          E       52,000                    E       55,000
Senegal                        R       62,500          H       99,000      + 58          H      112,257    + 13.4
Sierra Leone                   E        8,000          E       10,000                    E       10,000
Togo                      I    H       12,000          H        18,942     + 58          E       20,000
Upper Volta                    H        7,900          H        8,880    -F 12.4                  9,670    +  9
Central Africa                            160,853                  167,571     +  4                 176,912    +  5.5
Cameroon                       E       50,000          E       50,600                    E       5S,000
C.A.R.                         E        4,200          R        4,107                    R        4,067
Chad                           E       19,000          E       18,970                    E       18,495
Gabon                          R       12,000          E       12,000                    E       12,000
Zaire                          R       75,653          R       81,894      +  8          R       84,3,0    +  3
North Africa                            2,807,045               3,152,795      + 12.3    I        3,223,705    +  2.2
Algeria                        R      237,242          E      220,000      -  7.3
Egypt                          R      540,880          R      595,300      + 10          R      645,605    + 11
Libya                          R      165,679          E      251,670      + 52          E      426,2CO
Morocco                         R   1,061,894               1,340,524      + 26               1,204,700
Sudan                          E       21,000          R       23,304      + 10          R       27,200    + 17
Tunisia                        R      780,850          R      721,897      -  7.5        R      722,000
1/ Including re-visits
Source:  Economic Conanission for Africa



KENYA: WILDLIFE AND TOURISM PROJECT
KEN'Lk:  VISITOR DEPARTURES BY OOUNTRY OF RESIDENCE, 1972-1974
Thousands
HOLIDAY                         BUSINESS                         TRANSIT                        T 0 T A  L
1971   1972   1973   1974    1971   1972   1973   1974    1971   1972    1973   1974             1971   1972   1973   1974
United Kingdom                 34.0   40.2   38.3   36.8        7.4    6.9    6.8    6.4        5.3    5.0    3.9   2.6          48.7   52.1   49.0   45.8
West Germany                    30.3   34.6   32.2   31.6       2.7    1.9    1.9    2.0        2.5    2.6    2.2   1.3          35.6   39.1   36.3   34.9
Italy                           8.7   11.8   13.5   16.2        1.4    1.0    1.0    1.1        1.1    1.0    1.3   1.0          11.3   13.7   15.8   18.4
France                          5.5    8.4    9.0    9.2         1.0    0.8    0.9      0 9     0.8    0.6    0.7   0.4           7.2   10.0   10.5   10.5
Switzerland                    11.6   15.6   17.7   19.7         1.0    0.8    0.9    0.8       0.8    0.7    0.7   0.5          13.4   '7.0    19.2   21.0
Other Europe                   17.4   20.2   22.8   27.9        3.1    2.3    2.5    2.4        3.0    2.5    2.5   1.7          23.5   25.0   27.8   31.9
TOTAL EUROPE                107.5  130.8  133.4  141.4    18.6   13.7   13.9   13.5    13.4   12.3   11.3   7.5              139.6  156.7  158.6  162.4
United States                  46.6   57.9   45.4   41.5        3.9    3.3    3.7    3.1        4.2    3.4    2.9   1.8          54.7   64.7   52.0   46.4
Canada                          3.8    5.6    5.1    5.5        0.5    0.5    0.5    0.5        0.6    0.5    0.4   0.4           4.9    6.6    6.1    6.4
TOTAL N. AMERICA             50.4   63.5   50.4   47.0       4.4    3.8    4.2    3.6         4.8    4.0    3.4   2.2         59.6   71.3   58.1   52.8
India                           7.2    6.0    4.5    5.0        1.3    0.8    0.6    0.6        2.7    2.1    1.5   1.3          11.2    8.9    6.6    7.0
Japan                           1.6    3.2    .i.9    4.2        1.1    0.9    1.1    0.9       2.7    0.8    0.8   0.4           3.3     4.8    5.8    5.6
Israel                          1.9    2.1    1.5    0.9        0.6    0.3    0.2    0.1        1.1    0.6    0.4   0.1           3.6    3.0    2.1    1.2
Other Asia                      4.0    4.9    5.1    6.2        1.0    0.7    0.9    0.8        1.3    1.2    1.1   1.2           6.3    6.7    7.1    8.1
TOTAL ASIA                   14.7   16.1   15.0   16.3        4.0    2.7    2.8    2.5       5.8    4.7    3.7   3.1          24.5   23.5   21.5   21.9
Uganda                          39.4   30.4   14.1   18.5        8.5    6.0    7.3    7.6        4.0    3.5    1.8   1.5         51.8   39.9   23.3   27.6
Tanzania                       59.4   74.5   63.1   51.4    14.2   10.6    9.4   10.1           8.3    6.6    5.2   3.8          81.9   91.7   77.8   65.3
Zambia                          4.6    6.4    7.8    8.6        1.2    1.2    1.1    1.5        3.7    3.6    3.5   2.8           9.5   11.1   12.3   12.8
Other Africa                    14.2   17.6   19.5   20.8        4.6    3.7    4.3    4.0       7.1    5.7    5.8    4.5         25.9   27.0   29.7   29.3
TOTAL AFRICA                117.6  129.0  104.6   99.3    28.4   21.3   22.1   23.2    28.0   19.4   16.3  12.5              162.1  169.7  143.0  135.0
Australia and New Zealand        3.2    3.9    3.6    4.2        0.5    0.4    0.3    0.3       0.7    0.7    0.5   0.4           4.3    4.9    4.5    4.9
All Other Countries              2.0    1.8    1.9    2.1       0.4    0.2    0.4    0.2         0.2    0.2    0.2   0.1          2.6    2.2    2.4    2.5
TOTAL OTHER                  5.2    5.6    5.5    6.3         0.9    0.6    0.7    0.5       0.9    0.9    0.7   0.5           6.9    7.1    6.9    7.4
T 0 T A L                   295.5  345.0  309.0  310.3    56.3   42.1   43.7   43.4    47.9   41.3   35.4  25.9              399.7  428.4  388.1  379.6
Source:  Kenya, Economic Surveys, 1973, 1975.



Statistical Appendix
Table 3
KENYA: WILDLIFE AND TOURISM PROJ^ET
1/_
VISITORS AND VISITS   TO KENYA, BY RESIDENCE AND PUJRPOSE OF VISIT, 1951-1974
number from 1950-1967, '000 1958-1974
VISITORS who were residents of
VISITS b
Uganda &                Non-East       East
Non-East African countries               Tanzania       Total    African       African       Total
Year                                        Business                             Visitors   Residents    Residents    Visits
Transit    Holiday    and Other       Total                                                        _
1950                  16,584             7,471             24,055
1951                  23,310       5,447      4,682        33,439
1952                  24,072       6,305      5,631        36,008
1953                  22,146       4,800      5,207        32,153
1954                  21,990       5,282      5,956        33,228
1955                  25,991       7,210      6,337        39,538
1956                  25,830       8,549      6,o80        40,459
1957                  25,982       9,933      7,203        43,118                              > 0 O
1958                  26,354       9,821      5,028        41,203
1959                  27,863      11,219      5,847        44,929                      A  V  A  I  L  .B'
1960                  16,563      12,636      6,601        35,800
1961                  18,138      14,577      9,320        42,035
1962                  24,561      15,615      9,744        49,920
1963                  27,419      21,806     12,127        61,352
1964                  31,215     22,363      11,854        65,432
1965                  35,119     32,351      13,978        81,448
1966                  39,156     49,076      18,288       106,520
1967                  50,800      51,100     15,200       117,100
1968 n_m.                          n.a_ n_a-                n.a. n__-                n.a. n_ n_m.                          262.0______ ___ __________ __ ______ _
1968                   n.a.        n.a.       n.a.          n.a.        n.a.        n.a.         n.a.          n.a.        262.0
1969                   n.a.        n.a.       n.a.          n.a.        n.a.        n.a.         n.a.          n.a.        293.3
1970                   n.a.        n.a.       n.a.          n.a.        n.a.        n.a.         n.a.          n.a.        343.5
1971                   39.9        160.4      23.5         223.8        94.2         318.0       274.2         137.0       411.2
1972                   42.2        190.9      24.6         257.7       106.2         363.9       310.9         133.4       444.3
1973                   39.3        194.4      22.6         256.3        80.6        336.9        297.0         100.7       397.7
1974                   38.8        193.7      24.4         256.9        75.5        332.4        292.8          94.7       387.5
Rates of Growth
1951-
1974                   2.2%        16.8%      7.4%          9.3%
1/  Up to and including 1967, arrivals in Kenya from  outside East Africa of non-East African residents.  From  1968 to
1970, only total arrivals in Kenya were recorded (analyzed by nationality and purpose but not residence of visitor).
Since 1971, information has been collected and analyzed on residence of visitor. The distinction between visitors
and visits is that a single visitor may visit Kenya several times after excursions to neighboring East African
countries. Since 1971, arriving visitors have been asked whether they have entered Kenya within the last 30 days;
if not, they are tabulated as 'first visits', and this figure is taken here to represent 'visitDrs'. The figure is
not exactly oomparable with the visitor figures up to 1967, since those figures do not include visitors to Kenya who
first entered East Africa via Uganda or Tanzania. The numbers involved were few, but the result of comparing the
pre 1967 and post 1971 figures is to bias upwards the long term growth rates tabulated above.
Sourcest   East Africa High Commission, Quarterly Economic and Statistical Bulletin (1949f) (later E.A.C.S.O. Economic and
Statistical Review);  Kenya, Statistical Abstracts, 1956 to 1967; Kerya Statistical Digest (Quarterly), 19614-1968;
Kenya, Economic Survey, (annual) 1971-1975; Kenya Immigration Statistics (monthly mimeo publication of Central
Bureau of Statistics, 1974 and 1975).



KENYA: WILDLIFE AND TOURTSM PROJECT
ToTAL STAY OF DEPARTING VISITORS AND AVERAGE LENGTH OF VISIT. 1968-1971
Total stay 'Thousands of days)
By Length of Stay                      B,  yp. of Visitor                                 Bv Nationality/Residence of Visitor _a                                     _.
Year/Quarter       0-14    +   15-21        Over  28                              I TEasr    ! Other                                West         Other         North                     All
.. __._ _da        v    3 . .. days    days   N     Holid _y Business t Transit    Africa   African    British    Gesanv    European    American                     Asian       Ot e -s   Total -
1969                953           511          976           1,860        389     i   145         30h4       65          882               592                  331          196          20        2,440
1969              1,019           572          761           1,895        235 162                 315        53          822               567                  386           185    1    25        2,352
1970              1,250          479           974           2,476  I    236    i   170           413        61          983               736                  4.12          257         2'        2,973
1971 a!         ! 1,757   i, 80                                                                   642        101       1,078               939                  569          284          62        3,734
1971 a/           1,737          873          ,124           3,200        454          80       1,109       271          644         373          543           494          241          59        3,734
1972              1,940        1,001         1,826     I    4.2897        41      .    77       1, I,.      341          793         493          738           715           26'         75        I,768
1973              1,753        1,013         1,639           3,951        423          61         991       411          762         442          803           690          262          74        4,435
1974              1,966   j   1,0S'          1,333           3,9X8        440          48         961       411          673         444          975           594           256         86        4,406
1968                4.4          19.5         67.5            12.1        11.5         2.1        7.3       6.7          10.2              11.0                 9.5          8.9          6.6          9.5
1969                4.4    j    13.1          54.0            11.0          8.1        2.2        6.8       6.6           9.4               9.5                 8.2          8.1          7.2          8.5
1970                5.4          19.5         53.1            10.9          7.9        2.4        6.8       6.0           9.8               9.7                 8.6      I   8.5          5.6          8.8
1971 a/             5.2         19.7          55.7     I      10.8          8.1        1.7        3.8        7.8         11.7               9.5                 8.1          9.1          8.7          9.3
1971  a/            5 2         19.7          55.7            10.8         8.1         1.7        8.3        '.7         13.2       10.5           9.8          8.3           9.8         8.7          9.3
1972                5.5         19.8          71.1            12.4           9.7       1.7       10.3       9.0          15.2       12.6          11.3         10.0          11.1        10.5         11.1
1973                5.6          19.9         64.2            12.8          9.7        1.7        9.        9.8          15.6       12.2          10.9         11.9          12.2        10.7         11.4
1974                6.5          19.9         61.7            12.6         10.1        1.9       10.3   I  9.8           14.8   i   12.7          11.9         11.2         11.7         11.6         11.6                 a
-_L------ __.   _   _                                                       _           I_       L                       ,                                               _. _                              a-c.
a/ Nationality from 1968 to 1971, Residence from 1971-1974.                                                                                                                                                              m n
b/ Includes visitors with purpose of 'other' of 46 in 1968, 79 in 1969, and 91 in 1970.                                                                                                                                    >
So,,r. e:  Kenya, Economic Survey, 1972, 1974, 1975.



KENYA: WILDLIFE AND TOURISM PROJECT
HO(TEL ROOM AND RED AVAILABILITY AND OCCUPANCY 8ATES_B BvAn/<lA,_1965  1369-l974
~~~~ ~~~~-                     Na'.tR;3BI    =    _         u                   Coast  -                   -~~~~~~~~~~CkSAL    ' H E R             ''-       -~~~
Ti''   |             l                Mon,basa      H nter-         Game           Nyanca                  j                               All
Class            |            Oahe     r | Bos,-h    _  Island  land  Ar ea Basin                Western      Ce.ntral     Northern        Hotels
1965-                                                                                     1                                                                        I                -
Rooms available ('000 nights)                        139           451          184          129            35            37              49            33           151            5           1,268
Occupancy rate (per cent)                             74            64           53           60           48             38              53            48            39           22              58
Beds available ('000 nights)                         30-3          671          3.38         224            77            71              7/            64           257            9          2,126
Occupancy rate (per cent)                             5?            55           47    '      45      '    37             33              42            36            31           17              47
1966 -
Rooms available ('000)                                                                                                                                                                          1,278
Ocecupancy rate (7.)                                                                                                                                                                               67
Beds available ('000)                                                                                                                                                                          2,160
Occupancy rate (7.)                                                                                                                                                                                55
1967 -                                                                                 N  0  T
Room3 available ('000)                                                                                                                                                                         1,443
Occuponcy rate (%/)                                                                                                                                                                                64
Beds available ('000)                                                                            A  V  A  I  L  A  B  L  E                                                                     2,494
Occupancy rate (%)                                                                                                                                                                                 52
1968 -
Rooms available ('000)                                                                                                                                                                          1,611
Occupancy rate (%)                                                                                                                                                                                 64
Beds available ('000)                                                                                                                                                                          2,850
Occupancy rate (I)                                                                                                                                                                                 52
1969 - 
Rooms available ('000 nights)                        760           544          404    '    176             75            63        t     52      I     32           204    j       6           1,816
Occupancy rate (per cent)                             73            69           55           61           44             56              47            45            42           24              i1
Beds availsble ('000 nights)                         441   '       872    i         9;       371           17i           134              89            50           368           12          3,29i
Occupancy rate (per cent)                             59            59           52           47            34            46              34            33            34           19              50
1970-
Room:s available ('000 nights)                       384           553          498          182            81            84              61            32           238            7          2,120
Occupancy rate (per cent)                             72            67           53           52            47            49              47            40            40           23              61
Bed; available ('000 nights)                         700           909          387)         336           183           173             109            50           423           13          3,882
Occupancy rate (per cent)                             53            60           52           53            37            41              30            30            33           17              49
1971-
Rooms available ('000 nights)                        383   ,       609          537          189            84            93              64      j     34      1   263            13           2,275
Occupancy rate (per cent)                             82            66           65           69            54            52              52            35            42           17              64
Beds available ('000 nights)                         716        11,028        1,057          349           195           192             118            55           472           25          4,215
Occupancy rate (per cent)                             60            54            59    I     54            42      j     45              32            27            35           15              52
1972-                                                                                                                                                                                              2,673
Roams available ('000 nights)                        441           713          748          204            87             94             63            36           272           17           2,675
Occupancy rate (per cent)                             78            64            56          59            60             60             47      j     40            42           23              60
Beds available ('000 nights)                         802         1,213        1,493          379           202           199             118            59           483           32          4,980
Occupancy rate (per cent)                             60            52            51          45            48             50             29            30            3'           19              50
1973 -                                                                                                                                                                                         I 3 I 322  ,2
Rooms available ('000 nights)                ,       561           794          849          236           127           123              62            35      1   302            24           3,123
Occupancy rate (per cent)                             72   I        66    '       53          61            43             54             51            38            40    I      19              58
Beds available ('000 nights)                       1,053         1,381        1,677          443           283           252             115            593          544           41           5,855
Occupancy rate (per ce,t)                             51            55    1      43    I      44            36             46             3.,           29            35           18              4d  
1974-
Rooms available ('000 nights)                        581           861        1,008          270           129           137              68            43           317           16      1   3,433         |
Occupancy rate (per cent)                             71            61            53          61           4351                           51            33            43           21              57        !
Bed; available ('000 nights)                       1,093   I   1,488          1,995          498           279           280        j    119            61           570           31           6,414
Occupancy rate (per rent)                             51            50           48    1      4             37            44              3       |     27            37           19              46
_        _ _ey      .       _ oicSuvey19711____                              I                     I                    I               i      _     I      _       i           I              I __i
Socrce:  Kenya, Economic Survey, 1971, 197), 1974.                                                                                                                                                                          c,



KE'SYA: WILDLIFE AND TOURISM PROJECT
HDTEL GUEST-NIGHTS BY COUNTRY OF RESIDENCE, 1974
NATROBI HDTELS      4        COAST HOTELS                 O'THER HOTELS                  TOTAL HTELS
Country of Residence        '000 Bed-                     '000 Bed-                     '000 Bed-                     '000 Bed-
nights        per cent _      nights        percent        nights        per cent         nights        per cent
Kenya                            154.8           11.9           268,.4         22.9          12).7          25.9            552.9          18.6
Uganda                            66.9            5.1            13.0           1.1            2.6           0.5             82.4           2.8
Tanzania                          40.9            3.2            15.5           1.3            2.5           0.5             58.9           2.0
Other Africa                      65.8           5.'             25.1           2.1            3.2           0.6             94.0           3.1
United Kingdom                   150.6           11.6           124.7          10.6           34.3           6.9            309.6          10.4
West Germany                       7! 6           5.5          3;l6           26.6           56.3           11.2           439.4          14.7
Scandinavia                       60.5           4.6             27.8           2.4           14 .9          3.0            103.2           3.5
Other Europe                     147.1          11.3            270.5          23.)          12".9          24.9            542. 5         18.2
USA/Canada                       195.1           14.9            39.5           3.4          101.7           20.3           335.4          11.3
Asia                              52.6            4.0            11.3           1.0            8.6            1.7            72.5           2.4
All other Countries               43.8            3.4             7.4           0.6            2.9           0.6             54.2           1.3
Permanent occupants 1/           254.4          19.5             58.8           5.0           13.3           3.9            333 0          11.2
_ .  ..    |        _ .    __       __ _--   _ __     .____       __          _                _.-  ___                       H
TOTAL                1,304;.1         100.0         1,173.6    1   100.0           501.3          100.0         2,979.0         100.0                  - x,
1/  Staying on monthly terms.                                                                                                         - ->
Source:  Kenya, Economic Survey, 1975.
x



KENYA:  WILD-IFE ANI) TOURISM PROJECT
OCCUPANCY OF GAME LODGES IN NATIONAL PARKS AND
GAME RESERVES 1965-1974
Lodge Bednights Occupied by Residents of East Africa ('ooo0
1965       1966       1967       1968       1969        1970       1971       1972        1973       1974
Game Reserves                          4.8         5.0        3.9         5.0        6.2        9.9       13.6        11.4       14.0        16.0
National Parks 1/                     10.0        11.5       14.9        23.1       23.7       26.9       16.7        22.7       23.4        28.4
Total                             14.7         16.5       18.8       28.1       29.9        36.8       30.3       34.1       37.4         44.4
Type:
Fully Catered                         12.9        n.a.       n.a.       n.a.       n.a.        n.a.       17.6        18.2       22.7        29.2
Self-Service 2/                        1.8        n.a.       n.a.       n.a.       n.a.        n.a.       12.7        15.9       14.8        15.2
Lodge Bednights Occupied by Non-Residents of East Africa (looo)
Game Reserves                         14.3        22.9       28.3       40.2        47.6       59.6       78.6       93.3       108.3       118.2
National Parks 1/                     17.8        30.2       33.4        34.5       53.7       74.1       82.5        92.1       94.0        89.6
Total                             32.1         53.1       6i.7       74./      101.3       133.7      161.1      185.5      202.4        207.8
Type:
Fuliy-Catereu                         30.5        n.a.       n.a.       n.a.        n.a.       n.a.      159.8      183.8       200.5       205.4
Self-Service                           1.7        n.a.       n.a.       n.a.       n.a.        n.a.        1.3         1.6        1.9         2.4
Bed Occupancy Rates of Lodges  (%)
Game Reserves                         39.0        n.a.       n.a.       n.a.        n.a.       n.a.       56.0        62.9       52.2        50.0
National Parks                        50.6        n.a.       n.a.       n.a.        n.a.       n.a.       48.6        52.2       45.4        45.1
Total                             45.1         n.a.       n.a.       n.a.       n.a.       n.a.        51.9       56.8       48.6         47.6
Type:                                                                                                                                                             a
Fully-Catered                         49.u        n.a.       n.a.       n.a.       n.a.        n.a.       53.5       58.7        49.1        50.0
Self-Service  2/                      22.6        n.a.       n.a.       n.a.       n.a.        n.a.       37.4       41.4        43.6        42.7              -i 
i/  Calu,lated as residual of Total and Bednights in Reserves for 1966-1970.
2/  Occupa,icy recuras from self-service bandas are normally incomplete.
Sources:   1965-i970 Kenya, Eco,lomic Survey 1971, 1965, 19'l & 19!2 - Kenya Economic Survey 1973, 1973-1974 Kenya Ecoao:mli  Suriey 1975.                        X



KENYA. WiLdl'ife and Tourism Project
Hoto! Beds Occupied by Area, 1965-1974                                                                                          '000 Bed-,Vqljfv
'NAIR0111                          COASTAL                                                            0 mRR
Ot',.i-r        Co.ist         Southorzi        Nyanza          Weslorri         Certral         Nt)rfl-.crn
"'Dicr:,ind    Game Area            Ba s i n
Toto'       l'o 1, I
F.A.I Yur-   E.A.   V`or-   1.    I.(-    E.A.  !:or-  'F. A.  For- I F.A.! For-  F.,..                              E.A. For-! 7-.A.!  lieds'              Iivd,
f"i-! eigri  I'         eign  Res:-: cign    R-         civ-, i Rc,,;  eign ! Rc,;i-l
R";-  c i,,,, I          Ilign                                                                                            O,cup:ed- Avii!l-
it                                                                                                   Cr, Resi-   den!s  Re,;- de.its  Kcsi- d nts' Ros'-i dciits Rcsi- d    t  Res:- dcnil RL4; 1 dcnts V'si-dlents  L&IO
(lentq,          (entsl          denls           dentsl          dent's"             It
19,,5..             1. 5 --I    511 19 -1,  2,7-(    54-2   1 1 7 - I  27-3!  73-(,! '2 - I V-0    IS-8    7-4                      30-3    1-1   21-                 4 31 'l-3    1-3    1.002-4          2,126-u
.162-11 V,0   .37-)1 2 5 9 0 iI IS I   12i -2   jS9I             17  24-7  113.5    24-0    9-S 12.5   3 f -2    1-0   20-4    38.5  (53-1                      0.5       174-6      2, 136-5
3W                                    I                                                                                                            I                  "7              0 4       2')3-8
7kl-'7   4  -_1  '73     10-2   IWI 2    01)-7 I37-9    91             6-3    3-1    31.3    9-2 3 -4   31-6   0-6  .2I -6    40-0                -                                  2,473-0
4, 7 ,,7 0                                                                           4-5   30-6    0 8   1 -51  3 8 9                  1.2    0.5   :4::6 1)    2 847-i
0o 4   20)-5   14',- 1  .11.5    IN-1        -5   i 7 -S    42 6     8
2    I -0                                                   I.            I                                          '     I 
-'( - 3,  3,, , -o  261 0   15;1-1  45 11                    9 -7    5(A   11 6      5-1   24-9    1-0        ) - 2    51-5   72 -0    2-0    0-4       6-2-7     3:2: I 4
'S     41                         _64 3   !52 ,                       8'4    6-9              11-51 8 -9   2' -2   0 6   14.3    67 6 711-0             1      1) -,1,
60-3                                                                             19N   3      3 qS I-9
31,7 6            -j        4,(,   74 0   1 i3 -0  (,6 5   11 2 i       s 6 i5-8    74 -0  112.1   8.4   29-2    1-2   1 3 51 189-5   75-8i2 0    1-7   2:
1 -0 I  5 -1 .7   1-0I7                                                               -o       -6                                         4215
44-                         6                                             4    3 -1)1 87-2    2.9    8 2   26 -1          8    6        10      69 -31',-5 -F   6. -I   2 4'  -7 1  4,9 '19 - 6
1' _/3 .            4                   1 2   .1 68 5656 -5    56 0   5 2                    2                   I11 5-    '                 2.5    42   114-4                                      .8     5,853.6
1101        -0I 1                         76 -7   4-6    2-9         71
143 - 6   is-o1                      34
7.;.                 I I      64 5  4(.2 2                            3   15-4 41F2           7         9       7           3 SI      - 4   13 -8            Q   6    3 -0    2-1)  22,9790            14-2
5,61     2,                       ('5 0    6 5 3                             I        o6       6       4 1        -    2              1 28
1;t Or.          131-1    7 -9   100.(    8t-3  2,S9 -0    32-3   18 -5    29-4  -14-8    4 'I   28:1    3 -6    3:7 11  5 -9   0 - 6    4-                 35:7  117 -2    1:41 0-7          77, 0, -2   1 224-9
I'l  Qr            SI-9    4-415-5   7, 2 -.5   72 -0    3' Z-0   17-7    2-3    1.!                      9 8     2:9             6-01 -1-2       3 -    ]A 615:7                  0-6      4 --- 8 - 71  1:52-9
r,                                          8                                                                                                                                                641         %242-3
IQr.            '('-4   -1 - 2   S',-;       -7   1          4 5 -1                            5 -1    2 5 (I                    6-1   6-3    4          32-7,      3    I:0    0:!
7 -7    1 0                                .9
4, i, Qr.          :9-5    i        6,        SI -I   1 ,,'-5    41 %                   .-'-5    4 -9    - 3 7       'R    .6      7      0-5              27-5                                   -5     1,3
I 97-
Ist Or.          1 3.3, .9   13 -0175 -0   11 7 - 7257 3         6 7   i7 0    3 3 81-! 8 - 2     3 -9    21)813 - 6       1,8    8.2    1 -0    4 0    35 -9 11)    1 -9    0 6             8, 3 -9     ],,441 7
2-nd O.".          91 -3   16 -5    57 0   Hi o    -,9.1    1-,.5    8 -8    21) -7   1 0-7    3 -8    124         3 -9   0-9      8,8   0-3       3 - 8    14 -7   19.1   0 3    0-6        5 22 -1)         1.7
3,rc! Q:-         I --- 3 - I   15 -1    S5-4  6 4   134.7    4t, 7   11 - 8    2h,712 2 -6    5-0    310          4 3      S    8 7   0.9    3 -7    34.5    8.81         1                     5
I. Qr:         12(,.,    4 2     75,6   II ) 6 185 -3   -14 -5   14 01  10 2 --0-9    5 -3    27-S    4 -1                3    8,6   0 6       3,01  29 3               W)    0-9                     1: 5 -'s
I 7 4 - -
Ist Qi..         I -so                        o-9   266 61 30.0  1 'i - 9                                                                                                    6    ( -5
i " .4   )0-0   I I                                  3 1)  26-6:4 8    3-4    3.3    I 5    8 -6   0.9               3 -3    44.2 17-9        1                                  .9
2i,i Q r.         94-(,  ! '3 -    56 -6      6 - 0   III -3    44 -5    3-     3 7.2   1 2-414 -        '12-7    4-2    0-7    8-h   0-3    3 -2    18 -1  2i oI0 3    0 7                 85 7'4t"
11,6   116 -5  1271 -3    58 -8   18         3c) s      -815-5    12 -3    5-2    1-1    0-0    0-6            3 -8    34 -8
3rd Ql.          13!       12               I
sI   'I              I                              0                                                                                       23 -2    0-7    0 6       7(,4 5 1  I,f 1-7
2       12-      6 1 -4    8.2    M-4    52 -1   18-          38          I                                                                     1         -4
411              I                                                                               5-k)   ;8 6      4 -1   0 -8    0-7   0-6        3 -5    31 -1  _0.5                .0     7 14 5 1  1,0`4-5
7                                            3        5
Ja:,uary           I2. -     ,,q    26 -3    36-5    99 -1    10:3    66                    -01    5       0-0    I -2   0-6       2 -7   0-21             11 -7    6-5    0-7    0-2         25-2        4-)1-1
I-kru- - v                                                          7    5 0    1 1 -4 ')  , -9    24 -5    49 -4    88 -4  8  1,3    IC-0    1 -2    0-7    2 -6   0-4  1  13 -9    5 -5    0-9    0-2  27/ 5 1  448-9
9
m                                   24-2                         7-4,   4.7    10-1   '?-2                  9 -8    1 -2    0,6    2 -8   U-3               i 0 - 3  7-0    0 - 3             2 53 -        0! -7
'-8    22 -5    l,,-7    43-1    : -s   1          Ii -7    S-1    1:'       4-6       -6    0-3    3 --I                                            111.2        -1 - 5      -T7- 7
1                                        4       7                        21
-7    40-0      5 -5     0-6    2 - 6     9-1    ;_8    10          2 `3    0 -   0-2     2:8                         7,    5 -5           (.2       14  -2           -9
jorl'e              2 -2    5 -4   'i 9 - 8    31! -3    20-6     8.1    2 :-1I   ,, -9    ;-8     I        56      1 -5    0-4    2 7   0-2        1 2      ( --I   r) - 5.1 0-3    0-2       7 6-l' %,     '5  : ',
July                   5    5 -4    2  - 1,   40-3    - 9.9    II-;    3 6        1) -3    3 -3    1:7    1I         - 3   0-6    Z          3     1       1-3    5:9    0-3    0-i           237-,'       4 F 1 -1
1-4    29-6    401-0    5! -7                5I    I          3 - I    2 1               -7    0,8I  -9    0-3         1       12;-7    6       0 -4   (J-3      259-8         4112-(
3."                                        21.3                                                                :9
15                                           5 -71  1I        N -0    1-4    0-4    2-1?   0-2        1-!                                 1     2 12,6        49(-4
404)                                                                             :                                                                                     I
4 - I   26,91       -5                         9      8 -4 11                                                                    9 -5    6 0    0-3
45 -0    4-,1-1) -31 9 -3                  1-4                                                 I                                       12-0    6:3    0-4    0-3123' -9               1,Y .8              cn
1;    I                                  .2    I! -7    7-7    i.4    1 61 -2      -2   0-5    2-8i 0-3           I.,I
1 1    37-9    54 6                 7      2 -3    -8    I I         :9    1
'S .9                                           2   0-5    2-9    0 -2       1 -                        -2
77       24-2               6-3   :,-4                7                                                        -7    0       - -5          -7       521, -8
Dc    il,cr        44                                                                                                 .8    0-3    2 -81 0-2        0`               7         -4             29,)
1                         9                                               I
.1.11.L,wy        41) -4   .1 - 6  32 -0    3 X - 2 10 3 -2    1 2 4    7 -4      A4     9.21  :-8    I : I                       2--,   0.3               4 .11            .6    ).2      3 11 - 2      ,Q4
I , 1-: jary . . 150 2    3 -9)   28 -2       -'-9    2 0    10         5 -8            lc,-s            12.5    1 -2   U-6       2 -i)  f, -.1      1    7-2               (       2      296 1         4 , 2 .3      -3
5 0 3    4 ",             -                                            ) .                                                      I                                       1- 64 7       z". ',,.
N'-!:                               30 7         S    7 1 4      7 5    5.7    i                              S'    1 -1   0-3    2.8   0 31  1-    12 4            63104    0 2                                2
7      4 5     ` 3 `7             48 t,   24 -8    5.3                6      Z.I         I     1 -4    U-2    3 -3   0 I       i - 1    7,7    6 -1)I---    0.2         22-1                'i
M                   1, -J    4 3,    1 4 8    4, -6    29-?      8.5    3.3    1 2        2 4       -c'    2 8     1 -2   k).')    1 -7   0I       1 -2     3 9     5 -9   C) i    0-2       lw-s                I
4    IF I    39,1    33 -0    11 -2    4 - 5    1 1-3    3 -9                       1.6      -i       -8      ,I   -0                I -1     -2    6-3            .0           .9
(J           0        1        6 6             0                1 S             I'll         CD
- 9 .9    5 2,5    14 -(    5 -8    I -1 - k,                                                                                           -2
2 -512-2       05      3 -4    0-2     1 -4    13 -0    7 -6   0-3    0          263 2         5 4'!
"': 1             ,  i                                                                              i  I                                                      I                                                        oo
5        4.5    3 1.2                                                  8-
Ai 'r,             42 I    1.9   '15 o    39-2    06 -              6 16 6    15                  2 -3i  11.511.9            -3    3 .61 0-2       1 -2    12-7    8 -7    0-3    0 -        278 `1        5.)
.0            1-4                                          I9       6 -'O    -5      S3iI.1   U-2            3 -0   0 -1     1 -2     9 -1       S   0 -1    0-l      222-6         5 I 2 .5
3        3 -7              7 - -1    S 2 -   is'-l    6 (I
Cc:ol.icr       14II    4-4    18.,j                  (I 5 -7    IA. 8    .5.61  1 2 -3    7 -     1.7!  I 1 -111-5   0-2          3 -   0-21  1 -5    12-5           6    0-1    0 .4      253 9         50-3
3     3 -9   0-11  10          7.5    5 -3     -      0-2
-9    1 -21   7 - 910-9      0                                                                  233 - 5       521, 4
Novef II -r   140-41 4-2    21-3    39-5    66 7    10-5 15 S                                                                      3 -4   0-2      i       I                                 23 7-0        5-,7-3
D,cc:Ixcr          45       4 -1    22 2    3911    84          25 -7    6 9    1 43       'S- 1  2-1                -6   C, -2                      .0      1 -1    7-610-2    0-4
Noic-Ar-kial tota:, :.,,'Iu-e                   ill'id may di,!,- SII;hflv from  t:,c slins of quartcrly aiici nionthly figures.
thIclud"  A', A and' I,' hoicis.
,bource: Central Bureau of 6tatisties



KENYA: WILDLIFE AND TOURISM PROJECT
VISITORS TO NATIONAL PARKS, 1971 - 1974
Adult Residents                             Adult Non-Residents                            Total Visitors 1/
1971         1972      1973        1974        1971       1972        1973        1974      1971       1972       1973      1974
Aberdare                   9,265       8,491     9,844       9,742      28,183      29,868      29,035     27,075    39,681    40,926    42,222    39,973
Lake Nakuru               22,934     28,779    36,128       34,809      15,927      22,801      32,155     31,874    59,059    79,563    98,447    95,067
Marine                     9,055      11,044    10,188      11,969      12,560      15,517      14,096      16,113    26,677    33,369    30,160    35,777
Meru                       1,381       2,198      5,210      7,722         294         561       2,135       3,927     5,514      7,957    15,671    21,418
Mt. Elgon                    983       2,339      2,808      2,488         101         418         271         234     1,398      3,792     4,216      3,989
Mt. Kenya                  2,255       2,643      3,117      3,495         861       1,294       1,581      2,049      5,152     6,064      6,924      8,151
Nairobi                   52,785      61,982   104,809      60,879      53,814      70,994      70,250     49,758   177,869   197,013   277,359   159,263
Shimba Hills               1,977       2,965     3,575       3,643       1,573       2,442       2,692      3,777      8,249    10,237    10,018    11,119
Tsavo (East)              16,441      18,354    19,156      19,688      24,690      33,255      35,492     36.062    47,04?    '7, 598    64,?80    64,758
Tsavo (West)              26,387      31,394    31,895      32,356      32,004      43,844     48,168      48,36'i   71,181    8., f (0    92 ,18    91,627
CD
TOTAL             143.463    170.189   226,730    186,791    170,007    220,993    235 875    ?1 (J.2 _                  :412 :'" 2L1(- 641.1' __,11 142 X7
-  Including children, season ticket holders & others.
Source:  Trustees of the Kenya National Parks



Statistical Appendix
Table 10
KifYA:  WILDLIFE AND TOURISM PROJECT
AVERAGE EXPEDITURES IN KENYA PER PERSON/NIGHT 1974 + 1st & 2nd QIR. 1975
BY NATICNALITY GCOUP & PURPOSE
(K Sh/night)
Residence and                                                 /1
Purpose                         1974           1st Qtr. 1975         2nd Qtr. 1975
]. Africa       H               32.4                  82.4                44.0
B               99.0                 114.6               127.7
T              205.2                 131.3                97.3
Total           67.1                  92.4                75,0
0. Africa      H               108.2                  71.2               132.3
B              122.8                 215.1               206.8
T              171.3                167.9                199.3
Total          117.6                 109.0               156.6
U.S./Can.       H              120.7                108.7                148.L
B              135.5                370.2                187.4
T              286.9                 29)4.b              351.0
Total          124.5                 124.1               163.4
U.K.            H 4/            58.5                  66.o                56.2
B              187.2                125.0                150.7
T              174.5                192.4                133.1
Total           71.8                  74.0                71.6
W. Gernany      H              L103.8               120.2                137.1
B              191.9                 239.8               3414.1
r              131.3                403.6               278.14
Total          105.7                122.4                143.8
C. Europe       II             101.3                137.C                120.8
B              135.5                124.2                163.2
T              289.3                277.9                165.9
r,otal         105l.3               '316.9              131.k
asia            H                9 * 1                99.6               108.7
B                 .10P-7             4 3.6                58.8
T              17'*.5               1)46.6               272.5
Total          106.5                lk.1                  90.7
all Other       H              144.0                 135.0               127.3
B              253.3                   _                 321.9
211.4                463.0               136.5
Total          150.8                135.7                 99.9
All countries  H                91.1                106.2                103.0
B              127.2                165.3                145.0
T              202.6                178.5                182.5
Total           98.5                112.6                115.2
H  =  Holiday                   B = Business           T = Transit
1/ Prelimir.ary, and subject to correction
2/ Includes a substantial number (exact number unknown) of children visiting
their parents during school holidays.
Note:  Expenditures are based on interviews with tourists departing from Kenya
from Mombasa and Nairobi airports, and the post of Namanga on th,e Tanzanian
border. Excludes receipts from prepaid accommodations and safaris.
Source: Central Survey of Statistics (analysis sheets of tourist expenditure survey).



Statistical Appendix
Table 11
KENYA.: WILDLIFE AND TOURISM PROJECT
ESTIMATED BREAKDOWN OF KENYA'S TOURIST RECF.ITS, BY TYPW./SW0TCR, 1972
Item                                                     %
hlotels and Restaurants:
Accommodation and meals                             31.2
Service charge., nd tips                             1.7
hotel tax                                            1.7
Bar purchases                                    L.2
Sub-total                           38.8
Local air charter                                        1.7
Tour operatorsl                                          8.9
Safari outfi.t.ters                                      5.1
Souvenirs, .tifts                                      1.4
Ot.oh7r purcharses - persons in hotels                   5.5
I1     ,,           "   not in hotels                 23.7
l-pendi lres b.r shi:p passengers in transit
ard cruise           2
Sub-total, non-hotels, restaurant     t 53.6
TOTAIL enterprises                  97.5
TPZ:ntti..qn lic.nce . and fee -,                         .
Park &.Re-rvc entry and gulJ2 i'e!-                      1.3
Airnort tsx                                              0.
Sub-total, dir:ect government        2.5
TOTAT,                              100.0
SCoircc: Dev-loonenft Plan 1 971-781



Statistical Appendix
Table 12
KENYA: WILDLIF'E AND TOURISM PROJECT
REVENUE PASSENGERS CARRIED BY TnRSTTG  AIR CHARTER
OPERATORS 1/ FROM KENTYA
Outside
Year             lWithin Kenya         To Tanzania       To Uganda    E. Africa       Totas
1963                 32,191              3,L93             736             147         36,5 7
1959          I      26,268              4,981             963            :133         32,345
197                  31,3987             7,266           1,338             232            2
1971                   ,L- h6            5,526             904            2 52     i 62,o09
1972                 44,955              8,074           2,323             230         68,777
1973                 58,292             10,201              54n.a.                     n.a.
Fxcludin, East Afri-ar. Airways.
Soul-e:  East 4frican Community, East Afrizan StatistiSal 5epartment,
Ezonomi3 and Statistiza' Review No. 52, September 1574.
Table E.L (b), p age 96.






-- ;-; L t = = i-) ;fJ eW S \ i                                                                               rA to
CU-S0N30b-A~~~~~~~~~~ ii,/t                                                                              or,  .-.,,5.,:r"..
X   : '   ;   ,   ;     ; :   '   I y                                \  I  r A  8                                           Q  PA;                    ,Iio_ ,  ,  -  -  0 ,:=,
A   ~~~~Frgao GutQ                                                            -        ,                                                  / Q  F-   .
Svmo/ X
3'~ ~ ~ ~ ~~~~ly Sprs fAAMG                                                                                                                                    40t 4v     sll    o       3  / i, 
o.s                       Ladea       -     AI                                                        M                                                         9>   *,/tNi 4   0 /jn,:
<0~~~~~~~~_   ,     K> S'0sL
i~~~~~~~~ ,                                                                  IV| [L joz2C?tYa40 t8 Ar   /4  on
0  00 - 00  0                                        (||t ><M   /  >                                                   12AAt Ba;AN
-                                                        Mars\
M Z& 007rE2 Re , ,     kPd                                  Maa .                                                        1> Q   V     , &   +8<   GZo         rrS    oo
CA~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~A                                         6
0 0  0  000 ; L 0 0 0 w ,v9 5 (444 i 1 <~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~7%.\t~-  -- No -Grman tourist raordo
t   ' ;E t;MSayh   .  : 0 t;    3 0 .;  u   .  +  ::    ,Mf   :_           >                     S             +   Noriondl rlirPorWrw~~4 SatiPal arpost
:  .z   ,   . :;:  .  .   i;.z; E                 :     Si         >                   >   X  J               e   ProvinoiOS COPitolS~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~S Proincal apial
4         :WNX             ;          0                                       :00             .t agsoci                       0oes                        tiSes qnd towns       a- 
:  c rAESNr4 Kqrxsl-Lr                                           z j \,          /OKqnvq~               ~         ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~  ~      ~    ~~~~~- Senooanyo roads  am
;57d Ys7R0 5 '0a55; ;0 5I520.                                                 t                                                                                  *,*1 Ris3P Pers  am
s -aonr0    20    05    430 ifJ' 00   1 53i ;:;,s.4,1X ,0,. ,  
Kas-   -nnntontbodnd                                                                                                      s
54'                                                                  000                                        540~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~G



