CONFORMED COPY
LOAN NUMBER 1304 T-KE
LOAN AGREEMENT
(Wildlife and Tourism Project)
between
REPUBLIC OF KENYA
and
INTERNiATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION
AND DEVELOPMENT
Dated July 9, 1976


﻿LOAN AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT, dated July 9, 1976, between REPUBLIC OF KENYA
(hereinafter called the Borrower) and INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RE-
CONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT (hereinafter called the Bank).
WHEREAS (A) The Borrower has adopted policies designed to
conserve and manage Kenya's wildlife resources, including, inter
alia, a policy to encourage landowners to harbor wildlife on
their land (i) by guaranteeing to them a minimum return from wild-
life and (ii) by enabling them to earn direct returns from wildlife,
all as is more fully set out in its Sessional Paper Number 3 of
1975 (Statement on Future Wildlife Management Policies in Kenya),
(hereinafter called the Sessional Paper on Wildlife);
(B) Pursuant to the Sessional Paper on Wildlife, the Borrower
has adopted an Act, known as the Wildlife (Conservation and Manage-
ment) Act, 1976 (Act No. 1 of 1976, effective February 13, 1976),
providing inter alia for the establishment, as a department of the
Government, of a Wildlife Conservation and Management Service
(hereinafter called the Service), and for other purposes relating
to the protection, conservation and management of wildlife in
Kenya;
(C) The Borrower intends to establish a training institute
at Lake Naivasha (hereinafter called the Institute), for the pur-
-pose of providing, inter alia, basic and specialized training in
wildlife and fisheries conservation and management;


﻿-2-
(D) Pursuant to the Act, the Borrower intends to assume re-
sponsibility for the management and operation of Reserves on be-
half of the respective County Councils in whom the land involved
is vested, under agreements with such County Councils which will
provide to such County Councils, inter alia, a guaranteed minimum
return from such Reserves;
(E) Pursuant to Legal Notice No. 57 of 1976, made on March 23,
1976, publishing regulations under the Act, the Borrower has (i)
prohibited the import or export of raw ivory by any person or
organization other than the Government and (ii) prescribed that
purchases of raw ivory required for manufacturing or for ornament
in Kenya are authorized only from places established from time to
time by the Government;
(F) The Borrower has requested the Bank to assist in the fi-
nancing of the Project described in Schedule 2 to this Agreement
by making the Loan as hereinafter provided;
(G) The Bank has determined that the Borrower is eligible
to receive this Loan as an intermediate term loan, as that term
is defined in Resolution No. 75-111 of the Executive Directors
of the Bank establishing an Interest Subsidy Fund for the Third
Window (hereinafter called the Fund) and upon the terms and con-
ditions set forth in such Resolution; and
(H) The Administrator of the Fund (hereinafter called the
Administrator), subject to the terms and conditions set forth in
the Resolution referred to in (G) above, is obligated to pay to
the Bank semi-annually from the resources of the Fund an amount


﻿-3-
equal to four per cent (4%) per annum of the outstanding amounts
of principal on intermediate loans, of which this Loan is one.
WHEREAS the Bank has agreed, on the basis inter alia of the
foregoing, to make the Loan to the Borrower upon the terms and
conditions hereinafter set forth;
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:


﻿ARTICLE I
General Conditions; Definitions
Section 1.01. The parties to this Agreement accent all the
provisions of the General Conditions Applicable to Loan and Guar-
antee Agreements of the Bank, dated March 15, 1974, with the same
force and effect as if they were fully set forth herein (said
General Conditions Applicable to Loan and Guarantee Agreements of
the Bank being hereinafter called the General Conditions).
Section 1.02. Wherever used in this Agreement, unless the
context otherwise requires, the several terms defined in the Gene-
ral Conditions and in the Preamble to this Agreement have the re-
spective meanings therein set forth and the following additional
terms have the following meanings:
(a) "Project Management Unit" (or "PMU") and "Wildlife Plan-
ning Unit" (or "WPU") mean the units established by such name re-
spectively in accordance with Section 3.02 of this Agreement and
Part VI of the Description of the Project set forth in Schedule 2
to this Agreement;
(b) "MTW" means the Borrower's Ministry of Tourism and Wild-
life, and includes any ministry or ministries of the Borrower suc-
cessor to the responsibilities presently vested in said Ministry;
(c) "Act" means the Wildlife (Conservation and Management)
Act, 1976 of the Borrower;


﻿-5-
(d) "Service" means the Wildlife Conservation and Management
Service of the Borrower, established pursuant to Section 3 of the
Act;
(e) "Park" means any area of land declared to be a National
Park by or under Section 6 of the Act;
(f) "Reserve" means any area of land declared to be a Na-
tional Reserve by or under Section 18 of the Act;
(g) "Competent authority" means (i) in relation to govern-
ment land, the Minister for the time being responsible for matters
relating to land, (ii) in relation to Trust Land, as defined in
Chapter IX of the Borrower's Constitution, the County Council in
which the land is vested, and (iii) in relation to other land,
the owner thereof or the person for the time being entitled to
the rents and profits thereof. Without limitation upon the fore-
going, the competent authority in respect of land which has been
adjudicated into group ranches under the Land (Group Representa-
tives) Act of the Borrower, Charter 287 of the Laws of Kenya,
shall be deemed to be the representatives of the group incorporated
under said Act;
(h) "wildlife dispersal area" means any area wi.thin Kenya
adjacent to a Park, Reserve or the Marmar Ranch into which wild-
life herds which inhabit such Park, Reserve or the Marmar Ranch
naturally migrate from time to time. Without limitation upon the
foregoing, a wildlife dispersal area in relation to any Park or
Reserve shall include any "protection area" (as defined in the
Act) declared pursuant to Section 15 of the Act.


﻿- 6 -
(i) "Marmar Ranch" means the ranch known by that name, com-
prising an area of approximately 23,000 hectares, near Maralal;
(j) "GMRW" means guaranteed minimum return from wildlife, as
envisaged in the Sessional Paper on Wildlife;
(k) "GMRW Agreement" means any of the agreements (or if the
Bank shall so agree, arrangements) entered into or to be entered
into between the Borrower and competent authorities in wildlife
dispersal areas associated with any Park or Reserve included in
the Project or the Marmar Ranch, or between the Borrower and County
Councils in relation to any Reserve included in the Project, in
accordance with Section 3.07 of this Agreement; and
(1) "Project Manager", "Assistant Project Manager", "Finance
Officer" and "Project Enginee-r" mean reupectively the positinns
referred to lAnde. Sfcti-r 3.02 of this Agreement.


﻿-7-
ARTICLE II
The Loan
Section 2.01. The Bank agrees to lend to the Borrower, on
the terms and conditions in the Loan Agreement set forth or re-
ferred to, an amount in various currencies equivalent to seven-
teen million dollars ($17,000,000).
Section 2.02. The amount of the Loan may be withdrawn from
the Loan Account in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1
to this Agreement, as such Schedule may be amended from time to
time by agreement between the Borrower and the Bank, for expendi-
tures made (or, if the Bank shall so agree, to be made) in res-
pect of the reasonable cost of goods and services required for
the Project and to be financed out of the proceeds of the Loan.
Section 2.03. Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree, the
goods and works for the Project to be financed out of the proceeds
of the Loan, shall be procured in accordance with the provisions
of Schedule 4 to this Agreement.
Section 2.04. The Closing Date shall be June 30, 1982 or
such later date as the Bank shall establish. The Bank shall
promptly notify the Borrower of such later date.
Section 2.05. The Borrower shall pay to the Bank a commitment
charge at the rate of three-fourths of one per cent (3/4 of 1%)
per annum on the principal amount of the Loan not withdrawn from
time to time.


﻿- 8 -
Section 2.06. The Borrower shall pay interest at the rate of
four and eighty-five hundredths per cent (4.85%) per annum on the
principal amount of the Loan withdrawn and,.outstanding from time
to time; provided, however, that if the Administrator shall at
any time determine that the resources of the Fund shall not be
sufficient to pay to the Bank at the next succeeding semi-annual
interest payment date of the Loan the amount scheduled to be paid
by the Administrator at that interest payment date as specified
in paragraph (H) of the Preamble to this Agreement, the Borrower
shall, upon notification by the Administrator of such determina-
tion and the amount of the resulting shortfall, pay additional
interest on such principal amount of the Loan equal to such short-
fall.
Section 2.07. Interest and other charges shall be payable
semi-annually on January 15 and July 15 in each year.
Section 2.08. The Borrower shall repay the principal amount
of ',he Loan in accordance with the amortization schedule set forth
in Schedule 3 to this Agreement.


﻿-9-
ARTICLE III
Execution of the Project
Section 3.01. The Borrower shall carry out or cause to be
carried out the Project, with due diligence and efficiency and in
conformity with appropriate administrative, financial, engineering
and wildlife management practices, and shall provide, or cause to
be provided, promptly as needed, the funds, facilities, services
and other resources required for the purpose.
Section 3.02. Except as the Bank and the Borrower shall other-
wise mutually agree, the Borrower shall establish and maintain,
within the Service, a project management unit, to be known as the
Project Management Unit (sometimes herein referred to as the PMU),
having responsibility for the coordination and overall supervision
of the implementation of the Project. The PMU will be headed by a
Project Manager reporting to the Deputy Director, Administration
of the Service, and shall, in any event, have direct access to
the Permanent Secretary, MTW on policy matters, and will have at
least the following other full-time staff: an Assistant Project
Manager; a Finance Officer; an Engineer; three Clerks of Works;
and adequate supporting staff. Except as the Bank shall otherwise
agree, staff of the PMU shall devote all their time to the Proj-
ect.
Section 3.03. (a) Except as the Borrower and the Bank shall
otherwise mutually agree, studies included under Part VII of the
Project and estimated to cost the equivalent of KShl50,OOO or
more, shall be carried out with the assistance of consultants


﻿- 10 -
whose qualificauions, experience and terms and conditions of em-
ployment (including terms of reference) shall be satisfactory to
the Bank.
(b) In order to assist the Borrower in designing, and su-
pervising the construction of the Park and Reserve headquarters
described in Parts I.A, I.B and I.C of the Project and the Insti-
tute, the Borrower shall employ consulting engineers whose quali-
fications, experience and terms and conditions of employment shall
be satisfactory to the Bank.
Section 3.04. (a) The Borrower undertakes to insure, or make
adequate provision for the insurance of, the imported goods to be
financed out of the proceeds of the Loan against hazards incident
to the acquisition, transportation and delivery thereof to the
place of use or installation, and for such insurance any indemnity
shall be payable in a currency freely usable by the Borrower to
replace or repair such goods.
(b) Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree, all goods and
services financed out of the proceeds of the Loan shall be used
exclusively for the Project until its completion.
Section 3.05. (a) The Borrower shall furnish to the Bank,
promptly upon their preparation, the plans, specifications, con-
tract documents and construction and procurement schedules for the
Project, and any material modifications thereof or additions there-
to, in such detail as the Bank shall reasonably request.


﻿- 11 -
(b) Without limitation or restriction upon the provisions of
paragraph (a) of this Section 3.05, the Borrower shall furnish to
the Bank for its approval, prior to their final approval by the
Borrower, (i) the development plans prepared by the WPU for each
of the Parks and ?eserves included under Part I of the Project
and the Marmar Ranch; (ii) the plans for construction of each of
the headquarters complexes, included respectively under Part I.A,
I.B and I.C of the Project; and (iii) the plans for construction
of the Institute included under Part IV of the Project, and its
organization, staffing and curricula.
(c) If the Institute is established in such a manner as not
to be under the direct control of the Borrower, the Borrower shall
ensure that, before the Institute is permitted to utilize the fa-
cilities described in Part IV of the Project, the Institute fur-
nishes the Borrower and the Bank an undertaking, in form and sub-
stance satisfactory to the Bank, to carry out the functions con-
templated by this Agreement.
(d) The Borrower: (i) shall maintain records adequate to re-
cord the progress of, and evaluate, the Project (including the
cost thereof) and to identify the goods, works and services fi-
nanced out of the proceeds of the Loan, and to disclose the use
thereof in the Project; (ii) shall enable the Bank's accredited
representatives to visit the facilities and construction sites in-
cluded in the Project and to examine the goods financed out of the
proceeds of the Loan and any relevant records and documents; and
(iii) shall furnish to the Bank all such information as the Bank
shall reasonably request concerning the Project, the expenditure
of the proceeds of the Loan and the goods, works and services fi-
nanced out of such proceeds.


﻿- 12 -
Section 3.06. (a) The- Borrower shall take or cause to be
taken all such action as shall be necessary to acquire as and when
needed all such land and rights in respect of land as shall be re-
quired for the construction and operation of the facilities in-
cluded in the Project and shall furnish to the Bank, promptly
after such acquisition, evidence satisfactory to the Bank that
such land and rights in respect of land are available for purposes
related to the Project.
(b) Without limitation or restriction upon the provisions
of paragraph (a) of this Section 3.06, except as the Bank and the
Borrower shall otherwise mutually agree, the Borrower shall ac-
quire (i) within 6 months of the date of this Agreement, all land
and rights in respect of land as shall be required for the con-
struction and operation of each of the headquarters complexes in-
cluded respectively under Parts I.A, I.B and I.C of the Project,
and (ii) within 12 months of the date of this Agreement, ownership
of the Marmar Ranch.
Section 3.07. (a) Except as the Borrower and the Bank shall
otherwise mutually agree, and subject to the provisions of para-
graphs (b) and (c) of this Section 3.07, the Borrower shall: (i)
enter into agreements in writing with the Narok, Samburu and
Isiolo County Councils providing, inter alia, for the Borrower to
undertake to manage, on behalf of said County Councils, respec-
tively, the Masai Mara, Samburu, Buffalo Springs and Shaba Reserves,
and for the payment by the Borrower to the said County Councils,
of certain minimum returns from their respective Reserves; (ii)
enter into agreements in writing with all (or, if the Bank shall
so agree, substantially all) competent authorities (including, in


﻿- 13 -
the case of Trust Lands not yet adjudicated, the respective
County Councils) in the wildlife dispersal areas associated with
the Park and Reserves included in Part I of the Project and the
Marmar Ranch, providing inter alia for such competent authorities
to undertake to follow (or in the case of such County Councils,
to agree to take all necessary measures as will ensure that the
persons ordinarily resident on such Trust Land will follow) pre-
scribed ranching and (if applicable) cultivation practices con-
sistent with continued wildlife migrations, and for the Borrower
to undertake to pay to the said competent authorities such amounts
as shall be required to provide the guaranteed minimum return from
wildlife and to assist competent authorities to earn direct re-
turns from wildlife; and (iii) consult with the Bank, prior to
entering into any such agreement, regarding the form thereof and
the terms and provisions to be included therein.
(b) In the case of wildlife dispersal areas which have not
yet been fully adjudicated into group ranches and are held in
trust by the relevant County Councils, i.e. in particular, at the
Samburu, Buffalo Springs and Shaba Reserves, and at the Marmar
Ranch, the Borrower shall initially enter into agreements under
paragraph (a) of this Section 3.07 with the relevant County Council,
and thereafter, as the land is adjudicated, with the competent au-
thorities to whom such land is adjudicated. Such agreements with
County Councils shall, without limitation, include specific under-
takings on the part of the County Council that any grazing schemes
administered by such County Council on behalf of pastoralists shall
be consistent with the wildlife conservation objectives for the re-
levant Reserve and its associated wildlife dispersal area and that
a substantial portion of the revenues accruing to the County Council


﻿- 14& -
pursuant to such agreement in respect of each such Reserve shall
be applied to benefit the pastoralists in the respective adjacent
wildlife dispersal area under the jurisdiction of such County
Council.
(c) The parties recognize that it may not be feasible, ini-
tially in particular and in all cases, to enter into written agree-
ments with competent authorities other than County Councils as en-
visaged in paragraph (a) of this Section 3.07. Where it appears
that written agreements with such competent authorities are im-
practicable as so envisaged, the Borrower shall consult with the
Bank with a view to formulating, and the Borrower shall implement,
other arrangements under which the purposes intended to be achieved
under such written agreements can be achieved. Such arrangements
may include (i) the recording of minutes of meetings (barazas) be-
tween the Borrower's and competent authorities' representatives,
recording verbal agreements/understandings reached, signed or
acknowledged (by thumb print or otherwise) by the said representa-
tives, together with the Borrower's undertaking to take all appro-
priate measures to enforce such verbal agreements/understandings,
or (ii) other statutory measures provided pursuant to the Act or
regulations adopted thereunder.
Section 3.08. Except as the Borrower and the Bank shall other-
wise mutually agree, and without limitation upon the provisions of
Section 3.05 (b) of this Agreement, the Borrower shall ensure that
all road and track construction and the provision of other facili-
ties within the Parks and Reserves included in Part I of the Proj-
ect and the Marmar Ranch and associated wildlife dispersal areas,
are carried out in accordance with development plans prepared by
the WPU and approved by the MTW.


﻿- 15 -
Section 3.09. (a) Except as the Borrower and the Bank shall
otherwise mutually agree, the Borrower shall carry out the follow-
ing studies included under Part VII of the Project, in accordance
with the provisions of Section 3.03(a) of this Agreement, as fol-
lows: (i) the study on pricing in the tourism sector, within
twelve months of the date of this Agreement; and (ii) the study
on the future management of very large herbivores, to be commenced
within six months and completed within two years of the date of
this Agreement.
(b) The Borrower shall, following the completion of the stud-
ies referred to in paragraph (a) of this Section 3.09, (i) consult
with the Bank regarding the findings thereof, and (ii) implement
such of the recommendations thereof as are mutually acceptable to
the Borrower and the Bank.
Section 3.10. Except as the Borrower and the Bank shall other-
wise mutually agree:
(a) the Borrower shall ensure that persons are appointed to
the following positions only after consultation with the Bank and
due consideration of the views expressed by the Bank regarding the
qualifications and experience of the persons proposed to be appo-
inted: (i) the head of the WPU; (ii) the Project Manager and
Assistant Project Manager; (iii) the head of the section described
in Section 3.12 of this Agreement; and (iv) the Principal and Vice
Principal of the Institute; and


﻿- 16 -
(b) the Borrower shall appoint, within three months of the
Effective Date, the Assistant Project Manager, Finance Officer and
Project Engineer, referred to in Section 3.02 of this Agreement.
(c) The Borrower shall appoint the head of the WPU by Oc-
tober 31, 1976, in accordance with the provisions of paragraph (a)
of this Section 3.10.
Section 3.11. (a) The Borrower shall ensure that qualified
staff in sufficient numbers will be provided at all times to oper-
ate and maintain the facilities included in the Project.
(b) The Borrower shall Ci) ensure that all game proof bar-
riers within the area included in the Project are properly main-
tained in accordance with sound maintenance practices, and (ii)
in connection with its obligations under sub-paragraph (i) of this
paragraph (b), make adequate budgetary provisions for such purpose,
which, except as the Borrower and the Bank shall otherwise mutually
agree, shall be equal to at least KSh2,000 (in 1976 prices) per
kilometer of barrier to be maintained.
(c) The Borrower shall ensure that all necessary funds and
facilities for the proper operation and maintenance of the buses
included for the Wildlife Clubs of Kenya under Part V of the Proj-
ect are made available to the Wildlife Clubs of Kenya.
Section 3.12. (a) The Borrower shall take further action sat-
isfactory to the Bank for the purpose of preventing the unlawful
killing of wildlife (poaching) in Kenya.


﻿-17-
(b) The Borrower shall maintain, with adequate staff and
support, a section within the Service, the function of which shall
be to reduce poaching to a minimum. The head of such section shall
report to the Director of the Service.
(c) The Borrower shall, by September 30, 1976 or such later
date as the Bank may approve, submit to the Bank its proposed pro-
gram, in scope and detail satisfactory to the Bank, for accomplish-
ing the foregoing objectives including: (i) organization and staf-
fing of such section (including placement of staff) and proposed
placement of such section's offices and facilities, together with
data justifying such placement; (ii) detailed budget covering ca-
pital exnenditures and estimated recurrent expenditures; (iii)
proposals for training and maintenance and operation of equipment;
and (iv) action the Borrower will take in addition to equipping
and maintaining such section.
Section 3.13. The Borrower shall effectively enforce the re-
gulations contained in the legal notice referred to in paragraph
(E) of the Preamble to this Agreement and shall, without limita-
tion by the foregoing, take effective measures to ensure that raw
ivory is neither imported nor exported and that dealing in raw
ivory in Kenya is prevented, except in each case, by the Borrower.


﻿- 18 -
ARTICLE IV
Other Covenants
Section 4.01. (a) It is the policy of the Bank, in making
loans to, or with the guarantee of, its members not to seek, in
normal circumstances, special security from the member concerned
but to ensure that no other external debt shall have priority over
its loans in the allocation, realization or distribution of for-
eign exchange held under the control or for the benefit of such
member. To that end, if any lien shall be created on any public
assets (as hereinafter defined), as security for any external debt,
which will or might result in a priority for the benefit of the
creditor of such external debt in the allocation, realization or
distribution of foreign exchange, such lien shall, unless the Bank
shall otherwise agree, ipso facto and at no cost to the Bank,
equally and ratably secure the principal of, and interest and other
charges on, the Loan, and the Borrower, in creating or permitting
the creation of such lien, shall make express provision to that
effect; provided, however, that, if for any constitutional or other
legal reason such provision cannot be made with respect to any
lien created on assets of any of its political or administrative
subdivisions, the Borrower shall promptly and at no cost to the
Bank secure the principal of, and interest and other charges on,
the Loan by an equivalent lien on other public assets satisfactory
to the Bank.
(b) The foregoing undertaking shall not apply to: (i) any
lien created on property, at the time of purchase thereof, solely
as security for payment of the purchase price of such property;


﻿- 19 -
(ii) any lien arising in the ordinary course of banking transac-
tions and securing a debt maturing not more than one year after
its date; and (iii) any charges on the General Fund of the East
African Community (hereinafter called the Community) securing a
debt of the Community where the amount of the debt service on such
debt in any financing year together with other debt service on
other debt of the Community payable from such General Fund in such
financial year does not exceed 2% of the average of customs duties
and excise duties collected by the East African Customs and Excise
Department in the three financial years preceding such incurrence.
For the purposes of this paragraph, "debt service" shall include
payments of the principal of, and interest and other charges on,
debt; and any reference to incurring of debt shall include the as-
sumption and guarantee of debt and any renewal, extension or modi-
fication of the terms of the debt or of the assumption or guaran-
tee thereof.
(c) As used in this Section, the term "public assets" means
assets of the Borrower, of any political or administrative subdi-
vision thereof and of any entity owned or controlled by, or oper-
ating for the account or benefit of, the Borrower or any such sub-
division, including gold and other foreign exchange assets held by
any institution performing the functions of a central bank or ex-
change stabilization fund, or similar functions, for the Borrower.
Section 4.02. (a) The Borrower shall maintain or cause to be
maintained records adequate to reflect in accordance with consis-
tently maintained sound accounting practices the operations, re-
sources and expenditures, in respect of the Project, of the depart-
ments or agencies of the Borrower responsible for carrying out the
Project or any part thereof.


﻿- 20 -
(b) Without limitation or restriction upon the provisions of
paragraph (a), except as the Borrower and the Bank shall otherwise
mutually agree, the Borrower shall cause to be established by the
PMU, by a date not later than October 1, 1976, a system of records
and accounts acceptable to the Bank, to record project operations
and expenditures.
(c) The Borrower shall (i) cause the accounts so maintained
by the PMU to be audited for each financial year, in accordance
with appropriate auditing principles consistently applied, by in-
dependent auditors acceptable to the Bank; (ii) furnish to the Bank
as so-in as available, but in any case not later than four months
after the end of each such year, (A) certified copies of such ac-
counts for such year as so audited and (B) the report of such au-
dit by said auditors, of such scope and in such detail as the Bank
shall have reasonably requested; and (iii) furnish to the Bank
such other information concerning such accounts and the audit
thereof as the Bank shall from time to time reasonably request.
Section 4.03. The Borrower shall take out and maintain or
cause to be taken out and maintained, with responsible insurers,
or make or cause to be made other provision satisfactory to the
Bank for, insurance against such risks and in such amounts, in
relation to the facilities included in the Project, as shall be
consistent with appropriate practice.


﻿- 21 -
ARTICLE V
Remedies of the Bank
Section 5.01. For the purposes of Section 6.02 of the General
Conditions, the following additional events are specified pursuant
to paragraph (k) thereof:
(a) the Act or any subsidiary legislation (orders, rules,
regulations) thereunder shall have been repealed, amended, sus-
pended, varied or waived or any such subsidiary legislation shall
have been promulgated so as to affect adversely (i) the carrying
out of the Project, (ii) the performance of any other obligations
of the Borrower under this Agreement, or (iii) the organization
and operations of the Service;
(b) Unless otherwise agreed to by the Bank, any GMRW Agree-
ment shall have been terminated or abrogated or any party thereto
shall have failed substantially to comply with the terms thereof,
so as to affect adversely the objectives of the Project or any
part thereof; and
(c) Unless otherwise agreed to by the Bank, the Borrower
shall have taken any action for the dissolution or disestablishment
of the Institute, or which materially and adversely affects the
operations of the Institute.
Section 5.02. For the purposes of Section 7.01 of the General
Conditions, the following additional events are specified pursuant
to paragraph (h) thereof:


﻿- 22 -
(a) any event specified in paragraph (b) or (c) of Section
5.01 of this Agreement shall occur and shall continue for a period
of 60 days after notice thereof shall have been given by the Bank
to the Borrower; and
(b) the event specified in paragraph (a) of Section 5.01 of
this Agreement shall occur.


﻿- 23 -
ARTICLE VI
Effective Date; Termination
Section 6.01. The following event is specified as additional
condition to the effectiveness of the Loan Agreement within the
meaning of Section 12.01 (c) of the General Conditions, namely
that the Borrower has appointed the Project Manager in accordance
with the provisions of Section 3.10 (a) of this Agreement.
Section 6.02. The date October 7, 1976, is hereby specified
for the purposes of Section 12.04 of the General Conditions.


﻿- 24-
ARTICLE VII
Representative of the Borrower; Addresses
Section 7.01. The Minister of the Borrower for the time being
responsible for Finance is designated as representative of the
Borrower for the purposes of Section 11.03 of the General Conditions.
Section 7.02. The following addresses are specified for the
purposes of Section 11.01 of the General Conditions:
For the Borrower:
The Treasury
P.O. Box 30007
Nairobi
Kenya
Cable address:
FINANCE
Nairobi
For the Bank:
International Bank for
Reconstruction and Development
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Cable address:                     Telex:
INTBAFRAD                          440098 (ITT)
Washington, D.C.                   248423 (RCA) or
64145 (wUI)


﻿- 25 -
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their
representatives thereunto duly authorized, have caused this Agree-
ment to be signed in their respective names in the District of
Columbia, United States of America, as of the day and year first
above written.
REPUBLIC OF KENYA
By /s/ Ernest Mungai
Authorized Representative
INIERNATIONAL BANK FOR
RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
By /s/ Stanley Please
Acting Regional Vice President
Eastern Africa


﻿- 26 -
SCHEDULE 1
Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the Loan
1.   The table below sets forth the Categories of items to be fi-
nanced out of the proceeds of the Loan, the allocation of the
amounts of the Loan to each Category and the percentage of expen-
ditures for items so to be financed in each Category:
Amount of the
Loan Allocated            % of
(Expressed in        Expenditures
Category              Dollar Equivalent)     to be Financed
(1) Civil works (includ-
ing operation of road
construction and main-
tenance units) for:
(a) Amboseli Na-           1,200,000         40%
tional Park and
Associated game
dispersal area
and headquarters'
complex
(b) Masai Mara Re-         1,200,000         4o%
serve and asso-
ciated game dis-
persal area, and
headquarters' com-
plex at Migwara
(c) Samburu, Buffa-        1,000,000         40%
lo Springs and
Shaba Reserves,
Marmar Ranch,
and associated
game dispersal
areas, and head-
quarters' complex
at Archers Post


﻿- 27 -
Amount of the
Loan Allocated            % of
(Expressed in        Expenditures
Category              Dollar Equivalent)      to be Financed
(2) Civil works for:
(a) Lake Turkana              40,000         40%
National Park
(b) Game-proof bar-          4oo,ooo         25%
riers
(3) Institute described
in Part IV of the
Project
(a) Civil works              800,000          35%
(b) Vehicles and             700,000
equipment
(i)  directly                           100% of foreign
imported                           expenditures
(ii) locally                             65% of local ex-
procured                           penditures
but im-
ported
(iii) locally                             100% of ex-fac-
assembled                          tory cost
or manu-
factured
(c) Consultants              200,000         40%
services
(4) Wildlife Planning
Unit and Studies
(Part VII)
(a) Salaries                 700,000         100% of foreign
expenditures or
50% of total
expenditures


﻿- 28 -
Amount of the
Loan Allocated            % of
(Expressed in        Expenditures
Category             Dollar Equivalent)     to be Financed
(b) Studies and            1,000,000         60%
other operat-
ing costs
(5) Project Management
Unit:
(a) Salaries                 350,000         100% of foreign
expenditures or
35% of total ex-
penditures
(b) Other operating          120,000         75%
costs
(6) Procurement of ve-          2,400,000
hicles and equip-
ment for Park and
Reserve staff, and
the Wildlife Clubs:
(i) directly                            100% of foreign
imported                           expenditures
(ii) locally                             70% of local
procured                           expenditures
but im-
ported
(iii) locally                             100% of ex-fac-
assembled                          tory cost
or manu-
factured
(7) Consultants' ser-             500,000         40% of total or
vices                                         100% of foreign
expenditures


﻿- 29 -
Amount of the
Loan Allocated            % of
(Expressed in        Expenditures
Category              Dollar Equivalent)    to be Financed
(8) Expenditures for
anti-poaching
measures included
under Part VII of
the Project
(a) Civil works              420,000         35%
(b) Vehicles, air-           750,000
craft and equip-
ment
(i) directly                           100% of foreign
imported                           expenditures
(ii) locally                             65% of local ex-
procured                           penditures
but im-
ported
(iii) locally                            100% of ex-fac-
assembled                          tory cost
or manu-
factured
(c) Operation of             900,000        70%
vehicles and
equipment
(9) Unallocated                 4,320,000
TOTAL      17,000,000


﻿- 30 -
2.   For the purposes of this Schedule:
(a) the term "foreign expenditures" means expenditures in
the currency of any country other than the Borrower and for goods
or services supplied from the territory of any country other than
the Borrower; and
(b) the term "local expenditures" means expenditures in the
currency of the Borrower and for goods or services supplied from
the territory of the Borrower.
3.   The disbursement percentages have been calculated in compli-
ance with the policy of the Bank that no proceeds of the Loan
shall be disbursed on account of payments for taxes levied by, or
in the territory of, the Borrower on goods or services, or on the
importation, manufacture, procurement or supply thereof; to that
end, if the amount of any such taxes levied on or in respect of
any item to be financed out of the proceeds of the Loan decreases
or increases, the Bank may, by notice to the Borrower, increase
or decrease the disbursement percentage then applicable to such
item as required to be consistent with the aforementioned policy
of the Bank.
4.   Notwithstanding the Trovisions of paragraph 1 above, no with-
drawals shall be made:
(i) in respect of expenditures prior to the date of this
Agreement, except that withdrawals may be made on ac-
count of expenditures incurred after March 1, 1976 in
an aggregate amount not exceeding the equivalent of
$50,000;


﻿- 31 -
(ii) in respect of expenditures for civil works for Parts
I.A (Category 1 (a)), I.B (Category 1 (b)), I.C and I.D
(Category 1 (c)) of the Project, respectively, until
evidence satisfactory to the Bank has been furnished to
the Bank that the Borrower has entered into GMRW Agree-
ments in form and substance satisfactory to the Bank
with the affected respective competent authorities in
the relevant wildlife dispersal areas;
(iii) in respect of expenditures for civil works for Parts
I.B (Category 1 (b)) and I.C (Category 1 (c)) of the
Project, respectively, in addition to the matters speci-
fied under subparagraph (ii) above, until the Borrower
has entered into the agreements with the respective af-
fected County Councils in form and substance satisfactory
to the Bank, as referred to in Section 3.07 (a) (i) of
this Agreement; and
(iv) in respect of expenditures under Category 8, until the
Borrower and the Bank have agreed on a program for the
purposes, and of the scope, described in Section 3.12
to this Agreement.
5.   Notwithstanding the allocation of an amount of the Loan or
the disbursement percentages set forth in the table in paragraph
1 above, if the Bank has reasonably estimated that the amount of
the Loan then allocated to any Category will be insufficient to
finance the agreed percentage of all expenditures in that Category,
the Bank may, by notice to the Borrower: (i) reallocate to such
Category, to the extent required to meet the estimated shortfall,


﻿- 32 -
proceeds of the Loan which are then allocated to another Category
and which in the opinion of the Bank are not needed to meet other
expenditures, and (ii) if such reallocation cannot fully meet the
estimated shortfall, reduce the disbursement percentage then appli-
cable to such expenditures in order that further withdrawals under
such Category may continue until all expenditures thereunder shall
have been made.
6.   If the Bank shall have reasonably determined that the procure-
ment of any item in any Category is inconsistent with the proce-
dures set forth or referred to in this Areement, no expenditures
for such item shall be financed out of the proceeds of the Loan
and the Bank may, without in any way restricting or limiting any
other right, power or remedy of the Bank under the Loan Agreement,
by notice to the Borrower, cancel such amount of the Loan as, in
the Bank's reasonable opinion, represents the amount of such ex-
penditures which would otherwise have been eligible for financing
out of the proceeds of the Loan.


﻿- 33 -
SCHEDULE 2
Description of the Project
The Project consists of the following Parts:
Part I:   Development of Selected Wildlife Areas
A.   At Amboseli National Park: (i) construction within the
Park/wildlife dispersal area of about 300 km* of wild-
life viewing tracks, 3 improved entrance gates, a mu-
seum, and a caretaker's house; (ii) establishment of
a road unit; (iii) acquisition and placing into serv-
ice of road equipment for such unit, and provision of
vehicles for Park staff; and (iv) construction of a
Park headquarters complex, including provision of staff
housing for about 175, a dispensary, primary school,
community center, administrative headquarters and vehicle
maintenance facilities, and related infrastructure
works.
B.   At Masai Mara Reserve: (i) construction within the
Reserve/wildlife dispersal area of about 250 km* of wild-
life viewing tracks, 6 entrance gates and related accom-
modations, a ticket office, staff housing for about 7,
and provision of related water supply; (ii) establishment
of a road unit; (iii) acquisition and placing into serv-
ice of road equipment for such unit, and provision of
or such other mileage as may be mutually agreed between the
Borrower and the Bank.


﻿- 34 -
vehicles for Reserve staff; and (iv) construction of a
Reserve headquarters complex at Migwara, including
provision of staff housing for about 130, a dispensary,
primary school, community center, administrative head-
quarters, vehicle maintenance facilities, a camp for
laborers, and related infrastructure works.
C.   At Samburu, Buffalo Springs and Shaba Reserves: (i)
construction within the Reserve/wildlife dispersal areas
of about 250 km* of wildlife viewing tracks, 4 entrance
gates and related accommodations, and a gravel airstrip;
(ii) establishment of a road unit; (iii) acquisition
and placing into service of road equipment for such
unit, and vehicles for Reserve staff; and (iv) construc-
tion of a Reserve headquarters complex at Archers Post,
including provision of staff housing for about 115, a
dispensary, school improvements, a community center,
administrative headquarters, vehicle maintenance
facilities, a camp for laborers, and related infrastruc-
ture works.
D.   At Marmar Ranch: (i) acquisition, by the Livestock and
Marketing Division of the Borrower's Ministry of Agri-
culture, of the Marmar Ranch, for purposes of tourism
as well as livestock development; (ii) construction of
wildlife viewing tracks, entry gates and other tourism
facilities; and (iii) provision of staff housing.
or such other mileage as may be mutually agreed between the
Borrower and the Bank.


﻿- 35 -
Part II: Improvements at Lake Turkana National Park
Demarcation of boundaries and protection of the paleontologi-
cal sites; and construction/provision of exhibits, signposts, a
workshop, water supplies, and vehicles for staff of the National
Museum and National Park.
Part III: Game Proof Barriers
Construction and/or reconstruction of about 500 km* of wild-
life proof barriers (moats and fences) on the boundaries of the
Aberdares, Mount Kenya, and Meru National Parks, the Shimba Hills
National Reserve, and at the northern limit of the Mara dispersal
area near Narok.
Part IV: Wildlife and Fisheries Institute at Lake Naivasha
Establishment, construction by the Borrower of facilities for,
equipping and staffing of an institute at Lake Naivasha to provide
basic and specialized training, inter alia, (i) for staff of the
Service and of the Department of Fisheries, (ii) for guides of
private tour operators, and (iii) for other private sector personnel
engaged in production and marketing activities related to wildlife
and fisheries, with an initial capacity of about 175 trainees.
This Part of the Project includes construction and equipping of
classrooms, administration, common facilities, museum, library
and related facilities with an aggregate floor area of about
2700 m2, a student hostel with an aggregate floor area of about
or such other mileage as may be mutually agreed between the
Borrower and the Bank.


﻿36 -
1,350 m2, staff housing with an aggregate floor area of about
4,000 m2, and other facilities with an aggregate floor area of
about 2,000 m2, and the provision of vehicles for staff of the
Institute.
Part V:   Wildlife Clubs of Kenya
Assistance for the Wildlife Clubs of Kenya, including purchase
of, and placing at their disposal, three 40-seat buses for transport
of Kenyan residents to Parks and Reserves.
Part VI: Wildlife Planning Unit
Establishment, equipping, staffing and, as required, training
staff of a unit, to be known as the Wildlife Planning Unit (some-
times herein referred to as the WPU), within MTW, with responsibility
inter alia for (i) detailed planning for each of Kenya's Parks and
Reserves and their associated wildlife dispersal areas, and for
Kenya's wildlife resources generally and (ii) providing technical
assistance to other agencies of the Borrower in connection with
the preparation and negotiation of GMRW Agreements. The specific
objectives, organization, staffing, and functions and qualifica-
tions of staff of the WPU, shall be as is set forth in the Annex
to this Schedule 2, as such Annex may be amended from time to time
by agreement between the Borrower and the Bank.
Part VII: Policy and Feasibility Studies on Wildlife and Tourism
Development
The carrying out policy and feasibility studies on wildlife
and tourism development, including, inter alia, (i) studies on


﻿- 37 -
the future management of very large herbivores, (ii) pricing poli-
cy for the tourism sector, (iii) the development of the Nguruman
Escarpment area including the completion of a new circuit linking
Nairobi and the Masai Mara Reserve via Lake Magadi and Nguruman,,
and (iv) the development of the Tana River, Garissa and Lamu areas.
Other studies to be included under this Part of the Project and
to be financed out of the proceeds of the Loan shall be the sub-
ject of further agreement between the Borrower and the Bank.
Part VIII:     Anti-Poaching
Equipping, staffing and supporting a section in the Service
to prevent poaching and taking such other action as may be required
to reduce poaching to a minimum, in each case in a manner to be
agreed between the Borrower and the Bank.
* Pe                                  3
The Project is expected to be completed by June 30, 1981.


﻿- 38 -
ANNEX TO SCHEDULE 2
Wildlife Planning Unit
A.   Objectives
1.   WPJ will draw up detailed management and development plans
and assist in implementing Government policy in Parks, Reserves,
and wildlife dispersal areas. To these ends, WPU will:
(a) draw up financial, ecological, economic and tourism ob-
jectives and priorities for each of Kenya's Parks and Reserves
and for the system as a whole;
(b) prepare a management plan for each of Kenya's Parks and
Reserves;
(c) review and evaluate the implementation of the management
plan for each Park and Reserve;
(d) collect data on livestock and wildlife in the wildlife
dispersal areas, survey attitudes of ranchers, and assist in nego-
tiating agreements with landowners on the continued access of
wildlife to their land;
(e) make the financial analyses necessary for the manage-
ment of Reserves by Government on behalf of County Councils, and
assist with negotiations of agreements with County Councils;


﻿- 39 -
(f) collect and collate statistics relevant to Park and Re-
serve planing;
(g) make recommendations on pricing policy for Parks and
Reserves, including concession fees and on economic aspects of
consumptive wildlife utilization (hunting, cropping, game ranching,
animal capture, etc.);
(h) prepare, with the game wardens, estimates of capital
expenditures for each Park, Reserve and wildlife dispersal area;
(i) prepare, in consultation with the Wildlife Fund Trustees
referred to in the Act, proposals for financial support of wildlife
projects;
(j) formulate terms of reference and supervise consultants'
studies on tourism development in wildlife areas; and
(k) in the initial phase, determine the training needs of
VPU staff.
2.   The initial priorities of the WPU will be the Parks, Reserves
and wildlife dispersal areas for which financing is being provided
under the Loan.
3.   The WPU will also carry out planning functions for the develop-
ment of wildlife resources outside Parks, Reserves and wildlife
dispersal areas.


﻿- 40 -
B.   Organization
4.   The WPU will be maintained within the MTW. The head of the
WPU will report to the principal planning officer of the MTW and
will be required and enabled to maintain effective liason with the
Service. Except as the Bank may otherwise agree, the staff of the
WPU will devote full time to wildlife planning, as described above.
The Borrower shall ensure the adequate staffing of planning units
for functions of the MTW other than wildlife.
C.   Staffing
5.   WPU will initially have at least the following staff:
Head                                             1
Planning Officer*                                1
Ecologist                                        2
Physical Planner                                 1
Cartographer                                     1
Extension Officer                                2
Statistician                                     1
Economist                                         1
Draftsmen                                         2
Statistical Clerks                               4
Personal Secretary                               1
Telephone Operator                                1
Copy Typists                                      2
Accounts Clerk                                    1
Other Staff (drivers and messengers)              5
*    Notwithstanding the foregoing paragraph 4, the planning
officer's work will not be confined to the WPU.


﻿- 41-
SCHEDULE 3
Amortization Schedule
Payment of Principal
Date Payment Due                          (expressed in dollars)
January 15, 1983                                  285,000
July 15, 1983                                     295,000
January 15, 1984                                  305,000
July 15, 1984                                     310,000
January 15, 1985                                  320,000
July 15, 1985                                     325,000
January 15, 1986                                  335,000
July 15, 1986                                     340,000
January 15, 1987                                  350,000
July 15, 1987                                     360,000
January 15, 1988                                  365,000
July 15, 1988                                     375,000
January 15, 1989                                  385,000
July 15, 1989                                     395,000
January 15, 1990                                  405,000
July 15, 1990                                     415,000
January 15, 1991                                  420,000
July 15, 1991                                     435,000
January 15, 1992                                  445,000
July 15, 1992                                     455,000
January 15, 1993                                  470,000
July 15, 1993                                     475,000
January 15, 1994                                  490,000
July 15, 1994                                     500,000
January 15, 1995                                  515,000
July 15, 1995                                     525,000
January 15, 1996                                  540,000
July 15, 1996                                     550,000
January 15, 1997                                  565,000
July 15, 1997                                     580,000
January 15, 1998                                  595,000
July 15, 1998                                     605,000


﻿- 4~2-
Payment of Principal
Date Payment Due                          (expressed in dollars)
January 15, 1999                                 620,000
July 15, 1999                                    640,000
January 15, 2000                                 650,000
July 15, 2000                                    670,000
January 15, 2001                                 690,000


﻿Premiums on Prepayment
The following percentages are specified as the premiums pay-
able on repayment in advance of maturity of any portion of the
principal amount of the Loan pursuant to Section 3.05 (b) of the
General Conditions:
Time of Prepayment                           Premium
Not more than three years
before maturity                         1.05%
More than three years but
not more than six years
before maturity                         2.10%
More than six years but not
more than eleven years
before maturity                         3.90%
More than eleven years but not
more than sixteen years
before maturity                         5.65%
More than sixteen years but
not more than twenty-one
years before maturity                   7.45%
More than twenty-one years but
not more than twenty-three
years before maturity                   8.15%
More than twenty-three years
before maturity                         8.85%


﻿- 44 -
SCHEDULE 4
Procurement
A.   International Competitive Bidding
1.   Except as provided in Parts B and D hereof, goods, works and
services shall be procured under contracts to be awarded in ac-
cordance with procedures consistent with those set forth in Part
A of the "Guidelines for Procurement under World Bank Loans and
IDA Credits" published by the Bank in August 1975 (hereinafter
called the Guidelines), on the basis of international competitive
bidding.
2.   Contracts for vehicles, equipment and materials shall, to the
extent practicable, be grouped in lots of a size large enough to
attract bidders in international bidding, and as shall be consistent
with sound technical and procurement practices. The Borrower shall
decide each case after consulting with the Bank through the PMU.
B.   Other Procurement Procedures
1.   Civil works contracts may be awarded following local competi-
tive bidding and in accordance with the Borrower's normal procure-
ment procedures.
2.   Contracts for vehicles, equipment and other materials estimated
to cost less than the equivalent of $100,000 may be awarded in
accordance with the Borrower's normal procurement procedures.


﻿- 145
3.   Contracts for construction of civil works at Lake Turkana
National Park included in Part II of the Project,and the wildlife
proof barriers included under Part III of the Project shall be
awarded following local competitive bidding and in accordance with
the Borrower's normal procurement procedures, except that such
contracts may be awarded by direct negotiation where, because of
their remote location, competition among contractors is unlikely.
C.   Evaluation and Comparison of Bids for Goods; Preference for
Domestic Manufacturers
1.   For the purpose of evaluation and comparison of bids for the
supply of goods except those to be procured in accordance with
local procedures: (i) bidders shall be required to state in their
bid the c.i.f. (nort of entry) price for imported goods, or the
ex-factory price for domestically-manufactured goods; (ii) customs
duties and other import taxes on imported goods, and sales and
similar taxes on domestically-supplied goods, shall be excluded;
and (iii) the cost to the Borrower of inland freight and other ex-
penditures incidental to the delivery of goods to the place of
their use or installation shall be included.
2.   Goods manufactured in Kenya may be granted a margin of pre-
ference in accordance with, and subject to, the following provi-
sions:
(a) All bidding documents for the procurement of goods shall
clearly indicate any preference which will be granted, the informa-
tion required to establish the eligibility of a bid for such pre-
ference and the following methods and stages that will be followed
in the evaluation and comparison of bids.


﻿- 146-
(b) After evaluation, responsive bids will be classified in
one of the following three groups:
(1) Group A: bids offering goods manufactured in Kenya
if the bidder shall have established to the satis-
faction of the Borrower and the Bank that the manu-
facturing cost of such goods includes a value added
in Kenya equal to at least 20% of the ex-factory
bid price of such goods.
(2) Group B: all other bids offering goods manufactured
in Kenya.
(3) Group C: bids offering any other goods.
(c) All evaluated bids in each group shall be first compared
among themselves, excluding any customs duties and other import
taxes on goods to be imported and any sales or similar taxes on
goods to be supplied domestically, to determine the lowest evaluated
bid of each group. Such lowest evaluated bids shall then be compared
with each other, and if, as a result of this comparison, a bid
from group A or group B is the lowest, it shall be selected for
the award.
(d) If, as a result of the comparison under paragraph (c)
above, the lowest bid is a bid from group C, all group C bids shall
be further compared with the lowest evaluated bid from group A
after adding to the c.i.f. bid price of the imported goods offered
in each group C bid, for the purpose of this further comparison
only, an amount equal to (i) the amount of customs duties and other


﻿- 47-
import taxes which a non-exempt importer would have to pay for the
importation of the goods offered in such group C bid, or (ii) 15%
of the c.i.f. bid price of such goods if said customs duties and
taxes exceed 15% of such price. If the group A bid in such further
comparison is the lowest, it shall be selected for the award; if
not, the bid from group C which as a result of the comparison under
paragraph (c) is the lowest evaluated bid shall be selected.
D.   Procurement Without Contracting
1.   Works for the construction of the game viewing tracks included
under Part I of the Project shall be carried out by force account,
under the supervision of the game or forest warden in charge of the
area, with the assistance of the PMU. Minor Park and Reserve civil
works not estimated to cost more than $20,000 equivalent may be
carried out by force account.
E.   Review of Procurement Decisions by Bank
1.   Review of invitation to bid and of proposed awards and final
contracts:
With respect to all contracts for (i) civil works estimated
to cost the equivalent of $200,000 or more and (ii) goods estimated
to cost the equivalent of $100,000 or more:
(a) Before bids are invited, the Borrower shall furnish to
the Bank, for its comments, the text of the invitations to bid and
the specifications and other bidding documents, together with a
description of the advertising procedures to be followed for the


﻿- 4~8 -
bidding, and shall make such modifications in the said documents
or procedures as the Bank shall reasonably request. Any further
modification to the bidding documents shall require the Bank's
concurrence before it is issued to the prospective bidders.
(b) After bids have been received and evaluated, the Borrower
shall, before a final decision on the award is made. inform the
Bank of the name of the bidder to which it intends to award the
contract and shall furnish to the Bank, in sufficient time for its
review, a detailed report (including, in the case of the civil
works described in Section 3.03 (b) of this Agreement, a report
by the consultants referred to in such Section) on the evaluation
and comnarison of the bids received, together with the recommenda-
tions for award (including, in the case of such civil works, the
recommendations of the said consultants) and such other information
as the Bank shall reasonably request. The Bank shall, if it deter-
mines that the intended award would be inconsistent with the
Guidelines or this Schedule, promptly inform the Borrower and
state the reasons for such determination.
(c) The terms and conditions of the contract shall not, with-
out the Bank's concurrence, materially differ from those on which
bids were asked or prequalification invited.
(d) Two conformed copies of the contract shall be furnished
to the Bank promptly after its execution and prior to the submission
to the Bank of the first application for withdrawal of funds from
the Loan Account in respect of such contract.


﻿- 49-
2.   With respect to each contract to be financed out of the proceeds
of the Loan and not governed by the preceding paragraph, the Borrower
shall furnish to the Bank, promptly after its execution and prior
to the submission to the Bank of the first application for with-
drawal of funds from the Loan Account in respect of such contract,
two conformed copies of such contract, together with the analysis
of bids, recommendations for award and such other information as
the Bank shall reasonably request. The Bank shall, if it determines
that the award of the contract was not consistent with the Guide-
lines or this Schedule, promptly inform the Borrower and state the
reasons for such determination.


