                                    Document of
                                The World Bank




                                                   Report No.: 40154




              PROJECT PERFORMANCEASSESSMENTREPORT




                                   ARGENTINA

NATIONAL HIGHWAYS REHABILITATIONAND MAINTENANCE PROJECT
                                (LOAN4295-ARG)


                                    July 1,2007




Sector, Xhematic and Global Evaluations
Independent Evaluation Group (WorldBank)

CurrencyEquivalents (annual averages)

Currency Unit =Argentine Peso (A$, through end 2001,AR$fiom January 2002)




Abbreviations and Acronyms

ADT                              Average Daily Traffic
CAS                              CountryAssistance Strategy
COT                              Build, Operate and Transfer (Construir, Operar,
                                 Transferir)
DNV                              National HighwayDirectorate (DireccibnNacional de
                                 Vialidad)
DPV                              Provincial HighwayDepartment (DireccibnProvincial de
                                 Vialidad)
IDB                              Inter-AmericanDevelopment Bank
ICR                              ImplementationCompletionReport
INT                              Department of InstitutionalIntegrity of the Bank
IRI                              InternationalRoughness Index
M&E                              Monitoring and Evaluation
OCCOVI                           ConcessionRegulatingAgency (Organode Control de
                                 las ConcesionesViales)
PAD                              Project Appraisal Document
PCU                              Project CoordinationUnit
PROBAS                           EngineeringDesign at Bid Stage
PRODEF                           Final Design Preparedby Contractor
vpd                              Vehiclesper Day




Fiscal Year

Government:              January 1.to December 31


Director-General, IndependentEvaluation                : Mr. Vinod Thomas
Director, Independent EvaluationGroup (WorldBank)      : Mr. Ajay Chhibber
Manager, Sector,Thematic and Global Evaluations        : Mr. AlainBarbu
Task Manager                                           : Mr. Peter Freeman

 IEGWBMission: Enhancingdevelopmenteffectivenessthrough excellenceand independencein evaluation.


About this Report
The Independent EvaluationGroupassessesthe programsand activities of the World Bank for two purposes: first,
to ensurethe integrityof the Bank'sself-evaluationprocessand to verify that the Bank'swork is producingthe
expectedresults, andsecond, to help develop improveddirections, policies, and proceduresthrough the
disseminationof lessonsdrawn from experience. As part of this work, IEGWBannually assesses about 25 percent
of the Bank's lendingoperations throughfield work. Inselectingoperationsfor assessment, preferenceis givento
thosethat are innovative,large, or complex; those that are relevantto upcomingstudies or country evaluations;
thosefor which ExecutiveDirectorsor Bank managementhave requestedassessments; and those that are likely
to generate importantlessons.
     To prepare a Project PerformanceAssessment Report(PPAR), IEGWBstaff examine project files and other
documents, interviewoperationalstaff, visit the borrowing countryto discussthe operation with the government,
and other in-countrystakeholders, and interview Bank staff and other donor agency staff bothat headquartersand
in localoffices as appropriate.
     EachPPAR is subject to internal IEGWBpeer review, Panel review, and management approval. Oncecleared
internally,the PPARis commentedon by the responsibleBankdepartment. IEGWB incorporates the commentsas
relevant. The completed PPAR is then sent to the borrowerfor review;the borrowers' commentsare attachedto
the documentthat is sent to the Bank's Boardof ExecutiveDirectors. After an assessment report has beensent to
the Board, it is disclosedto the public.


About the IEGWBRating System
     IEGWB's useof multipleevaluation methods offers both rigorand a necessarylevelof flexibility to adapt to
lendinginstrument,projectdesign, or sectoral approach. IEGWBevaluatorsall apply the same basic methodto
arriveat their project ratings. Followingis the definition and ratingscale usedfor each evaluation criterion
(additionalinformationis available on the IEGWBwebsite: http://worldbank.org/ieg).
Outcome: The extentto whichthe operation's major relevantobjectiveswere achieved, or are expectedto be
achieved, efficiently. The rating hasthree dimensions: relevance, efficacy, and efficiency. Relevanceincludes
relevanceof objectivesand relevanceof design. Relevanceof objectives is the extent to which the project's
objectivesare consistentwith the country's current development prioritiesandwith current Bank country and
sectoral assistancestrategiesand corporategoals (expressedin Poverty ReductionStrategyPapers, Country
AssistanceStrategies, Sector Strategy Papers, OperationalPolicies). Relevanceof design is the extentto which
the project's design is consistentwith the stated objectives. Efficacyisthe extent to which the project's objectives
were achieved, or are expected to be achieved, taking into account their relative importance. Efficiencyis the
extent to which the projectachieved, or is expectedto achieve, a returnhigher than the opportunitycost of capital
and benefitsat least cost compared to alternatives.The efficiency dimensiongenerally is not applied to adjustment
operations. Possibleratings for Outcome: HighlySatisfactory,Satisfactory, ModeratelySatisfactory, Moderately
Unsatisfactory,Unsatisfactory, Highly Unsatisfactory.
Riskto DevelopmentOutcome: The risk, at the time of evaluation,that development outcomes (or expected
outcomes) will not be maintained(or realized). Possibleratingsfor Riskto DevelopmentOutcome: High
Significant,Moderate, Negligibleto Low, Not Evaluable.
Bank Performance: The extentto which services provided bythe Bankensured qualityat entry of the operation
andsupportedeffective implementationthrough appropriatesupervision (includingensuring adequatetransition
arrangements for regular operationof supportedactivitiesafter loanlcredit closing, toward the achievementof
developmentoutcomes. The ratinghastwo dimensions: quality at entry and quality of supervision. Possibleratings
for Bank Performance: HighlySatisfactory, Satisfactory, ModeratelySatisfactory,Moderately Unsatisfactory,
Unsatisfactory,Highly Unsatisfactory.
Borrower Performance: The extent to which the borrower(includingthe government and implementingagency or
agencies)ensured quality of preparationand implementation,and compliedwith covenants and agreements,
towardthe achievement of developmentoutcomes. The ratinghastwo dimensions: government performanceand
implementingagency(ies)performance. Possible ratingsfor Borrower Performance: HighlySatisfactory,
Satisfactory,Moderately Satisfactory, ModeratelyUnsatisfactory,Unsatisfactory, Highly Unsatisfactory.


                                                             iii


Contents

Preface
      ................................................................................................................................
                                                                                                                                  VII



Summary ...........................................................................................................................ix

1.    Background and Context                   ......................................................................................1

      The Sector     ................................................................................................................1
      Bank support for the Sector .....................................................................................1


2.    The Project       .............................................................................................................2

3.    Implementation           ......................................................................................................4
      Quality at Entry (QAE)............................................................................................4
      Implementation Experience                 ....................................................................................-4

4.    Monitoring and Evaluation                   ...................................................................................7

      Design    .....................................................................................................................-7
      Implementation         .......................................................................................................-8
      Utilization    ...............................................................................................................-8

5.    Other Issues       ............................................................................................................9
      Evolutionof the CREMA contracts.........................................................................                       9
      CREMAs and the Road Maintenance Strategy......................................................10


6.    Ratings    ..................................................................................................................11
      Outcome.................................................................................................................1
      Relevance     ...............................................................................................................1
      Efficacy   ..................................................................................................................12
      Efficiency    ..............................................................................................................1 3
      Risk to Development Outcome..............................................................................14
      Bank Performance           .................................................................................................1 5
      Borrower Performance..........................................................................................1 5


7
.     Lessons    ..................................................................................................................16

Annex A.Basic     Data Sheet        ..............................................................................................18

Annex B. Crema Contracts-UnderWhat Conditions Are They Appropriate?                                          ......21

Annex C. Unusual CremaBids In 2004           .........................................................................23




This report was preparedby Hernan Levy, Consultantwho assessedthe project in March 2007. Romayne
Pereira provided administrativesupport.

Principal Ratings

                                       ICR*             ICR Review*                     PPAR
Outcome                           Satisfactory           Moderately                  Moderately
                                                         Satisfactory                Satisfactory
Institutional                         Modest               Modest
Development
Impact**
Risk to Development                      -                     -                      Moderate
Outcome

Sustainabilitp**                       Likely               Likely
Bank Performance                  Satisfactory           Satisfactory                Satisfactory
Borrower                          Satisfactory           Satisfactory                Moderately
Performance                                                                          Satisfactory


* The ImplementationCompletion Report (ICR) is a self-evaluation by the responsible Bank department. The
ICR Reviewis an intermediateIEGWBproductthat seeksto independentlyverifythe findings of the ICR.
**Asof July 1,2006, InstitutionalDevelopment Impactis assessedas partof the Outcome rating.
***As of July 1,2006,Sustainability has been replacedby Riskto DevelopmentOutcome. As the scales are
different, the ratingsare not directly comparable.




Key Staff Responsible

Project                                Task               SectorManager                    Country
                                 ManagerLLeader                                            Director
 Appraisal                        M. Mekan                 Krishna Challa                   Myma
                                                                                          Alexander
 Completion                      Juan Gaviria             Jose Luis Irigoyen              Axel van
                                                                                         Trotsenburg


Preface

        This is a Project Performance Assessment Report (PPAR) for the Argentina:
National Highways Rehabilitation and Maintenance Project (Loan 4295-ARG), for
which the World Bank approveda loan in the amount of US$450.0 million equivalent on
March 17, 1998.The loanwas closed on December 31,2005, two years laterthan
planned. US$1.3 millionthat were undisbursed at closingwere canceled.

        Theproject was selected for assessmentbecause of its financing of multi-year,
performance-based contracts forroad rehabilitationand maintenance (the CREMA
contracts) carriedout by private contractors, a model that is being replicated in other
countries, the large size of the loan and the project, and also to assess evolution of the
CREMAmodel sincethe IEG assessed in 2001 the project (Loan 3611- k g ) that first
launchedthe CREMAs.

        The report is based on a review of project documents, includingthe ICR, Project
Appraisal Document (PAD), Memorandum to the President,the Loan Agreement (and its
revisions) and project files, as well as on discussionswith Bank staff involved in the
project. An IEG mission visited Argentina in March 2007 to review project results and
met with officialsrepresenting a broad range of stakeholders,includingthe national
highway directorate(in Buenos Aires as well as Mendoza); the association of, aswell as
several individual, civil works contractors;users represented by the association of
truckers; and the highway agency of the Mendoza provincial government. The mission
alsobriefed and exchanged views with officialsfrom the Ministry of Economy
responsiblefor World Bank projects. The IEG mission made field visits in Mendoza to
roads being maintained under CREMA contracts.

       The IEG gratefully acknowledges the courtesies and the logistical support
received from the National Highways Directorate,especiallyits Project Coordination
Unit, and its Planning and Works SupervisionDepartments, and the Bank's country
officein Buenos Aires.

       Following standard IEG procedures, copies of the drafl PPAR was sent to
governmentofficials and agencies for their review and commentsbut none were
received.


Summary

        This is the Project PerformanceAssessment Report (PPAR) for theArgentina:
NationalHighwaysRehabilitation andMaintenanceProject (Ln.4295-Arg), approved in
1998.At an estimated cost of US$929 million (and finalcost of $ 860million), this
project aimed to help the government continuethe program of rehabilitation and
maintenance of its national highwaysystem that had been started in the 1990s. The
project supportedmulti-year, performance-basedmaintenancecontracts,known as
CREMAs (for Contract for Rehabilitation and Maintenance), which had originallybeen
startedunder apreceding Bank operation (Loan 3711-Arg).).A PPAR' of that operation
found that the CREMAshad been hlghly successfblas tools of highwaymaintenance
management. Complementingthe CREMAs, anotherproject component,accounting for
about a quarter of the project cost and expectedto be solely financedby the budget,
intended to financeexecutionof maintenancethrough othermaintenancemanagement
methods. The project also aimed to help strengthenthe management of the national
highway systemthrough studies, technical assistanceand training.

        Implementation of the project was carried out under difficult circumstances.An
economic crisis that had started in the mid to late 1990s,deepened in 2001 and 2002. The
crisis,which led to a devaluationof the Argentine currency, the peso, from parity to
about threepesos per dollar, caused extremebudget constraintsand had serious
repercussionson the project. The government was unable to provide counterpart funding
at the level required. Thus, the loan had to be amendedtwice to increase the Bank's
disbursement ratio in order to lightenthe burden on the national treasury and allowthe
project to proceed forward.The economic crisis was accompaniedby a political crisis.
The head of national highwayDirectorate (DNV) of Argentina was changed 5 times
duringthe project period, and so was the head of the project's coordinationunit (PCU).

        The outcomeof the project is rated moderatelysatisfactory.The condition of the
national network was improved, and reached and surpassedstrict standards set at project
appraisal. The proportion of the non-concessionedpaved network in good condition was
82.8% at project closing, against a goal of 65%. The improved highway system turned
out to be essential to supportthe major boost in exportsthat followed the currency
devaluationand improved terms of trade. The project-financedinvestmentin
rehabilitation and maintenance had a high economic rate of return (the estimated average
for a sampleof road segmentswas 57%). CREMAcontracts continued to be successfbl
and the DNV introduced several changes in bidding and contract design that made the
contractsmore cost-effectiveand broadenedtheir scope,notably improvingtheir focus on
environmentaland safetyconcerns. Due to financialconstraints,however, the percentage
of the network managed under CREMA contracts could not be expanded as expected.
Improved budgetary conditionshave resulted in a significantincrease in the DNV budget
in 2007, and the same is expected for the followingyears. A new round of expansion of
the coverageof the highwaynetwork through CREMAS is currentlyplanned. The



'PPAR  Reportnumber 22479, dated June 27,2001.

institutionalobjectivewas not achieved,as successivechangesin the DNV management
had not taken ownershipof the objective and activitiesplanned to supportit. Government
restrictionson the signingof contracts in foreign currencyhampered the recruitmentof
consultantsand were an additionalbarrier to adequatefunding for road maintenance.

        The risk to development outcomeis rated moderate.All roads improved and
maintained under the project-financed CREMA contracts arebeing maintained, mostly
through extended or through new CREMA contracts. The increase in the DNV budget
expected in the next few years should ensure that the road network will continueto be
well maintained. However, given past experience, adequatefunding for maintenancein
the longer term is less certain, especiallyif the internationalfinanciersnow supporting
the DNV maintenance program reduce their supportlevel. The recovery of the Argentine
economy,which has resulted in a major increasein highwaytraffic levels, means that the
benefits of the improved condition of the highwaynetwork will remain.

        Bank performance is rated satisfactory.The project was well prepared and had
well conceived objectivesand components,although it had overoptimistic targets
regarding the extent of expansionof the role of the private sector and of the CREMA
systemthat was possible within the project's timeframe. The project included a simple
but well targeted Monitoring and Evaluation system. Supervisionwas outstanding.The
project team guided and adjusted the project during a long and deep economicand
political crisis, and had to deal with constantchanges in DNV's seniorpersonnel. The
team reacted quicklyto difficult conditions,and took fast and appropriate action. This
included alerting the governmentand the Bank when a largepackage of bids in 2004
showedunusual results.

        Borrowerperformance is rated moderatelysatisfactory. Despite the economic
and political crisis,the Borrowermanaged to implementthe project reasonablywell and
substantiallyimproved the condition of the highwaynetwork. CREMAswere selected
following a rigorous technical and economic analysis. Supervisionof the contractsand
compliancewith the benchmarks was generallycorrect. There were two areas, however,
where the Borrower andlor the DNV did not perform well. First, the institutional
objectivewas not achieved, as the largemajority of the several activitiessupportingthe
objectivewere not carried out. Second, during the projectperiod, about a quarter of the
highway network was maintainedthrough force account, while a commitmentunder the
project statedthat up to 90 percent of the maintenancewould be contracted with private
operators through CREMAs or otherroad maintenancemethods.

        This PPAR confirms an important lesson identifiedin the PPAR of the preceding
project, which supported the launchingof the CREMA approach. That lessonwas that
contracts such as CREMAs tend to be given higher priority in budgetary allocationsthan
maintenance works carried out under traditionalor contracts or force account. Thus,
reflectingthat lesson, despitethe deep economic crisis during the early 2000s, the
governmentstill managed to provide some counterpartfunding for the executionof the
CREMA contracts, even if such contributionwas lower than originallyexpected.

The followingnew lessons emerge from this project:

       a) Performance-based contracts for road maintenance, such as the CREMAs, are
          an efficienttool of maintenance management, and likely to be of interest to
          other countries looking for ways to increase the effectivenessof their road
          maintenancemanagement systems.

       b) A road maintenancestrategyshould include a menu of management options
         with maintenance carried out by the private sector, thus improvingefficiency
          and reducingthe extent of maintenancecarried out by force account. Over
          time, the road network should ideallybe maintained largelyby performance
          type contracts.

       c) Project componentswhich are fullylocally-financed are useful parts of a
         project as theyprovide the Bank with a more completeunderstandingof the
          sector assistedby a project, yet they are difficultto monitor.



                                                    Vinod Thomas
                                                    Director-General
                                                    Evaluation


1. Background and Context


1.1        Startingin the late 1990s,Argentina suffered a major economic and social
crisis,which reached a peak in 2001-2002. In these two years, the country's GDP fell by
4.4 percent and by 10.9percent, respectively. In 2002, after many years of a fixed and
stableexchangerate, the currencywas devalued from parity to the dollarto about one
third of the value.

1.2        The crisishad seriouseffects in the allocationof fimding for public
infrastructure, including the road system. In 2002, the budget of the National Highway
Directorate(DNV) was onlyUS$150 million, or about a quarter what it had been for a
few years in the mid-1990s, when the governmenthad decided to boost support for
priority road sectorinvestmentsand forpreserving the existing road assets. This
temporary increasein funding,in turn, followed many years (in the 1980sand beginning
of the 1990s)when funding for the road sectorwas severelycurtailed, leading to
deteriorationof the road network. In 1990,Argentina had the lowest shareof paved road
in good conditionamongmiddle-incomecountries.

1.3        In the early 1990s, in response to the lack of h d i n g and to the poor condition
of the road network, the government launched a program aimed at increasingprivate
sectorparticipationin the rehabilitationand maintenanceof the national roads network.
The DNV concessioned to private contractorsthe operations and maintenance of 9,800
kilometersof high traffic highways (over2,000 vehiclesper day), or about one quarterof
the paved national road network. A new entity (OCCOVI)was createdto handle such
concessions. At about the sametime, the DNV transferredto the provinces the
responsibilityto maintain most of the unpaved nationalroad network. The private
operators under OCCOVIwere allowed to chargetolls for the use of the roads they
managed, making the concessionsself-financed,without requiring government support.
In 1996,the DNV launched anotherinnovativeprogram of road maintenance, consisting
of multiyear, performance-based contracts for subnetworkscovering some 100-200
kilometersper contract, known as CREMAs (Contractsfor Rehabilitation and
Maintenance).

BANKSUPPORTFOR THE SECTOR

1.4       The Bank over the last decadehas strongly supportedArgentina's road sector,
focusing especiallyon the preservationof the network with a view to improvingits
qualitythus helping reduce transport costs. The improved terms of trade followingthe
currencydevaluationmake transport cost a key variable for trade.

1.5       In the past, the Bank concentrated its support mainly for the national road
network managed by the DNV. In recent years it has also started to help the provinces
maintain and improvetheir own provincialnetworks. At the federal level, the project
under review was followedby an Adaptable Program Loan (APL, US$200 million
loan), whose first phase was approved in 2004, and a secondphase is being prepared for

approval during FY07. At the provincial level, two projectswere approved in FY07, first
a loan for US$75 million for the Cordobaprovince, and then a loan for US$126.7
million, for the SantaFe province.

1.6       A PPAR (report 33479of June 27,2001), of the preceding federalroad project
(Loan 3411)which helped financethe first CREMAs, found that the project had been
highlysuccessful,leadingto a reduction of the federal road network in poor condition
and to an improved overall condition of the federalroads. In addition,there was much
institutionalprogress, such as extension of outsourcing,better enforcement of
environmental safeguards and a major restructuringof the DNV making it leaner and
more effective.

1.7       The CREMA concepthas been replicated, with modifications, in other Latin
American and in otherregions. ThisPPAR, based on the assessmentof the Argentina
experience, includes in Annex B a brief list of conditions required for the successful
design and implementationof CREMA contracts.The purpose of the list is to provide
guidance that may be useful to countries consideringthe use of performance-based
contractsfor road maintenance.


2. The Project

2.1     The project's overallobjectivewas to help Argentinapreserve its nationalroad
network. Specificobjectiveswere the following:

    >   Stabilizethe physical condition,arrest furtherdeteriorationof the non-
        concessioned road network, and reduce the long-term economiccosts for
        rehabilitation and maintenance of the national road network

    >   Increasethe participationof the private sectorin road rehabilitation and
        maintenanceactivities

    P Adapt its role and fiu-therstrengthenthe DNV's capabilitiesforplanning,
   contracting, and efficient supervision of rehabilitation, maintenanceand concession
   programs.

  2.2       The project components as listed in the PAD are shownin the table below:


Table 2.1 Project Components          d Cost

Component                              Actual

                                       Total                          Bank         Percent
                                                                      &7           financed
                                       ;;$                                         by the
                                       million)                       million)     Bank
                                                                                   ("A)

Phase I CREMA: contractslet under                                                  68
ongoingBank loan 3611, covering:
4,026 km of rehabilitation
11,815 krn of maintenance


Phase I1CREMA: new contracts                                                       50
coveringan additional:
1,459 km of rehabilitation
2,581km of maintenance


Rehabilitationand maintenance of the                                               0
remaining network:
2,379 km of rehabilitation
5,106 km of maintenance                                                           i
Works of RemainingNetwork with
Partial Bank Financing

Institutionaland consultant support:                                               100
StrengthenDNV organization                                                        I
                                                                                  I
Supervisionof CREMA                                                               I

Unit Cost Study                                                                   I
Engineering Studies
LaboratoryEquipment
Knowledge Based Programs

TOTAL AT APPRAISAL                                                                 48


TOTALAT COMPLETION                                                                 52


2.3         The three objectiveswere coherent and aimed to improvethe condition of the
road network while continuingto encourage a higher effectivenessin the managementof
road maintenance. The precedingproject had helped the DNV improvethe condition of
the national road network, but the condition of the network at the start of that project was
very poor, and by its completionthe network, while improved, was still far fiom being
satisfactory.Thus, there was still a considerablemargin to furtherimprove the road
network and, correspondingly, Wher reduce the cost of road transport,both trucking and
passenger services.Duringproject preparation, an alternativewas considered consisting
of the transfer of the non-concessioned road network to the provincial authorities, rather

than support the DNV-managedmaintenancecontracts, but this alternativewas rejected
due to the uneven capacityof the provincialhighwaydepartments..

2.4        The objectiveto increaseprivate sectorparticipation in the maintenanceof the
national road network, and especiallythrough CREMA contracts,was sound. However,
the specifictargets to be achieved at the end of the project, notably 70percent of the
network to be managed under CREMA contracts appeared to be overly ambitious,given
financial, technical and administrativeconstraints.

2.5        A surprisingelement in the project is the increase in the percentage of the
rehabilitationpart relative to the total length of the CREMAcontract, when Phase I and
Phase I1are compared. In the CREMA-Isubnetworks,that is those that had been bid
under the previous loan, rehabilitation accounted for 34 percent of the total road length to
be coveredby the CREMAs. In the CREMA-11subnetworks, which coverroads different
from those in CREMA-I, this percentage had increasedto 57 percent.2An obvious
consequence is that, sincerehabilitation is more expensivethan routine maintenance, the
unit costs of the CREMAhad necessarilyto go up. DNV officials and Bank staff
indicated that the reason for increasingthe percentage of rehabilitation was that overall
rehabilitationneeds were largerthan those at the time of the CREMA-I. Also that
CREMA-I contractswere designedin the late 1990sunder tight budget constraints,
which were not expected to continuewhen the project under review was prepared.

2.6        Theproject had a large institutionaldevelopment component. In the preceding
project, a similar componenthad had a successfuloutcome, suggestingthat the DNV
might be interested in continuingthe institutionaleffortsit had started under that project.




3. Implementation


QUALITYAT ENTRY(QAE)

3.1       An assessment made by the Bank's QualityAssessment Group (QAG) found
the project's QAE to be satisfactory.This PPAR concurs, with the reservation on the
targets for private sectorparticipation noted in the preceding section.



3.2       Loan Amendments and Extensions. The project turned out to be approved and
implemented at a critical time, since it was launched at the start of the economiccrisis,
and the crisis deepened a few years later. On the political side, duringproject
implementationthe head of the DNV was changed five times, and so was the head of the
project's coordinationunit (PCU). On the economic side, when the crisis peaked in 2001
and 2002, the nationalbudget was severelyreduced, leading to a significant shortfallin



2Source:PAD,Annex 1

the government's counterpartcontributionto the project. In order to ensure adequate
fimding for carryingout the project, the loan was amended to increase the Bank's share
of project financing,the first tirne (September 1999)to increasedisbursement for the
CREMA-I component from 68 percent to 83percent, and the second tirne (January 2003)
to includeBank financingfor a limited time of 75 percent of the physical component
(rehabilitationand maintenance of the remainingnetwork), originallyintendedto be
financedsolelyby the government,and to increase disbursement for the CREMA-I1
component from 50percent to 75 percent. At the sametime, the devaluationof the peso
required major adjustmentsin the ongoing CREMA contracts.

3.3        The budget constraint made the funding provided by the loan an essential
sourceto minimizethe risks that the sharply reduced government abilityto support
infrastructurewould lead to a new round of deterioration of the road network. Without
such support,the CREMAprogram would have been in seriousrisk of collapse.

3.4        The project-provided funding was instrumental in helping the CREMA
program proceed at a good pace, although slowerthan originally anticipated.Mainly due
to the budget constraints,but also in part to problems with contractors, some contractsin
the CREMA-Iprogram were rescinded, others frozen ("neutralizados"), and yet others
were cancelled and later rebid. Launching of the CREMA-I1program was delayed due to
the need to establisha formula forprice adjustmentto be included in the contracts, which
was not necessarywhen therewas a fixed parity between the peso and the dollar, but
which became required in view of the break-up of the parity and the ensuinginflation.

3.5       Project Extension. Due to implementationdelays, which startedwith a delayin
effectiveness(achievednine months after Board approval of the loan), and continued
with severalproblems, includingcounterpart funding and contract readjustmentfollowing
the devaluation,the closing date was extended by two years to the end of 2005.

3.6       DNVabolition scare. In July 2001, as part of its policy of decentralizingpublic
services, the governmentprepared a decree that would have abolishedthe DNV, and
transferredresponsibility for the entirenon-concessioned,paved, nationalnetwork to the
provincial governments. Similaractionswere taken regarding the decentralizationof
educationand health, and suchmeasures were enforced.Yet, the DNV decreewas never
signed,likelybecausekey stakeholders,includingDNV personnel as well as road users,
expressedwell reasoned views against suchmove. Had the DNV actuallybeen abolished,
this would have created major problems for the implementationof the project.

3.7       The locally-financed component, intended to financerehabilitation and
maintenanceof national roads not coveredby the CREMAs to insure that the entire
national road networkwas properly cared for, was difficult to monitor, as the component
consisted of works dispersedover the whole road network. Monitoringbecame easier
when the loan was amended, temporarily, to allow loan financingof this component.
While the supervisionreports alwaysreviewed the progress with this component,at the
end of the project it was difficultto sum up the total amount of works carried out.

3.8         The institutionalcomponent never did get the required support from DNV
authorities, and only a minor part of its activitieswere in the end carried out. A major
factormay have been restrictionsplaced by the governmentto the signing of contracts in
foreign currency. In fact, the onlytwo studies carriedout under the project were doneby
a local contractor, the Universityof Cordoba.

3.9         Contractextensions.Most of the CREMA-I contracts that expired during
implementation of the project were extended for two years, the first year extension
financedby the Bank, and the second-yearextension financed by the government.
Extensions were low cost as they covered the routinemaintenancepart of the contract
only,while the expensivepart of the contract (rehabilitation or periodic maintenance)had
been carried out at the start of the original, 5-year contract.

3.10        Contractorspre-qualiJication.Since 2003, in order to expedite execution of the
project, the Bank and the DNV agreedthat therewould be no prequalification of
contractors for the remainder of the project. This decision appeared to have no
consequences on the qualityof the work doneby the contractors selected after this
decision.

3.11        The relatively steadyprogram of CREMAs during the project period provided
the local constructionindustrywith a stabledemand for their services, and helped
strengthenthe capacityof the industry. Around one hundred different contractors (121 in
2004 and 97 in 2005)~submittedbids under the various highwayprograms of the DNV,
of which the CREMAs were the most significant. On the otherhand, it is surprising,
consideringthat major internationalcivil works contractors,both from Latin America and
from otherregions are activein different countries of Latin America, that no foreign
contractorsubmitteda bid, or evenbought the bid documents, for anyof the highway
contracts. Advertising of the project and invitationto bid for specificcontracts was done
in accordancewith internationalcompetetitivebidding rules.

3.12        Theprogram developedearlier and faster in someprovincesthan in others. For
example, in the national road network located in the Mendoza province, development of
CREMAsinitiallywas slowerthan in other provinces because: (i) most roads were in
relatively good condition, requiring less major maintenanceworks than roads in other
provinces, (ii) some of the roads were undergoingmajor repairs under conventional input
contracts, and were thereforenot available for a CREMAcontract, (iii) someroad
sectionsof especiallydifficult, and variable from year to year, winter maintenance
(mainly snow removal), were difficult to include in CREMA contractsbecause of the
high degree of uncertainty in the works required, and thereforein contractprices. (This
was finallysolvedby leaving winter maintenance outside the CREMAcontract, and to be
done by DNV's force account). Estimates for 2007 show that the percentage of the
national road network in the Mendozaprovince to be maintained by CREWSwill
almost doublethe percentage in the first half of the 2000 decade.




3Source:CamaraArgentina de la Construccion,2006:Estudiode las Capacidadesy Problernas en la
Industria de la Construccionde Infrastructuras.Informe Final.

3.13      Problems with bids. Bids for 28 CREMA contracts in April and May 2004 were
highly unusual in two main ways: (i) in practically all the bids, differences in the price
offered by the lowest bidder and the otherbidders were abnormally small, and (ii) the
lowestbidder had an almost perfect distribution,with only two contractorswinning two
bids.In addition to these factors,prices offeredwere substantiallyhigher than estimated
in the DNV budget estimate:the lowestbidders had prices ranging fiom 13percent to 68
percent higher than the estimate,with a median of 23 percent. Factors such as increases
in the price of asphalt and othertradable inputs, and delays between the preparation of the
bid documents and the actual bidding time may explain some of the cost differences
between the bid prices and the DNV estimates. However, they are unlikely to explain all
of the differencesfound, especiallythose bids with prices two thirds higher than the DNV
estimate. The aboveresults raise the possibilityof a non-competitive market, since, taken
together, they would be highly improbablein a well-functioningmarket. The issuewas
reported by a Bank supervisionmission in May 2004. In June 2005, a similar situation
occurred with apackage of bids under the follow-on loan, the National Highway Asset
Management Project (Loan 72420-Arg). The LAC Region then submittedboth cases for
review by the Departmentof InstitutionalIntegrity (INT). The INT investigation,while
concludingthat there was no compellingevidence of market sharing arrangements, made
a number of recommendationsregarding actionsthat could be taken to avoid such
occurrences in future. Most of the recommendations had alreadybeen identifiedby the
LAC region and implemented. Annex C providesmore details and analysis of the results
of thesebids, carried out duringthe preparationof thisPPAR.



4. Monitoring and Evaluation


4.1       The design of the project's M&E for the investmentpart of the project
(accounting originally for 98 percent of the project's cost) was well thought out. In
particular, the selection of the internationalroughness index (IRI) to assessthe overall
conditionof the (non-concessioned,paved national)road network, rather than the more
complex Condition Index (useful for planning maintenanceactivities)utilizedby the
DNV was a sound choice. The reason is that the IRI is a key indicatorused worldwide,
and values can therefore be compared with road conditionin other countries. At the
contract level, the CREMA specifieda number of variables and targets that needed to be
met (monthlyfor the routine maintenance, quarterlybenchmarks and IRI at the
completionof the works for the rehabilitationor periodic maintenancepart) in orderto
determinecompliancewith the contract or otherwiseestablishpenalties.

4.2       The originalproject included an important component (amountingoriginallyto
a quarter of overallproject costs) for rehabilitationand maintenance to be financed solely
by the budget. This component was to be monitored through periodicreporting by the
DNV on projectprogress. However, in practice, a project component that receives no
Bank financingis difficult to monitor, sinceit does not go through the usual Bank
disbursement and other procedureswhich allow to keep track of execution. The fact that

the IRI target in the project's performance indicators covered the overall non-
concessioned,national,paved network, (includingthe roads to be maintainedby the
government-financedcomponent)compensatedin part for the difficultiesin assessing
progress in the executionof the locally-financed component.



4.3        During 2000-2002, when localresourceswere more limited,the scope of the
network condition surveysto measure IRI was significantly curtailed,hampering
monitoring of the compliancewith the targets. Estimates were made during this period by
DNV's technical staff. When measurements were again taken at end of the project,
estimatesturned out to be overlyoptimistic.The implication is that Bank missions were
not provided with actual data and that remedial measures, should they have been needed,
could not be identified.

4.4        A performance indicatorfor the institutional developmentcomponent of the
project (numberof trainee-weeks) was based on data to be produced by a Human
ResourcesStudyto be financedby the Inter-American DevelopmentBank (IDB).Due to
implementationdelays in the execution of the study, and the lack of baseline and targets,
this indicatorwas not monitored.



4.5        Bankmissionsused theperformance indicatorsto assesscompliancewith
project targets. While the overoptimistic estimatesmade by the DNV when actual data
was not collected could have hampered the mission's efforts to ensure compliance,
surveystaken by project closing showed that the expectedtargets had been achieved.

4.6        Enforcement of targets in the performance-based CREMA contractsrequired
periodic assessment of the variablesincluded in the contracts. Informationfrom such
assessmentswas used to enforce contract penalties, or to prod the contractorto ensure
compliancewith the targets in the caseswhere the assessmentprovided no clear-cut data.
For the routinemaintenancepart of the contract,there is a long list of variables to be
monitored, such as surface crackingand potholes; condition of shoulders; drainage; road
signs. If two of the indicatorsdo not meet the targets, contractorsreceive only 70percent
of the contract amount specifiedfor the period. If three indicators are not met, only 30
percent of the amount is paid.


4.7       Overall,the project's M&E is rated substantial.

5. Other Issues

EVOLUTION THE CREMACONTRACTS
              OF


5.1         Sincethe CREMAs were first launched in 1996,the DNV has amended the
CREMA design severaltimes with the purpose of making it more responsive as a
maintenancemanagement tool. This sectionsummarizesthe main changesin the
CREMA contracts duringthis period.

5.2     The changesintroduced to the CREMAs canbe broadly classified in three
categories: (i) content and coverage, (ii) structureof payments and penalties, (iii)
contractorqualifications

5.2        Content and Coverage.This in turn canbe divided between (a) the
rehabilitationlperiodicmaintenance part of the contract, and (b)the routine maintenance
part. On part (a), the original CREMAs focused on the rehabilitationof the road surface,
in part because there were monetary limitsto the value of the contracts.As the budgetary
situation improved, CREMAs were broadened in scope,to include suchthings as road
intersections,circles,bridge defenses. In particular, the new CREMAs increasingly
included itemsthat improvedroad safety, such as road widening in critical sections,
addition of guardrailsin curves and installationof emergencytelephones.The current
CREMAs also have a strongerenvironmentalmanagement plan than was included in the
early CREMAs.

5.3        On the routine maintenancepart, there was also a broadeningof scope, both
regardingthe performance itemsto be controlled and the physical area of the road's right-
of-way covered.

5.4        A result of the broader scope of the major maintenanceworks is an increase in
the unit costs of the CREMAs. Costs also are increasing as a higher proportion of the
CREMA road sectionswill undergo major maintenanceworks, relative to the sections
with onlyroutine maintenance. For example, in the CREMA 314in Mendoza, two thirds
of the network (100 kilometersout of a total of 150kilometers)were resurfaced. More
recently, up to 90percent of the length of the CREMA road network may be subject to
rehabilitationor periodic maintenance.

5.5         Payments andpenalties. In the early CREMAs, payment to the contractors for
the major maintenance works, whose executionwas planned for one year, was done in
three installmentsduring the execution of the works (amountingto about 60 percent of
the cost of the works) and the remainder in monthly installmentsover the last 4 years of
the contract.Thispayment structureresulted in the contractorhaving to prefinance much
of the work done. This translated into a finance chargebeing included in the contractor's
offer, raising the price of it. In current CREMAs, contractorsarepaid as work is carried
out, thus reducing the contractor's financecharges. This has required an increasein the
warranties and the retention of the warranties duringthe whole period of the contract. A
formulaforprice adjustment during execution of the contracthas been introduced, further

reducing financialrisks to the contractor. Penaltiesfor non-complianceof benchmarks
have been increased, and enforcedmore regularlythan in the past.

5.6        Contractor qualijkations. Current CREMAs are more demanding in the
requirements that contractorsmust meet to qualify for a contract. A contractorneeds to
demonstrate experiencein CREMA contracts, or in major maintenance works
comparableto the scaleof the works included in the contract.

CREMASAND THE ROADMAINTENANCE                STRATEGY

5.7        During the project period, the DNV's road maintenance strategy for the non-
concessionednetwork included the use of differentmanagementtechniques, CREMA
being the most prevalent. Other methods include force account for routine maintenance
(coveringsome 30 percent of the total network length), modular (which also includes a
part for rehabilitation),kilometer-month (limitedto routine maintenance),transfer to
provincialhighway departments,and non-tolled concessions.

5.8        In the project reviewed in this PPAR, it was expectedthat by the completionof
the project 70percent of the non-concessioned national road network would be
maintained with CREMA contracts. Under the follow-up APL project, currentlyunder
execution, it was expectedthat the proportion of CREMAswould increase substantially
more. The experiencewith the project under review suggeststhat it will be increasingly
difficultto augment the proportionof the non-concessioned road network maintained
under CREMA contracts. Some of the constraintsthat hamper the further expansionof
the CREMA system may be solved, but a more gradual approachthan currently
conceivedmay be required.

5.9       As noted in the sectionon Ratings,below, the 70 percent target for the
percentageof the network to be covered by CREMAswas not attained. While the
economic crisis and budget constraintswere major factors,there are other reasons that
hamper reaching a high percentageof maintenancedoneby CREMAs.

5.10      On the financial side, CREMAs are expensivecontractsbecause they include
major maintenance works so that budget constraints severely affect the amount of
CREMAs that the DNV can undertake. As the new CREMAs include a higher proportion
of the roads to undergo rehabilitation or periodic maintenance, the cost of the individual
CREMA contracts will increase, makingthe financial factormore critical.In the next 2-3
years, financial constraints do not appear to be likely, but over the longer term such
constraintsare certain to reappear.Experienceduring the period of the project under
review is that a quarter of the CREMAS subnetworksfinancedunder the project are
currentlybeing maintained under low-cost, extended CREMA contracts(Table 7.1).
Extensions are low cost because they onlycover routine maintenance.

5.11      On the technical side, there is normally a one-yearperiod between the end of
one CREMA contract and the signing of the subsequentCREMA. This delay stems from
the time needed to prepare the engineeringdocumentsto proceed with the bidding
process once the ongoing CREMA contract is completed, and the time required to award
and signthe contract. While in theory it would be possible to advancepreparation of the

documentation and shortenthe time between the end of one CREMA contract and the
start of the followingone, in practice it would be difficult to shortenthe time. Another
factor is that it will not be alwayspossible to find enoughroad sectionsthat require
rehabilitationor periodic maintenance, which are the core of the CREMAcontracts. Still
another factor is that someroads arebeing improvedwith new constructionsuch as
addition of lanes, and this type of work has not to date been considered appropriatefor
inclusion in CREMAs.

5.12       Oneway to overcomethe technical constraintswould be to trylonger-term
CREMA contracts, for example 10to 12years. Performance-basedmaintenancecontracts
of this duration arebeing used in other countries(e.g., Australia and New Zealand). Such
longer-term contractsinvolve a higher degree of uncertainty for the contractor,
presumablyleadingto higherbid prices. On the otherhand, a longer term contractmay
allow to better time the rehabilitationor periodic maintenanceworks, possibly leading to
postponingsome investments. This could counteractthe higher uncertainty. Since longer-
term contractswould be oneway to facilitatethe expansionof the CREMA concept, it
might be useful for the DNV to trypilots along these lines.

5.13       On the economic side, when the CREMAs were first launched, it was assumed
that this maintenancemanagement systemhad a niche in traffic range from about 750
vehiclesper day (vpd) to 1,500-,2000vpd. Roads with higher traffic levels lend
themselvesto concessionsto private, toll-road operators.Roads with lower traffic levels
were amenable to maintenanceby other management methods, such as the kilometer-
month (multi-year contracts for routinemaintenance only). Extending CREMA contracts
to road sectionswith low traffic levelswill require to use appropriate,low-cost
technology,such as singlebituminous treatment, if the investmentsare to have a
satisfactoryeconomic rate of return. Suchtype of technologyis not alwayswell received
by the users.

5.14       Thus, there appears to be seriouslimitsto achievinga substantial expansionin
the use of CREMAs for the maintenance of the national road network. On the otherhand,
the percentageby force account remains high. In order to improvethe cost-efficiencyof
the maintenance effort,the DNV should aim, together with increasingthe percentageof
CREMAs, at reducing the percentage doneby force account, by using othermanagement
approachesthat rely on private operators.


6. Ratings


6.1        Outcomeis rated moderatelysatisfactory.This rating results from the analysis
of the three dimensionsdiscussedbelow, relevance, efficacy and efficiency.



6.2        Relevanceof the project is rated substantial. The project objectiveswere fully
consistentboth with the CAS at the time the project was prepared and appraised and with

the current CAS. The former CAS statedas one of the objectivesto rebuild and upgrade
infi-astructure. The current CAS (May2006) is self-definedas a Performance-Based
CAS. This CAS notes that one of the main development challengesis to close the
infrastructure gap, and notes that logisticscost in Argentinaare the second highest in
Latin America. The CAS identifiesroad network management, rehabilitationand
maintenancethrough performance-based contracts (such as the CREMAs) as an areathat
should receive strong support. The project componentssupportedwell the project
objectives. It is not clear,however, the extent of ownershipat the time of appraisalof the
institutionaldevelopment component included in the project.

EFFICACY

6.3         ObjectiveI: Physical condition of the network.Achievement of this objective
is rated high. The three targets relating to the physical condition of the non-concessioned
paved networkby project closingwere met, and exceededby a significant amount:

(a) the averageroughness of the network, measured in IRI, was expected to be below 3.5,
starting from 3.70 in 1998.By the originalclosingdate in 2003 the IRI was 3.40 and by
the actual closing in 2005 it was 3.36. A provisional estimate for 2006 is 3.5
(b) the percentage of roads in poor condition(IRI >5) was expectedto be below 6
percent. By the original closing date it was 5.36 percent, and by 2006 it was 4.20 percent.
(c) the proportion of the network in good condition (IRI<4) was expected to be at least
equal to 65 percent. By the originalclosing date it was 82.8 percent, and by 2006 it was
84.5 percent.

Chart 6.1 Values of IRI: 2001-2006




Source:DNV and LAC Region estimates


6.4        Objective2: Participation of the Private Sector in Road Rehabilitation and
Maintenance.Achievement of this objectiveis rated as substantial.Due to the economic
crisis, the CREMA-I1program, originallyexpected to be launched in 1999,only started,
and modestly, in 2001, with littleprogress duringthe following years. At the sametime,
CREMA-I contracts startedto expire in 2002. Whilemost of these contractswere
extended for up to two years, the overall length of roads maintainedunder CREMAs
decreasedby 2005. The overallpercentageof private sectorparticipation remained at a
fairlyhigh level over 70percent until 2001 thanks mainly to the use of the kilometer-
month system, also a private sector-managed maintenance method. However, this

approach also started to be reduced from 2002. As result,both the percentage of the
network coveredby CREMAs and overallby the private sector declined in the later years
of the project. This trend is now being reversed. By March 2007,ll CREMAswhere
under bidding process, and another 11CREMAs are expectedto be put for biddingby the
firsthalf of 2007. This would represent an extra 3,000kilometersput under CREMAs in
the first semesterof 2007.


6.5        Objective3: InstitutionalDevelopment. Achievement of this objectiveis rated
modest. The component supportingthis objectivewas drasticallycurtailed. Sevenof the
original eight studieswere dropped. The start of the trainingprogram was delayed several
years, and in the end only a smallpart of the expectedprogram was carried out. This is
reflected in the amounts allocated for the component: while the appraisal estimatewas
US$13.2 million, onlyUS$0.8 was actually spent. Overall, therewas clearly a lack of
ownershipby the DNV of this component.



6.6        Efficiencyof the project-financed investmentsis rated high. Using the same
methodology (the Bank's HDM-I11model) employed in the PAD, and applying it to a
sample of 14samplenetworksrepresentingdifferentgeographic areas and different
CREMAphases (I and II),the DNV estimated economicrates of return ranging from 13
percent for the sectionswith low traffic to 129percent for the sectionswith middle or
high traffic. The averageERR for the 47 road sections analyzed with the HDM-I11model
was 57percent.

6.7        Economic efficiencycould have been evenbetter if lower prices had been
obtained for the works. Two critical factors for achieving lower prices are likelyto have
been at play in the CREMA contracts. The first has to do with the design of the CREMA
bid documents and contracts.According to the contractors interviewed during the
preparation of this PPAR, their prices included a margin to cover financial chargesthe
contractorhad to assume, including, for example, delayed payments by the DNV that
happened duringthe peak economic crisis, and risks stemming from inflexibilityin the
quarterlybenchmarksrequired to be met in the major works componentof the contracts.
Still, contractorsnoted that Bank-financed contractshad a better structure, especially
regarding financialrisks after changeswere introduced in the CREMA contracts in 2003,
than were budget-financedCREMA contracts.

6.8        A second factorwas the extent of competitionin CREMA contractbids. As
noted in the Implementationchapter, 28 CREMAbids in 2004 raised the prospect of a
non-competitivemarket and thereforeof prices higher than necessary. It is worthwhileto
note that the PAD was concernedabout bidding, as it listed (Annex 1,Project Design
Summary) a critical risk regardingthe increased private participation that...."private
sector....does not overbid in the future". This assessment in the PAD was not based on
past lessons, but it was thejudgment at the time that this could constitute a criticalrisk.

6.9         Another dimensionof efficiencyis the efficiencyof the DNV. By transferring
responsibility for routine maintenance to the CREMAs rather than executing such
maintenanceby force account, the DNV is a leaner organizationthan it was before.



6.10        The risk to development outcomeis rated moderate.. As shown in the table
below, all roads improved and maintainedunder project-financedCREMAs are now
being maintained, mostly under extended or new CREMA contracts.


Table 6.1 Current Maintenance of Roads Improvedand Maintainedunder Loan 4295
                                               I CREMA-I           I CREMA-I1
Totalnumber of subnetworks                             61                    18
(contracts)financed by Ln 4295
Contractextended, budget financed                      16                    3
New CREMA contract, budget                               1                   13
financed
Under a different maintenance                           4                    2
management system
New CREMAcontract, with external                       40                    -
financing(biddingprocess or under
way)
TOTAL                                                  61                    18

6.11         In 2007, the overallDNV investmentbudget was substantiallyincreased, and
is some US$800 million. Thisbudget shouldprovide amplemargin to assure the
counterparth d i n g to the ongoing CREMA contracts assistedby the Bank and other
internationallenders. However, given past experience, h d i n g at adequatelevels of road
maintenanceover the long-term is less certain, especiallyif funding from other financiers
were not as availableas it is at present. Even today, part of the budget-financed
CREMAs is for contract extensions, which cover routine maintenanceonly Overall, the
DNV remains a stronginstitutionwith broad support4,and there is no reason to believe
that the abolitionscareof 2001 would be repeated.

6.12        The recovery of the Argentine economyhas resulted in significantincreases in
traffic levels. From 2002 to 2006, the averagetraffic increase in all DNV's fixed traffic
countingstationshas been 41 percent. This trend means that the benefits of the improved
roads will remain or increase.

6.13        The increase in the DNV budget, coupledwith support by other external
financiersbeyond the Bank, suggeststhat the proportion of the non-concessionedroad
network that is maintained under CREMA contractswill increase.



4During discussionsof the PPAR missionwith staff of the Ministry of Economy, staff fromthat Ministry
noted that the road projects executed by the DNV couldbe consideredthe best implemented projects of the
Bank's portfolio.

6.14       One factorthat could potentially affect sustainabilitywould be the non-
realizationof timely surveysof road condition, since only surveys carriedout
periodically canprovide flags on road conditionto ensure that problems are addressed as
they occur, rather than later at much higher costs. Suchproblem occurred during
implementation of the project. However, the strongincrease in maintenancebudgets is
likely to bring with it a higher likelihoodthat funding for the conduct of timelyroad
surveyswill be available.



6.15       Bank performanceis rated satisfactory. The project was well prepared, and had
well conceived objectivesand components, although it had overoptimistic targets
regarding the expansionof the role of the private sector and of the CREMA systemthat
was possiblewithin the project's timeframe. Theproject had a simple and well targeted
M&E system. Supervisiondeservesto be considered as outstanding. The project team
guided and adjusted the project during a long and deep economiccrisis and had to deal
with constant changes in the DNV's and the PCU's senior staff. The team reacted quickly
to the difficultconditions and took fast and appropriateaction. The increase in
disbursementpercentageswas instrumentalin securingthe achievement of the target on
the condition of the road network. Staffof the DNV interviewedduringpreparation of
this PPAR highly praised the Bank's supervisionteam, notably for its strongtask
management from the Buenos Aires office and for the efficient and high quality support
from the technical staff in headquarters.

6.16       The supervisionteam and the divisionalmanagement were right in alertingthe
governmentand the Bank management when a largepackage of bids in 2004 showed
unusual results



6.17       Borrowerperformance is rated moderately satisfactory.Despitethe economic
and political crisis, and the constantchangesin the DNV's and PCU's heads, the
Borrower managed to implementthe project reasonablywell and as a result to
substantiallyimprove the condition of the national road network. The selection of
CREMA subnetworkswas done followinga rigorous technical and economic analysis.
Supervisionof the contractswas generallycorrect with, in most DNV's provincial
offices,well trained technical personnel that followed closelythe execution of the
contractsand the compliancewith the benchmarks. Duringthe project period, the
governmentmaintained its support for the CREMAs, even as it cancelled contractswith
private operators for the management of other infrastructureservices.

6.18       There were, however, two areaswhere the Borrower andlor the DNV
performance was not good. First, the institutionaldevelopment objective of the project,
that was not achieved. It would have been understandable that some change of views
could have occurred in the DNV as a result of changes in its management. Yet, the fact
that seven of the eight originalstudiesincluded in the project were dropped, and that
training carriedout was a much scaledown of the intended program, suggeststhat the

DNV as an institutionhad no interest in using the proposed project activitiesto
strengthen its management. Second,the DNV during the project implementationperiod
maintained ahigh proportion of the routinemaintenanceof the network doneunder force
account, while it had committed under the project that at least 90percent of the non-
concessionednetwork would have been contractedto the private sector.


7.Lessons

7.1       This PPAR confirmsan important lesson identified in the PPAR of the
precedingproject. That lessonwas that contracts such as CREMAs tend to be given
higher priority in budgetary allocations than maintenanceworks carried out under
traditionalcontracts or by force account. Thus,reflecting that lesson, despitethe deep
economic crisis duringthe erly2000s, the governmentstill managed to provide some
counterpartfhding for the executionof the CREMA contracts, even if such contribution
was lower than originallyexpected.

7.2       The followingnew lessons emerge from the project under review:

           a) Perfomzance-based contractsfor road maintenance, such as the CREUA
               contracts, are an efficient tool of maintenancemanagement,and likely to
               be useful to other countries lookingfor ways to increasethe efectiveness
               of their road maintenancemanagementsystems. CREMA-type contracts
               would be especiallysuitablefor middle-income economieswith a well
               developed highway agency and contracting industry.

               A road maintenancestrategy should include a menu of management
               optionswith maintenance carried out by theprivate sector, thus improving
               eficiency and reducing the extent of maintenancecarried out by
               governmentpersonnel. Overtime, the road networkshould ideally be
               maintained largely byperformance type contract.The process is likelyto
               be gradual, as financial, economic, technical and administrative
               constraintsneed to be overcome.


           c) Project componentswhich arefully locally-financed are usefulparts of a
               project as they provide a more completeperspective of thesector assisted
               by aproject, yet they are dzficult to monitor. The large locally-financed
               component in the project (a quarter of total costs) was intended to finance
               road maintenanceworks dispersedover several thousandkilometers. Thus,
               they were difficult to monitor. And because such works did not include
               Bank financing(except for a short period following a loan amendment),
               the usual loan recording documentationdid not apply. Yet, these locally
               financed componentsare useful in that they provide a more complete
               perspectiveof the overallroad maintenance effort.

Annex A. Basic Data Sheet

NATIONAL       HIGHWAYS    REHABILITATION MAINTENANCEPROJECT(LOAN
                                        AND
4295)

Key Project Data (amounts in US$million)
                                               Appraisal                 Actual or
                                               estimate              current estimate

Total project costs

Loan amount

Cofinancing

Cancellation

Economic Rate of return %


Project Dates
                                         Original                       Actual

IdentificationIPreparation
AppraisalINegotiation
Board Approval
Effectiveness
Closing                                 1213I12003                     1213I12005


Staff Inputs (staffweeks)
                                                       ActuaULatestEstimate
                                               hP Staff weeks          USS(OO0)
IdentificationIPreparation

AppraisalINegotiation

Supervision

ICR

Total

Mission Data
                      Date         No. of      Specializationsrepresented         Performance
                  (month/year)    persons                                             rating
                                                                                  Rating trend

IdentificationlP    611997             1          Eng
reparation

                                                  Eng (3),FinAn, Prof

AppraisallNeg       611998                        Eng
otiation

Supervision         1211998                       Eng                               S

                                                  Eng                               S

                                                  Eng                               S

                                                  Eng, Ass                          S

                                                  Eng                               S

                                                  Eng, Econ                         S

                                                  Eng, Econ                         S

                                                  Eng, Econ                         S

                                                  Eng, Econ                         S

                                                  Eng (2),FinAn                     S

                                                  Eng (2),Econ, FinAn, Proc         S

                    612003             4          Eng (2),Econ, Proc                S        S

                    1012003            4          Eng (2),Econ, Proc                S        S

                    512004             3          Eng (2),Econ                      S        S

                    212005             3          Eng (2),Econ                      S        S

                    1112005            3          Sector Chief, Eng (2)             S        S
ICR                 312006             1          Eng

Eng=Engineer, FinAn=Financial Analyst, Econ (Economist),Proc (Procurement Specialist),Ass=Assistant

Annex B. Crema Contracts-UnderWhat ConditionsAre They
Appropriate?


The success of the CREMA approach in Argentinahas prompted other countries in Latin
America, as well as in other continents, to adopt, with variations, a similarmodel to
outsourceroutinemaintenancein a way that is cost-effectiveand is attractiveto private
contractors.

IEG's evaluationsaim, in additionto assessingthe performance of Bank operations, to
facilitatetransfer of experienceamong developing countriesby extractinglessons fiom its
evaluations. This Annex intends to help facilitate such transfer by focusing on the factors that
make the CREMA approachfeasible and desirable.

CREMA Contracts

CREMA contracts, while normallyreferred to asperformance contracts,really consist of two
parts: (i) an input-based contract for the major maintenanceworks (rehabilitationor periodic
maintenance, specificallyresurfacing),and, (ii) a performance-based (output) contract for
the routinemaintenancepart of the contract, which involvesthe road sectionnot being
rehabilitated or resurfaced, and the remaining of the road section under the contract once the
major works have been completed. The performance part of the contract includes several
variables for which standards are pre-defined and which are controlledperiodicallyto ensure
compliance.

Key Conditionsfor Success of CREMA-type Contractsfor Road Maintenance

The Argentine experienceprovides usefbl hints as to the conditionswhere performance-
based maintenance contracts such as CREMAs can be successfullyreplicated. Such
conditionsare summarizedbelow.5

A political will to improve the cost-effectivenessof resources allocated to road
maintenance,includingto outsourcethe execution of routinemaintenance.Routine
maintenance traditionally has been carried out by force account, in developedand developing
countries.While this is not a cost-effectivemanner to carry out routine maintenance, there
are several reasons why it continuesto be done this way in most countries. Suchreasons
include: (i) the political economyof resistanceto change, sincethere is no clear constituency
for a change, but there is a strong constituencyfor keeping the status-quo(the established
organizations and personnel in charge of maintenance); (ii) often lack of interest of private


 For more details of the CREMA contracts, see: Gerard Liautaud, 2001: MaintaningRoads - The Argentina
Experiencewith Output-Basedcontracts.Note number 231.Public Policy for the Private Sector.Private Sector
and InfrastructureNetwork, The World Bank Group.

operators in taking overroutinemaintenance, a low cost activitywith potentiallymany
uncertainties that can affect costs, (iii) circumstances that make findingprivate operators
evenmore difficult, or where the cost of mobilizinga private operatorwould be enormous,
such as remote regions or areaswith extremely inclement weather conditions,(iv)the tasks
of routine maintenance are sometimes difficult to define.

The CREMA contracts, with their componentof major maintenancewhich is of interest to
private contractors,strike a good balance between incentivesto private operators and
achievinga cost-effectiveroutine maintenance. At the sametime, the CREMA contracts have
shownthat most staffpreviously working as employees(permanently or temporary) of a
highway organizationfor the purposes of carryingout road maintenancewill find
employmentwith the contractors executing CREMAcontracts. Further, CREMA contracts
result in leaner,more effectivehighway agencies.

Still,governments need to show a strongpolitical will to improvethe cost-effectiveness of
routinemaintenance,if they wish to embark on maintenancecontractsthat will entrust the
job to private operators on a multi-year basis.

A highway department that has the capacity, or is willing to supplement its own capacity
through the recruitment of outside consultants, to design and implement CREMA
contracts. There are two aspects. First, the design of a CREMAcontract,including good
quality engineeringto properly identify and specifybenchmarks for the major maintenance
part of the contract, and to establish the performanceindicators for the routine maintenance
part of the contract. The design involves testing several rehabilitation strategies,and
subjectingthe proposed works to rigorous economic analysisto ensure that the investments
provide a satisfactoryreturn for the investments.Second,is the supervision of the contract.
Thisrequires highly qualifiedpersonnel, with sound technicalknowledge as well as
judgment. This is necessaryto ensure proper supervisionof the works and to enforce
penalties or otherwisework together with the contractorwhen gray areas call for solid
professionaljudgment that can withstand independenttechnical audits.

A private contracting industry that has contractors capable of engineering design and
execution, and of carrying out self-quality controls. Design capacity is necessary to prepare
the final engineeringdesign for the rehabilitation or periodic maintenancepart of the
contract, sincethe bid documents include a basic engineeringdesign while the contractoris
required to prepare the finaldesign. Sometimes, there are major changesin conditions since
the basic design was done, such as greater road deterioration and increased traffic levels, that
may require significantchanges to the basic design. Execution capacityrequired to carry out
the major maintenanceworks of a CREMA-typecontract, include a capacityto self-control
the quality of the works. The contractingindustry should not onlyhave major civil works
contractors,who will essentiallytake charge of the major maintenanceworks, but also small
enterprisescapable of carryingout under contract with the main contractorall or parts of the
routine maintenanceactivitiesin the contract.

Annex C. Unusual Crema Bids In 2004

In April and May 2004, DNV received bids for 28 separate road subnetworksto be managed
under CREMA contracts. Thesebids were unusual in three respects, as described below.


1)      Verysmall differencesin theprice of the bids .

Table C1. Analysis of CREMA Bi
Contractor Contract
          I          IPrice   IPrice
  Code      Price     of       of      of
            over      Second Third     Highest
            DNV       Bidder   Bidder  Bidder
            Estimate Over      Over    Over
              (%I     Lowest   Lowest  Lowest
                      Bidder   Bidder  Bidder




N         1 25.9     11.4
G-G       1 25.4     11.3    1 2.5    17.7
                                          - -
A         1 25.1     14.8    1 7.2
L-L       1 25.0     14.8     15.7    110.6




Table C1 above showsthe bids received, and the price differences between the lowest bidder
and the other bidders. Very small differencesbetween the bids normally is indicativeof
distortionsin the market. For example, a guidelineby the US Federal Highway

~dministration~noted that differences between the first and the secondbid within 6 percent
would raise concerns.Of the 277CREMAbids shown in the table, only in two bids was the
differencehigher than 6 percent. The guidelines also says that differencesbetween the
lowest bidder and the third place bidder of less than 9 percent also raise concerns.Of the 27
CREMAbids, again there were onlytwo bids where the difference exceeded 9 percent.

2) Distribution of Winning Bids Among Bidding Contractors

Only two bidders won two bids instead of one. All other winning bidders won only one bid.
Thus, the ratio of number of contractsto bid winners is 28/26=1.08*.This is an unusuallylow
ratio. In fact, a studyof the civil works contractingindustry carried out by the Argentine
Associationof Contractorsin 2006~of overall highwaybids in Argentina showed that the
ratio was 1.45in 2004 and 1.27in 2005. Thus, the ratio of April-May2004 bids would be a
major exception when compared to the overall2004 or 2005 highway bids.

3) Price of Bids Compared to Estimatesby the DNV

As shown in Table C1, the price differencesbetween the DNV estimate and the winningbid
were large. Differencesrange between 67.7 percent and 13.3percent. It is possible that DNV
may not have fullyupdated the changesin prices of key inputs such as asphalt when
preparing the estimates, and that, in some cases, other factorsmay alsohave intervened.
However, it appears unlikely that all those factorscould have accounted for the large
differencesencountered between the bid prices and the DNV estimates.




 US Department of Transportation.FederalHighway Administration, 1983. Suggestions for the Detectionand
Prevention of ContractBid Rigging.
7The Table only shows 27 bids, rather than 28 that actuallytook place, due to conflicts in data when comparing
different data sources, such as the supervisionreport, a government audit report, and the Bank's record in the
Controler's Department.
 Since the bid not considered in the table had a winner that would not repeat, whichever source of data was
used, it is safe to consider all 28 bids in establishing the ratio of total bids to bid contractorswho won bids.
9Camara Argentina de la Construcci611, 2006. Estudio de las Capacidades y Problemas en la Industria de la
Construcci6nde Infiastructuras. Informe Final.

