                                              Document of
                                           The World Bank

                                       FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY




                                                                                    Report No: 36504-AR

                             IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
                                              (SCL-42950)

                                                  ON A

                                                  LOAN

                               IN THE AMOUNT OF US$450 MILLION

                                                 TO THE

                                        ARGENTINE REPUBLIC

                                                 FOR A

          NATIONAL HIGHWAYS REHABILITATION AND MAINTENANCE PROJECT




                                              June 16, 2006




Finance, Private Sector and Infrastructure Department
Argentina, Chile, Paraguay and Uruguay Country Management Unit
Latin America and Caribbean Region

This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of their
official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.

               CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS

                 (Exchange Rate Effective )

                Currency Unit = Argentine Peso
                     AR$3.06 = US$ 1.00
                    US$ 0.327 = AR$ 1.00

                      FISCAL YEAR
                January 1 -    December 31

          ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
ADT   -   Average Daily Traffic
CAF   -  Andean Development Corporation (Corporación Andina de Fomento)
CAI    -  Core Accountability Implementation Completion Report
CAS    -  Country Assistance Strategy
CD     -  Country Director
COSTOP-   Vehicle Operation Cost Programm
COT    -  Construir, Operar, Transferir
CREMA -   Contrato de Recuperación y Mantenimiento (Contract for
          Recuperation and Maintenance)
DNV    -  Dirección Nacional de Vialidad (National Highway Directorate)
DPV    -  Dirección Provincial de Vialidad) (Provincial Highway Directorate)
IERR   -  Internal Economic Rate of Return
ICR    -  Implementation Completion Report
IDB   -  Interamerican Development Bank.
IRI    -  International Roughness Index
MTR    -  Mid-term Review
NBF    -  Not Bank Financed
NPV    -  Net Present Value
PAD    -  Project Appraisal Document
PCD    -  Project Concept Document
SAR    -  Staff Appraisal Report
SISVIAL-  Sistema Vial (Highway System)
SOP    -  Secretaria de Obras Públicas(Secretariat of Public Works)
TL     -  Team Leader
TT     -  Task Team
V.O.C. -  Vehicle Operating Costs

               Vice President:    Pamela Cox
             Country Director     Axel van Trotsenburg
               Sector Director    Makhtar Diop
              Sector Manager      Jose Luis Irigoyen
            Task Team Leader       Juan Gaviria

                                        ARGENTINA
  NATIONAL HIGHWAYS REHABILITATION AND MAINTENANCE PROJECT


                                         CONTENTS




                                                                              Page No.
1. Project Data                                                                    1
2. Principal Performance Ratings                                                   1
3. Assessment of Development Objective and Design, and of Quality at Entry         2
4. Achievement of Objective and Outputs                                            3
5. Major Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcome                              8
6. Sustainability                                                                  9
7. Bank and Borrower Performance                                                 10
8. Lessons Learned                                                               11
9. Partner Comments                                                              13
10. Additional Information                                                       13
Annex 1. Key Performance Indicators/Log Frame Matrix                             14
Annex 2. Project Costs and Financing                                             15
Annex 3. Economic Costs and Benefits                                             17
Annex 4. Bank Inputs                                                             18
Annex 5. Ratings for Achievement of Objectives/Outputs of Components             19
Annex 6. Ratings of Bank and Borrower Performance                                20
Annex 7. List of Supporting Documents                                            21

Project ID: P052590                                                  Project Name: AR NAT HWY REHAB&MAINT
Team Leader: Juan Gaviria                                            TL Unit: LCSFP
ICR Type: Core ICR                                                   Report Date: June 23, 2006


1. Project Data
                   Name: AR NAT HWY REHAB&MAINT                                   L/C/TF Number: SCL-42950
   Country/Department: ARGENTINA                                                          Region: Latin America and the
                                                                                                     Caribbean Region

        Sector/subsector: Roads and highways (97%); Central government administration (3%)
                  Theme: Other financial and private sector development (P); Rural services and infrastructure (P)


  KEY DATES                                                                  Original               Revised/Actual
           PCD: 09/15/1997                                     Effective:                           12/15/1998
     Appraisal: 11/24/1997                                         MTR: 03/20/2000                  12/03/2001
      Approval: 03/17/1998                                      Closing: 12/31/2003                 12/31/2005



    Borrower/Implementing Agency:          REPUBLIC OF ARGENTINA/DIRECCION NACIONAL DE VIALIDAD (DNV)
                      Other Partners:

STAFF                           Current                                        At Appraisal
Vice President:                 Pamela Cox                                     Shahid Javed Burki
Country Director:               Axel van Trotsenburg                           Myrna Alexander
Sector Manager:                 Jose Luis Irigoyen                             Krishna Challa
Team Leader at ICR:             Juan Gaviria                                   M. Mékan
ICR Primary Author:             Sergio Miquel


2. Principal Performance Ratings

(HS=Highly Satisfactory, S=Satisfactory, U=Unsatisfactory, HL=Highly Likely, L=Likely, UN=Unlikely, HUN=Highly Unlikely,
HU=Highly Unsatisfactory, H=High, SU=Substantial, M=Modest, N=Negligible)

                           Outcome:        S
                      Sustainability:      L
   Institutional Development Impact:       M
                 Bank Performance:         S
            Borrower Performance:          S


                                                      QAG (if available)             ICR
                                  Quality at Entry: S
                     Project at Risk at Any Time:

3. Assessment of Development Objective and Design, and of Quality at Entry

3.1 Original Objective:
The overall objective of the project was to preserve the national paved road network, and its specific
objectives were to: 1) stabilize the physical condition of the non-concessioned national road network
arresting further deterioration, and reducing long-run economic costs for rehabilitating and maintaining the
national road network; in order to achieve financial sustainability 2) increase private sector participation in
road rehabilitation and maintenance activities; and 3) adapt the role of the Dirección Nacional de Vialidad
(DNV) and further strengthen its capabilities for planning, contracting and efficient supervision of
rehabilitation, maintenance and concession programs.

These objectives reflected clear and realistic agreements reached between the Borrower and the Bank to
continue the long-running joint efforts to rebuild and upgrade the road infrastructure, enhance public
infrastructure in the provinces, and promote private sector investment in transport. They were broad to
allow flexible adjustment to changing demands, well adjusted to the implementation agency's capacity, and
were in line with the Government's macroeconomic policies supported by the Bank's Country Assistance
Strategy approved in April 1997.

3.2 Revised Objective:
The above objectives remained unchanged during the project execution period.

3.3 Original Components:
The project comprised four components, while the first three consisted of civil works for rehabilitation and
maintenance of the non-concessioned national paved road network (about 21,700 km at time of appraisal),
the fourth component consisted of technical assistance, training and equipment to strengthen DNV's
organizational capacities and to support knowledge based programs. A brief description of these four
components follows.

Phase I CREMA Component.(US$544 million, or 58.6% of total project cost). Financed the further
implemention of a civil works program initiated under the previous Bank Loan for the Road Sector
Maintenance and Rehabilitation Sector Project (Loan 3611-AR) including the execution of a new type of
performance-based road rehabilitation and maintenance contract referred to as CREMA (Contrato de
Recuperación y Mantenimiento). Such contracts are performance based and require the Contractor to
rehabilitate and subsequently maintain a sub-network of roads (generally between 100 and 300 km long) on
a lump sum basis for a total period of five years. This component comprised execution of 61 CREMA
contracts already bid and awarded under Loan 3611-AR, covering a total length of 11,818 km of the non-
concessioned paved road network. The program foresaw the rehabilitation of 4,026 km during the first
year of the project implementation period, as well as routine maintenance of the entire 11,818 km during
the 5-year implementation period.

Phase II CREMA Component.(US$130 million or 14% of total project cost). This component provided
Bank financing for the implementation of a second phase of the CREMA program expanding its coverage
to an additional road length of 2,581 km. It foresaw 16 new CREMA contracts to be procured during the
first year of project implementation, including rehabilitation of 1,459 km during the first two years of
project implementation and routine maintenance of the entire 2,581 km during the 5-year implementation
period.

Rehabilitation and Maintenance of Remaining Network Component.(US$240 million or 25.8% of total
project cost). Financed entirely by local funds, at appraisal it was foreseen to carry out the improvement of



                                                      - 2 -

5,106 km of the remaining non-concessioned paved network (about 7,300 km), including the rehabilitation
of 2,359 km, as well as routine maintenance of the entire 5,106 km. At the time of appraisal DNV planned
to execute independently from the improvement under this Component 3, a series of conservation tasks
following different schemes that included: (a) transfer of operations to the Provincial Road Directorates
(Dirección Provincial de VialidadDPV) under special transfer agreements called Transferencia de
Funciones Operativas(TFO) for about 1,500 km; and (b) short-term quality based km-month contracts,
financed until June 30, 1999, under Loan 3611-AR, for about 3,600 km. The remaining road links,
totaling about 2,200 km, were to be covered under the routine maintenance program by DNV force
account. This heterogeneous mix was to be streamlined, upgraded and strengthened under the project.

Institutional Development Component.(US$15 million or 1.6% of total project cost). This component
comprised three sub-components designed to: (a) assist in the implementation of the project by providing
advisory support to DNV's Project Coordination Unit (PCU) and purchasing state of the art laboratory
equipment (total cost US$6 million); (b) strengthen DNV's capacity, both at national and provincial levels,
through a series of training programs, and support other institutional activities, including the road
concession program (total cost US$4 million); and (c) support various knowledge-based programs (studies
and manuals), including the modernization of the sector library (total cost US$5 million).

The design of these components incorporated the lessons learned in previous projects in Argentina's road
sector, such as the change in contracting modality from unit rate contracts to performance-based
contracting to avoid cost increments through variation orders, as well initiatives to strengthening the
administrative and financial capacity of the implementing agency.

3.4 Revised Components:
To assist the Borrower in arresting its financial difficulties, the Bank agreed, during the project
implementation period, to three changes in the disbursement percentages and to one change in the project
description. The first loan amendment, dated September 23, 1999, increased disbursements for the
CREMA I component from 68% to 83%; the second amendment dated January 14, 2003, created a new
disbursement category to finance 75% of the component for Rehabilitation and Maintenance of the
Remaining Network (financed locally before), and to increase disbursements for the CREMA II component
from 50% to 75%; and the third amendment dated September 23, 2005, reallocated US$13.8 million from
the financing of the Institutional Development component to the CREMA II component.

3.5 Quality at Entry:
The independent Quality at Entry report for CY98 (7/19/99) evaluated this project as satisfactory. The
report stressed its clear links to the Bank's macroeconomic and sector assistance strategy for Argentina
(CAS dated April 1997), the strength of the Borrower's ownership, the adequacy of sector knowledge, and
the well designed technical preparation of the project which follows on from earlier interventions. It stated
that IMF supported conditionality related to budget management delayed the availability of initial
counterpart funds and therefore the effectiveness and initial disbursements, but that otherwise the project
was ready for implementation. However, it commented on the social and stakeholder aspects noting that the
major challenge for supervision would be to ensure the institution building aspects to maintain the
momentum reached during preparation.

4. Achievement of Objective and Outputs

4.1 Outcome/achievement of objective:
The achievement of the above mentioned objectives needs to be assessed considering the combined effect of
severe economic crises and subsequent political turmoil that curtailed project implementation between 1999



                                                      - 3 -

and 2003 (see 5.1 and 5.2).

After recovering from the contagion effects of the Tequila financial crisis of 1994 and 1995, the
Government of Argentina (GoA) was able to significantly increase road sector budgets between 1997 and
1999 (slightly above US$600 million per year), boosting the support for priority road sector investments
and allowing satisfactory implementation of road improvement and maintenance programs in the country.
Under these circumstances, implementation of this project started auspiciously in late 1998 with the
execution of works contracted under the previous loan. However, due to the effects of the Asia crisis, in
1999 the Government was forced to apply emergency constraints on public spending and reduced
significantly the US$632 million annual budget to US$436 million curtailing the development of DNV
programs and producing payment arrears of about US$100 million due to contractors. Although such
arrears were mostly covered by mid 2001, the political instability prevailing in the country, coupled with
the onset of an overwhelming economic crisis, induced new reductions in the DNV budget to a low of about
US$150 million in 2002, producing a chronic slow down of DNV activities, and accumulation of new
arrears in payments to contractors, to about US$80 million. After the significant devaluation of the
Argentine Peso (January 2002) and subsequently the effective macroeconomic management focused on the
generation of fiscal surpluses, the country has seen a rapid recovery with fast and pro-poor growth. Such
improvement in external conditions, coupled with the approval of a Price Escalation Formula acceptable to
Government and the Bank for all civil works under the project (March 2003), contributed to remove
implementation bottlenecks which had affected negatively the implementation of the project. The
improvement of the overall economic situation allowed also the Government to raise DNV's budget back to
approximately US$460 to US$500 million for the years 2004 to 2006.

Against this background, and in order to adequately assess the satisfactory achievement of the objectives
set out for the project it was necessary to document the Key Performance Indicators of the project in
greater detail than that obtained in DNV's periodic reporting. This investigation took into consideration
data availability discussed in 7.2 and 7.6, making it necessary to adjust those indicators to allow a more
accurate assessment.

During the entire project implementation period, particularly through the five difficult years, 1999-2003,
DNV showed a remarkable commitment to the main project objectives of stabilizing the condition of the
non-concessioned national paved road network and increasing the private sector participation in road
rehabilitation and maintenance activities. It concentrated its scarce financial resources on the
implementation of its road rehabilitation and maintenance programs, assigning highest priority to the
CREMA contracts, thus ensuring continuous compliance with the main project objective. Achievement of
this objective can be assessed through the first 3 Key Performance Indicators shown in Annex 1, outcome
indicators: (a) the improvement of the average roughness indicator from the initial 3.70 in 1998 to 3.48 in
2003 (initial closing date) and 3.38 in 2005 (final closing date); (b) the decrease of the percentage of roads
in poor conditions respectively from 8.0% to 5.8% and 4.2%: and (c) a significant and impressive
improvement of the proportion of roads in good condition from 70% respectively to 83% and 85%. These
results are rated as satisfactory.

The Government and road users recognize the CREMA as a successful program, to the extent that this
program has now been adopted by DNV as the core program for asset management of all the
non-concessioned roads in the country, and its expansion is supported by the new National Highway Asset
Management project (Loan 7242 which became effective April 26, 2005). The CREMA approach is now
starting to be adopted in some provinces under provincial road projects which are also supported by The
World Bank.




                                                      - 4 -

Although the project substantially achieved the physical rehabilitation and maintenance targets, DNV was
less successful in maintaining the private sector participation in road rehabilitation and maintenance set out
for the project after the crisis. The reduction in the proportion of works carried out by the private sector
after 2002 reflects the delays in start-up of the CREMA II component during the crisis. The CREMA II
contracts were awarded and started successfully their implementation in 2005 at the end of the extended
project implementation period; these contracts (i.e., CREMA II) along with CREMA contracts financed
under the new Loan 7242 and Government own-financed road contracts will raise the level of private sector
participation above 70% in 2006. During the 2002 crisis there was a trade-off favoring the continued
implementation of the CREMA I contracts that ensured the stabilization of the physical condition of a large
proportion of the network at the expense of delaying the start-up of the CREMA II component. The
CREMA I component started fully, as programmed in 1998. Despite an increase in payment arrears to
contractors during 2002 after the onset of the economic crisis, the progress was rated as satisfactory by an
independent technical audit carried out in October 2002. A long period of economic recession between
1999 and 2001 as well as the budget constraints and normal administrative difficulties associated with the
major crisis affecting the country in 2002 delayed the start up of the CREMA II component, originally
planed for 1999. The CREMA II started modestly in 2001, progressed very little the next 3 years and
reached full implementation only in 2005, the last year of the extended project implementation period. In
addition, the five year period of the CREMA I contracts started to expire in 2002 and, although they were
extended for one year with Bank financing and most of them were further extended with local financing, the
total length of all roads maintained by CREMA contracts under the project decreased substantially in 2005
(Note: The total length of the paved non-concessioned network, went from 21,800 km to 23.852 km in
2005, due to paving of former gravel roads and transfers of some main road sectors from provincial
networks to the national network). Despite the significant efforts, the combined result - illustrated in the
table for output indicators - indicates that the length of the non-concessioned network maintained under
CREMA contracts stayed at around 60 % until 2001, decreased to 57% and stayed at that level for 3 years
and then dropped sharply to 43% in 2005 (Note: The pavement condition surveys between 2000 to 2003
were based on a partial condition survey for 2001 that covered only 8,702 km; after project completion an
updated estimate covering 19,028 km was carried out by DNV and the indicators were revised
accordingly). The indicator registering participation of the private sector in road rehabilitation and
maintenance activities was above 70% until 2002 and then decreased to about 54% in 2005. Although
these achievements stayed below their respective targets of 70% and 90%, they can be considered
satisfactory, because they demonstrate DNV´s proven capabilities in handling performance-based contracts
from the planning stage to execution, despite the extreme macroeconomic challenges faced by the
Government and the implementing agency.

The institutional development objective of this project, to further strengthen DNV's capabilities and to
adapt its role to the changes in the structure of the highway sector in Argentina, was achieved only to a
very limited extend, as analyzed in 4.5 below. Therefore, achievement of the institutional developments
objectives must be rated as unsatisfactory.

4.2 Outputs by components:
a. Civil works components. Compliance with the only performance indicator for civil works established
at negotiations, cumulative kilometers of rehabilitation works actually achieved each year, is assessed
under 1) in the output table of Annex 1. It shows that the rate of compliance with this indicator started at a
quite encouraging level of 115%, decreased gradually to a minimum of 77% in 2003 and significantly
increased to 92% by project completion in 2005. It is interesting to note that these outputs, although they
stayed below the targets agreed at negotiations, are assessed as very positive and significant given the
constraints that affected project implementation. Moreover, these reduced outputs were sufficient to
improve the general condition of the network to a satisfactory level. The Bank's supervision team observed



                                                       - 5 -

towards the end of 2003 (original end of the program) that the CREMA method had yielded values of
roughness substantially below (about 30%) those expected by experience and determined by the HDM
model considering the small thickness of overlays executed (about 3 to 4 cm). This may be a good proof of
the cost-effectiveness of the CREMA system compared to conventional standards of rehabilitation and
maintenance, and deserves to be studied in detail within the efforts to calibrate the HDM model for
conditions in Argentina. Such a study would help to establish a more realistic cost-effect relation between
type and length of road rehabilitation works and achieved improvement of road conditions and subsequent
savings in vehicle operating costs.

Two additional output indicators, annual percentage of the length of the non-concessioned network
maintained by CREMA contracts, and by all contracts with private sector enterprises, were analyzed by
this team for the required assessment of the corresponding outcome indicators. Compliance with these
indicators was already discussed in 4.1 above. The establishment of an adequate relationship between
maintenance efforts and achieved improvement of road conditions should also be included in the above
mentioned study.

b) Institutional development component. Only one output performance indicator for monitoring was
established at negotiations, number of trainees-weeks as percentage of total derived from the Human
Resources Study. A detailed basis for the periodic monitoring of this indicator was not established due to
delays in the implementation of the IDB financed study and the changing positions on concept and design of
the training component assumed by DNV management. Therefore, this indicator was not monitored during
project implementation and was not assessed after project completion. Output of this component is
discussed in 4.5 below.

4.3 Net Present Value/Economic rate of return:
The economic analysis to confirm net present values (NPV) and economic rates of return (IERR)
established at appraisal using the Bank's HDM-III model, was carried out by DNV experts using the same
model and is documented in a March 31, 2006 report. It evaluates a sample of 14 CREMA networks, 10
belonging to the CREMA 1 program and 4 to CREMA 2, and representing different geographic areas. The
14 networks comprise 47 road sections with different types of rehabilitation works and different traffic
densities, totaling 1,138 km. Each road section was subject to a separate economic analysis.

         The two policies compared in the analysis are: (a) without project:standard maintenance policy,
100% crack sealing and patching, and reconstruction when road roughness reaches >8 m/km: and (b) with
project:the rehabilitation/maintenance policy actually carried out in each analyzed network. Currency used
is US$. Expenses in A$ were converted at parity for the years 1990 to 2001, and at the official average
annual rate of exchange (around US$1 = A$3) for the years 2002 to 2005. The analysis period is 20
years, and the discount rate is 12%. Start-up year is the actual year of initiation of works in each sample
network. Vehicle operating costs are those established in DNV's v.o.c. manual COSTOP, November 2005.
Unit costs for works are those officially estimated by DNV. Economic costs are determined to be on
average about 70.7% of financial costs. Traffic growth rate is the same of appraisal, 3% for all types of
vehicles.

         For the 14 sample networks, NPV in US$ million varies from 0.22 to 69.82, with a total NPV of
US$ 210 million. IERR values vary from 13.0% to 129.4%, with an overall average of 57%. All low
NPV and IERR values correspond to networks with extremely low traffic density, while high values
correspond to a mix of networks with middle and high traffic density. Since these values are in the same
order of magnitude as those established at appraisal, it follows that the economic rate of return of the
project remains at a satisfactory level.



                                                     - 6 -

In addition, DNV tabulated the results of the economic analysis to compare NPV and IERR values
rendered by different types of pavement rehabilitation works (Annex 3). Reconstruction and strengthening
of the asphalt concrete pavement on 157 km rendered an NPV of US$ 28.8 million and an IERR of
104.5%; strengthening of asphalt pavement on 850 km rendered respectively NPV of US$ 170.2 million
and an IERR of 55.2%; slurry seals on 154 km, NPV of US$ 10.4 million and IERR of 30%; and surface
treatment on 77 km, NPV of US$ 0.5 million and an IERR of 14%. These are interesting results that can
lead to further investigation of the economic performance of different rehabilitation systems.

4.4 Financial rate of return:
N/A

4.5 Institutional development impact:
The institutional development component of this project was clearly designed to substantially strengthen
and expand the considerable institution building impact achieved under the Road Maintenance and
Rehabilitation Sector Project (Loan 3611-AR). However, this aim could be realized only partially, due to
the effects of the critical negative economic and political developments analyzed in sections 5.1 and 5.2, in
addition to internal problems faced by DNV, which are described in section 5.3. As a result, start up of the
ambitious training program was delayed for several years, and its content greatly reduced. Only fourteen
courses were carried out on a reduced scope of subjects during the seven-year implementation period, with
total participation of about 730 trainees, extremely low figures for a DNV staff of about 3.000. The
originally designed staff exchanges programs with the American and the Spanish Highway Authorities were
never carried out, and participation at international professional meetings was extremely limited, involving
only six international professional conferences or seminars. As a whole, the scope and impact of the
training program actually carried out were far smaller than originally planned and failed to satisfy many of
the extensive needs of DNV personnel.

Of the initially proposed 8 studies, 7 were dropped and only one "Calibration of the HDM III Model for
Argentina" was replaced by two studies on technical aspects of the HDM IV Model and on the adaptation
of Argentina's Road Data Base to its requirements. These two studies were contracted by the end of 2004
directly with the University of Cordoba and were in execution by the project closing date. Award of
another study on Bridge Management, which had been in preparation for some time, received the Bank's no
objection in mid 2001, but the actual award was delayed by two years due to economic crisis. Given the
changes in relative prices and devaluation the proposed award required the application of a price escalation
formula, but after no agreement was reached the bid process was canceled in mid 2003. Finally, the study
was substantially reduced in scope and cots and awarded in May 2005 directly to the University of
Cordoba. In February 2006 the University delivered Stage II of the study, containing: (a) description of the
methodology to prepare bridge inventories, including already prepared inventories of 8 bridges: (b)
proposed methodology for optimization of investments; (c) description of the information network system
(SIGMA) in preparation; and (d) brief description of typical bridge maintenance and rehabilitation works.
This report was reviewed and approved by the last Bank supervision mission in October 2005 and
thereafter. The work to date is thorough, well organized and reveals a satisfactory professional and
practical approach to the subject. DNV needs to complete this study and implement its recommendations
as soon as possible. A fourth study on Environmental Evaluation and Management of Road Works was
awarded to a single bidder and started in August 2005. It is currently being finalized by DNV. The
foreseen procurement of state of the art laboratory equipment was cancelled and replaced by the acquisition
of a computerized system for financial management, which is being applied to the monitoring of Loan
7242-AR.




                                                      - 7 -

The support to the DNV Project Coordination Unit (PCU) was effectively given, and the performance
indicator of transferring responsibilities for preparation and monitoring of the non-concessioned network to
the regional districts was complied before the mid-term review. However, compliance with the other
indicator on adequate training and equipping the regional authorities to assume newly assigned
responsibilities has not been completely achieved; professional capacity and contract preparation and
supervision procedures have not reached a homogeneous level in all districts because of shortcomings in the
training programs and insufficient monitoring by headquarters.

In consideration of all the above, the institutional building impact of this project must be rated as modest.

5. Major Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcome

5.1 Factors outside the control of government or implementing agency:
Implementation and outcome of the project were substantially affected by the unexpected onset of manifold
and prolonged economic and political crises that affected Argentina from 1999 to 2002 described already in
detail in section 4.1.

5.2 Factors generally subject to government control:
In 1999 the provincial and national elections and the subsequent change in administration compounded the
effects of the economic crisis in curtailing the provision of counterpart funds in sufficient amount and
slowing down decision-making across all government agencies. After a short period of relative political
stability, the Government was overthrown in 2001 by popular upheavals motivated by the prevailing and
enhanced critical economic condition of the country. Two following interim governments were also unable
to confront these acute economic and political problems, until the election of a new Government in 2003.
This political unrest is best reflected by the fact that in the 5 year period 1999 to 2003 Argentina had 5
Presidents, 7 DNV General Administrators, and the project, 5 Project Coordinators. In 2001 and 2002,
decision-making was also slowed down by the failed attempts to finance the development of the road and
railway subsectors through fiduciary taxation of gasoil creating a Transport Infrastructure Trust Fund
(Fondo Fiduciario de Gasoil) and its main component, the new Sistema Vial (SISVIAL). Within this
strategic planning the Government agreed with a Bank Project Supervision team to finance with SISVIAL
funds CREMA contracts for 24 additional networks totaling 3,150 km, to be tendered November-December
2001, but the economic crisis put a brutal end to that proposal. Moreover, most ongoing CREMA contracts
expired by mid 2002, inducing an additional slowdown that was overcome by extending them for one year,
subsequently, in most cases, for two years. The new President elected in 2003 succeeded in settling political
unrest and consolidating the strong economic recovery of the country.

5.3 Factors generally subject to implementing agency control:
As already stated in 4.1 above, throughout project implementation, and particularly in the most difficult
five years, DNV showed a remarkable commitment to the main project objectives, which was fundamental
for a satisfactory implementation of the civil works components, despite the severe economic and political
problems described above.

Achievement of the institutional objective, i.e., to further strengthen DNV's capabilities and adapt its role
to the changes in the structure of the highway sector in Argentina, was hampered by the above quoted
external economic and political factors. It was also negatively affected by a consequence of the crisis
which resulted in repeated in changes of DNV administrators which in turn resulted in changes in priorities
and repeated modifications of the proposed programs and studies. Initially, implementation of the training
programs and of several studies included in the project was to be conditioned on the conclusions and
recommendations of a Human Resources Study to be carried out under an ongoing IDB loan. Because of
substantial delays in the implementation of this study, its recommendations became available only late in


                                                       - 8 -

the year 2000. Implementation of the institutional development component of the Bank loan started by mid
2001 with the participation of DNV personnel at a workshop and a course on the HDM4 (respectively in
Chile and in Spain), the preparation of a training program, definition of new studies and activities to
replace the original ones (which had become obsolete or had been overtaken by transfer of responsibilities
for the administration of Road Concessions from DNV to an independent organization), and award of a
Bridge Management Study that had been in preparation for some time. This updated program was
approved by the Bank's Mid-term Review mission of December 2001. However, during 2002 and 2003,
implementation of this component was again curtailed by the economic problems affecting DNV activities
and by the frequent changes in DNV management, except for the execution of five training courses with a
total participation of 260 trainees and participation in an environmental meeting in Panama. Finally, by the
end of 2004, DNV and the Bank agreed to reduce the financing of this component from the original US$15
million to US$1.8 million and transfer the balance to the civil works components.

5.4 Costs and financing:
The actual total project costs did not differ substantially from the total cost estimates despite the severe
economic and political crises which affected the country during most of the implementation period. The
extension of the loan by two years and the Bank's flexibility to amend the Loan allowed to minimize the
impact of insufficient local financing to a mere 7% of project cost. As indicated in section 3.4, the Bank
assisted the Borrower in arresting its financial deficits by increasing substantially the disbursements
percentages (pari passu) for the two CREMA works components, changing the project description to allow
Bank financing of the third works component, earlier financed locally, and reallocating unused loan
proceeds from the Institutional Development component to the CREMA II component. As a consequence,
Bank contribution to project financing increased from 48.4% to 52.3%, and the Government contribution
decreased from 51.6% to 47.7%. Participation of the two CREMA components decreased from 72.6% to
68.4%, while the third component increased from 28.8% to 31.0% and the Institutional Development
component decreased from 1.6% to 0.2%.

6. Sustainability

6.1 Rationale for sustainability rating:
The strong recovery of Argentina´s economy since 2003 and the increasing awareness of the need to
strengthen DNV's institutional framework and streamline its administrative procedures, augur well for the
sustainability of the project's achievements, provided that efforts continue to establish a sound and
permanent system of road financing, and weaknesses in DNV's administration and procedures are
corrected. Moreover it is very encouraging that the Government has adopted the CREMA program as the
core methodology to manage the non-concessioned road assets in the country supported under Loan 7242
and at the provincial level under new projects supported by the Bank.

Given the limited competition that resulted in the more recent bids for CREMA in June 2005, the Bank has
engaged in a dialogue with the country to develop alternative options and additional measures to improve
governance and build-up the capacities of the agencies involved in procurement processes, the ultimate goal
being to improve sustainability and to implement a framework that assists tracking key indicators which
allow to identify factors that may jeopardize the achievement of cost-efficiency in the sector. In this respect,
several actions have been agreed with GoA to increase transparency, encourage competition in the sector
and enhance monitoring, including: (i) closely monitor the evolution of prices in the sector; (ii) carry out
thorough reviews of the technical designs (carry out site measurements on the condition of the roads, revise
the required interventions, etc) to enhance the quality and accuracy of budget estimates; (iii) monitor and
assess the capacity of the construction industry to identify possible issues that may limit competition; (iv)
consider alternative bidding strategies and reformulate the procurement plans to account for constraints in



                                                      - 9 -

the construction industry; (v) modify aspects of the bidding documents which could increase the entry of
new firms to the market and improve competition; and (vi) increase information available to the public with
regards to projects procurement and implementation.

6.2 Transition arrangement to regular operations:
Based on the lessons identified in this project and other projects in the Transport Sector, the Bank has
defined with the Government a significant pipeline of new investment operations some already approved
and other included in the new CAS presenetd to the Board on June 6, 2006. These operations have a
special emphasis on modernizing the transport sector in the country, addressing structural weaknesses and
improving the institutional framework and the governance of the sector. Along these lines, the National
Highway Asset Management Project, financed under Loan 7242-AR (which became effective April 26,
2005), focuses on: (a) establishing a sound system of road financing at national and provincial level, and
(b) strengthening the capabilities of DNV to carry out its functions as a modern road organization, with
particular attention to sector performance and client satisfaction. Thus, the new project will ensure
sustainability of the achievements of prior Bank road sector projects in the last ten years.

7. Bank and Borrower Performance

Bank
7.1 Lending:
Bank performance during the lending process was satisfactory. Its involvement supported effectively the
government's objectives to improve physical conditions of the non-concessioned road network and to
promote private sector operations in transport. Building on the experience gained in previous operations,
the Bank effectively assisted the Borrower in the preparation of all technical and economic aspects of the
new project. The appraisal mission was staffed with diversified skills appropriate to the task. Project
design was simple and consistent with the agency's implementation capacity. The financial package was
adequately arranged, and a satisfactory implementation plan was developed. However, the Key
Performance Indicators established in the PAD were quite complex and partially difficult to monitor, and
were reduced and simplified at negotiations. With the benefit of hindsight, it can be stated that the
appraisal and negotiations teams could not foresee the detrimental effects that two possible risk factors
would have on project implementation: (a) the severe economic and politic crises that affected the country
1999-2003, and (b) the consequent instability in sector management resulting in delays of works execution,
and in repeated modifications and postponements of the institutional strengthening component.

7.2 Supervision:
Bank supervision performance was also satisfactory. Because of the severe economic problems that started
in 1999, the project was supervised more frequently and with longer missions during the critical period
2000-2003, returning afterwards to a normal twice a year level. The progress of project implementation, or
lack of it because of external or internal difficulties during the crisis, was properly reported. This close
contact facilitated prompt and positive reaction of the Bank to repeated requests from the Borrower for
additional financial assistance through increases in disbursement rates and a change in the project
description. Bank performance was crucial for the satisfactory achievement of most project objectives.
Because of the discontinuity for some years of the network condition surveys undertaken by DNV (see 7.6)
some of the indicators recorded in the ISRs were reviewed and adjusted with updated data obtained after
project completion, rendering lower percentages of accomplishment.

7.3 Overall Bank performance:
Considering the above, overall Bank performance is rated satisfactory.

Borrower



                                                      - 10 -

7.4 Preparation:
As a follow up operation on previous Bank projects and due to retroactive financing of civil works
contacted under the Road Maintenance and Rehabilitation Sector Project (Loan 3611-AR), this project was
well prepared at all levels by the Borrower and could start with extensive works execution and substantial
disbursements.

7.5 Government implementation performance:
Government implementation performance was satisfactory. Throughout the implementation this project
was always a high priority of several administrations. Also, the multi-year characteristic inherent to the
CREMA contracts committed fiscal resources in a longer term than the usual 12 month budget cycle
thereby improving the availability of counterpart funds (this was a problem under the previous Road
Maintenance and Rehabilitation Sector project (Loan 3611-AR). Even at times of crisis, the key
rehabilitation and maintenance activities of the country's main road network was ensured. This was
complemented by a satisfactory performance of the implementing agency as detailed below.

7.6 Implementing Agency:
The commendable DNV efforts to ensure satisfactory compliance with the project's objectives and smooth
implementation of the involved programs were thwarted, as analyzed in previous sections, by external
economic and political factors, coupled with repeated changes in DNV management. These factors
weakened in critical periods the project oriented purpose-ness of DNV and PCU administrators and
curtailed, in particular, the satisfactory implementation of the institutional strengthening component. In
addition, they caused an extreme reduction of the scope of the network condition surveys in the years
2000-2003, thus denying project monitoring personnel the possibility of developing some reliable project
performance indicators. This omission could also be the consequence of the detached position that DNV
took throughout the project period on the monitoring of these indicators. No information on compliance
with performance indicators could be found in DNV quarterly reports, or in supervision mission Aid
Memoirs. Therefore, it was necessary to obtain retroactively from DNV reliable information on annual
compliance with these indicators, which had been compiled in DNV's internal files. Finally one must note
that DNV not always followed up satisfactorily all issues raised by the National Audit Office (Auditoria
General de la Nacion)in its annual audit reports. Unfortunately the delay with which these reports are
produced reduces the potential impact they may have on improving project administration.

7.7 Overall Borrower performance:
The Overall Borrower performance was satisfactory.

8. Lessons Learned

1.       Good quality project design, Borrower commitment to the project objectives, sound highway
maintenance policies involving private sector participation, Bank flexibility in revising the Loan
Agreement, and good support during supervision missions from the decentralized Country Management
Unit are of utmost importance to carry through a complex project severely endangered by critical economic
and political problems.

2.       The critical financing problems experienced from 1999 to 2003 by the road sector in general, and
by this project in particular, due to their dependency on annual budgetary allocations subject to sudden
political decisions, show clearly the need to establish an adequate and reliable financing system. A sound
and permanent system of road financing at the national and local level through a combination of direct and
indirect users fees is mandatory to guarantee the consolidation and sustainability of a road infrastructure
adequate to serve the needs of the national community and to support the growth of economic activity.




                                                     - 11 -

3.       Implementation of this project has confirmed the advantages of the CREMA performance based
contract system compared to the traditional unit price (quantity measurement) type of contracting.
         (a) The CREMA system of contracting fosters the contractors' ownership of the works by
transferring the responsibilities for the service quality of the roads from the Road Authority to the
Contractors; thus compelling them to: (i) prepare results-oriented programming of their works and
activities, (ii) exert their own quality control, (iii) implement adequate rehabilitation works the first year to
ensure low maintenance costs over the remaining four years, and (iv) repair promptly any road
deterioration to prevent further extension of the initial damage. This benefit of increased ownership is
further reinforced by the contractors' obligation to comply with the prescribed performance indicators, and
the possibility of being penalized in case of noncompliance. The fact that the average amount of penalties
has stayed at a level of 1% of contract costs demonstrates the effective development of the contractors'
ownership.
         (b) The five year programming inherent to the CREMA system is also highly beneficial for the
public sector. Its fixed price contracting format and the required careful planning of rehabilitation and
maintenance activities over 5 years have effectively reduced the risks of cost overruns. The existence of a
pre-agreed long term working program has reduced delays in project implementation, and, coupled with the
quality control performed by the contractors and the simplicity and effectiveness of the monitoring system
through performance indicators, have substantially reduced the government's cost of supervising the
network. In addition, the legally binding long-term payment obligation assumed by the government towards
the contractors has been extremely helpful to ameliorate the detrimental effect of extended payments
interruptions in the critical years 1999 to 2003.
         (c) Gradual implementation of the CREMA system over the years contributed fundamentally to the
substantial improvement of road conditions experienced from 1997 to 2005 by the non-concessioned
network as reflected in the reduction of the percentage of roads in poor condition from 28% to 4% and the
increase of roads in good conditions from 44% to 85%. These improvements have resulted in substantial
savings in capital investments for network rehabilitation and maintenance and significant reductions of
vehicle operating costs as determined by ex-post financial and economic analysis for the Road Maintenance
and Rehabilitation Sector Project (Loan 3611-AR) and confirmed by economic evaluation of this project
described in 4.3.

4.       The extremely thin overlays used in CREMA road rehabilitation works have rendered unexpected
reductions of roughness values, exceeding those determined by the HDM model. It would be worthwhile to
include a study on this matter in the efforts to calibrate the HDM model for conditions in Argentina. Such
a study would help to establish a more realistic cost-effective relation between type and length of road
rehabilitation works and achieved improvement of road conditions and subsequent savings in vehicle
operating costs.

5.       Successful implementation of a necessary institutional strengthening program requires clear and
binding agreements between the Borrower and the Bank, strong ownership by the Borrower, detailed
programming and consistent execution over the years. The extent to which the implementing agency
internalized the "new thinking" associated to performance-based contracts rather than traditional unit price
contracts is probably on of the key impacts of the project but it is hard to measure.

6.       Clear and consistent definition of key performance indicators at appraisal and negotiations, early
agreement between the executing agency and the Bank supervision team on the adequate form to establish
and report them, and annual reporting of these indicators by the executing agency for their analysis and
discussion with the Bank supervision mission, would greatly contribute to a constant and reliable
monitoring of outcome and output indicators. Encourage every effort to instill political will to reflect and
internalize the results orientation characteristic of the CREMA style contracts into the management units in


                                                         - 12 -

charge of project implementation broadly and specifically into the DNV.

7.       Shortcomings in compliance with the objective of adequate training and equipping regional
authorities to assume assigned responsibilities, mentioned in the last paragraph of 4.5, and individual
problems detected in isolated cases of CREMA contracts, indicate that there is still some room for further
improvements to achieve an optimal CREMA contracting system, such as:
         (a) Strengthening and homogenizing the capacity of regional authorities for the programming,
preparation and supervision of CREMA contracts.
         (b) Improving the quality of road rehabilitation design studies, and updating them before bidding if
meanwhile road conditions have changed substantially due to excessive time elapsed, or occurrence of
natural disasters.
         (c) Simplifying and streamlining of the Bid Data Sheet ("Datos de la Licitación") section of the
bidding documents, which over time have substantially increased and complicated the paper work required
for bid preparation, thus discouraging participation of prospective bidders.
         (d) Continue improving the definition of accurate and relevant performance indicators for
performance-based road sector contracts.
         (e) Given that a CREMA contract involves a period of 5 years during which the contractor has to
render an important service to the affected community and to the national economy, it could be advisable to
require bidders to include their proposed work programs in their bids, the quality of which could be
evaluated as an additional criteria for bid award, thus ensuring enhanced responsiveness from the
bidder/contractor, higher accountability from the future contractor and, consequently, better service
conditions of the roads.

9. Partner Comments

(a) Borrower/implementing agency:
This comments were submitted by the Borrower in a Completion Report dated May 2006.
         In order to evaluate this project objectively, several external factors should be considered
highlighting the very significant crisis of 2001 which produced major institutional and economic changes.
         During 2001-2003 there were numerous changes in Governments which resulted in frequent
changes in DNV and project authorities.
         From an economic point of view, all investments in the country were severely affected by the lack
of counterpart funding. As a result without local counterparts there were significant delays in payments for
works completed and certified.
         The crisis was so severe that the project unit and IBRD were compelled to revise the financing
parameters (lowering the counterpart funding requirements for eligible civil work components), as well as
the inclusion of a new category of road rehabilitation works which were part of the original program but
fully financed by Government which under the post-crisis conditions was not implementable.
         Also, the significant devaluation of 2002, and the ensuing cost increases, had a major impact on the
costs of contracts under implementation which were subject to the application of a cost escalation formula
in order to maintain the continuity of the works financed under the program and the delay of new works
until the conditions were more stable.
         Given these joint efforts, the program was stabilized only in 2004 and 2005, with a total
investment achieved of US$ 857.7 million against US$929 million which is considered as extremely good
by Government considering all the above.
         Regarding the institutional development component, the Government agrees that the achievements
are not those expected, having invested only 6% of the amount foreseen at appraisal.
         From a physical targets point of view, the Borrower coincides in stating that the length of roads
rehabilitated and maintained before the 2001 crisis were highly satisfactory and in accordance to the targets



                                                      - 13 -

of the CREMA I component, while the CREMA II was heavily affected by the crisis and the fact that most
bids in 2001 did not result in contract awards (with only 3 contracts awarded and affected by serious
delays). The remaining part of CREMA II was implemented through 2 contracts awarded in 2003 (year
when the economic recovery really began) and 13 contracts awarded in 2004 which were under full
implementation in 2005. Despite the advances in all of these contracts, all of the rehabilitation works could
not be fully completed before the project closing date but their implementation is fully satisfactory.
        Also among the physical outputs, the Borrower highlights also the maintenance achievements under
Component 3, which started being eligible for financing since 2003 and included km-month contracts and
TFO contracts executed by the affected Provinces. Under these components which are mostly maintenance
the rehabilitation achievements (524 km against the original 2,359 km) is lower given their focus on
maintenance and not on rehabilitation. Nevertheless, the Borrower considers that the physical outputs of
this Component 3 is also satisfactory.
        The above highly satisfactory achievements are due to the work of the Bank, the supervision teams,
DNV and the project unit, all of whom throughout these many years put a lot of effort to sort and solve the
major difficulties affecting project implementation.

(b) Cofinanciers:


(c) Other partners (NGOs/private sector):


10. Additional Information




                                                    - 14 -

Annex 1. Key Performance Indicators/Log Frame Matrix

Outcome/Impact Indicators
                     Indicator                    Projected in PAD     By Original Closing             Actual/Latest
                                                                                  Date                     Estimate
On completion, the average roughness of
non-concessioned paved network will not exceed
an IRI of 3.5,                                           <3.5                      3.48                       3.39
While the portion of roads in poor condition
(IRI>5) will not exceed 6%                               <6%                     5.36%                      4.20%
The proportion of that network in good condition
(IRI<4) will be at least equal to 65%.                   >65%                    82.8%                      84.5%
By completion, the maintenance of at least 70%
of the non-concessioned paved network will be
contracted under the CREMA system.                       >70%                      57%                       43%
By completion, maintenance of at least 90% of
this network will be contracted out.                     >90%                     60%                        54%
The responsibility of preparation and                                  The transfer was carried out before the mid-term
monitoring of the entire non-concessioned                              review. However, because of shortcomings in the

network will be transferred to the regional                            training programs and absence of adequate
                                                                       monitoring by headquarters, professional capacity,
districts by the mid-term review.                                      and contract preparation and supervision
Regional authorities will have been trained and                        procedures have not reached a homogeneous level
equipped to assume newly assigned                                      in all districts.
responsibilities.
                 Item                                                       Year
                                       1998       1999      2000     2001           2002      2003          2004       2005

 1. Rehabilitation Program (km)

  Appraisal Targets     (Cumulative)     4026      5791       6035     6576           7395      7844         7844        7844
  Achieved in CREMA I program (")        4431      5193       5288     5631           5631      5631         5818        5818
  Achieved in CREMA II program (")                                                                             149        775
 Financed by IDB and CAF         (")                                      50             50        50           96        122
 Achieved in other programs      (")      201       201       201        391            391      391           524        524
 Total km. rehabilitated                 4632      5394       5489     6072           6072      6072         6587        7239
 Percentage Achieved                    115%       93%        91%      92%            82%       77%          84%         92%



 Length of non-concessioned paved       21694     21697     21770     21918         21918      21687        21967      23852
 network  (1)

 2. Length of network maintained:
 by CREMA I                             11664     11664     11310     11310         11038      10495         2300         828
 by CREMA II                                                             236            236      577         1094        2287
 by CREMA Loan 7242-AR                                                                                                   3555
 by locally financed CREMAS                                                                      543         8557        3667
 Total by CREMA contracts               11664     11664     11310     11546         11274      11675        11951      10337
 Percentage of network                   60%       60%        59%      61%            57%       57%          56%         43%

 3. Additional by private sector
 by km-month system                      3555      3555       3555     3555           2533       805           429
 By modular system                                                                                           1625        1855
 by C.O.T. system                         609       609       609        609            609      609           609        609
 Total by private sector                15828     15828     15474     15710         14416      13089        14614      12801
 Percentage of network                   73%       73%        71%      72%            68%       60%          67%         54%



(1) The total length of the paved non-concessioned network, which had stayed at around 21,800 km throughout the project
period, experienced a sudden increase to 23.852 km in 2005, due to paving of former gravel roads and transfers of some rmain
road sectors from provincial networks to the national network.




                                                            - 15 -

Annex 2. Project Costs and Financing


 Project Cost by Component (in US$ million equivalent)
     Project Cost by Component               Appraisal            Actual/Latest           Percentage of
                                              Estimate         Estimate (12/31/05)          Appraisal
                                            US$ thousand          US$ thousand
 Phase 1 CREMA                                      544,000                 486,123                  0,89
 Phase 2 CREMA                                      130,000                 105,427                  0,81
 Rehabilitation and Maintenance of                  240,000                 240,000                  1.00
 Remaining Network
  Works of Remaining Network with                     0.000                  26,667
 partial Bank Financing
 Goods                                                1,800                                          0,21
 Consulting Services                                 13,200                   1,175                  0,09
 Total Baseline Cost                                929,000                 859,773                  0,93

          Total Project Cost                        929,000                 859,773                  0,93
      Total Financing Required                      929,000                 859,773                  0,93




 Project Costs by Procurement Arrangements (Appraisal Estimate) (US$ thousand equivalent)
  Expenditure                              Procurement Method*
    Category                                                                                    Total Cost
                           ICB             NCB              Other            N.B.F.   1

 1. Works                674,000                                              240,000            914,000
                        (435,000)                                             (0.00)            (435,000)
 2. Goods                  600              900               300                                 1,800
                          (600)            (900)             (300)                               (1,800)
 3. Services                                               13,200  2                              13,200
                                                           (13,200)                              (13,200)
   Total                 674,000            900             13,500            240,000            929,000
                        (435,600)          (900)           (13,500)           (.0.00)           (450,000)



* Figures in parenthesis are the amounts to be financed by the Bank Loan. All costs include contingencies.
1 The third component for the project will be entirely procured using the counterpart funds. DNV has        indicated
  that it will use the standard Bank procurement guidelines under this category.
2. Inclures the operating costs for the Project Coordination Unit and also refers to training, seminars, subscription
  of magazines and staff exchange programs.




                                                       - 16 -

 Project Costs by Procurement Arrangements (Actual/Latest Estimate) (US$ thousand equivalent)
  Expenditure                           Procurement Method
   Category                                                                                Total Cost
                       ICG              NCB               Other           N.B.F.
 1. Works             591,550          5,533 1           21,1331         240,000            858,216
                     (428,800)         (4,150)           (15,850)         (0.00)           (448,800)
 2. Goods                                                   19                                 19
                                                           (19)                               (19)
 3. Services                                              1,097                              1,097
                                                         (1.097)                             (1,097)
      Total           591,550           5,533             22,249         240,000            859,332
                     (428,800)         (4,150)           (16,966)         (0.00)           (449,916)



1 In the third Loan amendment it was agreed that the Bank would finance part of the civil works for the
remaining network that had been contracted under local procedures.

 Project Financing by Component (in US% thousand equivalent)
 Component          Appraisal Estimate         Actual/Latest Estimate        Percentage of Appraisal
                    Bank         Govt.           Bank           Govt.          Bank            Govt.
 Works               435,000      479,000         447,863        408,992            1,03             0,85
 Goods                1,800              0              19             0            0,01
 Services             13,200             0             832             0            0,06
    Total             450,00      479,000         448,714        408,992            1,00             0,85




                                                     - 17 -

Annex 3. Economic Costs and Benefits

Economic analysis of different types of rehabilitation works.
                         Road Sections                             NPV    IERR
Number Type of treatment applied                      Length (km) US$ M.   %
   6     Reconstruction and asphalt concrete              157      28,8   104,5
         pavement strengthening
  33     Asphalt pavement strengthening                   850     170,2   55,2
   6     Slurry seals                                     154      10,4   30,0
   2     Surface treatment                                77       0,5    14,9




                                               - 18 -

Annex 4. Bank Inputs

(a) Missions:
Stage of Project Cycle                        No. of Persons and Specialty                Performance Rating
                                            (e.g. 2 Economists, 1 FMS, etc.)         Implementation Development
                    Month/Year     Count              Specialty                        Progress       Objective

 Identification/Preparation
               June 1997                       1    EGR
               October 1997                    5    EGR,FinAn,EGR, PROF,EGR

 Appraisal/Negotiation
               June 1998                       1    EGR


 Supervision
               December 1998                   1    EGR                                   S               S
               March 1999                      1    EGR                                   S               S
               November 1999                   1    EGR                                   S               S
               March 2000                      2    EGR, ASS.                             S               S
               June 2000                       1    EGR                                   S               S
               December 2000                   2    EGR,ECN                               S               S
               June 2001                       2    ECN, EGR                              S               S
               December 2001                   2    ECN, EGR                              S               S
               March 2002                      2    ECN, EGR)                             S               S
               June 2002                       3    EGR,FinAn,EGR                         S               S
               December 2002                   5    EGR,ECN,FinAn,EGR,PROCSP              S               S
               June 2003                       4    ECN,EGR,EGR,PROCSP                    S               S
               October 2003                    4    ECN,EGR,EGR,PROCSP                    S               S
               May 2004                        3    ECN,EGR,EGR                           S               S
               February 2005                   3    ECN,EGR,EGR                           S               S

 ICR
               March 2006                      1     EGR

Ass = Assistant;     FinAn = Financial Analyst;   PROCSP = Procurement Specialist.

(b) Staff:

       Stage of Project Cycle                         Actual/Latest Estimate
                                         No. Staff weeks                   US$ ('000)
  Identification/Preparation                     14.3                            107
  Appraisal/Negotiation                           5.7                             43
  Supervision                                    65.4                            467
  ICR                                             5.0                             39
  Total                                          90.4                            656




                                                     - 19 -

Annex 5. Ratings for Achievement of Objectives/Outputs of Components

(H=High, SU=Substantial, M=Modest, N=Negligible, NA=Not Applicable)
                                          Rating
  Macro policies                        H        SU    M       N    NA
  Sector Policies                       H        SU    M       N    NA
  Physical                              H        SU    M       N    NA
  Financial                             H        SU    M       N    NA
  Institutional Development             H        SU    M       N    NA
  Environmental                         H        SU    M       N    NA

Social
           Poverty Reduction            H        SU    M       N    NA
           Gender                       H        SU    M       N    NA
           Other (Please specify)       H        SU    M       N    NA
  Private sector development            H        SU    M       N    NA
  Public sector management              H        SU    M       N    NA
  Other (Please specify)                H        SU    M       N    NA




                                                    - 20 -

Annex 6. Ratings of Bank and Borrower Performance

(HS=Highly Satisfactory, S=Satisfactory, U=Unsatisfactory, HU=Highly Unsatisfactory)


6.1 Bank performance                           Rating

   Lending                                       HS     S     U       HU
   Supervision                                   HS     S     U       HU
   Overall                                       HS     S     U       HU


6.2 Borrower performance                       Rating

   Preparation                                   HS     S     U       HU
   Government implementation performance         HS     S     U       HU
   Implementation agency performance             HS     S     U       HU
   Overall                                       HS     S     U       HU




                                                    - 21 -

Annex 7. List of Supporting Documents

l Informe Final de Cierre, Prestamo 4295. Direccion Nacional de Vialidad. Mayo de 2006.
l Dirección Nacional de Vialidad: Ex-post Economic Evaluations
l  Dirección Nacional de Vialidad: COSTOP (Vehicle Operation Cost Model)
l  Dirección Nacional de Vialidad: Manual de Evaluación y Gestión Ambiental de Obras Viales
l  Dirección Nacional de Vialidad: Quarterly Reports - Informes Trimestrales (2001-2005)
l  Cámara Argentina de la Construcción: Estudio de las capacidades y problemas en la industria de la
  construcción de infraestructura (2005).
l  Implementation Completion Report. Road Maintenance and Rehabilitation Sector Project Loan 3611.
  December 14, 2000
l  Liautaud, Gerard. Maintaining Roads. Viewpoint.
l  Informe de Auditoria Tecnica Contratos Crema. December 31, 1998
l  Audit Reports (2002-2004)
l  Ex-post procurement Reviews (2001,2006)
l  Mid Term Review Report
l  Project Appraisal Document.1998




                                              - 22 -

- 23 -

