Page  1
CONFORMED COPY
LOAN NUMBER 4295-AR
Loan Agreement
(National Highways Rehabilitation and Maintenance Project)
between
ARGENTINE REPUBLIC
and
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION
AND DEVELOPMENT
Dated October 20, 1998
LOAN NUMBER 4295-AR
LOAN AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT, dated October 20, 1998, between ARGENTINE REPUBLIC (the Borrower) and 
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT (the Bank).
WHEREAS the Borrower, having satisfied itself as to the feasibility and priority 
of the Project described in Schedule 2 to this Agreement, has requested the Bank to 
assist in the financing of the Project; and
WHEREAS the Bank has agreed, on the basis, inter alia, of the foregoing, to 
extend the Loan to the Borrower upon the terms and conditions set forth in this 
Agreement;
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
ARTICLE I
General Conditions; Definitions
Section 1.01. The "General Conditions Applicable to Loan and Guarantee 
Agreements for Single Currency Loans" of the Bank, dated May 30, 1995, constitute an 
integral part of this Agreement, except that Section 6.03 of the General Conditions is 
modified to read:  "Section 6.03. Cancellation by the Bank.  If (a) the right of the 
Borrower to make withdrawals from the Loan Account shall have been suspended with 
respect to any amount of the Loan for a continuous period of thirty days, or (b) at 
any time, the Bank determines, after consultation with the Borrower, that an amount of 
the Loan will not be required to finance the Project’s costs to be financed out of the 
proceeds of the Loan, or (c) at any time, the Bank determines, with respect to any 
contract to be financed out of the proceeds of the Loan, that corrupt or fraudulent 
practices were engaged in by representatives of the Borrower or of a beneficiary of 
Page  2
the Loan during the procurement or the execution of such contract, without the 
Borrower having taken timely and appropriate action satisfactory to the Bank to remedy 
the situation, and establishes the amount of expenditures in respect of such contract 
which would otherwise have been eligible for financing out of the proceeds of the 
Loan, or (d) at any time, the Bank determines that the procurement of any contract to 
be financed out of the proceeds of the Loan is inconsistent with the procedures set 
forth or referred to in the Loan Agreement and establishes the amount of expenditures 
in respect of such contract which would otherwise have been eligible for financing out 
of the proceeds of the Loan, or (e) after the Closing Date, an amount of the Loan 
shall remain unwithdrawn from the Loan Account, or (f) the Bank shall have received 
notice from the Guarantor pursuant to Section 6.07 with respect to an amount of the 
Loan, the Bank may, by notice to the Borrower and the Guarantor, terminate the right 
of the Borrower to make withdrawals with respect to such amount.  Upon the giving of 
such notice, such amount of the Loan shall be cancelled.".
Section 1.02. Unless the context otherwise requires, the several terms defined 
in the General Conditions and in the Preamble to this Agreement have the respective 
meanings therein set forth and the following additional terms have the following 
meanings:
(a)
"DNV" means the Borrower’s Dirección Nacional de Vialidad (National 
Highways Directorate, operating under the jurisdiction of the Borrower’s Ministry of 
the Economy, Public Works and Services), established by the Borrower’s Decree-Law No. 
505/58, dated January 16, 1958, as amended;
(b)
"Implementation Letter" means the letter, of even date herewith, entered 
into between the Borrower and the Bank with respect to, inter alia, the monitoring 
indicators for the Project;
(c)
"National Road Network" means those portions of the Argentine paved roads 
network, within the jurisdiction of DNV, which are not managed by the private sector 
through concession arrangements or otherwise;
(d)
"PCU" means DNV’s Project coordinating unit referred to in Section 3.04 
(a) of this Agreement;
(e)
"Phase I CREMA Contract" means a multi-year contract (listed in the 
Implementation Letter), entered into by DNV with a private sector contractor, which 
contract obligates the private sector contractor to undertake all phases of road 
rehabilitation and maintenance work as a single package, from design and programming 
of the works, through the execution of such works, with respect to an identified 
portion of the National Road Network;
(f)
"Phase II CREMA Contract" means a multi-year contract (not listed in the 
Implementation Letter), entered into by DNV with a private sector contractor, which 
contract obligates the private sector contractor to undertake all phases of road 
rehabilitation and maintenance work as a single package, from design and programming 
of the works, through the execution of such works, with respect to an identified 
portion of the National Road Network not covered by a Phase I CREMA Contract or not 
previously rehabilitated and/or maintained pursuant to a Phase I CREMA Contract; and
(g)
"Special Account" means the account referred to in Section 2.02 (b) of 
this Agreement.
ARTICLE II
The Loan
Section 2.01. The Bank agrees to lend to the Borrower, on the terms and 
conditions set forth or referred to in the Loan Agree\1fment, an amount equal to four 
hundred fifty million Dollars ($450,000,000).
Section 2.02. (a) The amount of the Loan may be withdrawn from the Loan Account 
in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1 to this Agreement for expenditures 
made (or, if the Bank shall so agree, to be made) in respect of the reasonable cost of 
goods, works and services required for the Project described in Schedule 2 to this 
Agreement and to be financed out of the proceeds of the Loan.
(b)
The Borrower may, for the purposes of the Project, open and maintain in 
Dollars a special deposit account in Banco de la Nación Argentina on terms and 
conditions satisfactory to the Bank, including appropriate protection against set-off, 
seizure or attachment.  Deposits into, and payments out of, the Special Account shall 
Page  3
be made in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 5 to this Agreement.
Section 2.03. The Closing Date shall be December 31, 2003 or such later date as 
the Bank shall establish.  The Bank shall promptly notify the Borrower of such later 
date.
Section 2.04. The Borrower shall pay to the Bank a commitment charge at the rate 
of three-fourths of one percent (3/4 of 1%) per annum on the principal amount of the 
Loan not withdrawn from time to time.
Section 2.05. (a) The Borrower shall pay interest on the principal amount of the 
Loan withdrawn and outstanding from time to time, at a rate for each Interest Period 
equal to LIBOR Base Rate plus LIBOR Total Spread.
(b)
For the purposes of this Section:
(i)
"Interest Period" means the initial period from and including the 
date of this Agreement to, but excluding, the first Interest 
Payment Date occurring thereafter, and after the initial period, 
each period from and including an Interest Payment Date to, but 
excluding the next following Interest Payment Date.
(ii)
"Interest Payment Date" means any date specified in Section 2.06 
of this Agreement.
(iii)
"LIBOR Base Rate" means, for each Interest Period, the London 
interbank offered rate for six-month deposits in Dollars for value 
the first day of such Interest Period (or, in the case of the 
initial Interest Period, for value the Interest Payment Date 
occurring on or next preceding the first day of such Interest 
Period), as reasonably determined by the Bank and expressed as a 
percentage per annum.
(iv)
"LIBOR Total Spread" means, for each Interest Period:  (A) one 
half of one percent (1/2 of 1%); (B) minus (or plus) the weighted 
average margin, for such Interest Period, below (or above) the 
London interbank offered rates, or other reference rates, for 
six-month deposits, in respect of the Bank’s outstanding 
borrowings or portions thereof allocated by the Bank to fund 
single currency loans or portions thereof made by it that include 
the Loan; as reasonably determined by the Bank and expressed as a 
percentage per annum.
(c)
The Bank shall notify the Borrower of LIBOR Base Rate and LIBOR Total 
Spread for each Interest Period, promptly upon the determination thereof.
(d)
Whenever, in light of changes in market practice affecting the 
determination of the interest rates referred to in this Section 2.05, the Bank 
determines that it is in the interest of its borrowers as a whole and of the Bank to 
apply a basis for determining the interest rates applicable to the Loan other than as 
provided in said Section, the Bank may modify the basis for determining the interest 
rates applicable to the Loan upon not less than six (6) months’ notice to the Borrower 
of the new basis.  The basis shall become effective on the expiry of the notice period 
unless the Borrower notifies the Bank during said period of its objection thereto, in 
which case said modification shall not apply to the Loan.
Section 2.06. Interest and other charges shall be payable May 15 and November 15 
in each year.
Section 2.07. The Borrower shall repay the principal amount of the Loan in 
accordance with the amortization schedule set forth in Schedule 3 to this Agreement.
Section 2.08. The Administrador General (Administrator General) of DNV, or any 
person so authorized in writing to the Bank by said Administrator General, is 
designated as representative of the Borrower for the purposes of taking any action 
required or permitted to be taken under the provisions of Section 2.02 (a) and (b) of 
this Agreement and Article V of the General Conditions.
ARTICLE III
Execution of the Project
Page  4
Section 3.01. (a) The Borrower declares its commitment to the objectives of the 
Project as set forth in Schedule 2 to this Agreement, and, to this end, shall cause 
DNV, pursuant to the provisions of the subsidiary agreement referred to in paragraph 
(c) of this Section, to carry out the Project with due diligence and efficiency and in 
conformity with appropriate administrative, financial, engineering and environmental 
practices, as well as in accordance with the provisions of the Implementation Letter.
(b)
The Borrower shall:  (i) provide or cause to be provided, promptly as 
needed, the funds, facilities, services and other resources required for the Project; 
(ii) take or cause to be taken all measures necessary or appropriate to enable DNV to 
carry out the Project; and (iii) not take or permit to be taken any measures which 
would prevent or interfere with DNV’s carrying out of the Project.
(c)
Without limitation on the provisions of paragraphs (a) and (b) of this 
Section, the Borrower shall enter into a subsidiary agreement with DNV, under terms 
and conditions satisfactory to the Bank, for the purposes of transferring the proceeds 
of the Loan to DNV and obligating DNV to carry out the Project in a manner consistent 
with the terms of this Agreement.  The Borrower shall exercise its rights under said 
subsidiary agreement in such a manner as to protect the interests of the Borrower and 
the Bank and to accomplish the purposes of the Loan, and, except as the Bank may 
otherwise agree, shall not assign, amend, abrogate or waive said subsidiary agreement 
or any provision thereof.
Section 3.02. Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree, procurement of the 
goods, works and services required for the Project and to be financed out of the 
proceeds of the Loan shall be governed by the provisions of Schedule 4 to this 
Agreement.
Section 3.03. For the purposes of Section 9.08 of the General Conditions and 
without limitation thereto, the Borrower shall:
(a)
prepare or cause DNV to prepare, on the basis of guidelines acceptable to 
the Bank, and furnish to the Bank not later than six months after the Closing Date or 
such later date as may be agreed for this purpose between the Borrower and the Bank, a 
plan for the future operation of the Project; and
(b)
afford the Bank a reasonable opportunity to exchange views with the 
Borrower on said plan.
Section 3.04. (a) Throughout the course of Project implementation, the Borrower 
shall:  (i) maintain a Project coordinating unit within DNV; (ii) cause such unit to 
coordinate and monitor Project implementation; and (iii) cause such unit to be staffed 
on a full-time basis with personnel in numbers, and with qualifications and 
experience, satisfactory to the Bank.
(b)
Throughout the course of Project implementation, the Borrower shall: (i) 
maintain an environmental unit within DNV, which unit shall cause any potential 
negative environmental impacts of the Project to be prevented and/or appropriately 
mitigated in accordance with the provisions of DNV’s July 1993 Manual de Evaluación y 
Gestión Ambiental de Obras Viales (Environmental Evaluation and Management Manual for 
Road Works); and (ii) cause such unit to be staffed on a full-time basis with 
personnel in numbers, and with qualifications and experience, satisfactory to the 
Bank.
(c)
The Borrower shall ensure that works carried out under the Project do not 
involve any construction of new roads or any realignment or widening of existing 
roads. 
Section 3.05. Throughout the course of Project implementation, the Borrower 
shall cause DNV to:
(a)
maintain policies and procedures adequate to enable DNV to monitor and 
evaluate on an ongoing basis, in accordance with the monitoring indicators set forth 
in the Implementation Letter, the carrying out of the Project and the achievement of 
the objectives thereof;
(b)
prepare, under terms of reference satisfactory to the Bank, and furnish 
to the Bank, at the conclusion of each trimester after the Effective Date, a report 
integrating the results of the monitoring and evaluation activities performed pursuant 
to paragraph (a) of this Section, on the progress achieved in the carrying out of the 
Project during the trimester preceding the date of said report and setting out the 
measures recommended to ensure the efficient carrying out of the Project and the 
Page  5
achievement of the objectives thereof during the period following such date; and
(c)
without limitation on the provisions of Article IX of the General 
Conditions, review with the Bank, on or about March of the year 2000, the progress 
achieved in implementing the Project, and, thereafter, take all measures required to 
ensure the efficient carrying out of the Project and the achievement of the objectives 
thereof, based on the conclusions and recommendations of said review and the Bank’s 
views on the matter.
Section 3.06. The Borrower shall ensure that DNV does not commence the training 
under Part B.1 of the Project until after a study, not financed with Loan proceeds, 
assesses DNV’s human resources development needs and defines a comprehensive training 
program, satisfactory to the Bank, for DNV.  Said study shall be carried out by 
consultants pursuant to a contract (including terms of reference satisfactory to the 
Bank) to be entered into between said consultants and DNV.  The training under Part 
B.1 of the Project shall be carried out in a manner consistent with the comprehensive 
training program so defined.
Section 3.07. Before entering into a Phase II CREMA Contract under Part A.2 of 
the Project, the Borrower shall cause DNV to furnish to the Bank a report, 
satisfactory to the Bank, showing the economic feasibility of the carrying out of the 
works covered by such Phase II CREMA Contract, including a showing that the economic 
rate of return for such works, calculated in accordance with criteria satisfactory to 
the Bank, is expected to be at least twelve percent.
Section 3.08. Throughout the course of Project implementation, the Borrower 
shall cause DNV to, by no later than each May 31 (beginning on May 31, 1999), prepare 
and publish DNV’s annual report for the immediately prior calendar year.  Each such 
report shall contain a complete description of DNV’s work program, operations and 
financial performance for the calendar year in question. 
ARTICLE IV
Financial Covenants
Section 4.01. (a) The Borrower shall maintain or cause DNV to maintain records 
and separate accounts adequate to reflect in accordance with sound accounting 
practices the operations, resources and expenditures in respect of the Project.
(b)
The Borrower shall cause DNV to:
(i)
have the records and accounts referred to in paragraph (a) of this 
Section, including those for the Special Account, for each fiscal 
year audited, in accordance with appropriate auditing principles 
consistently applied, by independent auditors acceptable to the 
Bank;
(ii)
furnish to the Bank as soon as available, but in any case not 
later than six months after the end of each such year, the report 
of such audit by said auditors, of such scope and in such detail 
as the Bank shall have reasonably requested; and
(iii)
furnish to the Bank such other information concerning said records 
and accounts and the audit thereof as the Bank shall from time to 
time reasonably request.
(c)
For all expenditures with respect to which withdrawals from the Loan 
Account were made on the basis of statements of expenditure, the Borrower shall cause 
DNV to:
(i)
maintain or cause to be maintained, in accordance with paragraph 
(a) of this Section, records and accounts reflecting such 
expenditures;
(ii)
retain or cause to be retained, until at least one year after the 
Bank has received the audit report for the fiscal year in which 
the last withdrawal from the Loan Account or payment out of the 
Special Account was made, all records (contracts, orders, 
invoices, bills, receipts and other documents) evidencing such 
expenditures;
Page  6
(iii)
enable the Bank’s representatives to examine such records; and
(iv)
ensure that such records and accounts are included in the annual 
audit referred to in paragraph (b) of this Section and that the 
report of such audit contains a separate opinion by said auditors 
as to whether the statements of expenditure submitted during such 
fiscal year, together with the procedures and internal controls 
involved in their preparation, can be relied upon to support the 
related withdrawals.
ARTICLE V
Remedies of the Bank
Section 5.01. Pursuant to Section 6.02 (l) of the General Conditions, the 
following additional events are specified:
(a)
The Borrower or DNV shall have failed to perform any of its respective 
obligations under the subsidiary agreement referred to in Section 3.01 (c) of this 
Agreement.
(b)
The Borrower or any authority having jurisdiction shall have taken any 
action for the dissolution or disestablishment of DNV or for the suspension of its 
operations.
Section 5.02. Pursuant to Section 7.01 (h) of the General Conditions, the 
following additional events are specified:
(a)
The event specified in paragraph (b) of Section 5.01 of this Agreement 
shall occur.
(b)
The event specified in paragraph (a) of Section 5.01 of this Agreement 
shall occur and shall continue for a period of sixty days after notice thereof shall 
have been given by the Bank to the Borrower.
ARTICLE VI
Effective Date; Termination
Section 6.01. The following event is specified as an additional condition to the 
effectiveness of the Loan Agreement within the meaning of Section 12.01 (c) of the 
General Conditions, namely, that the subsidiary agreement referred to in Section 3.01 
(c) of this Agreement has been entered into.
Section 6.02. The following is specified as an additional matter, within the 
meaning of Section 12.02 (c) of the General Conditions, to be included in the opinion 
or opinions to be furnished to the Bank, namely, that the subsidiary agreement 
referred to in Section 3.01 (c) of this Agreement has been duly authorized or ratified 
by the Borrower and DNV and is legally binding upon the Borrower and DNV in accordance 
with its terms.
Section 6.03. The date January 20, 1999 is hereby specified for the purposes of 
Section 12.04 of the General Conditions.
ARTICLE VII
Representative of the Borrower; Addresses
Section 7.01. Except as provided in Section 2.08 of this Agreement, the Minister 
of Economy and Public Works and Services of the Borrower is designated as 
representative of the Borrower for the purposes of Section 11.03 of the General 
Conditions.
Section 7.02. The following addresses are specified for the purposes of Section 
11.01 of the General Conditions:
For the Borrower:
Ministerio de Economía y Obras y Servicios Públicos
Hipólito Yrigoyen 250
1086 Buenos Aires
Argentina
Page  7
Cable address:
Telex:
MINISTERIO ECONOMIA
121942-AR
Baires
For the Bank:
International Bank for
  Reconstruction and Development
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Cable address:
Telex:
Washington, D.C.
248423 (MCI), or
 64145 (MCI) 
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their duly authorized 
representatives, have caused this Agreement to be signed in their respective names in 
Buenos Aires, Argentina, as of the day and year first above written.
ARGENTINE REPUBLIC
By /s/ Roque Fernández
Authorized Representative
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR
  RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
By /s/ Shahid Javed Burki
Regional Vice President 
Latin America and the Caribbean
SCHEDULE 1
Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the Loan
1.
The table below sets forth the Categories of items to be financed out of the 
proceeds of the Loan, the allocation of the amounts of the Loan to each Category and 
the percentage of expenditures for items so to be financed in each Category:
Amount of the
Loan Allocated
  % of
(Expressed in 
Expenditures
Category
   Dollars)
to be Financed
(1)
Works for Part A.1
370,000,000
68%
of the Project
(2)
Works for Part A.2
 65,000,000
50%
of the Project
(3)
Goods for Part B
  1,800,000
100% of
of the Project
foreign
expenditures;
82% of local
expenditures
(4)
Consultant services
 13,200,000
100%
(including for the
provision of training)
for Part B of the
Project
Page  8
TOTAL          
450,000,000
2.
For the purposes of this Schedule:
(a)
the term "foreign expenditures" means expenditures in the currency of any 
country other than that of the Borrower for goods or services supplied from the 
territory of any country other than that of the Borrower; and
(b)
the term "local expenditures" means expenditures in the currency of the 
Borrower or for goods or services supplied from the territory of the Borrower.
3.
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 above, no withdrawals shall be 
made in respect of payments made for expenditures:
(a)
prior to the date of this Agreement, except that withdrawals under 
Category (1) in the table in paragraph 1 of this Schedule, in an aggregate amount not 
exceeding the equivalent of $45,000,000, may be made on account of payments made for 
expenditures incurred within the twelve months prior to the date of this Agreement but 
after December 15, 1997; and
(b)
under Categories (3) and (4) in the table in paragraph 1 of this 
Schedule, unless DNV has entered into a contract, satisfactory to the Bank, with 
consultants for the carrying out of the study referred to in Section 3.06 of this 
Agreement.
4.
The Bank may require withdrawals from the Loan Account to be made on the basis 
of statements of expenditure for expenditures under contracts costing less than 
$350,000 equivalent (in the case of goods) and less than $100,000 equivalent (in the 
case of consulting firms and individual consultants), all under such terms and 
conditions as the Bank shall specify by notice to the Borrower.
SCHEDULE 2
Description of the Project
The objective of the Project is to preserve the National Road Network by:  (a) 
rehabilitating and maintaining the National Road Network; (b) increasing private 
sector participation in said rehabilitation and maintenance; and (c) strengthening the 
capacity of DNV to plan and contract for, and efficiently supervise, road 
rehabilitation, maintenance and concession activities.
The Project consists of the following parts, subject to such modifications 
thereof as the Borrower and the Bank may agree upon from time to time to achieve such 
objectives:
Part A:
National Road Network Rehabilitation and Maintenance
1.
Carrying out, under the terms of Phase I CREMA Contracts, of rehabilitation 
works (such as base reconstruction, resurfacing, or asphalt concrete overlaying) 
and/or maintenance works for approximately 12,000 kilometers of the National Road 
Network.
2.
Carrying out, under the terms of Phase II CREMA Contracts, of rehabilitation 
works (such as base reconstruction, resurfacing, or asphalt concrete overlaying) 
and/or maintenance works for approximately 2,600 kilometers of the National Road 
Network.
3.
Carrying out of rehabilitation works (such as base reconstruction, resurfacing, 
or asphalt concrete overlaying) and/or maintenance works for approximately 5,100 
kilometers of the National Road Network that are not covered by Phase I CREMA 
Contracts or Phase II CREMA Contracts. 
Part B:
Institutional Strengthening
Institutional strengthening of DNV through:  (1) the provision of road network 
management training to DNV staff at central and regional levels; (2) the provision of 
staff and other institutional support to the PCU to enhance PCU efficiency; (3) the 
provision of technical assistance to DNV to facilitate the decentralization to 
regional levels of its activities, to build its capacity to administer road 
concessions, to build its capacity to plan, budget, contract and supervise works and 
to carry out detailed engineering studies required for Part A.3 of the Project; (4) 
Page  9
the provision to DNV of road survey and laboratory equipment; (5) the improvement of 
DNV knowledge-based programs by, inter alia, preparing or updating technical, 
procedural and policy manuals, carrying out knowledge management and technical studies 
and modernizing its sector library; and (6) the adjustment of a highway design and 
maintenance standards model to assist in infrastructure planning for the roads sector.
* * *
The Project is expected to be completed by June 30, 2003.
SCHEDULE 3
Amortization Schedule
Payment of Principal 
Date Payment Due
(expressed in Dollars)*
On each May 15 and November 15
beginning November 15, 2003
through May 15, 2013
22,500,000
___________________
*
The figures in this column represent the amount in Dollars to be repaid, 
except as provided in Section 4.04 (d) of the General Conditions.
SCHEDULE 4
Procurement and Consultants’ Services
Section I.
Procurement of Goods and Works
Part A:
General
Goods and works shall be procured in accordance with the provisions of Section I 
of the "Guidelines for Procurement under IBRD Loans and IDA Credits" published by the 
Bank in January 1995 and revised in January and August 1996 and in September 1997 (the 
Guidelines) and the following provisions of this Section, as applicable.
Part B:
International Competitive Bidding
1.
Except as otherwise provided in Part C of this Section, goods and works shall be 
procured under contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions of Section II of 
the Guidelines and paragraph 5 of Appendix 1 thereto.
Page  10
2.
The following provisions shall apply to goods and works to be procured under 
contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions of paragraph 1 of this Part B:
(a)
Notification and advertising
The invitation to prequalify or bid for each contract estimated to cost 
$10,000,000 equivalent or more shall be advertised in accordance with the procedures 
applicable to large contracts under paragraph 2.8 of the Guidelines.
(b)
Grouping of contracts
To the extent practicable, contracts for goods shall be grouped in bid packages 
estimated to cost $350,000 equivalent or more each.
(c)
Preference for domestically manufactured goods
The provisions of paragraphs 2.54 and 2.55 of the Guidelines and Appendix 2 
thereto shall apply to goods manufactured in the territory of the Borrower.
Part C:
Other Procurement Procedures
1.
National Competitive Bidding
Goods estimated to cost less than $350,000 equivalent per contract or per bid 
package, up to an aggregate amount not to exceed $900,000 equivalent, may be procured 
under contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions of paragraphs 3.3 and 3.4 of 
the Guidelines.  In the procurement of goods in accordance with this Part C.1 (a), 
standard bidding documents acceptable to the Bank shall be used.
2.
National Shopping
Goods estimated to cost less than $100,000 equivalent per contract or per bid 
package, up to an aggregate amount not to exceed $300,000 equivalent, may be procured 
under contracts awarded on the basis of national shopping procedures in accordance 
with the provisions of paragraphs 3.5 and 3.6 of the Guidelines.
Part D:
Review by the Bank of Procurement Decisions
1.
Procurement Planning
Prior to the issuance of any invitations to bid for contracts, the proposed 
procurement plan for the Project shall be furnished to the Bank for its review and 
approval, in accordance with the provisions of paragraph 1 of Appendix 1 to the 
Guidelines.  Procurement of all goods and works shall be undertaken in accordance with 
such procurement plan as shall have been approved by the Bank, and with the provisions 
of said paragraph 1.
2.
Prior Review
(a)
The procedures set forth in paragraphs 2 and 3 of Appendix 1 to the 
Guidelines shall apply with respect to:  (i) each contract procured under Part B of 
this Section; and (ii) the first two contracts or bid packages for goods procured 
under Part C.1 of this Section.
(b)
With respect to each contract procured under Part C.2 of this Section, 
the following procedures shall apply:
(i)
prior to the selection of any supplier, the Borrower shall provide 
to the Bank a report on the comparison and evaluation of 
quotations received;
(ii)
prior to the execution of any such contract, the Borrower shall 
provide to the Bank a copy of the specifications and the draft 
contract; and
(iii)
the procedures set forth in paragraphs 2 (f), 2 (g) and 3 of 
Appendix 1 to the Guidelines shall apply.
3.
Post Review
With respect to each contract not governed by paragraph 2 of this Part, the 
procedures set forth in paragraph 4 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines shall apply.
Page  11
Section II.
Employment of Consultants
Part A:
General
Consultants’ services shall be procured in accordance with the provisions of the 
Introduction and Section IV of the "Guidelines:  Selection and Employment of 
Consultants by World Bank Borrowers" published by the Bank in January 1997 and revised 
in September 1997 (the Consultant Guidelines) and the following provisions of Section 
II of this Schedule.
Part B:
Quality- and Cost-based Selection
Except as otherwise provided in Part C of this Section, consultants’ services 
shall be procured under contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions of Section 
II of the Consultant Guidelines, paragraph 3 of Appendix 1 thereto, Appendix 2 
thereto, and the provisions of paragraphs 3.13 through 3.18 thereof applicable to 
quality- and cost-based selection of consultants.
Part C:
Other Procedures for the Selection of Consultants
1.
Services for the adjustment of a highway design and maintenance standards model, 
required under Part B.6 of the Project, shall be procured under contracts awarded in 
accordance with the provisions of paragraphs 3.1 and 3.5 of the Consultant Guidelines.
2.
Services for tasks that meet the requirements set forth in paragraph 5.1 of the 
Consultant Guidelines shall be procured under contracts awarded to individual 
consultants in accordance with the provisions of paragraphs 5.1 through 5.3 of the 
Consultant Guidelines.
Part D:
Review by the Bank of the Selection of Consultants
1.
Selection Planning
Prior to the issuance to consultants of any requests for proposals, the proposed 
plan for the selection of consultants under the Project shall be furnished to the Bank 
for its review and approval, in accordance with the provisions of paragraph 1 of 
Appendix 1 to the Consultant Guidelines.  Selection of all consultants’ services shall 
be undertaken in accordance with such selection plan as shall have been approved by 
the Bank, and with the provisions of said paragraph 1.
2.
Prior Review
(a)
With respect to each contract for the employment of consulting firms 
estimated to cost the equivalent of $200,000 or more, the procedures set forth in 
paragraphs 1, 2 (other than the third subparagraph of paragraph 2 (a)) and 5 of 
Appendix 1 to the Consultant Guidelines shall apply.
(b)
With respect to each contract for the employment of consulting firms 
estimated to cost the equivalent of $100,000 or more, but less than the equivalent of 
$200,000, the procedures set forth in paragraphs 1, 2 (other than the second 
subparagraph of paragraph 2 (a)) and 5 of Appendix 1 to the Consultant Guidelines 
shall apply.
(c)
With respect to each contract for the employment of individual 
consultants estimated to cost the equivalent of $100,000 or more, the qualifications, 
experience, terms of reference and terms of employment of the consultants shall be 
furnished to the Bank for its prior review and approval.  The contract shall be 
awarded only after the said approval shall have been given.
(d)
To award contracts below the $100,000 thresholds set forth in paragraphs 
2 (b) and (c) of this Part, prior review and approval by the Bank of terms of 
reference shall be required.
3.
Post Review
With respect to each contract not governed by paragraphs 2 (a), (b) or (c) of 
this Part, the procedures set forth in paragraph 4 of Appendix 1 to the Consultant 
Guidelines shall apply.
SCHEDULE 5
Page  12
Special Account
1.
For the purposes of this Schedule:
(a)
the term "eligible Categories" means Categories (1) through (4) set forth 
in the table in paragraph 1 of Schedule 1 to this Agreement;
(b)
the term "eligible expenditures" means expenditures in respect of the 
reasonable cost of goods and services required for the Project and to be financed out 
of the proceeds of the Loan allocated from time to time to the eligible Categories in 
accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1 to this Agreement; and
(c)
the term "Authorized Allocation" means an amount equivalent to 
$27,000,000 to be withdrawn from the Loan Account and deposited into the Special 
Account pursuant to paragraph 3 (a) of this Schedule.
2.
Payments out of the Special Account shall be made exclusively for eligible 
expenditures in accordance with the provisions of this Schedule.
3.
After the Bank has received evidence satisfactory to it that the Special Account 
has been duly opened, withdrawals of the Authorized Allocation and subsequent 
withdrawals to replenish the Special Account shall be made as follows:
(a)
For withdrawals of the Authorized Allocation, the Borrower shall furnish 
to the Bank a request or requests for deposit into the Special Account of an amount or 
amounts which do not exceed the aggregate amount of the Authorized Allocation.  On the 
basis of such request or requests, the Bank shall, on behalf of the Borrower, withdraw 
from the Loan Account and deposit into the Special Account such amount or amounts as 
the Borrower shall have requested.
(b)
(i)
For replenishment of the Special Account, the Borrower shall 
furnish to the Bank requests for deposits into the Special Account 
at such intervals as the Bank shall specify.
(ii)
Prior to or at the time of each such request, the Borrower shall 
furnish to the Bank the documents and other evidence required 
pursuant to para\1fgraph 4 of this Schedule for the payment or 
payments in respect of which replenishment is requested.  On the 
basis of each such request, the Bank shall, on behalf of the 
Borrower, withdraw from the Loan Account and deposit into the 
Special Account such amount as the Borrower shall have requested 
and as shall have been shown by said documents and other evidence 
to have been paid out of the Special Account for eligible 
expenditures.  All such deposits shall be withdrawn by the Bank 
from the Loan Account under the respective eligible Categories, 
and in the respective equivalent amounts, as shall have been 
justified by said documents and other evidence.
4.
For each payment made by the Borrower out of the Special Account, the Borrower 
shall, at such time as the Bank shall reasonably request, furnish to the Bank such 
documents and other evidence showing that such payment was made exclusively for 
eligible expenditures.
5.
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 3 of this Schedule, the Bank shall 
not be required to make further deposits into the Special Account:
(a)
if, at any time, the Bank shall have determined that all further 
withdrawals should be made by the Borrower directly from the Loan Account in 
accordance with the provisions of Article V of the General Conditions and paragraph 
(a) of Section 2.02 of this Agreement;
(b)
if the Borrower shall have failed to furnish to the Bank, within the 
period of time specified in Section 4.01 (b) (ii) of this Agreement, any of the audit 
reports required to be furnished to the Bank pursuant to said Section in respect of 
the audit of the records and accounts for the Special Accounts;
(c)
if, at any time, the Bank shall have notified the Borrower of its 
intention to suspend in whole or in part the right of the Borrower to make withdrawals 
from the Loan Account pursuant to the provisions of Section 6.02 of the General 
Conditions; or
(d)
once the total unwithdrawn amount of the Loan allocated to the eligible 
Page  13
Categories, minus the total amount of all outstanding special commitments entered into 
by the Bank pursuant to Section 5.02 of the General Conditions with respect to the 
Project, shall equal the equivalent of twice the amount of the Authorized Allocation.
Thereafter, withdrawal from the Loan Account of the remaining unwithdrawn amount of 
the Loan allocated to the eligible Categories shall follow such procedures as the Bank 
shall specify by notice to the Borrower.  Such further withdrawals shall be made only 
after and to the extent that the Bank shall have been satisfied that all such amounts 
remaining on deposit in the Special Account as of the date of such notice will be 
utilized in making payments for eligible expenditures.
6.
(a)
If the Bank shall have determined at any time that any payment out of the 
Special Account:  (i) was made for an expenditure or in an amount not eligible 
pursuant to paragraph 2 of this Schedule; or (ii) was not justified by the evidence 
furnished to the Bank, the Borrower shall, promptly upon notice from the Bank:  (A) 
provide such additional evidence as the Bank may request; or (B) deposit into the 
Special Account (or, if the Bank shall so request, refund to the Bank) an amount equal 
to the amount of such payment or the portion thereof not so eligible or justified.  
Unless the Bank shall otherwise agree, no further deposit by the Bank into the Special 
Account shall be made until the Borrower has provided such evidence or made such 
deposit or refund, as the case may be.
(b)
If the Bank shall have determined at any time that any amount outstanding 
in the Special Account will not be required to cover further payments for eligible 
expenditures, the Borrower shall, promptly upon notice from the Bank, refund to the 
Bank such outstanding amount.
(c)
The Borrower may, upon notice to the Bank, refund to the Bank all or any 
portion of the funds on deposit in the Special Account.
(d)
Refunds to the Bank made pursuant to paragraphs 6 (a), (b) and (c) of 
this Schedule shall be credited to the Loan Account for subsequent withdrawal or for 
cancellation in accordance with the relevant provisions of this Agreement, including 
the General Conditions.
