Page  1
INTEGRATED SAFEGUARDS DATASHEET 
RESTRUCTURING STAGE 
 
I.  Basic Information
 
Date prepared/updated:  07/12/2010 
Report No.:  AC5586
1. Basic Project Data  
 
Country:  Sudan 
Project ID:  P101388 
Project Name:  South Kordofan State Emergency Project 
Task Team Leader:  Abderrahim Fraiji 
Estimated Appraisal Date:  
Estimated Board Date: June 25, 2007 
Managing Unit:  AFTCS 
Lending Instrument:  Emergency Recovery 
Loan 
Sector:  General agriculture, fishing and forestry sector (35%);Animal production 
(35%);Crops (30%) 
Theme:  Other rural development (34%);Other social development (33%);Gender (33%) 
SPF Amount (US$m): 
0.00 
GEF Amount (US$m.): 
0.00 
PCF Amount (US$m.): 
0.00 
Other financing amounts by source:  
 Borrower 
6.86 
 
Multi-donor Trust Fund for North Sudan 
7.88
14.74 
Environmental Category: C - Not Required 
Simplified Processing 
Simple [] 
Repeater [] 
Is this project processed under OP 8.50 (Emergency Recovery) 
or OP 8.00 (Rapid Response to Crises and Emergencies) 
Yes [ ] 
No [ ] 
2. Project Objectives 
To contribute to the supply of basic services and facilities to the respective conflict-
affected populations; and to capacity building of the state government to enable it to more 
effectively execute its mandate, especially at the local (decentralized) level.   
 
3. Project Description 
Additional funding is being requested to allow the project to meet a financing gap in 
support of rural roads and capacity building. This will involve:  
 
(i) 
the construction/rehabilitation of the Kadugli-Kaylek road in the amount of 
US$11.6 million;  
 
(ii) 
consultancy services: design and supervision; TA to strengthen the capacity of the 
Roads Unit of the Physical Planning Department for conducting ESIAs and monitoring 
and evaluation of the project, in the amount of US$1.85 million; and  
 
(iii) 
project coordination, equipping the Road Unit and operational costs and study 
tours as part of training in the amount of US$0.465 million.   
 
Page  2
4. Project Location and salient physical characteristics relevant to the safeguard 
analysis 
The project will focus entirely on South Kordofan State, one of Sudan#s Three Areas 
most affected by the North-South conflict. The road to be constructed is between Keylak 
and Kadugli.   
 
5. Environmental and Social Safeguards Specialists 
Ms Yasmin Tayyab (AFTCS) 
Mr Abdelmonem Osman Kardash (AFTEN) 
 
6. Safeguard Policies Triggered
 
Yes No 
Environmental Assessment (OP/BP 4.01) 
X
Natural Habitats (OP/BP 4.04) 
 X 
Forests (OP/BP 4.36) 
 X 
Pest Management (OP 4.09) 
 X 
Physical Cultural Resources (OP/BP 4.11) 
 X 
Indigenous Peoples (OP/BP 4.10) 
 X 
Involuntary Resettlement (OP/BP 4.12) 
X
Safety of Dams (OP/BP 4.37) 
 X 
Projects on International Waterways (OP/BP
 
7.50) 
 X 
Projects in Disputed Areas (OP/BP 7.60) 
 X 
II.  Key Safeguard Policy Issues and Their Management 
A. Summary of Key Safeguard Issues 
1. Describe any safeguard issues and impacts associated with the proposed project. 
Identify and describe any potential large scale, significant and/or irreversible impacts: 
The project will rehabilitate approximately 50 km of the existing road, (sub base and 
gravel surface) and the project will most likely support the construction of small bridges 
and culverts to control drainage and flooding. Despite the positive economic and social 
benefits of rural infrastructure and its vital role in supporting economic development, 
road rehabilitation may also have significant negative impacts on the environment and 
may temporarily or permanently displace some households and businesses living along 
road alignment.  Road-works could lead to clearance of vegetation on the right of way, 
may disrupt drainage pattern leading to flooding, disruption of traditional livelihood, such 
as the impact on the traditional stock routes for the livestock and increase noise and air 
pollution. However, these impacts are likely to be minimal, local in extent and readily 
assessed, mitigated and managed.  The project will trigger OP/BP 4.01 and OP 4.12, and 
accordingly will require a rapid environmental and social impact assessment (ESIA). 
 
The project is most likely to trigger the Involuntary Resettlement (OP/BP 4.12) policy. 
In the absence of enforcement of keeping the Right of Way clear of encroachers by South 
Kordofan Physical Planning and Public Works (SKPPPW) there is bound to be 
businesses, services and/or houses within the Right of Way (RoW) for most of the 
proposed road being constructed under the project. It is also likely that the road will cut 
through the traditional animal routes. SKPPPW will be required to undertake a rapid 
Page  3
survey to determine the project affected people (PAPs;  number of people, businesses, 
farmland and other assets)  directly affected by pre and post construction activities. In 
case of identification of PAPs, a Resettlement Action Plan (RAP) and mitigation measure 
for the animal routes will be prepared within the first two months of project effectiveness 
and implemented before any construction work can take place.  Also, in cases where the 
road cuts through the traditional animal routes, an  Environmental Management Plan 
(EMP) should be prepared to include the proposed work programs, budget estimates, 
schedules, staffing and training requirements and other necessary support services to 
implement the mitigation measures. 
 
The project proposed ESIA will be guided by the existing Environment and Social 
Management Framework (ESMF) and the Resettlement Policy Framework (RPF) 
developed for the transport sector and endorsed by the Higher Council for the 
Environment & Natural resources.   
 
2. Describe any potential indirect and/or long term impacts due to anticipated future 
activities in the project area: 
There are no indirect or long term adverse impacts anticipated due to future activities in 
the project area.   
 
3. Describe any project alternatives (if relevant) considered to help avoid or minimize 
adverse impacts. 
Not relevant   
 
4. Describe measures taken by the borrower to address safeguard policy issues. Provide 
an assessment of borrower capacity to plan and implement the measures described. 
The borrower#s capacity for implementation of safeguard policies is very limited. To 
address this shortcoming, a Project Coordination Unit (PCU) has been established. 
Qualified staff, familiar with Bank policies and procedures, has been recruited. The PCU 
will be responsible for overall supervision of the project, including implementation of the 
environmental and social screening and planning procedures.  
 
At the national level the Ministry of Transport, Roads and Bridges (MTRB) has an 
Environment and Social Management Unit (ESMU) responsible for managing the 
environmental and social issues of transport projects. Mobilization of TA to strengthen 
the capacity of the ESMU is in progress. MTRB will be responsible for conducting and 
implementing the ESIA, EMP and RAP (if required).   
 
5. Identify the key stakeholders and describe the mechanisms for consultation and 
disclosure on safeguard policies, with an emphasis on potentially affected people. 
The Government of National Unity of Sudan will be the recipient of the grant. The State 
Ministry of Finance and Economy of South Kordofan State will be responsible for the 
overall coordination of the project. The PCU will be responsible for overall management, 
including ensuring compliance with World Bank safeguard requirements.   
 
Page  4
B. Disclosure Requirements Date
 
Environmental Assessment/Audit/Management Plan/Other: 
Was the document disclosed 
prior to appraisal?
 No 
 
Date of receipt by the Bank 
11/18/2010 
 
Date of "in-country" disclosure 
11/18/2010 
 
Date of submission to InfoShop 
11/18/2010 
 
For category A projects, date of distributing the Executive 
Summary of the EA to the Executive Directors 
 
Resettlement Action Plan/Framework/Policy Process: 
Was the document disclosed 
prior to appraisal?
 No 
 
Date of receipt by the Bank 
11/18/2010 
 
Date of "in-country" disclosure 
11/18/2010 
 
Date of submission to InfoShop 
11/18/2010 
 
Indigenous Peoples Plan/Planning Framework: 
Was the document disclosed 
prior to appraisal?
 
Date of receipt by the Bank 
 
 
Date of "in-country" disclosure 
 
 
Date of submission to InfoShop 
 
 
Pest Management Plan: 
Was the document disclosed 
prior to appraisal?
 
Date of receipt by the Bank 
 
 
Date of "in-country" disclosure 
 
 
Date of submission to InfoShop 
 
 
*
If the project triggers the Pest Management and/or Physical Cultural Resources, 
the respective issues are to be addressed and disclosed as part of the Environmental 
Assessment/Audit/or EMP. 
If in-country disclosure of any of the above documents is not expected, please 
explain why: 
C. Compliance Monitoring Indicators at the Corporate Level (to be filled in when the 
ISDS is finalized by the project decision meeting) 
 
OP/BP/GP 4.01 - Environment Assessment 
 
Does the project require a stand-alone EA (including EMP) report? 
Yes 
If yes, then did the Regional Environment Unit or Sector Manager (SM) 
review and approve the EA report? 
No 
Are the cost and the accountabilities for the EMP incorporated in the 
credit/loan? 
Yes 
OP/BP 4.12 - Involuntary Resettlement 
 
Has a resettlement plan/abbreviated plan/policy framework/process 
framework (as appropriate) been prepared? 
Yes 
If yes, then did the Regional unit responsible for safeguards or Sector 
Manager review the plan? 
N/A 
Page  5
The World Bank Policy on Disclosure of Information 
 
Have relevant safeguard policies documents been sent to the World Bank's 
Infoshop? 
No 
Have relevant documents been disclosed in-country in a public place in a 
form and language that are understandable and accessible to project-affected 
groups and local NGOs? 
No 
All Safeguard Policies 
 
Have satisfactory calendar, budget and clear institutional responsibilities 
been prepared for the implementation of measures related to safeguard 
policies? 
Yes 
Have costs related to safeguard policy measures been included in the project 
cost? 
Yes 
Does the Monitoring and Evaluation system of the project include the 
monitoring of safeguard impacts and measures related to safeguard policies? 
Yes 
Have satisfactory implementation arrangements been agreed with the 
borrower and the same been adequately reflected in the project legal 
documents? 
Yes 
D. Approvals 
 
Signed and submitted by: 
Name 
Date 
Task Team Leader: 
Mr Abderrahim Fraiji 
07/06/2010 
Environmental Specialist: 
Mr Abdelmonem Osman Kardash 
07/07/2010 
Social Development Specialist 
Ms Yasmin Tayyab 
07/12/2010 
Additional Environmental and/or 
Social Development Specialist(s): 
 
Approved by: 
 
Regional Safeguards Coordinator: 
 
 
Comments:   
Sector Manager: 
Mr Ian Bannon 
07/12/2010 
Comments:   
