                                     Document of
                                 The World Bank




                                                          Report No: ICR00002114



          IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION AND RESULTS REPORT
                 (TF-90089 TF-90091 TF-90168 TF-96746)



                                       ON A

                                       LOAN

                     IN THE AMOUNT OF US$7.71 MILLION


                                      TO THE

                              REPUBLIC OF SUDAN

                                      FOR A

            SOUTH KORDOFAN START UP EMERGENCY PROJECT

                                   April 26, 2012




Fragile States, Conflict and Social Development (AFTCS)
Sudan Country Department
Africa Region
                      CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS

                 (Exchange Rate Effective April 22, 2012)

                           Currency Unit = SDG
                           1.00 SDG = US$ 0.37
                           US$ 1.00 = 2.69 SDG

                             FISCAL YEAR
                         January 1 – December 31


                 ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS

CIFA    Country Integrated Fiduciary Assessment
CPA     Comprehensive Peace Accord
CPPR    Country Portfolio Performance Review
DHSDP   Decentralized Health System Development Project (MDTF)
DJAM    Darfur Joint Assessment Mission
ENAM    Emergency Needs Assessment and Planning Mission
ERW     Explosive Remnants of War
FMFA    Financial Management Framework Agreement
FPP     Final Project Proposal
GAP     Gender Action Plan
GONU    Sudan Government of National Unity
ICB     International Competitive Bidding
IDP     Internally Displaced Person
IDPs    Internally Displaced People
IFR     Interim Financial Report
JAM     Joint Assessment Mission (UN-World Bank)
JIU     Joint Implementation Unit
LLINs   Long-Lasting Insecticidal (Bed-) Nets
MA      Monitoring Agents
MDTF    Multi Donor Trust Fund
MOEI    Ministry of Economy and Investment (South Kordofan State)
MoH     Ministry of Health (South Kordofan State)
MOFNE   Ministry of Finance and National Economy
MOU     Memorandum of Understanding
MPPPU   State Ministry of Physical Planning and Public Utilities
NCB     National Competitive Bidding
NCP     National Congress Party
NGO     Non Governmental Organization
NMAC    National Mine Action Center
OP/BP   Operational Policy/Bank Policy
PER     Public Expenditures Review
PFM     Public Financial Management
PMU     Project Management Unit
PSC     Project Steering Committee
QCBS    Quality- and Cost-Based Selection
SA         Special Account
SDHS       State Director of Health Services
SK         South Kordofan
SKSEP      South Kordofan Start-up Emergency Project
SMRDWR     State Ministry of Rural Development & Water Resources
SOE        Statement of Expenditures
SPLA/M     Sudan Peoples’ Liberation Army/Movement
SPLA/M-N   Sudan Peoples’ Liberation Army/Movement Northern Sector
TA         Technical Assistance
UN         United Nations
UNICEF     United Nations Children’s Emergency Fund
UNIDO      United Nations Industrial Development Organization
UNMIS      United Nations Mission to Sudan
UFS        Unity Fund Sudan
UXO        Unexploded Ordnance
VTC        Vocational Training Center

                          Vice President: Obiageli Katryn Ezekwesili
                        Country Director: Bella Bird
                         Sector Manager: Ian Bannon
                    Project Team Leader: Yousif Elfadil
                       ICR Team Leader: Abderrahim Fraiji
                                             SUDAN
                            South Kordofan Start Up Emergency Project



                                                    CONTENTS




Data Sheet
    A. Basic Information
    B. Key Dates
    C. Ratings Summary
    D. Sector and Theme Codes
    E. Bank Staff
    F. Results Framework Analysis
    G. Ratings of Project Performance in ISRs
    H. Restructuring
    I. Disbursement Graph

  1. Project Context, Development Objectives and Design ............................................... 1
  2. Key Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcomes .............................................. 4
  3. Assessment of Outcomes ............................................................................................ 8
  4. Assessment of Risk to Development Outcome......................................................... 16
  5. Assessment of Bank and Borrower Performance ..................................................... 17
  6. Lessons Learned ....................................................................................................... 19
  7. Comments on Issues Raised by Borrower/Implementing Agencies/Partners .......... 21
  Annex 1. Project Costs and Financing .......................................................................... 22
  Annex 2. Outputs by Component ................................................................................. 23
  Annex 3. Economic and Financial Analysis ................................................................. 27
  Annex 4. Bank Lending and Implementation Support/Supervision Processes ............ 28
  Annex 5. Beneficiary Survey Results ........................................................................... 29
  Annex 6. Stakeholder Workshop Report and Results................................................... 30
  Annex 7. Summary of Borrower's ICR and/or Comments on Draft ICR ..................... 31
  Annex 8. Comments of Cofinanciers and Other Partners/Stakeholders ....................... 35
  Annex 9. List of Supporting Documents ...................................................................... 36

  MAP
A. Basic Information
                                                                         South Kordofan State
Country:               Sudan                   Project Name:
                                                                         Emergency Project
                                                                         TF-90089,TF-
Project ID:            P101388                 L/C/TF Number(s):         90091,TF-90168,TF-
                                                                         96746
ICR Date:              04/24/2012              ICR Type:                 Core ICR
                                                                         GOVERNMENT OF
Lending Instrument:    ERL                     Grantee:                  SOUTH KORDOFAN
                                                                         STATE
Original Total
                       USD 7.71M               Disbursed Amount:         USD 7.52M
Commitment:
Revised Amount:        USD 7.58M
Environmental Category: C
Implementing Agencies:
 UNICEF
 UNIDO
 South Kordofan State Government
Cofinanciers and Other External Partners:
 Government of National Unity
 South Kordofan State Government
 Unity Support Fund

B. Key Dates
                                                                              Revised / Actual
     Process             Date            Process             Original Date
                                                                                  Date(s)
Concept Review:                     Effectiveness:                               07/25/2007
Appraisal:                          Restructuring(s):
Approval:              06/25/2007   Mid-term Review:
                                    Closing:                  10/29/2010         10/31/2011

C. Ratings Summary
C.1 Performance Rating by ICR
Outcomes:                                      Moderately Satisfactory
Risk to Development Outcome:                   Substantial
Bank Performance:                              Moderately Satisfactory
Grantee Performance:                           Moderately Satisfactory
C.2 Detailed Ratings of Bank and Borrower Performance (by ICR)
        Bank                 Ratings             Borrower                               Ratings
                                                                                Moderately
Quality at Entry:          Unsatisfactory            Government:
                                                                                Unsatisfactory
                                                   Implementing
Quality of Supervision: Satisfactory                                            Moderately Satisfactory
                                                   Agency/Agencies:
Overall Bank                                       Overall Borrower
                           Moderately Satisfactory                              Moderately Satisfactory
Performance:                                       Performance:

C.3 Quality at Entry and Implementation Performance Indicators
    Implementation                           QAG Assessments
                             Indicators                                                Rating
     Performance                                 (if any)
 Potential Problem Project                           Quality at Entry
                           Yes                                               None
at any time (Yes/No):                                (QEA):
 Problem Project at any                              Quality of
                             No                                              None
time (Yes/No):                                       Supervision (QSA):
DO rating before             Moderately
Closing/Inactive status:     Satisfactory

D. Sector and Theme Codes
                                                                     Original              Actual
Sector Code (as % of total Bank financing)
Animal production                                                       35                   35
Crops                                                                   30                   30
General agriculture, fishing and forestry sector                        35                   35


Theme Code (as % of total Bank financing)
Gender                                                                  33                   33
Other rural development                                                 34                   34
Other social development                                                33                   33

E. Bank Staff
         Positions                          At ICR                             At Approval
Vice President:              Obiageli Katryn Ezekwesili            Obiageli Katryn Ezekwesili
Country Director:            Bella Deborah Mary Bird               Ishac Diwan
Sector Manager:              Ian Bannon                            Asif Faiz
Project Team Leader:         Yousif Mubarak ElFadil                Asif Faiz
ICR Team Leader:             Abderrahim Fraiji
ICR Primary Author:          Satish Kumar
F. Results Framework Analysis

Project Development Objectives (from Project Appraisal Document)
The Project has two key objectives: to contribute on the one hand to the supply of basic
services and facilities to the respective conflict-affected populations; and to contribute to
capacity building of the state government to enable it to more effectively execute its
mandate, especially at the local (decentralized) level.

Revised Project Development Objectives (as approved by original approving authority)

(a) PDO Indicator(s)

                                            Original Target     Formally        Actual Value
                                              Values (from       Revised         Achieved at
   Indicator         Baseline Value
                                                approval         Target         Completion or
                                               documents)        Values         Target Years
                To contribute to the supply of urgently-needed basic services and facilities, such
Indicator 1 :   as access to water, education and improved rural roads to conflict-affected
                populations
Value
quantitative or 0                          900,000                             914,794
Qualitative)
Date achieved
Comments
                 Excluding an estimated 275,000 who benefited from road improvements.
(incl. %
                102% achievement.
achievement)
                To improve the capacity of local authorities to perform their roles towards the
Indicator 2 :
                population
Value
quantitative or 0                                                               1098
Qualitative)
Date achieved
                 Amount of civil servants trained identified by assessment of capacity of six key
Comments
                State ministries. Additional support included
(incl. %
                construction/rehabilitation/equipping of 65 administrative buildings.
achievement)
                100% achievement.

(b) Intermediate Outcome Indicator(s)

                                         Original Target                         Actual Value
                                                           Formally
                                          Values (from                            Achieved at
   Indicator        Baseline Value                         Revised
                                             approval                            Completion or
                                                         Target Values
                                           documents)                            Target Years
Indicator 1 :   Water supply-improved access to water
Value
(quantitative   0                          90,000                              90,000
or Qualitative)
Date achieved
Comments
                  Number of people with access to improved water sources. Also 50,000 livestock
(incl. %
                  with access to improved water sources. 100% achievement.
achievement)
Indicator 2 :     Rural roads : Part of the secondary roads improved
Value
(quantitative     0                           50                                     115
or Qualitative)
Date achieved
Comments
(incl. %          Kilometers of rural roads improved. 230% achievement.
achievement)
Indicator 3 :     school kits provided
Value
(quantitative     0                           287,000                                287,000
or Qualitative)
Date achieved
Comments
(incl. %          100%
achievement)
Indicator 4 :     Vocational Training Center (VTC) Kadugli rehabilitated
Value
(quantitative     No                          Yes                                    Yes
or Qualitative)
Date achieved
Comments
(incl. %          100%
achievement)
Indicator 5 :     high priority suspected or mined areas and roads cleared or verified
Value
(quantitative     0                           40                                     40
or Qualitative)
Date achieved
Comments
(incl. %          Mines cleared or verified in 40 communities. 100% achievement.
achievement)
Indicator 6 :     Increased availability of agricultural and animal traction tools
Value
(quantitative     0                          4000                                 4000
or Qualitative)
Date achieved
Comments
                   4000 hand tool kits provided in addition to 400 animal traction tools. 100%
(incl. %
                  achievement.
achievement)
Indicator 7 :     Provision (including training of its use) of long-lasting insecticidal bed nets
Value
(quantitative     0                           37,500              8,500              8,500
or Qualitative)
Date achieved
Comments        Request reduced by the State due to support of other parties. Total support
(incl. %       amounted to targeted 80% coverage. 25 fogging machines, an x-ray machine and
achievement)   2.5 tonnes of insecticide were provided at request of MoH. 100% achievement.

G. Ratings of Project Performance in ISRs

                                                                             Actual
        Date ISR
No.                            DO                       IP               Disbursements
        Archived
                                                                         (USD millions)
  1    06/06/2008    Moderately Satisfactory     Satisfactory                       6.28
  2    06/09/2008    Moderately Satisfactory     Satisfactory                       6.28
  3    12/22/2008    Moderately Satisfactory     Satisfactory                       6.38
  4    05/28/2009        Satisfactory            Satisfactory                       6.85
  5    12/01/2009    Moderately Satisfactory     Satisfactory                       7.08
  6    05/19/2010    Moderately Satisfactory     Satisfactory                       7.12
  7    05/27/2010    Moderately Satisfactory Moderately Satisfactory                7.12
  8    02/06/2011    Moderately Satisfactory Moderately Satisfactory                7.21
  9    10/29/2011    Moderately Satisfactory Moderately Satisfactory                7.52


H. Restructuring (if any)
Not Applicable

I. Disbursement Profile
1. Project Context, Development Objectives and Design

1.1 Context at Appraisal
Almost two years after the signing of the historic Comprehensive Peace Agreement (CPA), Sudan
was still slowly transitioning from managing conflict to pursuing pro-poor development, with
weak institutional capacity and a fragile security situation. A controversial Darfur Peace
Agreement, with intensive efforts on security and political fronts, was taxing the efforts of the
international community to engage with the Government of National Unity (GoNU) with much of
the donor community’s attention oriented toward the Darfur Joint Assessment Mission (DJAM).
The Bank had been absent from Sudan for a long period and was also beginning to re-engage.

The 2005 CPA made a provision for 70 percent of National Development Reconstruction Funds
to be targeted to the least developed states in North Sudan, reflecting the recovery and
development needs of these areas as well as their pivotal role in sustained peace and security.
Within this group of least developed states, the particular status of the Three Areas – Abyei, Blue
Nile, and South Kordofan – was recognized in the CPA through specific protocols. These
protocols establish a special status under the Presidency for Abyei, and the Blue Nile and South
Kordofan states with their own constitution and legislative bodies.

The first Sudan Consortium, held in Paris on March 9-10, 2006, noted that since the signing of
the CPA, the Three Areas had not received the expected resources, which could aggravate
political instability in the region. The quick formulation and start-up of a recovery project –
including quick impact interventions – was therefore a priority. This would require particular
attention from, and coordination with, the national authorities, the international community, the
MDTF-N, UN, and NGOs.

Implementation of the CPA in all Three Areas was behind schedule, but in some areas recovery
was moving rapidly. Internally Displaced People (IDPs) were returning and humanitarian and
development agencies were scaling up activities. Opportunities for households to invest more in
agriculture increased and there was a significant increase in food and cash income derived mainly
from the benefits of increased stability and movement. However, there remained significant
disparities between the Three Areas and the national average, and significant internal disparities
between the more and less war-affected areas.

The Project aimed to address three types of issues. The political aspect would provide assistance
to implementation of the CPA by encouraging fiscal transfers to the Three Areas. The socio-
economic aspect would encompass the greater part of the Project, and include interventions to
improve access to basic services, infrastructure, and some support to the economic development
of the population. Finally, the institutional component would provide support to and capacity
building for government institutions, civil society, and other key actors. It would also assist with
the development of a comprehensive data collection system for development planning.

The MDTF-N would target its support toward a range of sectors in South Kordofan, consistent
with its comparative advantage relative to other development agencies (UN agencies, NGOs, and
bilateral donors) that had a firm presence on the ground in implementing projects. To this end,
MDTF funds would be used as much as possible to bolster projects that the state ministries
implemented together with these agencies.




                                                 1
As a number of other agencies and donors were active in these sectors and had specialized
expertise, the MDTF would play a complementary role or provide funding for expansion of
activities. In those priority fields where existing activities were limited or nonexistent, the MDTF
could take a more active role in designing and implementing projects. Project design would take
place on the basis of state government priorities and the work plans that the respective state
authorities had developed together with the UN in a consultative manner.

1.2 Original Project Development Objectives (PDO) and Key Indicators
The Project had two key objectives: to contribute on the one hand to the supply of basic services
and facilities to the respective conflict-affected populations; and to contribute to capacity building
of the state government to enable it to more effectively execute its mandate, especially at the local
(decentralized) level. Progress toward the above outcomes would be measured and monitored
based on the following key performance indicators:

Basic services:
 Improved access to water through:
   o Construction of 5 new water yards, providing access for 30,000 people and 50,000
        livestock.
   o Construction of 20 new hand pumps, providing access for 10,000 people.
   o Rehabilitation of 100 hand pumps, providing access for 50,000 people.
   o Institutional support for maintenance of water supply system.
 Improvement of the secondary road network through clearing of 50 km and grading of 8 km,
   construction of 3 bridges and 8 culverts.
 Accelerated humanitarian demining, with 1.5 million square meters of high priority suspected
   or mined areas and roads cleared or verified in about 40 communities, affecting a population
   of more than 460,000.
 Basic education tools & equipment provided:
   o Desks and chairs provided for over 48,000 children.
   o School kits provided for 287,000 children.
   o Classroom equipment for 350 teachers.
 Vocational Training Center in Kadugli rehabilitated to train of 200 students per year.
 Improved primary health through provision (including training for use) of long-lasting
   insecticidal bednets to 80 percent of rural households.

Rural Household Livelihoods Support (Agriculture):
 Increased availability of agricultural and animal traction tools, with distribution of tools and
   training on use and maintenance provided in 20 villages (4000 households provided with
   tools and 400 farmers trained).

Governance
 Programs formulated to improve management and implementation capacity for six state
   ministries (Finance, Economy & Investment, Local Government, Water, Education, and
   Public Works).
 Visible and more effective local administrations by equipping local authorities with minimum
   living and working facilities for civil servants: simple housing, offices, (computer) equipment,
   transport, electricity (solar panels), water supply and sanitation. Numbers envisaged are 20
   offices, 10 living quarters, and requisite office furniture and equipment.

1.3 Revised PDO (as approved by original approving authority) and Key Indicators, and
reasons/justification
The PDO was not revised nor was the Project re-structured.


                                                  2
1.4 Main Beneficiaries
The main beneficiaries of the Project are the State Government and its ministries, which received
support under the capacity-building component, and people of the state who had been affected by
the civil war and who benefited from project activities and services. Support was provided to the
populations of the state’s nine localities (Kadugli, Dilling, Rashad, Abu Gubeiha, Talodi, Lagawa,
Kailak, AS-Salam and Kauda) with particular attention on the following groups (particularly
women, youth and IDP returnees):
 Nuba Tribes: who practice sedentary traditional farming in addition to livestock rearing and
  grazing in their tribal areas. Some of them (Moro, Keiga, Gulfan) take part in regular migration
  (northwards and southwards).
 Baggara Tribes (Missairiya, Hawazma, Kinana, Awlad Himaid): who practice grazing and
  regular migration (northwards and southwards) with large number of livestock. Some endeavor
  to alter their way of living by shifting to traditional farming around towns and some villages.
 African Western Sudan Tribes (Bargo, Fallata, Barno): sedentary tribes engaging in
  horticulture and livestock rearing (grazing).

1.5 Original Components
Component 1: Water Supply US$2.470 million (executed by UNICEF). The main activities
included drilling/installation of 20 new hand pumps, 5 new water yards, rehabilitating 100 hand
pumps and procurement of a rig, new hand pumps, spare parts for old hand pumps, geophysical
study, training and monitoring to benefit 90,000 people and 50,000 livestock.

Component 2: Rural Roads Maintenance and Spot Improvements US$1.8 million. Clearing
of 50 km rural secondary roads, grading of 8 km roads, construction of 3 bridges and 8 culverts
by the State Ministry of Physical Planning and Public Utilities (MPPU) and the PMU.

Component 3: Basic Education US$2.84 million (executed by UNICEF). Schools will be
provided with desks and chairs for 48,000 children and school kits for 287,000 schoolchildren. In
addition, 350 teachers’ kits will be supplied and 1,255 schools will receive 3,500 cabinets.

Component 4: Vocational Training US$0.510 million (executed by UNIDO). The main activity
will be to carry out rehabilitation of the Kadugli Vocational Training Center to raise its capacity
to train 200 students in various technical vocations.

Component 5: Humanitarian Demining US$1.590 million. 1.5 million meters of high priority
suspected mined areas and roads will be cleared and verified that no mines exist in the suspected
areas. Over 460,000 of the population will feel safe and benefit from these demining operations.

Component 6: Rural Households Livelihood Support US$0.590 million (executed by UNIDO)
to supply tools to 4,000 households, provide TOT training for tool welding, provide animal
traction equipment (Nuba Hoes) and train 400 farmers in the use and maintenance of animal
traction equipment.

Component 7: Capacity Building of State and Local Government: US$3.10 million. Finance
establishment and maintenance of a PMU; improve management capacity in 6 ministries (Finance,
Economy and Investment, Local Government, Water, Education and Public Works); construct 20
offices and 10 living quarters for local authorities, and purchase 20 vehicles mainly for local
authorities and equipment.




                                                3
Component 8: Anti-malaria Bed Nets: US$1.00 million. This component executed by the PMU
would provide long-lasting insecticidal bed nets to cover about 80% of the rural population and
training of the bed net users.

1.6 Revised Components
Component 2: Rural Roads Maintenance and Spot Improvements: As the State Government
stepped up and deployed state funds amounting to US$4.5 million, the component was scaled up
to construct 115 km of roads, building 50 bridges and constructing 17 box culverts.

Component 3: Basic Education: 300 cabinets were distributed to 1,200 schools rather than
3,500 cabinets to 1,255 schools. Desks and chairs were provided to 49,600 rather than 48,000
schoolchildren.

Component 4: Vocational Training: In addition to the original component design the Project
trained 196 youth and women in various vocations.

Component 7: Capacity Building of State and Local Government: The component was
redesigned to allow for demand-led capacity building with the PMU hiring a consultant to prepare
an institutional capacity building study and conduct a follow-up training program. The
component was scaled up to include additional direct PMU training of 1,098 civil servants. Due
to security considerations the State Government decided not to distribute vehicles to localities as
these could become high-jack targets for the rebels, worsening the already fragile security
situation. In its place, 25 rather than 10 state dormitories were equipped and furnished.

Component 8: Anti-malaria Bed Nets: As the State Ministry of Health (MoH) had received
thousands of such bed nets in donations from other agencies and bilaterals the procured only
8,500 bed nets. Together with other donor bed nets the total supply provided coverage to 80% of
the rural population. In addition 25 fogging machines, 2.5 tons of insecticides and an X-Ray
machine were provided to the MoH to assist in strengthening its anti-malarial activities.

1.7 Other significant changes
Tundia Sub-Project on Women Development: A special grant of US$200,000 in support of the
Project was secured under the Bank’s Gender Action Plan (GAP) trust fund. This support was
directed through a pilot project “Tundia Area Women Development pilot initiative?. Tundia is
one of the neglected and backward areas of the state in the Nuba mountains region and was most
affected by the civil war. The Project PMU directly implemented this sub project under which
two women development centers were constructed and a women’s development committee was
established as a proactive forum for women informed by a study tour of Tundia women to
Kassala state. The Project design was informed by the recommendations and findings of a gender
audit conducted for the South Kordofan, Abyei and Blue Nile Start-up Emergency Projects. The
pilot is designed for replication in other parts of the Nuba Mountains, and the Three Areas.

2. Key Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcomes

2.1 Project Preparation, Design and Quality at Entry
Project preparation: Project preparation appears to have been weak. No record is available to
show who was included in the Project Preparation Team, who appraised it (if appraised) and
when the first proposal document (dated April 15, 2005) was reviewed or approved. The same is
the case with the Final Project Proposal (FPP) document (dated April 15, 2007). There is no
indication that the Project was re-appraised after the passage of two years from the date the first



                                                4
version was released in 2005, who appraised it (if appraised), or whether the document was
updated. The 2007 FPP appears almost identical to the 2005 version, and the quality of the 2007
project document, which contained several stale portions of the 2005 document, was poor.

The current task team explained that the delay of two years before the Project was formally
approved1 on June 25, 2007 was due to a combination of instability of the then recently reopened
Sudan Country Office which was inadequately staffed and disconnected from the Bank (sectors)
with many of the MDTF projects not sector linked.

Project Design: The FPP stated that the Project was designed considering that a number of
agencies were active in the sectors targeted by the Project, and that as such the MDTF would play
a complementary role or provide funding for expansion of activities. In those priority fields where
existing activities were limited or nonexistent, the MDTF would take a more active role in
designing and implementing projects, based on state government priorities and the work plans
that the respective state authorities have developed together with the UN in a consultative manner.
However, there is no record of a participatory process in designing the Project.

Project design appropriately entrusted implementation of some components to experienced
agencies that were active in the area (UNICEF and UNIDO), but it failed to recognize the longer
time frame needed to set up the PMU and therefore was unrealistic in expecting project
implementation to last only 12 months. Project design should have also taken into account that
the PMU was to operate under the control of the State Government, which had even weaker
capacity than the Federal Government. The design assumption in respect of the PMU
performance capacity was over-ambitious and therefore unrealistic. The second design flaw was
to not include arrangements for overall monitoring and coordination of the Project. No linkage
was established between the three agencies responsible for implementing different project
components. UNICEF and UNIDO did not send their progress reports to the State Government
but only to the Bank task team, as each had executed an agreement directly with the Bank which
provided for reporting to the Bank task team only. Entrusting the overall coordination and
monitoring role to the PMU should have been institutionalized in the structure of implementation
and monitoring arrangements (see Section 2.3 for more details on M&E). Finally, there was a
natural tension between the two project development objectives, and capacity building seems to
have been given priority over the emergency requirements of an accelerated implementation.

The Project document recognized and described the high risks involved, including at the country,
state and implementing agency levels, and social and environmental issues. There was little
attempt, however, to propose measures to mitigate these risks. A number of foreseen risks did
occur and were rectified by the task team during implementation including seeking alternative
sources of counterpart funding. It is important to note that these flaws were not unique and also
affected many of the MDTF projects, owing mainly to its initial disconnect from Bank procedures,
as outlined in the 2010 Sudan Country Portfolio Performance Review (CPPR). As this Project
was one of the early MDTF projects it did not benefit from MDTF lessons. Corrective measures
were however applied as a result of lessons acquired during implementation (supervision) and in
follow-up to the recommendations of the CPPR.

Quality at Entry: There is no evidence of any steps taken to ensure quality at entry. Given that
the Project Document was subject only to in-country review it can be concluded that it was not


1
 Approval of this project was in-country as opposed to RVP or Board approval. At the time of Project approval, the
MDTF was not subject to regular Bank procedures although this was later rectified.


                                                          5
intensively reviewed in terms of quality at entry. Also, given that at the time the MDTF was not
operating under regular Bank procedures the Project was not subject to a formal or rigorous
appraisal that could have corrected some of the flaws pointed out.

2.2 Implementation
Project design developed a three-tier implementation arrangement in order to accelerate
implementation and to not unduly load the weak capacity of implementing state ministries. Two
streams were comprised of the two UN agencies (UNIDO and UNICEF) which had been
operating similar programs/activities in the state. UNICEF had been active in the areas of
drinking water and basic education and UNIDO in vocational training and rural household
livelihood support. The Bank entered into direct agreements with the agencies, and transferred in
lump sum the entire cost to each one for implementing its components. It was also agreed that
each agency would apply its own fiduciary rules in procurement, disbursement and financial
management as far as expenditures on the Project components were concerned. Both agencies
completed their tasks well ahead of the extended project closing date (UNICEF by December
2008, and UNIDO by October 2009 including one year extension); thus broadly justifying the
implementation design approach. This speedy implementation, however, did not work for four of
the eight components which were to be implemented by the Government. For these four
components, the Project Team established a project management unit (PMU) 2 in the State
Ministry of Economy and Investment (MoEI) based in the state capital of Kadugli. The team
assumed the PMU would be set up and become operational quickly and thus its four components
had the same implementation period as the UN agencies which were already operational. The
PMU was also subject to Bank procurement, disbursement and financial management policies
and guidelines, which are comparatively constraining compared to those followed by the two UN
agencies. While the UN agencies were already working in the field, PMU personnel had to be
recruited following lengthy Bank procedures then trained, and equipped. Not surprisingly, it took
the PMU over two years to implement its four components. A part of this delay can be ascribed to
the Bank preparation/appraisal teams for not building in a more realistic implementation
timetable.

The PMU team compiled progress reports only for the four components it was assigned to
implement. It did not maintain a record of performance under the components entrusted to
UNIDO and UNICEF. This issue came up for discussion during project supervision missions and
the respective missions advised the project teams to hold regular coordination meetings, but the
situation did not improve. The MDTF Monitoring Agent (MA) was left to compile information
sourced from the three agencies, but did not report to the state project steering committee or to the
PMU aggregated results on all project activities. Moreover, the MA’s quarterly reports were
circulated after the close of the quarter with a considerable time lag. As a result, the monitoring
reports lost some of their value as instruments to take timely corrective actions. The MA was also
expected to make physical inspection of project activities under all MDTF funded projects, but it
was not always able to do so due to the workload involved in monitoring 13 MDTF projects.

More significantly, the Government did not release its committed contributions on time with the
result that implementation of components supported by the Government funding suffered.
Instances are cited in monitoring reports that many activities had to be put on hold due to lack of




2
 The PMU comprised a project coordinator, a finance officer, a procurement specialist, an accountant (all
competitively recruited) and support staff which was provided by the State Government.


                                                          6
government funds. This issue was finally tackled3 during the MTR mission in mid-2009 when it
was agreed that alternative sources of funding from various state agencies would be explored.
The UFS was approached and it provided almost US$0.75 million to support local office building
works and equipment for malaria eradication, and about US$1.56 million for humanitarian
demining operations. Also, the Governor of South Kordofan was approached and agreed to
execute the rural roads component under the state plan. In fact, funding was in excess of the
provision under the Project, which resulted in the physical target under the component exceeding
the targets established under project key indicators. This is a good example where the Bank
Project Team and the State Government worked to achieve and even exceed project objectives.

2.3 Monitoring and Evaluation (M&E) Design, Implementation and Utilization
At the design stage, the Project did not anticipate a comprehensive M&E system due to the
emergency nature of a 12 month project. That is why monitoring arrangements are not described
in the FPP. However, due to the extended implementation period, the need to consistently track
project implementation progress was evident. In the closing stages of the Project, following the
recommendations of the CPPR, the monitoring unit in the Bank’s Khartoum office prescribed
common reporting formats to which this and all other MDTF projects complied.

Annex 3 of the FPP on Results Framework and Monitoring mentions only reporting responsibility
for each implementer but not which agency would be responsible for compiling and analyzing the
data under various components, flagging emerging issues and aggregating data to track
implementation progress. This role was not assigned to the PMU and no monitoring arrangement
was established to provide an overall picture of progress over time. Three agencies, namely the
MA, the central monitoring unit of the Bank’s Khartoum office and the PMU (for 4 components
only), did not generate timely consolidated project reports which could be used to address
emerging implementation issues and adjust project implementation. In addition, the state steering
committee was not effective and it seldom met despite efforts by the PMU. The lack of a good
monitoring system was a key project design deficiency.

2.4 Safeguard and Fiduciary Compliance
The Project was classified as Category C under environmental safeguards. An Environmental
Assessment was foreseen at the start of the Project but due to the MDTF disconnect from Bank
procedures and staffing resources available at the time this assessment was not conducted. As a
corrective measure, the Project Task Team contracted a consultancy to conduct a comprehensive
Environmental and Social Management Audit in 2010. The objective of the audit was to assist the
Project in cataloguing safeguard requirements and compliance status, and supporting the PMU to
strengthen compliance in deficient areas. Sub-projects noted by the audit as likely to generate
minimal environmental impacts and that were recommended to be carefully monitored included:
rehabilitation of roads, construction of culverts and bridges, and demining of villages and roads.
Following the audit, the Project recruited a Senior Operations Officer in the PMU with primary
responsibility for implementing and monitoring the recommendations of the audit (including
UNIDO and UNICEF components) and for leading training and sensitization of communities in
environmental safeguards. Environmental measures were mainstreamed across Project activities,
including fencing of hafirs, segregating water arrangements for humans and animals and safe




3
 The Government had declared that it would not provide any more funds to the MDTF supported projects despite its
commitment enshrined in the Grant Agreement it signed.




                                                        7
disposal of wastewater. Construction/rehabilitation of buildings has been executed with due
regard to environmental considerations. No displacement of households was involved in the
Project’s limited construction works which were on a very small scale in rural surroundings.
Rehabilitation of buildings of the Kadugli Vocational Training Center was undertaken within the
existing compound of the Center and did not require new land to bring under construction works.

2.5 Post-completion Operation/Next Phase
No second phase is proposed since the financing source of MDTF is closing on June 30, 2013,
and given Sudan’s arrears situation it is unlikely to benefit from regular Bank lending for some
time. Despite the lack of a follow-on intervention, the Project has attempted to ensure that
activities can be supported by local communities and local authorities (these steps are described
in Section 4).

3. Assessment of Outcomes

3.1 Relevance of Objectives, Design and Implementation
Following the signing of the Comprehensive Peace Agreement (CPA) Sudan was still slowly
transitioning from managing conflict to pursuing pro-poor development. Sudan faced many of the
issues typical of a fragile and conflict-affected state, with weak institutional capacity, especially
at the State level, considerable political and security instability and many unmet needs, especially
among marginalized and conflict-affected populations. At the time, a controversial Darfur Peace
Agreement, with intensive efforts on security and political fronts, was taxing the efforts of the
international community to engage with the Government of National Unity (GoNU). Much of the
donor community’s attention was oriented toward the Darfur Joint Assessment Mission (DJAM),
and the UN’s efforts elsewhere were crowded out by the humanitarian imperative in Darfur.

The World Bank and the UN, together with the Government of Southern Sudan and the
Government of National Unity established two Multi-Donor Trust Funds, one for the North and
one for the South. The objective of the MDTF (North) was to finance a recovery, reconstruction
and development program for the war affected areas and to fulfill the CPA provision for 70% of
National Development Reconstruction Funds to be targeted to the least developed states in North
Sudan, reflecting the recovery and development needs of these areas as well as their pivotal role
in sustaining peace and security. Within this group of least developed states, the particular status
of the Three Areas bordering South Sudan – Abyei, Blue Nile, and South Kordofan – was
recognized in the CPA through specific protocols, which established a special status under the
Presidency for the Three Areas with their own constitution and legislative bodies.

The first Sudan Consortium (Paris, March 9-10, 2006), noted that since the signing of the CPA,
the Three Areas had not received the expected resources, which could exacerbate political
instability. Implementation of the CPA in all Three Areas was behind schedule, but in some areas
recovery was moving rapidly. IDPs were returning and humanitarian and development agencies
were scaling up activities. Opportunities for households to invest more in agriculture increased;
there was a significant increase in food and cash income derived mainly from the benefits of
increased stability and movement. However, there remained significant disparities between the
Three Areas and the national average, and significant internal disparities between the more and
less war-affected areas. The quick formulation and start-up of recovery projects – including quick
impact interventions – with the objective of contributing to equipping the local administrations
with the resources to oversee recovery of their conflict-affected regions and initiate the recovery
of basic infrastructure and support to conflict-affected populations — was therefore an urgent




                                                 8
priority. This would require particular attention from, and coordination and interaction between,
the national authorities, the international community (donors), the MDTF-N, the UN, and NGOs.

The Project aimed to address three types of issues. The political aspect provided assistance to the
implementation of the CPA in terms of encouraging fiscal transfers to the Three Areas. The
socio-economic aspect encompassed the greater part of the Project, and included interventions
addressing access to basic services (water, education), infrastructure, and some support to the
economic development of the population. This support included several interventions taken from
the state and locality development plans, such as rehabilitation of existing schools, water points, a
VTC, provision of ambulances, x-ray machines, fogging machines for a health center, and a rural
livelihoods support component. Activities were also in line with the sectoral strategies of
mandated implementing agencies, namely UNICEF Water and Engineering Services Project
(WES), UNIDO and the National Mine Action Center (NMAC) and reflective of the diagnosed
needs of the State’s war-affected populations as outlined in the CPA Sudan Joint Assessment
Mission (JAM) Report and the Bank’s “South Kordofan Growth Synthesis? Report. Finally, the
institutional component provided support to and capacity building for government institutions,
civil society, and other key actors. It also assisted with the development of a comprehensive data
collection system for development planning, both of which are important in ensuring sustainable
maintenance of the assets created under the Project and to carry on the tasks in future.

The Project was the result of the Government’s continuing concern for peace, development and
cross-border stability which led to the establishment and co-financing of the MDTF. This concern
was further reflected in the establishment of the UFS to serve as a mechanism to finance projects
targeted at building and strengthening regional integration, and promoting peace and stability
between the North and the South. The strong relationship between the Bank and UFS, the synergy
between the UFS’s mission and that of the MDTF, and the interest in achieving a harmonized
multi-donor approach led to a strategic partnership. UFS co-financed Project activities in priority
basic services (health), demining and capacity building and built on the lessons learnt from the
Project in the implementation of several complementary projects in the State.

The Project was in line with the Bank’s interim strategy (ISN), focusing on pro-peace and
community-driven development, and emphasizing the link between peace and development in
South Kordofan with overall stability of Sudan and South Sudan. The Project was designed in
line with the findings of the Sudan JAM and implemented in line with the recommendations of
the Bank’s “South Kordofan Growth Synthesis?. The study made a series of recommendations,
which were reflected in the nature of the Project’s components. The Project also complemented
the MDTF-financed Livestock Production Project and built in its implementation lessons learned
from the Community Development Fund sub-projects both being implemented in South Kordofan.

Although designed prior to its publication, Project objectives and implementation are closely in
line with the recommendations of the 2011 WDR Conflict, Security, and Development, including
taking into account stress factors and potential drivers of instability, and the need to focus on
capacity building of weak institutions. Where appropriate, the Project attempted to identify and
leverage partnerships with national and regional actors, as well as with international donors and
agencies including the State government, locality governments, UFS, and UN. The Project was
further in alignment with two key WDR principles, including the need for focus on cross-border
commons, and the emphasis on inclusive growth for job and livelihoods creation.

3.2 Achievement of Project Development Objectives
Project PDOs would be assessed based on results under each of the eight components. Under
intermediate results, each component was assigned output targets and the cumulative results, it is


                                                 9
surmised, would yield the development impact of the Project. Almost all the components
achieved and in some cases exceeded their targets. The Project benefitted 914,794 people
(excluding an estimated 275,000 who benefited from road improvements), provided water to
90,000 people, made nearly half a million people safe by demining operations, and helped
335,000 students. This ICR finds that the Project substantially achieved its development
objectives (details in Annex 2).

3.3 Efficiency
Recipient-execution through the PMU had considerable implementation delays due to the time
and procedures involved in recruitment, equipping, operationalization and capacity building when
compared with alternative implementation options, the most plausible of which would have been
direct UN implementation. However, it is the view of the ICR mission that this form of execution
is the most efficient in the longer-term and more effective in emergency contexts when combined
with UN implementation (hybrid) as was the case in this project. Through recipient-execution, the
Project's administration costs totaled US$467,802 (US$246,579 staffing and $221,223 operating
costs). Given that the Project provided emergency support in terms of both basic services and
livelihoods to an estimated 914,794 people the economic return from the Project is significantly
higher than the opportunity cost of capital and benefits. This is magnified when compared with
direct UN implementation of all components at an administrative cost of around 30% of the
amount disbursed. Recipient-execution through the PMU was therefore an efficient
implementation modality and maximized the support provided to beneficiaries relative to
administration costs which amounted to 3.1% of the total amount disbursed and well below the
acceptable cost-effectiveness (normally within 10-12% of the disbursed amount) for such
emergency operations. While the Project, which was completed over a four-year period, suffered
significant delays, extensions did not involve cost overruns that could have resulted in higher
operational costs. Project extensions allowed more time for the Project and task teams to broker
additional counterpart funds, which reduced the operational cost-beneficiary ratio still further. An
additional advantage of this approach compared with handing over full implementation to the UN
is in terms of capacity building. As the respective line departments and their representatives at the
locality level have weak capacity, a PMU provides assistance in fiduciary, safeguards and M&E
ensuring transfer of skills. It also ensures collaboration with the technical line ministries as well
as their international counterparts to ensure sector coherence and alignment with priorities. This is
crucial for ownership and sustainability maximizing long-term rate of return on investment.

The experience of the MDTF in Sudan is that the use of a PMU also allows closer and more
transparent supervision than would be possible through international, regional or local agencies
and NGOs. Bank supervision under this modality is also more cost-effective. The total cost of
Project preparation was US$38,952 and supervision by the Bank task team (including US$25,000
for the Tundia sub-project) totaled US$342,498 at an annual average of US$68,500. This is cost-
efficient given the remoteness of the project location and the intensive nature of supervision and
technical assistance which was needed due to low capacity and the political sensitivity
surrounding conflict-affected South Kordofan. The average annual cost of supervision compares
very favourably with other MDTF project preparation and supervision costs for both conflict and
non-conflict affected project states. Table 1 below shows that of the main MDTF projects only
the Blue Nile Start-up Emergency Project has a lower average supervision cost.

Table 1: MDTF Projects SPN CY05-CY12 (000’s US$)
 Project          CY05     CY06      CY07     CY08     CY09       CY10*    CY11      CY12    Avg.
                                                                                     **
 CDF              355      153       189      139      151        357      113       175     204.0
 Health           29       257       115      97       91         195      118       132     129.3



                                                 10
 Education                                                  68          226          130          155         73    130.4
 Transport             30          196         200          312         262          225          70          100   174.4
 PSCAP                             92          107          217         155          158          110         110   135.6
 TAF                               164         166          75          57                                          115.5
 Livestock                         62          181          75          70           80           78          87    90.4
 Gum Arabic                                                 113         59           72           121         120   97.0
 Micro Finance                     28          84           113         72           96           103         100   85.1
 S. Kordofan                                   42***        75          105          70           63          0     59.2
 Blue Nile                                                  41          95           62           7           78    56.6
 Abyei                                                                  50           183          97          70    100.0
* Actual as of Oct 31 + Estimate for Nov-Dec. ** Projected. *** Includes $38,952 in preparation and $3,048 in SPN


3.4 Justification of Overall Outcome Rating
The Project fulfilled its relevance through initiatives that contributed to the stabilization of war
affected populations whose economic and social life had been severely disrupted. By providing
water supply in villages, restoring social infrastructure such as schools, directly supporting
agricultural operations and linking communities and markets by constructing/improving vital road
links, bridges and culverts, war affected populations could resume normal life and engage in
productive economic activities. This had a positive impact on poverty alleviation. Contrary to
past conflicts in the region, communities did not re-engage in conflict. The outbreak of fighting in
South Kordofan since June 2011 involves the Sudan Armed Forces and SPLA-N and is politically
motivated (see 3.5a).

The Project fully achieved both its primary and secondary objectives. The Project was able to
contribute to the supply of urgently-needed basic services and facilities, such as access to water,
education, and improved rural roads to conflict-affected populations such as in the Kauda area
bordering South Sudan. These areas were previously closed off due to conflict and were largely
inaccessible following the cessation of hostilities. The demining and rehabilitation of rural roads
provided by the Project contributed to opening these areas to allow social and economic recovery.

South Kordofan suffers from a severe lack of secondary roads, lacking links with other states as
well as between major towns in its nine localities. Large parts of the State are inaccessible during
the rainy season. Hence a large number of culverts, bridges and improved all-weather roads were
supported by the Project. Sudan was one of the countries most affected by landmines and
unexploded ordnance (UXO); as of December 2006, 1,490 dangerous areas had been identified
out of which 523 have been cleared. The problem is especially concentrated around garrison
towns and along the North-South border in the Three Areas. Landmines/UXO contamination
threaten daily lives of civilians; since 2002, mines and UXO have killed or maimed over 2,300
people in Sudan, with almost one quarter of the victims in South Kordofan. While during
hostilities, members of the military were most likely to be victims, the return to peace meant that
victims were more likely to be civilians. Furthermore, as many key travel routes were mined,
travel remained dangerous and trade between towns hampered, and impeded the safe return of
IDPs. The Project’s demining activities benefited approximately 460,000 people, including local
populations and returnees in about 40 communities.

The Project was one of the first to provide basic services (water, education and health facilities)
as well as rural livelihood support (animal traction, hand tools and blacksmith TOTs) to Kauda
and other conflicted affected areas. Within these areas, the Project supported the Nuba, Baggara
and Western African tribes. The supply of agricultural hand tools allowed the targeted
populations to re-engage in agricultural production and improve livelihood. This was supported
by the distribution of appropriate technology (the Nuba hoe) allowing surplus production beyond
subsistence needs.


                                                                 11
The Project contributed to improving access to safe drinking water severely limited in South
Kordofan, with levels of only 61% for human use and 50% for livestock at Project inception.
Most of South Kordofan was seriously affected by the war, with infrastructure and basic services,
including water points, left in poor condition. The Project sought to provide additional or
improved water sources, recognizing that access to water for human and productive uses is a key
point of contention between nomads and sedentary farmers, further strained by the increasing
number of returnees. In view of the significant number of non-functioning water points (40% for
hand pumps, 34% for water yards, 77% for hafirs, and 62% for water harvesting reservoirs) the
Project supported an intensive water resource rehabilitation program throughout the State. This
was complemented by training of community water user associations and equipping of state water
authorities to improve maintenance and management of water supply and water points.

The Project targeted malaria through the distribution of anti-malaria bed-nets (ITNs) and fogging
machines. Malaria is among the most prevalent causes of illness and death in Sudan, particularly
among children and pregnant women. It is endemic in most of South Kordofan, and is more
widespread in rural than urban areas. Under-five mortality (1999 estimate) was 147 per 1,000 in
South Kordofan, and estimates of fever and malaria prevalence suggest that around 4,000
children die of the disease in South Kordofan every year. Malaria also has a significant impact on
maternal and neonatal health, associated with anemia, low birth-weight and maternal and neonatal
mortality. It is also associated with malnutrition, increased risk of HIV/AIDS, and other diseases.
ITNs reduce the incidence of malaria episodes by 50 to 62%. Several studies have indicated that
high coverage of ITNs leads to a “community effect,? whereby even children who do not have a
net experienced reduced risk of mortality. ITNs for pregnant women are similarly effective in
preventing illness, fetal loss, anemia, and low birth-weight.

The Project supported the school system in South Kordofan characterized by inadequate supply
of school materials, basic school furniture as well as basic teaching-learning materials. About
75% of students did not have even proper seats at project inception.

The Project placed emphasis on youth and IDPs, but particularly women who constituted 41% of
beneficiaries. The Project supported the rehabilitation and operationalization of the Kadugli VTC
(buildings were collapsing, facilities nonexistent, and the water system was in need of repair).
The vocational training program supported by the Project has facilitated access to training and
technical skills for young people, women and other vulnerable segments of the rural population.
This was further complemented through the Tundia women’s empowerment sub-project which
established development centers and facilitated training exchanges for women in the Nuba
Mountains region.

Recognizing that emerging from a conflict situation, the state government and local authorities
had very low capacities for planning, implementation, M&E and fiduciary functions, the Project
also contributed to improve the capacity of the local authorities. Six key ministries targeted
through an institutional assessment identifying the weaknesses and needs of ministry staff, which
provided the basis for a capacity building program tailored to the needs of local administrations.
Over 1,082 local officials were trained although this program could only be implemented in the
last year of the Project. The PMU and the consultant firm reported (see 3.5b for more details)
that the training had a beneficial impact and contributed to increased knowledge of the subjects
and procedures for operating public programs, monitoring, more efficient disposal of work at the
desks in the secretariat offices, and meeting delivery targets by the field officers. As a result of
training, government field officials (e.g., agriculture and livestock extension workers) networked
with traditional administration and village leaders as well as NGOs and learned to jointly plan
and execute community programs. One of the main achievements was its contribution to long-


                                                12
term institutional change by instilling conflict sensitivity to state and locality development
planning. For example, financing by the State government of the rural roads component above the
original target was specifically designed to open up conflict-affected and previously neglected
areas of the State. Locality authorities have committed through development budgeting to finance
O&M, and in some cases scale-up of several interventions under the Project, many of which were
taken from state and locality development plans (sustainability is discussed in 2.5). The State also
played a crucial role in supporting the Project to secure counterpart funding from the federal
government and UFS for activities including demining. Many of the activities later financed and
implemented UFS were informed by State development priority plans and mostly benefited
communities and regional integration in the Nuba Mountains.

The Project achieved its objectives in a cost-effective manner in terms of operational, project
management and supervision costs (see 3.3). In the case of the rural roads, vocational training,
anti-malaria bednets and capacity building components, the Project exceeded its targets while
adhering to the set budget. However in achieving its objectives, the Project required three no-cost
closing date extensions which did not impact on cost-efficiency of the Project. Despite the
Project’s considerable achievements, the Project’s significant delays affect the overall outcome
ratings since the Project was justified on the basis of meeting urgent needs.

Rating: Moderately Satisfactory

3.5 Overarching Themes, Other Outcomes and Impacts
 (a) Poverty Impacts, Gender Aspects, and Social Development
Poverty Impacts: The greatest Project gain was stabilization of war-affected populations, whose
economic and social life had been significantly disrupted. Although there is no State-level data on
poverty levels, the Project contributed to improved welfare by providing water supply in villages,
restoring social infrastructure, directly supporting agricultural operations and linking
communities and markets through improved transport infrastructure. War affected populations
could return to normalcy and re-engage in productive activities.

Gender Aspects: The Project was also sensitive to gender considerations with gender
mainstreamed throughout Project activities. The Project commissioned a gender audit at mid-term
to assess the extent to which it was gender sensitive and how this could be improved. The
recommendations informed both the implementation of the remainder of the Project as well as the
Tundia women’s empowerment sub-project. The audit provided the catalyst and justification for
this GAP funded sub-project. Overall, the Project ensured that women represented substantially
among beneficiaries: of the total beneficiaries, women constituted 41% against the Project target
of 40%. In training carried out in the last year of the Project, women constituted 46% of all
participants. In vocational training, 43% of women were trained at the training institute Kadugli.
In water user associations established under the Project, over 30% of the management committee
members are women.

Social Development: Following the creation of South Sudan and the end of the CPA, Sudan
confronts complex challenges. Although the referendum and secession were achieved peacefully,
the CPA-mandated process left many contentious issues unresolved, including an agreed
boundary between the North and South, access to oil and other natural resources, and the return of
IDPs. In addition, Sudan must address ongoing internal problems of inequity and marginalization.

Local conflicts are part of a much larger problem of marginalization and poverty among Sudan’s
peripheries. The root causes of the two-decade war that resulted in Southern independence can be



                                                13
traced to the long-standing focus on developing the Northern Nile Valley at the expense of the
South and the peripheral states including South Kordofan. Despite Sudan’s great ethnic, linguistic
and religious diversity, elites from the Khartoum region have long dominated the country,
capturing resources from the peripheries but returning only a fraction. As a result of investments
around Northern Nile Valley, this region has a lower middle income market economy, while the
rest of Sudan has the indicators of a least developed country.

Over time, conflict in Sudan has become a very complex mixture of different types of conflicts.
These include center-periphery conflicts between Khartoum and its impoverished peripheries;
communal conflicts between non-state, identity groups (such as farmers or nomadic pastoralists),
often over access to livelihood-related resources; local-elite conflicts between people competing
for influence in a region, or between leaders of different rebel factions, and finally, cross-border
conflict involving neighboring countries working through proxies. South Kordofan has exhibited
all of these conflicts at one time or another, often in parallel. In many cases, longstanding
peaceful relations among neighboring tribes or settled (Nuba) and nomadic communities
(Baggara) in South Kordofan have been disrupted by the recruitment of the latter by the
government as militias, with promises of land.

The political and economic marginalization of the peripheries resulted in protracted conflict with
South Sudan. The civil war also involved bitter and prolonged fighting in South Kordofan, Blue
Nile and Abyei, areas that have seen conflict for decades. Because these Border States are the
main producers of oil, they have been the subject of the most contestation. Despite the end of the
civil war, South Kordofan and Blue Nile remain volatile. The CPA developed separate protocols
and treaties regarding Abyei, and South Kordofan and Blue Nile, rather than developing a
comprehensive approach to address the systemic problem of bad governance and unbalanced
power and wealth sharing. CPA-recommended popular consultations in South Kordofan and Blue
Nile were not carried out and for several months the Government of Sudan has been engaged in
armed conflict with the SPLM-North in both Border States. The new conflict in South Kordofan
began in June 2011 and was triggered by contested election results for the state governor, which
was officially won by the NCP candidate against the SPLM-N.

While communities have not engaged in these recent political conflicts, in part due to greater
development efforts in these marginalized areas, this is by no means guaranteed to continue. The
Border States are home to both farmers and nomadic pastoralists, and the latter, represented in the
Arab Baggara, in particular depend on a border regime that will allow them to access traditional
grazing areas in South Sudan. Encroaching oil fields, displacement of persons during conflict
from some regions, the presence of IDPs in others, and now, the phenomenon of returnees, makes
access to land and land ownership contentious. Today, complex alliances developed during the
war and the related militarization and arming of the population raise the risk of further conflict if
local actors do not feel their needs are being addressed adequately. To date, war affected
populations have resumed their normal life and engaged in productive economic activities but
still complain that they have not been consulted on the issue of land, critical to their livelihoods.

The risk of social fragmentation and renewed conflict is heightened by the reality of South
Sudan’s separation which has brought serious economic repercussions to Sudan. Loss of oil fields
and oil revenue has contributed to inflation and a fiscal crisis. Decreased revenues will lead to a
reduction in public investments and transfers to states, undermining the Government’s ability to
provide peace dividends in war-affected areas such as South Kordofan.

(b) Institutional Change/Strengthening



                                                 14
The Project contracted an assessment of institutional capacity building for State and Local
government in South Kordofan, which aimed to: (i) review procedures, activities, processes,
systems and organizational structure in planning, design, data collection and analysis, budgeting,
monitoring, and coordination within the respective ministries focusing on program and project
implementation, and financial management and procurement capacity on the other; and (ii)
formulate a medium term capacity building program that would contribute to improved
institutional capacity of key State Ministries (Finance, Economy & Investment, Education,
Physical Planning & Public Utilities, Water Resources, and Local Governance). The assessment
resulted in the development of the following components and associated training courses for over
1,082 local officials selected through criteria agreed with State authorities:

   Component (1): Review, update and adjustment of current organizational structures:
    Technical review, validation, and harmonization of the developed organizational structure in
    terms of purpose, objectives, structural hierarchy, communication channels, and job
    description for all administrative units in targeted institutions. Associated Training courses:
    Designing of the organizational structures, Capacity needs assessment, Systems
    computerization, Personal development skills (basic managerial skills, basic computer
    applications, and English Language.
   Component (2): Development and Implementation of Human Resources Performance
    Management System: Review and validation of developed performance standard, review
    and validation of staff training needs assessment tools, development and application of a
    computerized human resources management system. Associated Training courses:
    Performance Assessment & Management Techniques, Human Resources Development,
    Computerization of Human Resources Management Systems, Training of Trainers areas.
   Component (3): Improving Development Planning Processes: Development and
    validation of development planning framework, and M&E systems, and development and
    application of a computerized development planning system. Associated Training courses:
    Development Planning, Project Cycle Management using Logical Framework Approach
    and/or Results Based Approach, Participatory Development Approaches, Participatory
    Learning and Action, Data Collection and Analysis Tools and Techniques, Monitoring and
    Evaluation Systems, Project Formulation and Design, Fundraising and Proposal Writing,
    Systems Computerization, and Training of Trainers.
   Component (4): Improving Budgeting Processes: Review and validation of budget
    planning framework, development and validation of M&E System, and development and
    application of a computerized budget planning system. Associated Training courses:
    Budgeting, Resources Mobilizations, M&E, Systems Computerization, Training of Trainers.
   Component (5): Improving Accountability Processes: Review and validation of financial
    management and audit system, and development and application of computerized financial
    system. Associated Training courses: Financial Management, Financial Audit, Program Audit,
    Risk Management, English Language for Special Purposes, Financial Systems
    Computerization, and Training of Trainers.

The Training Results and Impact Evaluation undertaken by the consultant to measure the
immediate as well as the long-term results of the training activity on the participants’
performance noted demonstrated positive impacts in:

   Effective post training application with participants committing to perform certain tasks and
    jobs applying knowledge and skills acquired in the training. This commitment was recorded
    in agreed action plans, monitored by the trainers/supervisors, including specific measurable
    tasks within given time frames.



                                               15
   Training outputs were linked with specific tasks and operations in the institution work plan.
   Each targeted institution/department/unit in collaboration with trainers developed and
    implemented training follow up and impact assessment plans, which is useful to improve
    future training.

The training had particularly beneficial impacts and contributed to: (i) conflict-sensitive
development planning; (ii) increased knowledge of the subjects and procedures for operating
public programs; (iii) program monitoring and more efficient managing of work assignments in
the secretariat offices; and (iv) meeting delivery targets by field officers. As a result of training
government field officials networked with traditional administration and village leaders as well as
NGOs and learned to plan and execute joint community programs.

(c) Other Unintended Outcomes and Impacts (positive or negative)

3.6 Summary of Findings of Beneficiary Survey and/or Stakeholder Workshops
A stakeholder workshop was planned but could not be carried out due to the outbreak of conflict
in South Kordofan State during the last month of the Project (June 2011).

4. Assessment of Risk to Development Outcome

The Project document recognized the inherent high risks in executing the Project. It noted
appropriately the risks posed by political instability and lack of security, as well as high risks
from conflict in the border areas. Many of the Project-specific risks were adequately addressed
during implementation, but exogenous factors related to the political situation and tensions
between South Sudan and Sudan are beyond the control of the Project and now represent
substantial risks to the Project’s development outcomes. As described in Section 3.5 a new
conflict erupted in South Kordofan in June 2011, triggered by a contested election, and
exacerbated by issues left unresolved by the CPA and the growing tensions between South Sudan
and Sudan. At this time it is not possible to predict future political and conflict developments, but
it is clear that in the event the conflict in South Kordofan escalates and the tensions between the
two countries are not resolved, the development gains made in the South Kordofan will be at risk.

The task team and counterparts made a good effort to ensure that most interventions could be
sustained after the Project ended. Project interventions were drawn from and consistent with state
and local development plans and priorities (rehabilitation of existing schools, water points, a VTC,
provision of ambulances, x-ray machines, fogging machines for a health center, and rural
livelihoods) and designed to include strong community participation and management (water
points and the rural livelihoods program). The PMU is also actively pursuing arrangements for
maintaining the assets created under the Project and sustaining the role of the institutions
supported by the Project such as the Kadugli VTC. About 125 water management committees
were established and provided training to operate the water sources created under the Project. The
communities, as is traditional practice in Sudan, are charging for water and managing the water
points well and have made provisions for maintenance with the State Water Authority, which in
turn has been better equipped by the Project through procurement of a drilling rig and spare parts.
The State Government is funding the director and staff of the VTC and with UF support, has
provided funding for the operating costs of the center. Students attending the center pay fees
though the amounts are not enough to cover maintenance or operating costs. The State Governor
has committed to pay for the running of the center. The VTC has been tasked to implement
another program of livelihood training for youth and women under the Sudan Peace-building and
Development Project supported by the Bank’s State and Peace Building Fund. Roads have been



                                                 16
demined and are in use as are rural roads constructed under the Project with the Ministry of
Physical Planning and Public Utilities taking responsibility for maintaining and improving the
state roads. Rehabilitated schools already have teachers and have been provided with benches and
supplies. Schools were also sensitized to maintain assets and to undertake repairs locally by
trained teacher/student volunteers. The rural livelihoods component is working well through a
revolving fund system run by Village Development Committees. The agricultural extension
service was tasked to spread the benefits derived by 4,000 farmers (who had been supplied tools
and inputs) to their neighbors and communities, and to train more farmers. The June 2011 MDTF
Sustainability Study reached the following conclusion regarding the Project's likely sustainability:
"Overall, all components are already completed and all facilities, including the VTC, schools, and
the water points, have been rehabilitated and operational. Project outputs appear to be physically
and technically in good shape. There is a strong ownership by both the state government and
beneficiary communities. The sustainability of the operation is, therefore, likely."

Rating: Substantial

5. Assessment of Bank and Borrower Performance

5.1 Bank Performance
(a) Bank Performance in Ensuring Quality at Entry
No steps appear to have been taken to ensure quality at entry. As described in Section 2, Project
preparation and its follow-up until approval took unusually long for an emergency project.
Effectiveness took another eight months after approval for a project to be implemented in 12
month due to delays in fulfilling effectiveness conditions. Design deficiencies have already been
highlighted and are not repeated here. It is however clear that the Bank was not only unable to
respond with speed to what was judged to be an emergency situation, but it also does not appear
to have used the delay to better prepare the Project or ensure greater quality at entry. The current
task team pointed out that delays, design and early implementation deficiencies were due to a
combination of instability of the then recently reopened Sudan Country Office, which was
inadequately staffed and was unable to ensure that MDTF projects were well connected with
Bank sectors. A contributing factor was the fact that during the early days, MDTF projects were
not required to follow regular Bank procedures, including ensuring quality at entry, and thus
exacerbating the lack of linkages with sectors.

Rating: Unsatisfactory

(b) Quality of Supervision
The Bank undertook seven supervision missions at an interval of about 6 months each. The MTR
mission was comprehensive and addressed upfront the serious issue of counterpart funding. The
last supervision mission was carried out in September 2011 as it could not be conducted earlier
due to hostilities in South Kordofan in the closing months of the Project. The quality of mission
reports is generally satisfactory. In addition, the task team members including fiduciary and
safeguard staff visited the Project area several times and maintained close contact with the
implementers. The task team ensured that the Project regularly submitted completed interim
financial reports (IFRs) on time, project accounts were audited on time and audit reports were
submitted to the Bank on time and were of acceptable quality. The Project maintained an
adequate procurement register that was subject to periodic Bank prior review audits. Following
the CPPR recommendations, the task team ensured that the Project maintained and submitted the
updated monitoring framework within the required timeline. Several remedial measures, mainly
to correct design and early implementation deficiencies, were triggered as recommendations of
supervision missions. These included modifications to components (such as anti-malaria bed-


                                                17
nets) in line with State priorities following consultations with technical counterparts. It also
included the commissioning and adoption of the environmental and social safeguards, and gender
audits. The role of the Bank task team and the PMU in the implementation history of this project
stands out most following the Government’s decision not to fund the Project. The task team took
the initiative and together with the PMU successfully approached UFS and the State Governor to
fill the gap, which allowed full implementation of the components. The task team and PMU
worked effectively together to address the counterpart issue which if not resolved would have
compromised achievement of the PDO.

Rating: Satisfactory

(c) Justification of Rating for Overall Bank Performance

Overall Bank performance is rated moderately satisfactory in view of the adverse ratings on
quality of entry, delays and design flaws. It is not rated moderately unsatisfactory because of the
good performance of the Bank task team during implementation when many of the initial
deficiencies were addressed, and the success of the Project in achieving almost all (and in some
cases exceeding) its results indicators4.

Rating: Moderately Satisfactory

5.2 Borrower Performance
(a) Government Performance
The Federal Government took eight months to fulfill effectiveness conditions. The Bank is also
partially responsible as it established conditions for recruitment of PMU which were difficult to
meet in the low capacity environment of South Kordofan. The Government decided not to
release any more funds after releasing only a tenth of its commitment. This was the principal
reason why the project implementation period had to be extended three times. The Government,
however, backed the initiative of the task team to seek alternative sources of funding to fill the
gap and facilitated raising additional sources from UFS and the State Government. In fact the
total funds raised and deployed in the Project by the Federal Government and its agencies
amounted to US$7.58 million as against the Government share of US$6.85 million under the
Project Agreement. In view of this mitigating circumstance and overall moderately satisfactory
project performance in achieving the development objectives, Government performance in this
project is rated moderately unsatisfactory.

Rating: Moderately Unsatisfactory

(b) Implementing Agency or Agencies Performance
Among the seven entities involved in executing and implementing project components, five
undertook field activities and implemented project components on the ground: UNICEF (two
components), UNIDO (two components), NMAC (demining component, under overall PMU
oversight), and the PMU (two out of four components). The rural roads component was executed
by the State Government through its Public Works Department.



4
  The overall spending under the Project reached US$14.93 million above the original allocation of US$14.567 million
(102.5%). However, with reference to the higher final allocation of US$15.163 million (disbursed US$14.99) the
overall expenditure percentage is 98.5%.




                                                        18
UNICEF and UNIDO performed well in executing activities under their respective components.
However, while UNICEF’s performance is rated satisfactory, their joint performance is rated as
moderately satisfactory since UNIDO’s implementation period was extended by a year.

Four components under overall PMU oversight were Government responsibility. Five agencies
were involved in support and execution functions. The Federal Government, UFS and the State
Government provided the funds; NMAC and the State Government (Public Works Department)
implemented two components, and the PMU implemented the capacity building and anti-malaria
bednets component, and performed coordination and monitoring functions of all four components.
The PMU had to struggle to obtain counterpart funds in order to implement its components, and
the Project Closing Date had to be extended mainly to allow the completion of the four
components for which the government and PMU were responsible. While the issue of counterpart
funds was beyond the control of the PMU it did however play a crucial role in securing
alternative sources of funding. This involved UFS funding for the health and demining
components and provision of US$4.5 million by the State Government for the road improvement
component. Once the funds became available, the PMU completed its activities in a reasonable
time with speed and efficiency. As discussed above, it could not play an overall project
coordination role due to poor design on the part of the Bank initial project team. It was left,
following CPPR, to the monitoring unit established in the Bank Khartoum office to compile this
information for all MDTF projects with the Project maintaining and submitting the updated
monitoring framework within the required timeline, although it would have been more
appropriate to have the PMU play this coordinating role. The PMU regularly submitted IFRs on
time, project accounts were audited and audit reports of acceptable quality were submitted to the
Bank on time. The Project maintained an adequate procurement register and was compliant with
the recommendations of the safeguard and gender audits. The performance of the PMU is
therefore rated moderately satisfactory.

The overall implementing agency rating is Moderately Satisfactory.

Rating: Moderately Satisfactory

(c) Justification of Rating for Overall Borrower Performance
Overall borrower performance is rated moderately satisfactory as it ultimately fulfilled all output
indicators and thus substantially satisfied project development objectives.

Rating: Moderately Satisfactory

6. Lessons Learned

Lessons to be drawn from this project are not new to implementation of Bank projects in fragile
and conflict-affected settings, and include:

   Setting a counterpart share needs to be realistic for a country coming out of conflict.
    The 50% counterpart share in MDTF, although agreed by the Government, was
    unprecedentedly high. This became evident when the Government defaulted on its
    commitments resulting in many implementation delays throughout the MDTF portfolio. This
    matter had to be redressed during the CPPR exercise for the MDTF as a whole although no
    resolution was reached for the three emergency projects for which the Government suspended
    its funding commitments. This was the most significant factor in Project implementation
    delays. The Government, as recipient of the grant, maintained that its share in an emergency
    project had been set at an unfairly high level, even though it agreed with the JAM report and


                                                19
    later confirmed its share by signing the grant agreement. It argued that coming out of a 21-
    year long civil war it could not bear the fiscal burden of such a high share across all the
    MDTF projects. The Project only managed to complete implementation (following three
    project extensions) after securing alternative sources of funding from both the State
    government and UFS.
   Close interaction and engagement with local authorities is essential from the outset. The
    Bank should broaden its engagement beyond its official counterpart, the Ministry of Finance.
    Bank engagement with the State Government once the Project faced counterpart funding
    issues proved successful and suggests closer dialogue on a regular basis. Although State
    resources are dependent on federal transfers and are usually limited, local authorities place a
    much higher priority on recovery and development needs. Despite financial limitations local
    authorities can be resourceful as evidenced in this project through their adoption of the rural
    roads component and O&M obligations for the majority of project activities. Project
    interventions are also more visibly felt by local authorities who are directly involved in
    implementation and feel a strong sense of ownership and for which they can apply pressure
    on the federal level for additional resources.
   A better risk assessment is required in fragile settings, but this must translate into more
    appropriate project design. It is not sufficient to provide a good assessment of risks, as was
    done in the Project, but the risk assessment needs to inform project design. If there are many
    risks and all risks are considered major, it should signal that project implementation
    arrangements may need to be revisited, particularly in terms of local capacity,
    implementation responsibilities, monitoring and implementation period.
   Resolving the tension and trade-offs between the need to act quickly to stabilize conflict-
    affected populations and longer-term capacity development objectives. Where there is an
    inherent tension between the need to respond quickly, as in an emergency operation, and the
    need to build local capacity, project design needs to acknowledge this tension, the potential
    trade-offs and ways in which these can be resolved during project implementation. In some
    cases, the Bank needs to accept that it may not be best suited to provide emergency support
    and instead focus on longer-term development and capacity building.
   Better institutional arrangements and government involvement in overall project
    coordination when components are implemented by different agencies, especially if they
    are national and international. Where project implementation is assigned to different
    agencies, especially when there is a mix of local and international agencies, project design
    should pay particular attention to overall project coordination by building in and
    institutionalizing explicit and robust reporting arrangements. The Government as recipient of
    the grant should have a lead role and when coordinating structures do not work, as in this
    project, they should be adjusted.
   Even where there is a need to act quickly, there is a need to ensure some level of
    stakeholder involvement and consultations, which can be deepened as the project is
    implemented. Importance of stakeholder consultation at project formulation, during
    implementation and for project performance evaluation cannot be overemphasized. Except
    during implementation it was missing in other phases of the project cycle.
   Greater and more concerted efforts to prepare counterpart agencies to deal with Bank
    procedures and systems, especially when the Project is setting up a new implementing unit,
    where capacity is low (which is the case in most conflict and fragile situations), and where
    government counterparts have not worked with the Bank for a long period (as was the case in
    Sudan). A detailed PIM is recommended which can be used as a Handbook by the PMU staff.
    Its draft should be prepared as a part of project preparation and finalized after a PMU staff
    walk-through during training, and incorporating practical suggestions of stakeholders
    received during the Launch Workshops. Another key lesson is the need to provide



                                                20
    comprehensive training to the PMU staff in Bank procedures at project start-up because of
    their non familiarity with these procedures. A one-day orientation does not serve the purpose.

    7. Comments on Issues Raised by Borrower/Implementing Agencies/Partners

(a) Borrower/implementing agencies
The Government, as recipient of the grant, continued to maintain that its share of counterpart
funds was set at an unrealistic level for a country coming out of two decades of conflict. UNICEF
and UNIDO did not raise any issues but the PMU complained about delays in procurement
processes and the time taken by the Bank to reimburse for expenditure submitted through
withdrawal applications.

(b) Cofinanciers
N/A

(c) Other partners and stakeholders




                                               21
Annex 1. Project Costs and Financing

(a) Project Cost by Component (in USD Million equivalent)5
                                                     Actual/Latest
                                Appraisal Estimate                                                Percentage of
          Components                                Estimate (USD
                                  (USD millions)                                                   Appraisal
                                                       millions)

                 Total Baseline Cost                  14.036                    13.702
Physical Contingencies
                                                        0.701                     0.00                  0.00
Price Contingencies
                                                       0.00                      0.00                   0.00
             Total Project Costs                      14.737                    13.702
Front-end fee PPF                                      0.00                      0.00                    .00
Front-end fee IBRD                                     0.00                      0.00                    .00
     Total Financing Required                         14.737                    13.702                    93




(b) Financing6
                                                                   Appraisal Actual/Latest
                                                  Type of           Estimate     Estimate Percentage of
               Source of Funds
                                                Cofinancing           (USD        (USD       Appraisal
                                                                    millions)    millions)
MDTF                                           Grant             7.88         7.327        92.0
                                               Govt. Budget
GoNU                                                        6.857                  2.90               42.3
                                               Support
                                               Govt. Budget
GoNU + SK State Government                                  6.857                  7.41               108.1
                                               Support




5
    Figures in the table supplied by PMU

6
 In Table (b) above the government-financing picture is represented by entries at S. No. 2 and 3. In this mission’s view
S. No. 3 represents the actual picture of government project spending. S. No. 2 represents the picture of funds made
available to PMU to spend through its budget. These figures do not include US$4.5 million spent by the state
government of South Kordofan from its own budget to implement component 2 of the Project.

7
    Does not include Tundia Sub-project funding from GAP (US$0.2 million) which was not envisaged at appraisal




                                                          22
Annex 2. Outputs by Component
Component(s)


Water Supply


                                         Unit of
Indicator Name                    Core                        Baseline      Current
                                         Measure


Number of people in rural                Number    Value      0.00          90000.00
areas provided with access to
Improved Water Sources
                                                   Date       29-Aug-2007   26-Sep-2011
under the Project

                                                   Comments                 In addition to 50,000 livestock provided with
                                                                            water.


Improved community water                 Number    Value      0.00          125.00
points constructed or
rehabilitated under the Project
                                                   Date       09-Oct-0076   26-Sep-2011


                                                   Comments


Water points recovering                  Number    Value      0.00          125.00
operation and maintenance
costs
                                                   Date       29-Aug-2007   26-Sep-2011


Basic Education


                                         Unit of
Indicator Name                    Core                        Baseline      Current
                                         Measure


Pupils with access to                    Number    Value      0.00          335000.00
improved school facilities in
targeted areas
                                                   Date       29-Aug-2007   26-Sep-2011


                                                   Comments                 Includes desks and chairs for 48,000 children
                                                                            and school kits for 287,000 children.


Primary school aged children             Number    Value      0.00          287000.00
provided with pupil kits
                                                   Date       29-Aug-2007   26-Sep-2011


Schools equipped with                    Number    Value      0.00          30.00
materials and/or furniture
                                                   Date       29-Aug-2007   26-Sep-2011


Vocational Training




                                                           23
                                         Unit of
Indicator Name                    Core                           Baseline      Current
                                         Measure


Vocational training center               Yes/No       Value      No            Yes
with a capacity for 200
students per year rehabilitated
                                                      Date                     26-Sep-2011
and functioning

                                                      Comments                 Additionally 196 community youth and
                                                                               women trained in these vocations through
                                                                               project savings.


Humanitarian Demining


                                         Unit of
Indicator Name                    Core                           Baseline      Current
                                         Measure


Demined area                             Number       Value      0.00          40.00


                                                      Date       29-Aug-2007   26-Sep-2011


                                                      Comments                 40 communities i.e. safety to approximately
                                                                               460,000 people.


Rural Road Maintenance


                                         Unit of
Indicator Name                    Core                           Baseline      Current
                                         Measure


Share of rural population with           Number       Value      0.00          275000.00
access to an all-season road
                                                      Date       29-Aug-2007   26-Sep-2011


                                                      Comments                 Achieved improvement of 115km of roads and
                                                                               construction of 50 bridges and 17 box culverts.


Roads in good and fair                   Percentage   Value      0.00          11.40
condition as a share of total
classified roads
                                                      Date       29-Aug-2007   26-Sep-2011


                                                      Comments                 115 Km of road length between Dilling,
                                                                               Salamat and Lagawa (project target 50 Km
                                                                               road clearing and 8 Km grading). The state
                                                                               also constructed 50 bridges (Target 3 bridges)
                                                                               and 20 box culverts (target 8 culverts). Total
                                                                               state plan equal to 1,008km.


Size of the total classified             Kilometers   Value      0.00          115.00
network
                                         Sub Type     Date       29-Aug-2007   26-Sep-2011
                                         Supplemental




                                                              24
Roads                                Kilometers   Value      0.00               115.00
constructed/rehabilitated
                                     Sub Type     Date       29-Aug-2007        26-Sep-2011
                                     Supplemental


Rural Households Livelihoods Support


                                     Unit of
Indicator Name                Core                           Baseline           Current
                                     Measure


Famers adopting new                  Number       Value      0.00               200.00
technologies
                                                  Date       29-Aug-2007        26-Sep-2011


                                                  Comments Unit: No. of    Unit: No. of households. New technologies
                                                           households. New refers to Nuba Hoe (animal traction)
                                                           technologies
                                                           refers to Nuba
                                                           Hoe (animal
                                                           traction)


Farmers provided with new            Number       Value      0.00               4000.00
tools
                                                  Date       29-Aug-2007        26-Sep-2011


                                                  Comments hand tool kits       hand tool kits


Farmers trained                      Number       Value      0.00               400.00


                                                  Date       29-Aug-2007        26-Sep-2011


Capacity Building


                                     Unit of
Indicator Name                Core                           Baseline           Current
                                     Measure


Local Governments that have          Number       Value      0.00               1098.00
resumed core functions
                                                  Date       29-Aug-2007        26-Sep-2011


                                                  Comments Unit: No. of civil Unit: No. of civil servants
                                                           servants


Administrative buildings             Number       Value      0.00               65.00
built, rehabilitated or
equipped
                                                  Date       29-Aug-2007        26-Sep-2011


Anti-Malaria Bednets


Indicator Name                Core                           Baseline           Current
                                     Unit of




                                                           25
                                   Measure


X-ray machine purchased            Number        Value      0.00             1.00


                                                 Date       29-Aug-2007      26-Sep-2011


                                                 Comments                    Added at the request of the State Ministry of
                                                                             Health


Long-lasting insecticide-          Number        Value      0.00             8500.00
treated malaria nets purchased
and/or distributed
                                                 Date       29-Aug-2007      26-Sep-2011


                                                 Comments                    Project contributed 8,500 bed nets. The
                                                                             request was reduced by the state as this
                                                                             amount would bring the total amount provided
                                                                             by all parties to over 37,000 distributed to
                                                                             cover 80% of the population. Selected
                                                                             members of community trained in their use. In
                                                                             addition and beyond target the Project
                                                                             provided at the request of the state Ministry of
                                                                             Health (i) 28 fogging machines, (ii) 2.5 tons of
                                                                             insecticides and (iii) one X-ray machine.




Note: Project’s notable performance is overachievement of the output targets in 6 out of the 8 components.




                                                         26
Annex 3. Economic and Financial Analysis
(including assumptions in the analysis)

N/A




                                    27
Annex 4. Bank Lending and Implementation Support/Supervision Processes


(a) Task Team members
                                                                        Responsibility/
          Names                          Title                Unit
                                                                          Specialty
Lending
Abderrahim Fraiji          Sr. Operations Officer           AFTCS Task Team
                                                                  Leader
Supervision/ICR
Richard Olowo              Sr. Procurement Specialist       AFTPC Procurement
Mohamed Yehia Abd el       Financial Mgmt Specialist        AFTFM Financial
Karim                                                             Management
Moustapha Ould El Bechir   Sr. Procurement Specialist       AFTPC Procurement
Yousif Elfadil             Operations Officer               AFTCS Task Team
                                                                  Leader
Abdelmonem Kardash         Environmental Specialist         AFTEN Safeguards
Enas Mohamed Suleiman      E T Temporary                    AFMSD Team Assistant

(b) Staff Time and Cost
                                       Staff Time and Cost (Bank Budget Only)
Stage of Project Cycle                                      USD Thousands (including
                                     No. of staff weeks
                                                            travel and consultant costs)
Lending
          2006 TF054777                          0                       802
          2007 TF054777                          4.33                 38,150
                           Total:                4.33                 38,150
Supervision/ICR
          2008 TF054777                         2.2                   42,013
          2009 TF054777                        29.31                 123,225
          2010 TF054777                        25.55                  77,866
          2011 BB                               7.1                   24,028
          2011 TF054777                        15.73                  33,567
          2012 TF054777                         1.57                  41,800
                           Total:              81.46                 342,498




                                          28
Annex 5. Beneficiary Survey Results

N/A




                                      29
Annex 6. Stakeholder Workshop Report and Results

A stakeholder workshop was planned but could not be carried out due to the outbreak of conflict
in South Kordofan State in June 2011.




                                               30
    Annex 7. Summary of Borrower's ICR and/or Comments on Draft ICR

    The Borrower’s Project Completion Report is reproduced below.

    I.       Background and Project Objectives

    The 2005 CPA made provision for 70 percent of National Development Reconstruction Funds to
    be targeted to the least developed states in North Sudan, reflecting the recovery and development
    needs of these areas as well as their pivotal role in sustained peace and security. Within this group
    of least developed states, the particular status of the Three Areas – Abyei, Blue Nile, and South
    Kordofan – was recognized in the CPA through specific protocols. These protocols established a
    special status under the Presidency for Abyei, and the Blue Nile and South Kordofan states with
    their own constitution and legislative bodies.

    Implementation of the CPA in all Three Areas was behind schedule. Internally Displaced People
    (IDPs) were returning and humanitarian and development agencies were scaling up activities.
    Increased stability had made it safe for the farmers to resume agricultural operations and
    increased demand for food grains and other agricultural products had made investing in
    agriculture attractive. Due to lack of funds the government effort was inadequate in the face of
    the size of the problems faced by the war ravaged populations of the state. . Although government
    and donor efforts had started relief in several war affected areas but progress in the Three Areas
    was lagging behind and there remained significant disparities between the Three Areas and the
    national average; and within the Three Areas significant internal disparities had emerged between
    the more and less war-affected areas.
    Although the key objective of the first emergency project in South Kordofan state was to
    contribute to the supply of urgently-needed basic services and facilities to the affected population
    MDTF investments also served some developmental purposes. The key development issues being
    addressed by this project can be divided into three categories:

          1. The political aspect provides assistance to the implementation of the CPA in terms of
             encouraging fiscal transfers to the Three Areas;
          2. The socio-economic aspect encompasses the greater part of the Project, and includes
             interventions addressing the access to basic services (water, education), infrastructure,
             and some support to the economic development of the population;
          3. Finally, the institutional component provides support to and capacity building for
             government institutions, civil society, and other key actors. It also assists with the
             development of a comprehensive data collection system for development planning.

    The overall project development objective of this start-up/emergency project was to contribute to
    the supply of urgently-needed basic services and facilities, such as access to water, education, and
    improved rural roads to conflict-affected populations. A second objective was to improve the
    capacity of the local authorities in performing their roles towards the population.

    II.      Outputs of the Project

    The below table outlines the activities undertaken and achievements for each component:
      Component                  Component Activities                   # of Beneficiaries                Achievements
Water Supply                drilling/installation of 20 new hand         90,000 people         All of these outputs were achieved
                             pumps,                                       50,000 livestock       benefitting the envisaged numbers
(US$2.471 million -         5 new water yards,                                                   of human and livestock populations.
executed by UNICEF)         rehabilitating 100 hand pumps                                       In addition 125 community water
                            procurement of a rig, new hand                                       management committees were
                                                                                                  established and trained to operate



                                                              31
       Component                Component Activities                     # of Beneficiaries                 Achievements
                            pumps, spare parts for old hand                                          water systems thus contributing to
                            pumps,                                                                   sustainability of water supply
                           geophysical study                                                        systems.
                           training and monitoring
                                                                                               Component Targets Exceeded
Rural Roads                clearing of 50 km rural secondary                                   The component over-achieved its targets
Maintenance and Spot        roads                                                              by improving 115 Km of roads, building
Improvements               grading of 8 km roads                                              50 bridges and constructing 17 box
                           construction of 3 bridges and 8                                    culverts.
(US$1.8 million)            culverts
                                                                                               Component targets exceeded
Basic Education            Schools will be provided with desks            287,000 children   All these targets were met except that only
                            and chairs                                                         300 cabinets were distributed to 1200
(US$3.018 million –        350 teachers’ kits will be supplied                                schools.
executed by UNICEF)         and 1255 schools will receive 3500
                            cabinets
Vocational Training        rehabilitation of the Kadugli                  200 students            The target was fully met.
                            Vocational Training Center to raise                                     In addition, the Project trained 196
                            its capacity to train in various                                         youth and women in various
(US$0.515 million -
                            technical vocations                                                      vacations thus over-achieving the
executed by UNIDO)
                                                                                                     Project expectations.

                                                                                                Component targets were exceeded
Humanitarian Demining      1.5 million meters of high priority            460,000 people     The envisaged targets were met.
                            suspected mining areas and roads
                            will be cleared and verified that no
(US$1.596 million –
                            mines exist
executed by National
Mines Action Center)
Rural Households           Supply tools                                   4000 households    The targets set under the component were
Livelihood Support         Train farmers in use and                       400 farmers        fully met.
                            maintenance of tools
(US$0.596 million –
executed by UNIDO)
Capacity Building of       finance establishment and                                               The Project trained 1,098 civil
State and Local             maintenance of a PMU to improve                                          servants with a gender ratio of 45%
Government                  management capacity in 6                                                 and 55% for female and male civil
                            ministries namely Finance,                                               servants respectively.
(US$3.10 million)
                            Economy and Investment, Local                                           20 state government offices were
                            government, water, education and                                         constructed in 8 localities;
                            Public Works                                                             furniture and IT equipment were
                           constructing 20 offices and 10                                           procured and distributed to 20 state
                            living quarters for local authorities,                                   government offices;
                            and purchase of 20 vehicles mainly                                      25 state dormitories were equipped
                            for local authorities and equipment                                      and furnished;
                                                                                                    Only two vehicles were procured
                                                                                                     for the ministry. The government
                                                                                                     decided not to purchase or supply
                                                                                                     motor vehicles to the local
                                                                                                     authorities as these were easy prey
                                                                                                     to high jacking by rebels, as it
                                                                                                     would have worsened the already
                                                                                                     fragile security situation.

                                                                                                Component targets were exceeded as
                                                                                                the Project trained 1032 officials
Anti-malaria Bed Nets      provision of long- lasting                                              As the state Ministry of Health
                            insecticidal bed nets to cover about                                     received thousands of such bed nets
                            80% of the rural population and                                          in donations from other agencies
(US$1 million)
                            training of the bed net users                                            and bilateral donors, the demand on
                                                                                                     the Project was reduced to
                                                                                                     procurement of only 8,500 bed nets.
                                                                                                     Together with other donor bed nets
                                                                                                     the total supply provided coverage
                                                                                                     to 80% of the rural population.
                                                                                                    In addition 28 fogging machines,



                                                               32
  Component                     Component Activities                # of Beneficiaries                 Achievements
                                                                                              2.5 tons of insecticides and an X-
                                                                                              Ray machine were also provided to
                                                                                              the MoH to assist in strengthening
                                                                                              its anti-malarial activities.

                                                                                         This component also exceeded its
                                                                                         targeted expectations.

* It should be noted that the Project exceeded targets in 6 out of the 8 components.

III.        Project Outcomes and Impact

       a. Results and Impact of the Project

Relevance of Objectives: The Project had two development objectives:

       i.  The supply of basic services and facilities was highly relevant to the diagnosed needs of
              the war affected populations of the state of South Kordofan.
       ii. Capacity building of the state authorities was also significantly relevant so as to ensure
              sustainable maintenance of the assets created under the Project and to carry on the
              tasks in future.

Achievement of Project Development Objectives (PDOs): The Project provided that PDOs should
be assessed on the basis of results under each of the eight project components. Under intermediate
results each component was assigned specific output expectations and it was assumed that the
cumulative result of these expectations would yield the development impact of the Project. The
component-wise performance in fulfilling the output, as shown in the table above, indicates that
almost all the components achieved their results (output) indicators. Overall, the Project achieved
its development objectives substantially, benefitting 914,794 people (excluding numbers
benefitted by road improvement, estimated at nearly 275,000), providing water to 90,000 people,
made nearly half a million people safe by demining operations, and helping 335,000 students.

Poverty Impacts, Gender Aspects and Social Development: The greatest gain owing to the Project
initiatives was the stabilization of war-affected populations, whose economic and social life had
been significantly disrupted and who had either been reduced to begging or were living on doles.
By providing water supply in villages, restoring social infrastructure, directly supporting
agricultural operations and linking communities and markets through the construction and
improvement of vital road linkages, bridges and culverts, the war affected populations could
resume their normal life in their respective villages and engage in productive economic activities.
This had a positive impact on poverty alleviation and in restoring their social status in the
communities.

The Project was also sensitive to gender considerations from the start and ensured that women
received their fair share and were represented substantially amongst the beneficiaries: of the total
beneficiaries, women constituted 41% against the Project target of 40%.

Institutional Change: Due to its emergency nature, the Project focused on helping war affected
populations, and as such long term institutional development was not a project objective nor it
was set as a goal. However, the Project contributed to capacity development of 6 key ministries in
charge of delivering vital services to the state populations. Over 1,082 local officials were trained
though this program could be carried out only in the last year of the Project. The training had a
beneficial impact and contributed to (i) increased knowledge of the subjects and procedures for


                                                           33
operating public programs; (ii) monitoring the programs and more efficient disposal of work at
the desks in the secretariat offices; and (iii) meeting delivery targets by the field officers at the
cutting edge level. As a result of training government field officials, such as agriculture and
livestock extensionists, networked with traditional administration and village leaders as well as
NGOs and learned to plan and execute joint community programs.

    b. Long-term Impacts of the Project

To promote sustainability, the PMU has actively pursued arrangements for maintaining the assets
created and sustaining the role of the institutions supported by the Project. This can be seen in
many efforts, such as the Vocational Training Institute (VTC) in Kadugli: 125 water management
committees were established and provided with training to operate the water sources created
under the Project and to maintain them with income derived from the supply of water. VTC has
been tasked to implement another program of livelihood training for youth and women under the
Sudan Peace building and Development Project (SPDP), a six year program supported by the
peace building trust fund established by the World Bank.

In addition, the Ministry of Physical Planning and Public Utilities has committed to regularly
maintaining and improving the state roads, and sufficient budget provision will be made for this
purpose. Schools were sensitized to maintain the assets provided to them, and to undertake repairs
locally by teacher/student volunteers who would undergo training under master craftsmen to
repair and even make simple school furniture such as desks and benches.

The agricultural extension service was tasked to spread the benefits derived by 4000 farmers
(who had been supplied tools and inputs) to their neighbors and later neighboring communities,
and to train more farmers to spread the message.




                                                 34
Annex 8. Comments of Cofinanciers and Other Partners/Stakeholders

N/A




                                    35
Annex 9. List of Supporting Documents

1.    Project Concept Document
2.     SKSEP Final Project Proposal (Draft dated 15 April 2005)
3.    SKSEP Final Project Proposal of April 15, 2007
4.    Three ISRs including Latest ISR
5.    Govt. of Sudan Letter dated May 02, 2010 seeking final extension in project closing date
6.    Government letter dated June 29, 2009 seeking one year extension in project closing date
7.    Government letter dated August 08, 2008 seeking one year extension in project closing date
8.    World Bank letter dated November 27, 2007 extending the final date for project effectiveness
      from august 29, 2007 to February 28, 2008
9.    Aide memo of World Bank’s first supervision mission
10.   Aide memo of World Bank’s second supervision mission
11.   Aide memo of World Bank’s third supervision mission
12.   Aide memo of World Bank’s Mid-term Review Mission of Feb 18-March 03, 2009
13.   Aide memo of World Bank’s fifth supervision mission
14.   Aide memo of World Bank’s sixth supervision mission
15.   Aide memo of World Bank’s seventh and final supervision mission
16.   Financial statements furnished by the PMU
17.   Monitoring Agent Project Progress Report (Extract) of Q1 of 2008
18.   Monitoring Agent Project Progress Report (Extract) of Q1 of 2009
19.   Monitoring Agent Project Progress Report (Extract) of Q1 of 2010
20.   Monitoring Agent Project Progress Report (Extract) of Q2 of 2011
21.   Tundia Project Report
22.   Capacity Building Final Report




                                                36
                                                                                                                                                               To
                                                                                        25˚E
                                                                                                                                 REPUBLIC
                                                                                                                          A RA B REPUBL IC                    Aswan                 Lake                           35˚E        To

                                   SUDAN                                                                                     O F EGY PT
                                                                                                                                 EGYP T
                                                                                                                                                                                    Nasser
                                                                                                                                                                                                                            Hurghada



             SOUTH KORDOFAN                                                                                                                        Wadi Halfa     Lake Nubia


                 START-UP                                                       LIBYA
                                                                                                                                                                                                   N u b i a n
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        Red
               EMERGENCY                                                                                        S a h a r a                   D e s e r t
                                                                                                                                                                                                    D e s e r t

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        Sea
                 PROJECT                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              20˚N
                                                                                                                                    NORTHERN
                                                                                                                                                                                                                            RED SEA                Port Sudan
                             PROJECT WILAYAH (STATE)                                                                                                  Kerma

                             CITIES AND TOWNS                                                                                              Dongola
                             WILAYAH (STATE) CAPITALS




                                                                                                                                                      Ni
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       Tokar
                             NATIONAL CAPITAL                                                                                                                          Merowe                                                          Haiya




                                                                                                                                                         le
                             RIVERS                                                                  El‘Atrun

                             MAIN ROADS                                                                                                                                                                                                                 Karora
                                                                                                                                                                                                      Atbara
                             RAILROADS
                                                                                                                                                                                      RIVER           Ed Damer
                             WILAYAH (STATE) BOUNDARIES                                          r
                                                                                              wa                                                                                      NILE
                             INTERNATIONAL BOUNDARIES                                       Ho




                                                                                                                                                                                                                           At
                                                                                        i




                                                                                                                                                                                                                             ba
                                                                                                                                                                                             le
                                                                                     ad
                                                                                                                                                                                          Ni




                                                                                                                                                                                                                              ar
                                                                                    W




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                a
             This map was produced by the Map Design Unit of The World Bank.
             The boundaries, colors, denominations and any other information
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       ERITREA
             shown on this map do not imply, on the part of The World Bank                                                                                                                                                 KASSALA
             Group, any judgment on the legal status of any territory, or any
                                                                                        NORTHERN                                                                                KHARTOUM                                                                        To
             endorsement or acceptance of such boundaries.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    Kassala                    Dese
                                                                                         DARFUR                                                               KHARTOUM
             15˚N
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      15˚N
                                                                                                                                                                                      AL JAZIRAH
                                HAD
                              C HAD                                                                                                    NORTHERN




                                                                                                                                                                      White N
                                                                                                                                                                                                  Wad Medani
                                                                     WESTERN                                                           KORDOFAN                                                          Al Qadarif




                                                                                                                                                                        il e
                                 To                                  DARFUR
                               Abéche
                                                              Geneina                                                                                                                                              AL QADARIF
                                                                                            Al Fasher                                                                                              Sinnar
                                                                                                                                                    El Obeid                Kosti                           Blue                                       E T HI OPI A
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              O PI
                                                                                                                                                                                       Rabak                       N
                                                                                                                                                                                                                       l
                                                                                                                               En Nahud




                                                                                                                                                                                                                   ii e
                                                                                                                                                                         WHITE
                                                                                                                                                                                                  SINNAR                                                 To
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        Dese
                                                                                                                                                                         NILE
                                                                                        Nyala
             0                          200 Kilometers
                                                                                                                                                                                                             Ed Damazin
                                                                                                                          Al Fula
                                                                                                        Ed Da‘ein
             0                                           200 Miles                                                                     SOUTHERN KORDOFAN                                             BLUE
                                                                                  SOUTHERN                            Muglad
                                                                                                                                            Kadugli                                                  NILE
                                                                                   DARFUR
                                                                                                                                                                                 To
                                                                                                                                                                                Malakal                                                        SUDAN
                                                                                                     B
                                                                                                     Ba




             10˚N
                                                                                                        h
                                                                                                        hr




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      10˚N
                                                                                                           el
                                                                                                           e




                                                                                                            'Arab
                                                               To                                                         ABYEI
                                                              Sarh
                                                                                                                               Abyei

                                         C EN TR AL




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             IBRD 39202
                                         A FR I C AN
                                           F RI                                                                     To       SO UT H SUD AN
                                                                                                                             SOUT SUDA N
APRIL 2012




                                         RE PU B LI C
                                         R E P UB                                                                   Wau

                     20˚E                                                          25˚E                                                     30˚E                                                                           35˚E
