FILE         COPY                          Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No. P-1 879-TA
REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION
OF THE
PRESIDENT OF THE
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
TO THE
EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS
ON A
PROPOSED LOAN
TO THE
UNITED REPUBLIC OF TANZANIA
FOR THE
KIDATU HYDROELECTRIC PROJECT - SECOND STAGE
June 18, 1976
This document bas a restricted distibution and may be used by recipients only In the performance of
their official duties. Its contents imy not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
(as at November 1, 1975)
Tanzania SH   =    US$0.12
US$1.00       =   TSh8.05
(The Tanzania Shilling is officially valued
at a fixed rate of 9.66 TSh to the SDR. The
US Dollar/Tanzania Shilling exchange rate
is therefore subject to change. Conversions
in this report were made at US$1.00 to TSh8.05,
which is close to the short-term average exchange
rate.)
ABBREVIATIONS
KfW      -   KreuitailStalt fur WiLederaufbau
KWh      -   Kilowatt hour
MW       -   Megawatt
SIDA     -   Swedish International Development Agency
SWECO    -   Swedish Consultlng Croup
TANESCO  -   Tanzania Electric Supply Company Ltd.
TANU     -   Tanganyika African National Union
TANZANIA FISCAL YEAR
July 1st - June 30th



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION OF THE PRESIDENT
TO THE EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS
ON A PROPOSED LOAN TO THE
UNITED REPUBLIC OF TANZANIA
FOR THE
KIDATU HYDROELECTRIC PROJECT - SECOND STAGE
1.        I submit the following report and recommendation on a
proposed loan to the United Republic of Tanzania for the equivalent
of US$30 million to help finance construction of the Second Stage
development of the Kidatu Hydroelectric Project on the Great Ruaha
River. The proposed loan will be on standard Third Window terms
of 25 years, including seven years of grace, with interest at 4.85
percent. These funds will be relent to the Tanzania Electric Supply
Company, Limited (TANESCO) at an interest rate of 8.85 percent per
annum for 25 years, including five years of grace. In addition,
the Swedish International Development Authority (SIDA) has committed
SKr8O million (US$18.6 million equivalent) on a grant basis and
Kreditanstalk fur Wiederaufbau (KfW) of the Federal Republic of
Germany has committed DM60 million (US$24 million equivalent) at 2
percent for 30 years (including 10 years of grace) to the Government
of Tanzania for this project.
PART I - THE ECONOMY
General
2.        Although it has been sometime since the last full economic
and updating reports on Tanzania were finalized in May and December
1972, respectively, considerable staff economic work has been
accomplished on the country since that time. An agricultural sector
report was issued in December 1974. The report of an industry and
mining mission was distributed in April 1975 and a study of the fiscal
aspects of Tanzania's recent decentralization was completed in April
1975. In March 1976, at the request of the Government, the Bank
mounted a special mission which analyzed the fiscal implications of
the Government's programs for Universal Primary Education and Univer-
sal Rural Water Supply. The work of this mission will provide a
substantial input to the work of the basic economic mission which is
scheduled to visit Tanzania in mid-1976. Throughout the last two years
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance
of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



-2-
or so, Bank staff have engaged in a continuous economic dialogue
with the Government on the serious balance of payments difficulties
which have been encountered by the country and the Government's
policies and programs designed to close the external gap. These
policies and programs were reviewed in the Program Loan President's
Report No. P-1517a-TA, dated November 25, 1974 and in a memorandum
(M75-687) from the Secretary dated September 25, 1975. The Consul-
tative Group for East Africa met in April 1975 to discuss the
progress and prospects of the Tanzania economy and the need for
additional resources to support the Government's development program.
3.        The TANU Party, under the leadership of President Nyerere,
has been the guiding force in Tanzania's political evolution since
the 1950's. Over the years following independence the political
leadership has developed a philosophy of egalitarian socialism which
has been articulated in many documents, most central of which is the
Arusha Declaration of 1967. In restructuring the political, economic
and social life of the country the leadership has introduced an
impressive series of far-reaching institutional reforms. For the
past decade Tanzania's social and economic policy has been guided by
three fundamental objectives: (a) the achievement of a participatory,
decentralized socialist economic order; (b) the eradication of absolute
poverty and progress toward greater income equality; and (c) more
rapid long-term economic growth with full participation of all
regions and population groups in the development process. Reflecting
this philosophy some of the Government's most significant decisions
have been in the area of income policy. The tax structure is highly
progressive and middle and upper incomes have been restrained while
lower income wages have been increased. In the provision of social
infrastructure services, poorer areas have been favored. As a result
of these and related policies, differentials in living standards between
upper and lower urban dwellers have been narrowed and some impact has
been made on urban/rural differentials and regional disparities of in-
come.
4.        The overriding goal is to develop a socialist economic system
and the consequence has been a series of industry nationalization
measures and proliferation of government parastatal enterprises. The
state has increasingly intervened in the price mechanism; prices of
domestic factors and products and imports are controlled directly or
by such indirect methods as import licensing. These structural
changes have resulted in some implementation problems. In addition,
scarce managerial manpower has been spread very thinly, exacerbating
already serious shortages of top and middle-level staff. Some of
these conflicts should be seen, however, as the inevitable consequence
of a "frontal" attack on poverty and underdevelopment.



-3-
5.        With a per capita   income of only $130, Tanzania is classi-
fied as one of the 25 least developed countries as defined by the
United Nations (Country Data are provided in Annex I). Between
1968 and 1973 Tanzania's GDP grew at 4.6 percent per annum. Domestic
savings averaged 17 percent of GDP, while gross investment averaged
21 percent -- extremely high rates for a country at Tanzania's low
level of per capita income. The growth rate of GDP was not commensu-
rate with the magnitude of the investment effort, however, in part
because of the high proportion of investment which was directed into
infrastructure and social services projects such as the transportation
links with Zambia, because of sluggish growth in the agricultural
sector, and because of stagnant or declining productivity in parastatal
enterprises. During this period the balance of payments position of
Tanzania was generally satisfactory, despite the disappointingly slow
growth of exports (overall export volume grew at only three percent
per year from 1968 to 1972 and in 1973 export volume fell back to the
1968 level). Nevertheless, because of a sharp increase in capital
inflows, the overall balance of payments was in surplus from 1971
to 1973, and there was a modest build-up in foreign exchange reserves.
As a result of prudent financial management, net reserves were increased
to approximately $145 million by the end of 1973, the equivalent of
four months' imports.
6.        Events   then occurred which resulted in a drastic change in
the overall balance of payments of Tanzania. The 1973 and 1974 rains
failed in many parts of the country necessitating substantial increases
in imports of basic food items beginning in mid-1974. The drought
also affected cash crops, leading to a further decline in the export
volumes of coffee, cotton and sisal. Although world prices for
Tanzania's exports jumped 52 percent in 1974, total export receipts
rose only 18 percent due to drought-affected crop yields. At this same
time as a result of higher prices for imports the total import bill
for 1974 rose by 60 percent over 1973. The outcome of these forces was
a rapid depletion of net reserves to only $50 million at the end of 1974,
equivalent to only three weeks of imports. Industrial production also
stagnated in 1974, due in part to shortages of imported raw materials
and spare parts stemming from the growing foreign exchange constraint.
As a result, overall GDP may have actually declined slightly during
the year although official statistics indicate an increase of 2
percent. While production declined, domestic demand increased
rapidly, due to expansionary fiscal, monetary and wage policies, causing
severe pressure on the domestic price level. The retail price index
for low income workers rose by 57 percent in 1974 while that for
middle-grade civil servants jumped 35 percent.



-4-
7.        During 1975, while the food production shortfall was
substantially reversed and inflation was reduced to around 30 percent,
grain imports were still required and the balance of payments situa-
tion remained critical. In addition, export performance was extremely
disappointing with total value of exports declining by over 11 percent.
The overall balance of payments gap for 1975 was about $140-$145
million, equal to the deficit for 1974. Tanzania was able to cover
the 1975 foreign exchange gap by curtailing imports to the bare
minimum and by securing substantial program type assistance, including
a $30 million Program Loan (No. 1063-TA) from the Bank and a $24.3 mil-
lion drawing on the IMF special oil facility approved in August 1975.
Tanzania's present economic crisis cannot be attributed exclusively to
drought-related crop failures and import price escalation. The most distur-
bing aspect of Tanzania's economic situation has been the declining
growth rate of output from the agricultural, industrial and mining
sectors. The growth rate of agricultural output had been running
slightly behind the rate of growth of population for six years prior
to the harvest failure of 1974. Inadequate producer price incentives,
inefficiencies in the transport and distribution systems for inputs
and marketed production contributed to this disappointing performance.
The problem was also compounded by the Government's early 1974
decision to rapidly increase the pace of villagization which it
views as the only effective way to deliver essential economic and
social services to a widely scattered population. (It is now
estimated that about 70 percent of the rural population, almost 9
million people, are living in villages). The Government is aware that
the inadequately planned and poorly coordinated villagization has
had a negative impact on agricultural production but the 1974 decision
was made to complete the process in as short a time as possible and
the resettlement is now largely an accomplished fact. On the other
hand, in the modern sector many enterprises have experienced declining
labor productivity which has been attributed to lack of incentives,
poor discipline and ineffective management. Furthermore, while the
ratio of domestic savings to GDP rose during the 1960's, it began to
decline by 1973 and fall drastically to 7.5 percent in 1974 as a direct
outcome of the balance of payments crisis. In addition to the above-
mentioned factors, the high level of investment which has gone
into slow-gestation social and economic infrastructure rather than
into the directly productive sectors has     prevented more rapid
growth of output.
8.        The Tanzanian Government in late 1974 formulated a compre-
hensive program of policy actions to bring the balance of payments
under control in the medium run and to restore the growth rate of
output. The principal elements of the program included a reallocation
of investment in favor of directly productive sectors, measures to raise
agricultural output, steps to improve incentives in industry and mining



-5-
and to increase the export orientation of these sectors, and constraints
on public and private consumption demand. Imports were cut through
direct controls and measures were introduced to slow down the rate of
growth of private consumption. Indirect taxes were raised and further
increased in the 1975/76 budget. User charges for water and electri-
city were also raised and an extremely restrictive wage and salary
policy has been followed. Further, the Government is making a serious
effort to bring the rate of growth-of-public consumption expenditures
under control. The 1975/76 budget called for a level of current
expenditures below the revised estimate for 1974/75 and while this
target may not be realistic the intentions of the Government are never-
theless clear. In addition cuts of about 7 percent in the civil
service were made in March 1976.
9.        On the production side, several steps have been taken to
increase output. The Government has raised agricultural producer
prices to levels approaching world parity and certain progressive
export taxes have been reduced or eliminated. The overall planning
capability of the Ministry of Agriculture is being strengthened and
a project coordiantion unit to improve implementation has been
established in the Ministry. Furthermore, as a major component of its
efforts to expand material production the Government has made signi-
ficant progress in reallocating public investment in favor of the
directly productive sectors of agriculture, industry and mining. Another
problem area in which action has been undertaken is that of export
development. In October 1975, Tanzania, in conjunction with Kenya and
Uganda, devalued the shilling by approximately 14 percent. Given the
heavy reliance of the East African Community on export markets in
the U.K. and the substantial recent decline in the value of sterling,
this devaluation can be construed as an attempt at restoration of
competitiveness of exports to the U.K. and also an incentive to
exporters to non-sterling markets. The Government's progress in
implementing policies and programs designed to close the balance of
payments gap in accordance with understandings relating to the program
loan was the subject of a memorandum (M75-687) from the Secretary to
the Executive Directors dated September 25, 1975 (paragraph 2 above).
The most ecouraging aspect of the Government's response to the
balance of payments crisis was the demonstration that Tanzania retains
the ability to push through necessary and unpopular measures over a
wide front. It is this characteristic of a "hard state," together with
the basically sound program of economic restructuring, which holds the
promise for the future.
10.       Tanzania's prospects for bringing the balance of payments
deficit under control in the medium term clearly depend upon the
effectiveness of the program of policy actions outlined above. It is
not possible to determine the time period over which all the policy



-6-
measures introduced by the Tanzanian Government will take effect. The
austerity measures introduced in 1974 and 1975 have already had an
impact on imports and on domestic consumption, and the recovery of
food production in 1975 has clearly helped to alleviate the food
deficit. However, the basic program of economic restructuring will
require more time before its full effects can be realized. For
example, some new investments in agriculture, industry and mining
that will directly benefit the balance of payments will take several
years to come to fruition. Thus the balance of payments will remain
weak in the short run. However, Tanzania should have a stronger economy
at the end of the restructuring process. The central focus of the
assistance efforts should be, therefore, to ensure that the balance
of payments gaps arising over the next few years do not prevent
Tanzania from implementing a development program designed to
incorporate the required policy changes. In this connection, negotia-
tions for a proposed second program credit were directly held in Dar
es Salaam. In addition, and despite Tanzania's impressive domestic
savings performance, a continued capital inflow in excess of the
foreign exchange component of high priority projects will also be
required if Tanzania is to achieve its development targets. Financing
of some local expenditures will, therefore, be justified.
11.       In terms of debt outstanding and disbursed, the Bank Group
is Tanzania's second largest creditor after the People's Republic of
China. Other major lenders are Sweden, Canada, Denmark, the Netherlands
and the Federal Republic of Germany. The current low overall debt
service ratio of about 7 percent is expected to rise to about 11 percent
by 1980 and remain at about that level throughout the 1980's. Includ-
ing a notional one-third share of the debt of the East African Communi-
ty Corporations, the IBRD is presently holding 13 percent of Tanzania's
outstanding external debt and IDA 10 percent; the IBRD share is
expected to rise about 23 percent in the next five years, and the IDA
share to rise about 13 percent. Debt service payments to the Bank are
about 13 percent of total debt service payments; the corresponding share
of IDA is about 3 percent. These two figures are projected to rise to
about 25 percent and 3 percent, respectively, by 1980. The debt service
ratio of Bank loans to exports is expected to rise to about 2 percent
by 1980. The Bank's exposure is high because several major donors are
now making their aid available either on grant basis or very concessional
terms and because as a result of prudent debt management suppliers'
credit have been kept to a minimum. The average interest rate on
loans to Tanzania outstanding at December 31, 1974 amounted to only
2.4 percent and the average term was 22 years.



-7-
12.       Tanzania is considered eligible for Bank lending on Third
Window terms on the basis of the following criteria:
(a) Per capita income
In 1972 - $120
(b) Performance
The Government's strong commitment to
development is evident from the recent high
rates of domestic savings and gross investments
which averaged 17 percent and 21 percent, respect-
ively, of the GDP between 1968 and 1973 (paragraph
5 above). Its program for economic restructuring
is basically sound and, in order to achieve this
restructuring, Tanzania has shown itself willing
to push through necessary but unpopular measures
over a wide front.
(c) Ability to repay
In view of the Government's encouraging response
to the serious balance of payments crisis,
its prudent management of the foreign debt
(paragraph 5 above) and good medium term develop-
ment prospects, Tanzania is creditworthy for
limited amounts of Bank lending on intermediate
terms as proposed herein.
(d) Access to alternative sources of capital
Tanzania's ability to implement its development
program depends to a large extent on the continued
availability of external capital. While it has
received additional external assistance in recent
years, this has not been commensurate with its
need and it cannot prudently borrow substantial
additional sums on commercial terms.



-8-
East African Community
13.       The East African Community Corporations have experienced
difficulties in recent years. While the 1967 Treaty for East
African Cooperation is one of the most far-reaching and comprehen-
sive economic cooperation agreements in existence among sovereign
states in the developing world, in practice, the degree of economic
integration and cooperation among the Partner States is much less
than what was envisaged in the Treaty. Political developments in
the Partner States have created tension within the Community and
impaired the growth of inter-state trade. These difficulties have
been compounded by the balance of payments constraints which all
three Partner States experienced.
14.       Of the Community Corporations, the East African Railways
Corporation (EARC) has been the most severely affected. As a result
of long delays by the Partner States in approving increases in
tariffs and restrictions on the interstate transfer of corporate funds,
EARC was unable to order essential spare parts and supplies with the
result that its operational capacity has deteriorated considerably.
In July 1974, the Partner States agreed, with Bank assistance, on a
package of financial measures to rehabilitate the EARC including
interstate transfer of funds and injection of additional capital.
However, this agreement was never fully implemented and as a result
disbursements under Loan No. 674-EA (East African Railways III) were
suspended in February 1975. A further meeting was held in July 1975
at which an agreement was again reached on formula for sharing of
debt service payment by the Partner States, and suspension of the loan
was lifted.
15.       The Partner States recognized that because of their fundamen-
tal, political and economic differences, a review of the 1967 Treaty
was called for. For this purpose a Commission has been established
consisting of three Cabinet level officials from each country, with
Mr. Demas, President of the Caribbean Development Bank, as Chairman.
This Commission is expected to submit its reports by the end of
1976. While there is hope that the Commission may deal with the
structural differences in the long run, the Corporations are still
facing a difficult period.
16.       Since February 1976 the relationship between the Partner States
has further deteriorated. Arrangements for debt service payments



-9-
were again disrupted resulting in long delay in making debt
service payments to the Bank. Disbursements to the East African
Railways Corporation, the East African Harbours Corporation,
the East African Posts and Telecommunications Corporation and
the East African Development Bank were suspended by the Bank on
April 28, 1976. As the Executive Directors were informed on
May 25, 1976, (SecM76-383), a mission visited East Africa in
May to discuss with the Presidents and Finance Ministers the
debt service problems which endangered both the Bank's opera-
tions in East Africa and the credit standing of the Community
and the Partner States (being jointly and severally responsi-
ble). An agreement was reached to ensure remittances from
the Regional Offices of the Corporations to complete all over-
due payments and these were made by June 1, 1976. Disburse-
ments on the Community loans were, therefore, resumed with
effect from June 1. Regarding future debt service payments,
the Agreement specifies (i) fixed contributions by each
Partner State to meet external debt obligations, (ii) commits
the Governmentsto ensure remittances from the Regional Offices
of the Corporation, (iii) establishes a mechanism and procedure
for timely payments, and (iv) provides automatic foreign
exchange cover for debt service remittances.
PART II - BANK GROUP OPERATIONS IN TANZANIA
16.       Tanzania joined the Bank, IDA and IFC in 1962.   Beginning
with an IDA credit for education in 1963, 23 IDA credits and nine



- 10-
Bank loans amounting to $349.8 million have so far been approved for
Tanzania. In addition, Tanzania has been a beneficiary of 10 loans
totalling $244.8 million, which have been extended for the develop-
ment of the common services and development bank operated regionally
by Tanzania, Kenya and Uganda through their association in the East
African Community. The only IFC investments in Tanzania to date,
totalling $4.7 million, were made in the Kilombero Sugar Company in
1969 and 1964. This Company encountered financial difficulties and
in 1969 IFC and other investors sold their interest in the Company
to the Government. Annex II contains summary statements of Bank
loans and IDA credits to Tanzania and the East African Community
organizations as of May 31, 1976 and notes on the execution of
ongoing projects.
18.       In keeping   with Tanzania's overall development strategy our
lending operations are increasingly focusing on the rural sector and
directly productive projects. Up to the end of FY72 10 out of 14
loans and credits made directly to Tanzania had been for infrastruc-
ture. Of the 18 Tanzania operations approved since then all but
four: Urban Sites and Services (Credit No. 495-TA), Highway
Maintenance (Credit No. 507-TA) and Educations IV and V (Credits
No. 371-TA and 607-TA), were for directly productive projects. These
directly productive projects are supporting both the agricultural
and industrial sectors, including the Kigoma Integrated Rural
Development Project (Credit No. 508-TA) and our first direct lending
for an industrial project (Mwanza Textiles, Loan No. 1123-TA). In
addition, a tobacco processing project and a project to support
selected industries at Morogoro are expected to be ready for considera-
tion by the Executive Directors in the near future. A proposed second
rural development project and a water supply project have recently been
appraised in the field and negotiations for a second program loan were
recently held in Dar es Salaam (see paragraph 10 above).
19.       While it should be borne in mind that over one-half of
total Bank Group lending to Tanzania has been approved in the last
two fiscal years and that initial start-up difficulties are perhaps
inevitable, the project implementation difficulties referred to in
Annex II of this report have been greater than anticipated. Some
of these problems stem from the scarcity of suitably trained and
qualified manpower, some reflect the understandable reluctance and
apprehension of an essentially conservative traditional sector to adopt



-11-
new "technology" and others are undoubtedly a reflection of the
strains created in a society which is attempting a unique traverse
from one set of economic, institutional and political rules to
another. The Government has become extremely conscious of these
implementation issues and is taking steps to resolve these problems.
An earlier reluctance to recruit technical assistance for planning
and implementation has been replaced by a willingness to utilize
such assistance whenever it is demonstrably necessary. A technical
assistance project designed to strengthen project preparation and
implementation was recently approved by the Executive Directors.
At the request of the Government about 10 technical staff have
been applied by the Agriculture Development Services (ADS) and a Bank
staff member has recently been seconded to the Project Implementation
Unit in the Ministry of Agriculture. In a longer term attempt to
alleviate the human resource constraints our lending is expected to
increasingly emphasize formal and non-formal training. Furthermore,
a conscious attempt is being made to develop less complex projects.
20.       The difficulties facing the EAC and the common services
corporations (paragraph 13 above) have affected the Bank's lending
program to the Community. Yet while the exact form of the reorganized
Community services remains to be determined, the development of the
transport and communications infrastructure to facilitate national
programs of the Partner States will continue to be an important
aspect of the development of the three countries. We therefore anti-
cipate a continuing role for the Bank in these sectors. Field
appraisal of a fourth Posts and Telecommunications project has been
completed and a Railways project and a Harbours project will be ready
for appraisal in fiscal year 1977. In each instance all organizational
and guarantee questions will be resolved before conclusion of lending
arrangements.
PART III - THE POWER SECTOR
Background
21.       The main indigenous energy resource in Tanzania is hydro power.
Most of the potential is in the basins of eight rivers draining into
the Indian Ocean, although there is also scope for hydro development
on three of the rivers of the Nile system within Tanzania. A small
quantity of coal is mined in the-Songwe-Kiwiri area but commercially
exploitable bulk deposits have yet to be proven. While sizeable
deposits of bituminous coal have been discovered north of Lake Nyasa,
the remoteness of this field makes it unlikely that this coal would be



-12-
economic in electricity generation for the coastal region in the foresee-
able future. Firewood is the main fuel in the subsistence sector and its
potential in this respect is being examined in the context of a number of
the Bank's regional rural development projects. Firewood is also in limited
use by industry for generating processing steam. The main commercial form
of energy, oil, is imported both in crude form and as refined products.
A refinery with a one million ton per year capacity in Dar es Salaam
processes the crude imports for domestic consumption and re-export. The
existing diesel power stations and gas turbine use oil fuel from this
refinery as well as imported gas oil. Oil prospecting, which has been
carried on for many years without success, is continuing in the several
areas by AGIP (an Italian oil company which has exclusive prospecting rights
in the coastal sedimentary belt and the continental shelf).
22.       Since independence in 1961, the power sector has been growing
much more rapidly than the economy as a whole. Sales by the Tanzania
Electric Supply Company, Ltd. (TANESCO) rose at an average rate of 10 per-
cent per annum between 1964-1975. Total investment by TANESCO during
1964-1969 amounted to T Sh 276 million (US$39 million*) or about 5.7 percent
of total national investment. Power investment in the Goverrment's 1969-
1974 plan was projected at about 6.0 percent of the total planned
national investment during that period. This allocation of resources to
power is viewed as appropriate for a country in Tanzania's stage of develop-
ment.
23.       The industrial sector accounts for the bulk of electricity con-
sumption. During 1970-1975, industrial users accounted for about 69 percent
of total sales followed by domestic users with about 18 percent and the
commercial sector with about 13 percent. Only 950,000 persons (less than
7 percent of total population) have access to electricity through 71,570
connections, although about 12 percent of the population live in the towns
and villages where electricity is available. Present overall per connection
consumption of about 5,500 kWh per annum and annual per capita consumption
of about 70 kWh for domestic users are low. Connection density is about
.25 per 1,000 population in rural areas and about 65 per 1,000 population
in urban areas.
Existing Facilities and Development Program
24.       The Government and TANESCO have attempted to exploit available
domestic energy resources through the development of hydro power. Reflecting
this, Tanzania's current total installed generating capacity of about 266 MW
includes 151 MW of hydro. The remaining capacity consits of 100 MW of diesel
At the then prevailing exchange rate.



-13-
and steam and 15 MW of gas-turbine. Recent oil price increases have
provided additional Lncentives for hydro development and as a result, a
10 MW hydro electric project was financed by the U.S.S.R. Other investments
have included extensions of existing disbribution facilities and construction of
about twenty small diesel stations in various townships. Plants already
under construction and scheduled for commissioning in the period of
1975-1980 (which would exclude the project presently under considera-
tion) will bring TANESCO's installed capacity to about 355 MW and the
country's total to about 375 MW.
TANESCO
25.       Taaizania E:Lectric Supply iompany, Ltd. was founded as a private
company in 1931. In 1964 it was acquired totally by the Government of
Tanzania through purchase from the East African Power and Lighting Company
Limited (EAP&L) of Kenya of all the issued shares not already held by the
Government. Payments for these shares were made over a twelve-year period
and com-pleted by the end of 1975. A parastatal under the sponsorship of
the Ministry of Water, Energy and Minerals, TANESCO has been made responsible
for the development of the country's power industry. It has functioned as
the sole organization for the public generation and distribution of elec-
tricity throughout mainland Tanzania and operates in accordance with com-
mercial principles.
26.       In 1973, TANESCO was reorganized along functinnal lines based on
the recommendations of a study carried out by Scandiaconsult, a Swedish
firm. This reorganization was aimed at giving more operational and cons-
truction responsibilities to regional levels. Day-to-day operations are
under the direction of the General Manager, who is assisted by a Deputy
General Manager and six Division Managers. The management is responsible
to a Board of Directors consisting of a chairman, who is the Minister of
Water, Energy and Minerals, and ten other members: representatives of
various other ministries, the industrial and banking sectors, the Tanganyika
African National Union (TANU) and the Parliament; a university professor;
and the General Manager of TANESCO. The Board meets about every two months.
27.       The present General Manager, who has served since early 1973,
is the first Tanzanian appointed to this position. Assurances have been
obtained that from time to time the Government and Bank would discuss
the qualifications and experience appropriate in considering General
Manager appointments (Section 4.01 of the Joint Financing Agreement).
TANESCO is well-managed and has been very successful in filling most of its
senior managerial positions with qualified Tanzanian staff. In accordance



-14-
with the Government's general Tanzanization policy, the percentage of
Tanzanian citizens in senior staff posts increased from 20 percent in
1964 to about 80 percent today. This has been brought about by a well-
planned training and sponsorship program which has been initiated, admi-
nistered and partly funded by TANESCO and SIDA during the past ten years.
TANESCO currently has about a 3,000 man-work force. Reflecting TANESCO's
management capacity, this figure has been stable over the past five years
even with the rapid growth in services provided.
28.       A review of TANESCO's financial performance clearly indicates
that TANESCO enjoyed a period of adequate earnings until 1974 when fuel
prices sharply increased (diesel oil by 140 percent and furnace oil by
200 percent). A dry spell which limited hydro generation and repeated
failures of the diesel units and the gas turbine at the Ubungo station
also contributed to the deterioration of TANESCO's profitability in that
year. As a result, the rate of return on average net operating assets
dropped from 13.4 percent in 1973 to 6.3 percent in 1974, inspite of the
30 percent across-the-board tariff surcharge effective April 1, 1974. An
analysis of TANESCO's cash flow for 1970-1974 indicates that its net
internally generated cash accounted for about 16.5 percent of the total
financing required during this five-year period. This is satisfactory,
particularly in view of the fact that its total assets more than doubled
in real terms during these five years. TANESCO's debt-equity ratio of
50/50 as of December 31, 1974 reflected a satisfactory capital structure.
Rural Electrification
29.       The Government's program for the electrification of rural areas
basically covers the electrification of "ujamaa villages" with bilateral
assistance. Since this operation is expected to be unprofitable, it is
expected that a new organization (the Rural Electrification Corporation)
will be established for this purpose. According to a draft study on the
duties and responsibilities for this organization (prepared by TANESCO and
approved in principle by the Ministry of Water, Energy and Minerals) this
corporation would be involved in the planning of village electrification
in connection with the general power planning of the country carried out
by TANESCO. It is intended that TANESCO would assist in the construction
and operation of these village power systems, but that these facilities
would be owned by this new organization and that all expenditures in excess
of revenues would be covered by Government subsidies. It is also intended
that these installations would be turned over to TANESCO when they become
commercially viable. This arrangement is satisfactory as it would not
impair TANESCO's principle of commercial viability but would also make the
technical and cost-conscious expertise of the management of TANESCO avail-
able to the rural electrification operations.



-15-
PART IV - THE PROJECT
30.       A report entitled "Tanzania - Appraisal of the Kidatu Hydroelectric
Project - Second Stage Development" is being circulated to the Executive
Directors separately. This project is essentially a continuation of the
First Stage Kidatu Rydroelectric Project which was appraised in 1970 and
cofinanced by SIDA, the Canadian International Development Authority (CIDA)
and the Bank {Loan No. 715 TA). The First Stage was completed according to
the original schedule, although with substantial cost overruns, and has
operated satisfactorily since May 1975. The water intake, headrace tunnel,
powerhouse, control room, tailrace tunnel, switchyard, and all related
civil works of the accessories and auxiliaries at Kidatu had been excavated
and constructed during the First Stage according to an ultimate design which
includes provision for this Second Stage.
31.       The Project has been prepared following reconnaissance and pre-
appraisal missions in May 1974 and December 1974, a report on the geological
situation and design by a Bank consultant, and a feasibility study dated
February 1975 by the consultants (SWECO). The Project was appraised in
April 1975 by a Bank mission joined by SIDA representatives. A loan and pro-
ject summary is given in Annex III. Negotiations were held in Washington
in January 1976. The Tanzanian delegation was led by Mr. Kasambala, General
Manager, TANESCO.
Project Description
32.       This proposed Second Stage of the Kidatu Hydroelectric Development
includes the construction of a concrete dam located 6 km downstream of the
Mtera bridge on the Dodoma-Iringa highway, with a maximum height above the river
bed of about 45 m and a total crest length of 350 m. The selection of the
site was based on favorable ground conditions and reservoir capacity. The
dam would ensure the provision of a regulated river flow during dry seasons
sufficient for the requirements of the entire Kidatu Scheme.
33.       At the existing Kidatu station the water is being conveyed
from the Kidatu reservoir to the turbines through a concrete intake structure,
a headrace tunnel, and four vertical penstocks. Only two of the penstocks
have been provided with steel lining and cylindrical gates during the
First Stage construction and the other two shafts would be provided in
this Project. The two existing Francis type turbines have been coupled to
two generators, each of 50 MW rating. Two additional turbine-generator
units similar to the existing ones would be provided for under this Project.



-16-
34.       In the Kidatu powerhouse, two additional sets of transformers,
one set for each generating unit, would also be placed underground in
separate rooms adjacent to the main machinery hall. Power from the new
transformers would be transmitted to the existing outdoor switchyard by a
set of cables which would be financed by this Project. The existing trans-
mission line, would then transmit the additional power supplied by this
Project to a step-down substation to be constructed at Ubungo on the
outskirts of Dar es Salaam. Although the capacity of the above-mentioned
Kidatu-Ubungo line is sufficient to carry additional power, studies have
shown that a 220/130 KV, 90 MVA transformer at the existing Morogoro
substation would be necessary for better reactive load distribution and
system voltage regulation to obtain better stability for higher load
tansportation and to reduce system losses. Such a transformer station
has, therefore, been included in the Project for financing.
35.       Finally, the Project would finance consulting services necessary
for project design and construction and a training program for TANESCO's
middle management and professional staff. With regard to training it was
agreed that TANESCO would submit a training program to the Bank for
review and comment by June 30, 1976 (Section 3.04 of the Joint Financing
Agreement).
36.       Although there are no competing claims for the waters of-the
Great Ruaha River upstream of the Kidatu and Mtera dam site, continued
availability of water in sufficient quantities for the Project would be
essential. Assurances were therefore obtained that the Government will
not permit significant abstraction of water from the Great Ruaha River or
its tributaries upstream of Kidatu that would reduce the potential
generating output of the Kidatu station (Section 5.03 of the Joint Financing
Agreement).
Estimated Costs and Financing
37.       The estimated total cost of the Project is US$91.0 million equivalent
net of customs duties but including interest and commitment charges during
construction. Approximately US$63.6 million or 70 percent of this would
be foreign exchange. These costs are presented in more detail in Annex III.
As a result of construction experience from the completion of the First
Staae, physical contingencies of 25 percent on civil works and 15 percent
on equipment have been included in project costs. Based on the experience
of rapid price increases both in Tanzania in general but particularly under
Loan 715-TA, relatively high price contingency allowances of 42 percent on
civil works and 29 percent on equipment have also been provided.



-17-
38.       The proposed loan of US$30 million equivalent, together with the
SIDA grant of US$18.6 million equivalent, will be made available on a joint
financing basis. Together with the KfW parallel financing of US$24 million
equivalent, the total contribution of external funds to this project, amount-
ing to about 79 percent of the total project costs, would cover foreign
exchange component as well as about US$9.0 million equivalent of local
costs. The proposed loan would finance US$25.5 million of the foreign
costs and contribute US$4.5 million towards the local costs. Financing of
some local costs is considered justified (paragraph 10 above). TANESCO
will finance internally the remaining 21 percent of project costs. The
funds made available under the Third Window loan would be on-lent by the
Government to TANESCO for 25 years including five years grace at 8.85
percent per annum. Also, the proceeds of the SIDA grant and KfW loan
would be on-lent by the Government to TANESCO on the same terms. TANESCO
would bear the foreign exchange risk (Section 5.06 of the Joint Financing
Agreement).
Procurement and Disbursements
39.       All contracts in excess of $120,000 equivalent to be financed
from the proposed loan and SIDA grant would be awarded on the basis of
international competitive bidding consistent with the Bank/IDA Guidelines
for Procurement.  As some of the contracts to be let under this Project,
both for manufactured goods and for civil works, could attract local
bidding, domestic manufacturer's would be allowed a preference of 15
percent or the existing rate of duties (whichever is lower) over the c.i.f.
price of competing foreign suppliers and domestic civil works contractors
would be allowed a preferential margin of 7-1/2 percent over the bid prices
of foreign contractors. Contracts to be financed from the KfW loan are
also expected to be awarded on the basis of international competitive bidding.
40.       The loan will finance the training program and the interest
and other charges related to the loan during the project construction period
(estimated at about US$3.5 million equivalent). The loan will also be
jointly disbursed with SIDA on the basis of 10:7 ratio, against: (a) 100
percent of the foreign expenditure on mechanical and electrical equipment
at Mtera and consulting services and training; and (b) 75 percent of the
costs of civil works. The loan and SIDA grant would include a total of
about US$1.1 million for retroactive financing of services of consultants
and experts. KfW, as a parallel cofinancier, has agreed to finance costs
for supply and installation of the turbines, generators and electrical
and mechanical equipment at Kidatu and the 90 MVA transformer at Morogoro.
The Project is expected to be completed by the end of 1980; the closing
date would be December 31, 1981.



-18-
Project Supervision
41.       The Swedish Consulting Group (SWECO) has been involved in the
Kidatu Scheme since its participation in the 1968 comparative study
which identified Kidatu as the most economic location for power develop-
ment in Tanzania.   SWECO was engaged by TANESCO for the design, prepara-
tion of bidding documents, bid evaluation and supervision of the First
Stage Kidatu Development and will serve in an identical capacity during
the Second Stage. SWECO's performance under the First Stage gave rise
to some difficulties and differences with TANESCO, but corrective
measures have been instituted and TANESCO has requested SWECO to
continue.
42.       TANESCO has agreed to strengthen its own construction manage-
ment and supervisory capacity with the appointment of two full-time
experts, one to work at the site and the other to advise the head of
TANESCO's Planning Division at TANESCO's headquarters (Section 3.05
of the Joint Financing Agreement).    In addition, TANESCO will have
available on a part-time basis an adviser on contractor's claims
to protect TANESCO from unreasonable claims and a panel of experts
to advise it on project design and on project implementation (Section 3.05
of the Joint Financing Agreement).
Financial Aspects
43.       As noted above (paragraph 28), TANESCO's financial position
deteriorated considerably after the oil price increases. In spite of
Government's approval of a 30 percent surcharge effective April 1974
to compensate for cost increases, TANESCO had to request a further 12



-19-
percent tariff increase in 1975 in order to meet the minimum 7 percent rate
of return required under Loan 715-TA. However, this second increase was not
acted upon by the Government. In any case the appraisal team's financial
projections indicated that an even more substantial tariff increase would
be required beyond 1975. If appropriate increases were not forthcoming
TANESCO's ability to mobilize funds to support its ongoing operations and
to finance its future investment program would be endangered. The only
alternative to this internal financing, a Government allocation to TANESCO,
would imply a subsidy to the users of power which certainly cannot be
justified in the Tanzanian context.
44.       Therefore, in order to begin to re-establish the financial
viability of TANESCO and to provide sufficient funds for its needs (as
measured by a 7 percent return on revalued assets), the Government approved
a further tariff increase of 40 percent effective June 1976. Furthermore,
assurances have been received from the Government that in the future,
tariffs would continue to be adjusted to maintain a rate of return on
average revalued net fixed assets in operation of at least 7 percent
in 1977 and thereafter (Section 5.09 of the Joint Financing Agreement).
45.       In addition, with the assistance of the Bank, a study is being
undertaken to develop a cost reflecting tariff structure to replace the
present system. While the average level of tariffs under the restructured
system would be adequate to ensure the minimum rate of return, the new
tariffs would reflect as much as possible costs of supply and provide in-
centives to consume electricity during the off peak hours and to restrict
peak demand. It is anticipated that a well designed tariff structure will
cut into peak demand and by reducing the growth in the load curve over time
lead to a rephasing of future power investments. Given the high investments
required in the power sector, this will allow a substantial increase in the
allocation of resources to directly productive projects and make an important
contribution to Tanzania's development. Assurances were obtained during
negotiations that TANESCO would review the study with the Government and the
Bank and then introduce a cost reflecting tariff structure by December 1,
1976 or such other date as shall be agreed (Section 5.10 of the Joint Financing
Agreement).
46.       During a period of rapidly increasing prices (as Tanzania is still
undergoing), calculation of TANESCO's rate of return on the basis of the
historical costs of its assets may result in a serious shortfall in the
company's ability to finance replacement parts and undertake new investments.
As a result, the legal documents call for the calculation of TANESCO's rate
of return on the basis of revalued assets (see paragraph4 4). To facilitate
this TANESCO, with Bank assistance, completed a study which revalued its



-20-
fixed assets in 1975. This revaluation resulted in an increase in TANESCO's
net fixed assets from $32.3 million to $55.6 million as of December 31, 1974
and it was agreed during negotiations that in the future TANESCO's fixed
assets would be revalued every two years on the basis of a procedure agreed
to by the Bank (Section 5.08 of the Joint Financing Agreement).
Project Justification
47.       The Project would supply additinnal energy to TANESCO's inter-
connected system which accounted for about 90 percent of total TANESCO
sales in 1974. The average rate of growth of electricity sales in the
system since 1966 has been 10.5 percent per annum with industrial sales
growing at 14 percent per annum, commercial sales at 9 percent per annum
and domestic sales at 8 percent per annum. Taking into account the 40
percent tariff increase as well as a number of recent marketing developments,
the Bank appraisal mission prepared a load forecast which indicates that
the kwh sales growth from the interconnected system would increase fron an abnor-
mally low level of 5.6 percent in 1974 to 7.7 percent in 1975 and 8.3 Dercent in
1976, and would reach an average of about 10 percent per annum from 1977
through 1985. This projected maximum demand together with installed and
firm capacity indicate that the existing interconnected system will be capable
of meeting capacity requirements until 1980. This Project has therefore been
designed and phased to provide the capacity required to meet the growth in
power demand after 1980.
48.       Alternatives to the proposed Project would include another hydro
scheme or a thermal station. A number of hydro alternatives have been
studied in the last decade by consultants and most were eliminated as too
remote, small or geologically unsatisfactory. When the remaining choices
were examined in detail, the Second Stage development of Kidatu was estab-
lised as the preferred hydro alternative. Its lower cost reflected, among
other things, the fact that all major civil works except for the Mtera dam,
had already been constructed during the First Stage. The Second Stage of
Kidatu was then compared with alternative thermal developments and with
thermo/hydro blends. Analyses of these indicated that the proposed Project
would be preferred over the thermal-hydro blend at discount rates up to
14 percent and that a thermal alternative would only be economic at
discount rates higher than 23 percent. Since the opportunity cost of capital
in Tanzania is estimated at below both these fitures, the Kidatu development
is the recommended alternative.
49.       The rate of return on the Project is expected to be 23 percent.
If the foreign exchange cost is shadow-priced at 1.35 (US$1 = TShlO.87)
the rate of return would still be     19 percent.



-21-
50.       An in-depth study in relation with Mtera Reservoir is underway.
The study will make recommendations with regard to development including
game preservation and fishing. An agreement has been reached that the
recommendations resulting from this study will be discussed with Sweden
and the Bank and implemented accordingly (Section 5.02 of the Joint
Financing Agreement).
PART V - LEGAL INSTRUMENTS AND AUTHORITY
51.       The draft Loan Agreement between the United Republic of Tanzania
and the Bank, the draft Joint Financing Agreement between the United Repub-
lic of Tanzania, the Kingdom of Sweden, TANESCO and the Bank, the draft
Lenders Agreement between KfW and the Bank, the Report of the Committee
provided for in Article III (Section 4(iii) of the Articles of Agreement
of the Bank and the text of a draft Resolution approving the proposed Loan
are being distributed to the Executive Directors separately. The draft
agreements conform to those previously used for this type of project and
financing arrangements (Section 6.01 of the draft Loan Agreement).
52.       Special features of the legal documents are referred to in
paragraphs 27, 35, 36, 39, 42, 44, 45, 46 and 50.    Special
conditions of effectiveness of the proposed Loan would be the execution
of the Swedish Development Cooperation Agreement and KfW Loan Agreement
with Tanzania.
53.       I am satisfied that the proposed Loan would comply with the
Articles of Agreement of the Bank and with the established criteria for
Third Window Loans.
PART VI - RECOMMENDATION
54.        I recommend that the Executive Directors approve the proposed loan.
Robert S. McNamara
President
Attachments
Washington, D. C.
June 18, 1976






Page I of ij pages
TANZANIA             -SOCIAL INDICAINSR     DATA SUffT
LAND AREA (TNOU MM2)                                                                 .   ...
-------                          ~~~~~~~TANZANtA                        REfERENCE COUNTRIES (1910)
TOTA;L       945.1                                          MOST RECENT
ARABLE          ..1960                               1970    ESTINATE           KENYA           KOREA, REP. OF MALAVSIA~
G4P PER CAPITA (USS)                         60.0       110.0        130.0               140.0        270.0       440.0
POPULATION AND VITAL STATISTICS
POPULATION (MIOYR. MILLION)      9.6 i. 1.9 La           14.0La.             11.2         31.4        10.9
POPULATION DENSITY
PER SQUARE KM.                           10.0        14.0        15.0                 19.0       119.0         33.0
PER SQUARE KM. ARABLE LANE)                         I 47.0          ..*                           49.0
VITAL STATISIICS                                                                                                 3.
CRUDE BIRTH RATE PER THOUSAND            46.0 A.b    41.                                           TO4.  8.     40a
C"RUDE DEOATH MATE PN    HUSN            25.0 7a     22.0o.                           18.          8.0          z. 
IFANT MORTALITY RATE ( THOU)          190.0        160.0 S.        .                  5.0/,        .         4 1. 0 
LIFE EXPECTANCT AT BIRTH CTRS)           38.0        42.0        44.0                 48.0        65.0         64.0a~
GROSS REPRODUCTION RATE                    ..         3.2          3.2                 1.4         2.6          2. 8
POPULATION GROWTH RATE CZ)
T3TAL                                     2.3         3.0         2.9                  3.1         2.4          3.1
URA                                        ..         5.0 /a       4.5                 r.0 A        4.0
URBAN P,OPULATION (I OF TOTAL)              4.0         6.0          7.0                10.0         41.0        29.0 /a
AGE STRUCTURE (PERCENT)
a TOa14 TEARS                           42.Lok      4.4  /  .                        48.4        42.1         45.   .
15 To 64 YLARS                           s4. il      53.0           .                 48.0        54.4         S2.0 0
65 TEARS AND OVER                         2.0         2.6           .                  3.6          3.3         3. 0 4.
AGE DEPENDENCY RATIO                        0.61 ab     0.9           I. 1.                           0.               /a
ECONOMNIC DEPENDENCY RATIO0.9                    c      1.2           ..1.1 A                         1.4            9
FAMILT PLANNING-
ACCEPTORS (CUMULATIVE. THOU)               ...                       ..                              .       220.0  / 0
USERS (I OF MARRIEDW OEN)                  .                         ..                                         80
E MPLO(ME NT
TOTL LAO     OC     TOSN)              4900.0       5600.0 /ab       .               5100. ~     0400.0       2 900. 0 
LABOR FORCE IN AGRICULTURE (I)               ..        91.0 4         ..                90:.0        50.5        41.0 ~
UNEMPLOYED (Z IF LABOR FORCE)                .                         ..                             5.0 /a      6.0ab
INCOME DISTRIBUTION
I-" OF  RIVTE   INCOME REC*D BY-
HIGHEST   5I OF POPULATION                 ..        3.              .20.2 z3 2.1                              28.31
HIGHEST 201 IFPPLTO                         .        6.              .52.6 a.                     47.1         5. 
LOEST  2 01 If POPULATION                ..         2.34 c                           3.9   ~      6.1         3 5k
LOgWEST  401 OF POPULATION                 r. .a                    I. 1:.                        t 14.        11.2 a
DISTRIBUTION OF LAND OWNERSHIP
IOWNED BY SMALLEST 10% OWNERS               ...                     .                    .2.
HEALTH AND NUTRITION
POPU;LATO      E  PTIIN20000.0 /sA215?0.0Da                       21430.0 /a           7800.0      2210.   L.3860.0     /i.d
POPULATION PER NURSIN     PESNI.Zj49.a                           4100         ~       1T.      ~16.            100.   ~o.
POPULATION PER HOSPIAL BE                 530.0 T.    10O~j                            810.00     1920.00       210.0 /a
PER CAPITA SUPPLY OF
CRALORIES( (I Of REQJIREMENTS)          69.0         73.0        96 .                10to1.0     1033     9.0 9 4
PROTEIN (GRAMSPER DAY)                   420.0       43.         63.0                 71.0        65.0         409.0 
-0F WHICH ALMRAL AND PULSE            22 0a       2 3.00.                          29.0         1 9.0       20.0a
DEATH RATE (/THOU) AGES 1-4                  ...                       ..                               .4.0
EDUCATION
AJUSTE  ENROLLMENT RATIO
PRIMARY SCHOOL                           25.0        37.0           .                 67.0       104.0        a89. 0
SECONDARY SCHOOL                          2.0         3.0           ..0                           41.0         3 4 .0
YEA1RS OF SC HOOLING PROVIDED
(FIRST AND SECOND LEVEL)                1 3.0        1 3. 0      1 3. 0               13.0        12.0         IS. 0
VOCATIONAL NRO_LM ENT
CI OF SECONDAR Y)                        23.0        10.0a.         .                  2 oa.      15.0          3.0
ADULT LITERACY MATE (.1                      ...                      .                  0.0           ..        7.0L
HOUSINMG
PERSO;NS PER ROOM (AVERAGE)                  0.81f         ...                              .2.7                   2. 3
OCCUPIED DWELLINGS WITHOUT                      L.
PIPED WATER (I)                                      300b__00c                                                  50I
ACCESS TO ELECTRICITY                        .                         ..                             00c        4.
(I OF ALL DWELLINGS)                       ..                        ..                           50.0         43.0
MURAL DWELLINGS CONNECTED
TO ELECTRICITY (Z)                         ..                        ..                           30. 0        30. 0
CONSUMPTION
RADIO RE;CEIVERS (PER THOU POP)              2.0        11.0         16.0                4 8. 0      12 6.0       4 1. 0
PASSENGER CARS (PER THOU POP)                ..         3.0          3 .0                9 .0         2.0        25. 0
ELECTRICITY (KWH/YR PER CAP)               1s.0 /,     29 OL,       31.0 La             68.0       309.0        346.0 /
NEWSPRINT (KG/YR PER CAP)                   O.1 I       0.1          0.1                 0.5          3 .6        4. 0
SEE NOTES AND DEFINITIONS--------------------ON----E---ERSE--



ANNEX I
Page 2 of I; pages
Unless otherwise noted, data for 1960 refer to any year between 1959 end 1961, for 1970 between 1968 end 1970, and for Most Rcent EatiaLe between
1971 & 1973.
-   Melaysia has been selected as an objective country because its populetion is cooparable in sine end its economic developocnt is severel steps
shoead of Tancia..
TANZANIA         I96.         Meinlend Tanceia;    /b   1957, African population;   LA   Ratio of population under 15 and 65 end over tc total labor force.
Li_ 1962;   /.   1961-63;   If  1958, Zanzibar;    Zj 1963.
1970     La  Mainland 'lnana       b  1967;   /c   House holds;  /d  1965;    &   Urban Only.
MO0ST ~RECENT E~STIMATE: s/ Mainland Tzaoaia.
KENYA            1970     d   Registered only; _&    1962469;    La Ratio of population under 15 and 65 and over to labor force age 15-59 Yeors;
Id  Iabor force age 15-59 years;    /e  Urban households;    /f  Registered, sot all practicing in the countrY;
7-1 Incldes teacher training at the thir-d level.
12OE6     . OF    1970    /a  Registered;   /b   Registered, not all precticing in the country;    /c   Piped water inside.
MAAtYSIA         1970     /a West Malsyeie;    /b  Registered applicants for work;     Li Households;    Ld  Registered, cot all protLoinig in tic
country;   /0   Go-eroet only;     If  1965466;    /g  1967;   /b  Piped water inside.
RU March 19, 1976
UF1MMDNS O? SOCIAL IROMCATORS
Land Apse (thou hi2)                                      P               rowe ~~~~~~~~~~~Veson - Population divided by oumber of practi-
oa-iaJsurs ace area copiigland area end inland waters.                          cEaaa                  re    enre,ltand           o   criid        uss
Ameble -Most recent estimate of lend area usead temporarl     or permBnently            end auxiliary pereosnel with training or experience.
forririlvtlc,  escres  mrbet and kitchen gardens or to lie fallow.           E9    ta aapr    =  tal ted - Population divided by number of hospital
asele Inpu lc end priate geneal and specialised hospital
"MPlpe   c  ta (Un$) - GN? per capita estimates at sarket prices, calcu-                and rehabilitation casters, excldes nursing hoses and establiebhmnte
MiEIU    1Piamidcnversin methd as World Bank Atlas (1979-74 basis),                   for custodial and preventive c"are
Pe ap.:itaso       fclre       %o   reou resets) - Computed fros
ltg   vital statisticsanr                                                            eqivlnto        et  fo   upis     vtal      n   onr     e
d           iIfl3jaJ   011fljn)TAs of July frsrt; if not available, avenage     ca4ita per day; available supplies comprise donestic prodution,
orlitwo  tenary astlOt so.                                                            imports lees exports, aid changes in stack; cat supplies seclude
animal feed, seeds, quantities used in food processing and losBse
Popultion denity -.perfesure kom      Midcyear population pe   square kilo-             in distribution; requirenents were estimated by FAO based On ptysi-
meter(100hactres) OfMoa   ra                                                   ologinal needs for norma activity and health considering snviron-
Population density - per square h;i o  anable land - Computed as above fwc              mental tenperature, hody weights, age and sex distributions of p.~pu-
arable land onyletion, and allowing 10% for waste at household level.
Par caita   ul      f+ ptei   (grass per day) - Protein content of per
Vital Statistics                                                                        caiantsppyB odpr day; net supply of food is defined aso
Crude birtLh rate per thousand - Anniual livs births per thousand of mid-               above; requirements for all1 countries' established by hUIOS Economic
year population; usuall   five-year 'avrages ending in 1960, 19170 and                Resarch Services provide fin a minimum allowance of 60 grams of total
1975 for developing countries.                                                       protein per day, and 20 grass of animal and pulse protein, of which 10
Crude death rate oar thousand - Annual deaths per thousand of raid-yar                  gram  should be animal protein; these sta-dards are lower then those
popul.etitonj usually five-year averages ending in 1960, 1970 and 1975                of 75 grams of total protein and 23 grams of animal protein as en avr-
for developing countries,                                                            age for the world, proposed by FAO in the Third World Food Surey.
lnf.t.rtai~Zrat ~  thou) - Annual deaths of infants under one yea              PeIVit       rtinspl       from animal sod pulse - Protein supply of food
of age perthoiind1live irbbs.                                                          dekrived fromW       and pulses in grams per day.
Lw n tancE_._~igt       - Average number of years of life resmin-            Dgath r     flgui) am       1-4 - Annual deaths per thow-ad in age group 1-4
iijT irtlijiudil.jfTwe.year avrges ending in 1960, 1970 and 1975                 iinki7ltochMIrminithish age group; suggsstsd as an indicator of cal-
for deelping countries.                                                              nutrition.
G-8,  VrO:ti.nrate - Average numher of live daughters a woman will
bear in barnornal reproductive period if she experiences present age-               Education
specific fertility rates; osually five-year averages ending in 1960,                         an10       ,ai..             ,h,   - Enrollment Of all ages as
19,70 and 1975 for developing countries                                              aecetai on; includes children aged
Population groth rate (%) - total - Compound annual growth rates of mid-                6-fl years but adLiusted for different lengths of primary education,
year populatioc for 195u-ou, 1960-70, and 1960 to mest recent year.                   for 'count-ries with universal education, enrlinent crAy exceed 100%
Pouaion  rowth rate (%    ubn - Computed like growth rate of total                  since some pupils are below Or above the Official school age.
populto;     diffret    efnitions of. urban areas say affect compara-               Adjused enrollument ratio - seodracol-Cmua                 saoe      eod
bility of data asrag countries.                                                       aryat"atOn requires at least fur yer        of approved primAry instruc-
UrZf=  ton (%of total) - Ratio of urban in total population;                       tion; provides genera1, vecatisual or teacher training instruction for
erntone or urban areas may affect comparability of data                pupils of 12 to 17 years of age; correspondence courees are generally
ocng countries.                                                                       included.
an  ~~   ~Dereot)- Children (0-11L years), workijng age (15-65 years),        Yersof scholingProie         (fis ant:d seofnd levels) - Total year of
anrtie    years and over) as percentages of mid-year population.               Icong       tseodr       lee,vctonil instruction may be partially
Ag   emwyratio - Ratio of population under IS and 65 end over to                or completely excluded.
thoe  f k..15throughi 65.                                                        oct$oal enronllmena%i%of secondary) - Vocationa     institutions incluLde
Economic dan      9rt,- Ratio of population under 15 and 65 end over                    tehia, inutra          r other programs which Operate independently,
tothelabor romein ige group of 15-65 years.                                           or as departments of secondary institutions.
Fomily plnins - acnospir     (cumulative, thou) - Cumulative avb      df             hAdultiNgla rte,) - Literate adults (able in read and rite) as
acceptors of birth conrldvcsudrasicsopainlfty~ercetageortotail7adu-lt population aged 15 years and over.
planning program since ineaption.
PB'diy p1an      -users (.%gof carrid women) - Percetages of carried
unison ofch-bain        ge(5-byears)      ho wea birth-control devices             s"n          om(v       a   - Average number of parsons per room in occupied
to all1 married womenn in ears age group.                                            csnventisnal werllng. in urban areas; dwellings exlude non-permanent
structures and unocupied parts.
Mat                                                                .   t"        S  :7 OCUDodiLiho  :.~n (%  - Occupied conventional dwell-
labo     force  thousad) - Economicalljy active persons, including                                           aras        u  inside or outside Piped water
are   o an  und q  eyed bot excluding housewives, students, aet.;              facilities as percentage of all occupied dwellings.
definitions in various countties are not comparable.                               Acces   is aactrmotby (I of all dwellings) - Conventional dwealings with
-           grcutuallaorfrc         (n   azng                   eetriclty In Ilving quarters as percent of total dwellingi in urban
forestry, bunting and fishing) as percentage of total labor force,                   aid nral areas.
Uhsemlcoyd (of laborfsce) - Unemployed are usually defined as perons                 RURMP1tllinr     connected in electricity (%) - Computed as abewe for rural
whoar fle andlwljT       O     takeeajob, out of a Job an a given day,                 elig      ny
reaimed rot of a Job, and seeking work for a specified minimum
period not exceeding one weak; mey not be compaable between countriest
due to different definitions of unomployed end soiree of data, e.gf.,                   s re-ne veRa     thou D) - All types of receivers for radio broad-
employment office statistics, sample surrvop, compulsory uonplopmsfnt                cast   togeneral publc per thousand of population; sexcludes cm-
insurance,                                                                           licensed receivers in countries and in years when registration of
radio sets was in effect; data for recent yerar cay not be comparable
InomW   dsribution - Percentage of private income (both In cash and                    since cast countries abolished licensing.
kid  eeived by richiest 5%1, richest 20%, poorest 20%, end poorest                       cg   (R            ) - Pasesiger care comprise motor care sat-
40% of population,                                                                         ens eth        perst ons; excludesBsibulanoen, heareq% and
militarveils
Disttkuon o       adosr      u-    ecnae        flndmsdb          elh                                         ca= '   -) - Annual consumption of indutrial, oomWa-
ies  10  an  pores 1% Of land owners *                                           c  i pulc and Wvate electricity in kilowatt hours per capita;
generally based on prodaction data, without allowance for leases in
Health and Nutrition                                                                   grids but Allowing for imiports end ezports of electricity.
En V         W&ian - Population divided by number of practicing                   N      at                )- Per capita annual consumption in kilograms
p  c  qua    d rrm a cadcal school at university level,                       06ien       ron d  Wic production plus net imports of newsprint.



PM*" D&TA                                ~~~~~~~~Page 3of 4 Pages
Actual                        Projected             19657-   1973 -   197.4-    19 75 -   17       95      18
NATIONAL ACOM                                         12 7_I 4                        96       1972    1974      lg    5  1980                 _5    I28
Ac 1911      Prices~& Exchangee Rates      Average Annual Growth Rates          As Percent of GDY
Gross Domestic Product                     1Th1Ir2    1q741*26             52.      25"'        'Y         1       39        '.9     0.0    10.       03 '3
Gainsfo     Terms of Trade (4)                -        -14 2       -45.6    -50.3    -79 8                                             -      -2.4   -3.5
Grs  Dmsic Income                     1819r2~   tB36        ffS'0    fY76     nr          4.5'      1.9       2.2      4.7    7UWo      =UD   1ou
Import (incl. NF'S)                          519.6     530.6      469.3     483.3    584 8      6.8       2 1    -11.6       4.5     28.6    PA. 8   24.5
Exports    "  (import capacity)              AILO0     308 .8      257.8    283.4    382.8      2.6     -25.9     -16.5      8 2      22.9    13.6   16.0
Resource Gap                                 102.8     Mn.8       lTfs      "TW. 9  -TJ. o                                          --T.7    flfl=    w:=
Consumption Expenditures                    1538.6    1668.4      1688.4   1722.2   2052.5      4.8       8.4       1.2      4.0      84.6    89.1   86.1
Investment    1  (incl. stocks)              406.6     407.0     .418.1 .   455.3    533.6      8.4       0.2       2.7      5.0      22.4    22.1   22.4
Domestic Savings                             280.6     18~.2       206.6    255.4    331.6      2.7     -34.0      11.6      9.9      15.4    10.9   13.9
National Savings                             286.8     187.2       213.9    251:8    291.7      3.      -34.7      14.3       6.4     15.8    11.3   12.2
MERCHANDISE TRAD)E                           Annual Data at Current Prices                                                          As Percent of Total
Imports                 ~~~~1972    1975      1974                          1980                                           1973     1975   1980F
Capital goods                    125.2     135.1     185.7                         329.6                                           29.4    25.7    29.3
Intermediate goods (wsoLfuels) 154.4       169.4     189.2                        378.2                                            36.8    31.9    33.7
F'uels and related materials     41.3       53.1     148.5                         301.1                                           11.6    26.0    26.8
of which:   Petroleum          (41.3)    (53:.1)  (14+8.5)                      (301.1)                                         (11.6)  (26.0) (26.8)
Cons    tion  oosAU                        JWL 2    .jj    I.                      JLlb 8                                          22.2     16.5   10.2
Total Me-rch.9   orts  (cif)     403.8     459.8     738.5                        1123.7                                          100.0o  to-o.o  i TO.o
Exports
Prixmary products rpscml f'uels)  208.6    263.6     309.8                         411.0                                           79.8    75.0    69.8
Fuels and related materials      30.7       12.5      18.5                          52.5                                            3.8     5.8     7.8
of which:   Petroleum         (30.7)    ( 12.5)    (18.5)                        (52.5)                                          (3.8)   (5.8)   (7.8)
Manufactuired goods               4~jl      54.4      55.4                         151.2                                           16.5     19.2   22.4
Total March. Exports (fob)       288.4     330.5    -38-3.7                       -67-4.7                                         fff.h   TTO      1bMm
Tourism end Border' Trade
Merchandise Trade Indices                      Average 1973-    - 100
Export Price Index                89.6      100.0     152.0      142.2     157.9  201,.6
Import Price Index                86.7      100.0    159.0       177.1     185.9  243.6
Terms of Trade Index             100.2      100.0      95.6       80.3      84.9   82.8
Exports Volume Index             109.7      100.0     81.2        71        79    111
VALUE ADDED B3Y SECTOR             Annual Data at 1973-    Prices and Exchange Rates             Averae Annual Growth Rates         As Percent of Total
1967-72    1972-74  1975-80         97     1975    1980
Agriculture                      640.6      647.7    634.1       665.8     685.8   784.7        2.6       --0.5      3.3         39.3    37.9   35-.6
Industry and Mining              206.6      208.7    210.8       217.1     228.0   281.1        5.0         0.6      5.3         12.7    12.3   12.7
Service                          73710    790.0     83.         876.0.ZA.  919.8  1141.6       6;1         6.4      5.4         48.0    49.8   51.7
Total                           1584.2     1646.4   1679.2      1758.9    1833.5  2207.3        4.-5        3.0      4.6        100.0     UT -   10.   100.0
Actual                Eat.     Budget                                                                      2/
PUBLIC FINANCE                       pY72      fY73     FY74       FYF75      FY76                                                    As Percent of GDP-
(Cen-tralGovernment)                  -(in m7ill-ions, of c-urrent T Shillings)                                                     FY72    PY73   FY74
Current Receipts                1859        2357     3002       3884     4007                                                    17.7    19.7   23.2
Cuxrrent Exedtrs1717                        2134     2685       3694      3530                                                   16.4    17.8   20.6
Bogtr  avings              142         n23               7-                                                                 1.0-T -  3  1T.9 2.
Other Public Sector -            241         264       ..        .          .2.3                                                          2.2
Public Sector Investment        1694        1836     1996       2301       .                                                     16.2    15.3   15.4
CURRENT EXPENDITURE DETAILS                         -Actuai          Prelim.    Eat.
As % Total Current Expend.)                    FY197'i    FY1973   FY~1974  FY~1975
Education                                        17.5       16.7     14.8     16.1
other Social Services                            12.5       11.8     11.7     14.6
Agr iculture283                                             24       314       32
Other Economic Services )283                                 5.      314       32
Administration and Defense )41.8                            46.1     42.2     46.1
Other
Total Current Expenditures                      i 0.0      i o- 3.   1350   100.0
SEIECTED INDICATORS                                1965       1973     197,6    1981
(Calculated from 3-year averaged data)             1970       1975     1980     1985
Av-rage ICON                                        TW        rr        rr      Tr.T
Import Elasticity                                   1.6      -0.5       1.0      1.1
Marginal Domestic Savings Rate                      0.1      -0.6       0.3      0.2
Marginal National Savings Rats                      0.2       -0.6      0.2      0.1
LABOR FORCE AND                                 Total Labor Force                                 Value Added Per Worke(i     currnt prices)
OUTPUT PEN WORKER                 In Millions         I fTtlI                                    ..olr            ecn     ofAerg
1971        '        M 97                                    1971                  1971
Agriculture                      5.3                 91                                       98                    43
Industry                         0.1                  2                                     1590                   694
Service                          0.4                  7                                     2170                   948
'Tot-al                          5.8                100-                                    '7IW9'                 mau'.
not avalilable        --less thne-halgfrte-        -       1    Parastatal contribution to net current income.
not availabsmallesstha         1 un the2/                Averaged from calendar year.                                          ECL
smallest unit shown                                                             ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~may 1976



Page 4 of 4 Pages
_                   ;      t ~~~~~~~current prices)
Avg. Annual
Prolcted                                       Gr-th Rate
MY          R76                                           1977       1978       1979       1980                   1972  -1980
SUHHARY BALANCE OF PAYM87T8
E.portt (inol. NFS)                       397.5       417.0       491.0                   574.4     643.0      718.7      816.2      922.1                     11.1
Iaportt (incl. NPS)                       476.1                  j85.8                              883.5      989.4     1113.1     1265.4                     13.0
Re o.r.ce Rln.e. (X-M)                    -78.6      .022;1      -_                     .201.3     -240.5     -270.6     -297.0     -343.3                     28.8
Itereet  (net)                           )53.4        10.4        .6.8                   *24.8     -30.1      -32.7      -35.6      -39.8                     34.2
Direct Intsnt   t Inn"'e                  )           ..5          0.5                    .2.0      -2.0       -2.0       -2.0       -2.0
Workers' Re-itt.nee                         0.0         O.O         0.0                     0.0       0.0        0.0        0.0        0.0
Current Tranefere (net)                     -1.7        0 7          15                              13.0       15.0       15.0       15.0
__t__ _ A___ ___ __ _ L             -83.7      -___0                                   7
bala.nc on Current Accuount                 3                                               . 7  -27.6        -290.4     -          -320.1
Pri-nte Direct I-vetnent                   -            1.5         2.7                     2.8       2.8        2.8        2.8        2.8                     12.5
Offioial Capital Greete                    16.0        16.0        20.0                    27.5      30.3       33.3       36.6       40.3
Public M4LT Lone
DIsbu r.e-eots                          110.6        88.4       107.6 V/                112.9 4/  111.3 5/   133.5 5/   160.8 51   191.4 5/                  11.2
-R.p.vOnt.                               '15. 4      .18 1       .12.                    .18.4     -21.1      -27.4      -30.3      -39.6                     12.5
Net Oib-reeent                             95.2                    9                       94.5      90.2      106.1      130.5      151.8                      6.0
Other MHLT Lo.ne                            ...         ...         ...                    ...       ...
Otnburse.nente
- ReDavb-ents
Net Ditb.re.-ent                            4.5         9                                             ..
UIe of IMF Reso-r..e                         - _                   46.3                                                              Actval
Copital Transnctione n.e.i.                 28.2      -29.3        63.8                                         7/     1972     1973     1974     1975
Chaoge a o Net gonerve.                    -60.2      -20.5        91.0                   IIITANDDT SERVICE -
ilebt eot. & Diab-rsed 335.6          416.4    565.2    789.7
GRANT AND LOAN CCOMITMENTS
Official Gr.ots & Grant-like                                                                Iteprest en Publio Debt      6.9      8.2      8.9     12.2
Repay.yente on Publio  Debt  29.0    11.4     12.7     22.0
Pubilc M6LT Losnn                                                                           Total Public Debt Service   35.8     19.6     21.6     34.2
18RD                                        -          -           65.0                     Other Debt Servioe (net)
IDA   6/                                    10.8       28.8        61.2                     Total Debt Seovice (not)
Other                                       -           -
Othor Multilateral                           3.3         1.8        7.1                   Rurden on REport Rarniegs (.)
Goveronrnta                                 49.3        94.9       112.5
Soppiler.                                   -          -           -                        Punlic Debt Service          9.0      4.7      4.5      7.1
Financial in1titutin-M                     _           _           _                        Total Debt Service
Rondo                                       -           -           -                       TDS+Dirent I-veat. Inc.     10.2      6.0      4.4      9.5
Public Lo-nd ne.                            -          -e
total Public N6LT Loans                                  12t3.        3k l                  Average Te-mn of Public Debt
Actual Debt Outstanding    Dec. 31. 1974              It. as 7. Prior Year DO&D    2.7      2.4      2.1      2.1
EXTERNAL REBT                            Qiabursed COnly            "Te904                    A-trt. as 72 Prior, Year DObD 11.1    3.4      3.1      3.9
World BRnk                                  40.9 
IDA                                        63.3                    11.8                     08R0 Debt GOut. 6 Diburned
Other Multilateral                          10.4                     1 .9                       an 7 Public Debt 04D     7.2      7.9      7.3      9.7
Gov-rnoent.                                389.9                    72.5                        as % Public Debt Serv    3.6     11.2     13.0     16.9
S"ppliors                                   0.1
F-toocail So-titutione                      12.3                    2.3                   IDA Debt Out. & Dibtroed
donds                                       7.9                     1.5                      as 7, Public Debt 060      14.6     13.8     13.2      9.6
Publtc Debte 0.0.1.                         13.0                   2.4                     e as 7. Public Debt Serv. 9/  1.1      2.0      2.8      1.9
Total Public MELT Debt                     537.9                  100.0
Nc.lon.1 co.-third share of EAC debt        86.0
of ,h_ch  World Rank                     (38.0)
Other                          (48.0)
TOTAL                                      623.9
. cSt applicable                                          e staff neti"ate                1/ P-rostatal and Private M6LT bane.
-    -not  ailablo                _                        nil no negligible       }     / Includes droaing oR Arab Food for Africo ($7.1 a.)
.. not available separately                              -- lee. thea half the            3f Include. bilaterRl *nd nultilatoral progren .a..itoRce of $91.0 c.
bat I-cluded in total                                      eaRllest unit howne            Includen proponed SIRS progrem  credit of $30 0 a.
5/ No proBrE  Reni.t.ece asuno-d.
I6 P Oil Facility and Credit Trneche.
7/ Not incleding Toneanti'n share in EAC debt.
9/ IBR0 and IRA Debt Service as 1 of PubUlc Debt Service
RACPIA
May 1976



ANNEX II
Page 1 of 10
A. STATEMENT OF BANK LOANS AND IDA CREDITS TO TANZANIA
AS OF   MAY 31, 1976
(US$ million)
Amount less cancellations
No.          Year    Borrower      Purpose                     Bank    IDA   Undisbursed
Three loans and six credits fully disbursed                    65.2    43.0
586  TA      1969    Tanzania     Roads                         7.0              1.9
149  TA      1969       "          Education                            5.0      0.5
217  TA      1970       "          Tobacco                              9.0      1.2
232  TA      1971       it         Education                            3.3      1.3
265  TA      1972        "         Roads                                6.5      2.6
287  TA      1972       "          Smallholder Tea                     10.8      4.6
371  TA      1973       "          Education                           10.3      9.7
382  TA      1973       "          Livestock V                         18.5     14.4
454  TA      1974       "          Cotton                              17.5     15.7
460  TA      1974        "         Tanzania Investment Bank             6.0      3.0
715  TA      1974    TANESCO       Power                        5.0              0.6
1014  TA      1974    Tanzania      Cashewnut                   21.0             13.8
495  TA.     1975       "          Sites and Services                   8.5      6.4
507  TA      1975                  Highway Maintenance                 10.2     10.2
508  TA      1975                  Rural Development                   10.0      9.4
513  TA      1975                  Sugar                                9.0      3.4
1041  TA      1975                  Sugar                        9.0               9.0
580  TA      1975                 Dairy                                10.0      9.9
1128  TA      1975                  Textile                     15.0             14.7
1172  TA      1975                  Tanzania Investment 7nk    15.0             14.3
601  TA      1976       "          Technical Assistance-                6.0      6.0
606  TA      1976                 National Maize Program               18.0     18.0
607  TA      1976                  Education                           11.0     11.0
Total                                            137.2   212.6    181.6
of which has been repaid                         1.0     3.4
Amount sold                   0.1
of which has been repaid    0.1
Total now outstanding-3/                         136.2   209.2
Total undisbursed                                 54.3   127.3
1/ Includes grant participation of $6.2 million of which $3.4 is undisbursed.
2/  Not yet effective
_/ Net of exchange adjustments



ANNEX II
Page 2 of 10
B. SUMMARY STATEMENT OF BANK LOANS FOR COMMON SERVICES GUARANTEED
BY KENYA, TANZANIA AND UGANDA AS OF MAY 31, 1976
(US$ million)
Amount less cancellations
No.          Year    Borrower      Purpose                        Bank      Undisbursed
Three loans fully disbursed                                       75.0
638  EA      1969    EAHC         Harbours                        35.0          2.3
674  EA      1970    EARC         Railways                        42.4         12.0
675  EA      1970    EAPTC        Telecommunications              10.4            .0*
843  EA      1972    EADB          Development Finance             8.0          1.0
865  EA      1972    EAHC          Harbours                       26.5          11.3
914  EA      1973    EAPTC         Telecommunications             32.5         10.4
1204  EA      1976    EADB          Development Finance            15.0          15.0
Total                                       244.8         52.0
of which has been repaid                   32.7
Total now outstanding                       212.1
Amount sold                     24.4
of which has been repaid      24.4          0
Total now held by Bank                      212.1
Total undisbursed                            52.0
*   $21,251.53 remains undisbursed



ANNEX II
Page 3 of 10
C.  PROJECTS IN EXECUTION /
(As of March 31, 1976)
There are currently 21 projects under execution in Tanzania.
AGRICULTURAL SECTOR
Credit No: 217 TA - Tobacco Project: $a.0 million
Credit of October 9, 1970; Date of Effectiveness -
February 1, 1971; Closing Date - September 30, 1976
As a result of the Tanzanian Government's acceleration of its
villagization program a total of about 7,200 families have been moved to
villages in the tobacco complexes, bringing the number of project farmers
to 10,000. With these vigorous efforts, it is now likely that the appraisal
target of 15,000 farmers will be reached in 1976.    Strict measures to
enforee minimum tobacco acreages per family are expected to contribute to
increased tobacco production. However, yields Fer hectare and quality of
leaf have been below anticipated levels. Improvements are required to
strengthen the extension and cooperative services. Provision of water
supplies and socialJ infrastructure is progressing well.
Credit No. 287 TA - Smallholder Tea Project: $10.8
million Credit of March 3, 1972; Date of Effectiveness -
July 26, 1972; Closing Date - December 31, 1976
After initial serious management problems in Tanzania Tea
Authority (TTA) has now finally reached a satisfactory level of senior
staffing and this has had a clear impact on the working of TTA and a
definite improvement in the control over the field activities. The com-
pletion of 956 ha of new planting during 1974/75 brings the total project
planting to 5,086 ha or 61% of the total target area. A further 500 ha is
planned for 1975/76 season.   The past tack of technical, administrative
and financial control over the four widely dispersed project areas
reflected in TTA's current financial problems.   A special supervis4or
mission has been scheduled to examine these problems and propose rc-edial
measures.
1/ These notes are designed to inform the Executive Directors regarding
the progress of projects in execution, and in particular to report
any problems which are being encountered, and the actions being taken
to remedy them. They should be read in this sense, and with the
understanding that they do not purport to present a balanced evaluation
of strengths and weaknesses in project execution.



ANNEX II
Page 4 of 10
Credit No. 232 TA - Second Livestock Development
Project: $18.5 million Credit of May 23, 1973;
Date of Effectiveness - September 28, 1973;
Closing Date - December 31, 1977
Although improvements to the organization and management involved
in this project were made during 1975, implementation has been extremely
slow and disbursements thus far have been a fraction of the appraisal fore-
cast. Slow implementation is mainly a result of the size and complexity
of the Project and of the de'lays eucounLered in recruiting staff and in
concluding contracts for the construction of abattoirs and the supply of
heavy earth moving machinery. Project implementation is expected to pick
up momentum now that these problems have been resolved.
Credit No. 454 TA - Geita Cotton Project: $17.5 million
Credit of January 17, 1974; Date of Effectiveness -
April 5, 1974; Closing Date - December 31, 1982
The conditions in which the project is operating were radically
changed by the 1974 decision that farmers throughout the district should
move into villages and by relative price changes in the producer prices for
maize and cotton which occurred in 1974 and 1975. In addition, management
problems have slowed project implementation. For the 1975/76 cropping season
the project is focusing nn twenty selected villages and it is hoped that
this will accelerate implementation.
Loan No. 1014 TA - Cashewnut Development Project: $21.0
million Loan of June 24, 1974; Date of Effectiveness -
September 26, 1974; Closing Date - December 31, 1981
The project has been progressing satisfactorily with materials
for civil works either on site or in transit. Original completion target
dates are likely to be achieved in spite of an initial delay of about two
months. The Cashewnut Authority's take-over of the industry and consolida-
tion of its activities are proceeding slowly. Recruitment and strengthening
of staff needs to be intensified in order to fully utilize five additional
cashewnut processing factories contained in this project.
Credit No. 508 TA - Kigoma Rural Development Project:
$10.0 million Credit of August 21, 1974; Date of Effective-
ness - November 20, 1974; Closing Date - December 31, 1980
Significant improvements in institutional arrangements were noted
in the most recent supervision mission and the parastatal organizations
involved in this project have become both more active and effective. Agri-
cultural prospects have also improved with better standards of land clearance
and preparation, timing and spacing of planting and use of fertilizers.



ANNEX II
Page 5 of 10
However, implementation of the credit provisions of the project to start
up later this year is likely to be difficult and little has been done
with regard to a number of minor project components (involving feeder
roads, livestock and tsetse clearance). While planning and procurement
of materials are complete construction of the social and regional infra-
structure program has lagged behind schedule. A preparation team was
recently installed in Mwanza to prepare integrated rural development pro-
jects for Mwanza and Shinyanga Regions, and the existing and future
information base and 1supporting activities appear promising.
Credit No. 513 TA and Loan No. 1041 TA - Kilombero Sugar
Development Project: $9.0 million Credit and $9.0 million
Loan of September 27, 1974; Date of Effectiveness -
February 24, 1975; Closing Date - December 31, 1979
Estate field development is ahead of schedule with 2,740 acres
of sugar cane planted during 1974/75 (about 500 acres over the target)
while outgrowers planting of 400 acres is about 200 acres behind schedule.
Construction of the new sugar mill, financed by Dutch and Danish loans,
is on schedule and should be completed by July 1976. Procurement of field
machinery and equipment and supporting project activities are progressing
reasonably well. Due to cost escalation of the housing and community
development component some problems have been encountered in initiating
construction of staff housing.
Credit No. 580 TA - Dairy Development Project:  $10.0
million Credit of August 15, 1975; Date of Effectiveness -
November 28, 1975; Closing Date - April 30, 1981
The Government is proceeding with the recruitment of key
personnel and the first phase of procuremert.
Credit No. 606 TA - National Maize Project: $18.0 million
Credit of January 29, 1976; Date of Effectiveness - May 28,
1976; Closing Date - June 30, 1980
This project was declared effective on May 28, 1976. The
initial stages of project implementation are proceeding well. Key
personnel for the project have been recruited.



ANNEX II
Page 6 of 10
EDUCATION SECTOR
Credit No. 149 TA - Second Education Project: $5.0
million Credit of May 29, 1969; Date of Effectiveness -
June 19, 1969; Closing Date - December 31, 1976
Most project schools are finished but the -,losing Date was
extended to finalize disbursements. Schools are adequately furnished but
not yet fully equipped. Procurement and installation of the remaining
furniture and equipment is in progress. The project has experienced a
minor overrun of $0.4 million. A completion mission is scheduled for
late 1976.
Credit No. 232 TA - Third Education Project: $3.3
million Credit of February 5, 1971; Date of Effectiveness -
May 10, 1971; Closing Date - December 31, 1976
The Closing Date for this project has been extended 18 months
to December 31, 1976, to provide ample time for its completion. All civil
works, furniture and equipment contracts have been awarded. Civil works
are about 75% complete, but contracts are behind schedule because of material
shortages. Ineffective project management and failure of Government to
appoint a Project Accountant have limited follow-up activities and cor-
rection of deficiencies and may result on further delays. A number of
changes in the programs and management of the institutions involved in this
project are being discussed with the Government.
Credit No. 371 TA - Fourth Education Project: $10.3
million Credit of April 13, 1973; Date of Effectiveness -
July 2, 1973; Closing Date - June 30, 1978
Design work of all project institutions, except for the three
secondary schools eliminated because of cost overruns, will be completed
by the end of 1975. Out of 18 project instituions construction works had
started on eight sites only. All construction work is scheduled to be
completed in the beginning of 1978. The project unit is now working satis-
factorily and a new project coordinator has been appointed by the Govern-
ment. Most recent estimate of project costs came to about US$22 million,
excluding the three secondary schools, a cost overrun of about 15%. While
disbursements are expected to increase substantially it is likely that the
Closing Date will have to be extended until the end of 1978.
Credit No. 607 TA - Fifth Education Project: $11.0
million Credit of January 29, 1976; Date of Effectiveness -
March 23, 1976; Closing Date - December 31, 1981
Mie Covernment has begun to implement the Rural Training component
and the Project Unit responsible for the secondary schools is already in
operation assisting in the implementation of previous Bank education projects.



ANNEX II
Page 7 of 10
INDUSTRIAL SECTOR
Credit No. 460 TA - Tanzania Investment Bank Project
$6.0 million Credit of February 13, 1974; Date of
Effectiveness - April 18, 1974; Closing Date - June 30, 1978
The credit has been fully committed.
Loan No. 1172 TA - Tanzania Investment Bank: $15.0
million Loan of November 12, 1975; Date of Effectiveness -
February 30, 1976; Closing Date - December 31, 1980
Commitments under this loan are proceeding quickly. Nine sub-
projects totalling $7.8 million have been approved for disbursements.
Loan No. 1128 TA - Mwanza Textile Project: $15.0 million
Loan of June 19, 1975; Date of Effectiveness - October 6,
1975; Closing Date July 1, 1979
The Textile Corporation of Tanzania (TEXCO) has appointed the
project engineers and technical advisors and tenders for major project
components have been received and are being evaluated. TEXCO has also
appointed the consultants to carry out the feasibility study for constructing
a textile plant for producing polyester=cotton blended materials.
Credit No. 601 TA - Technical Assistance Project: $6.0
million Credit of January 9, 1976; Closing Date -
June 30, 1980
After some initial delays, necessitating the postponement of the
terminal date of effectiveness, the Tanzanian Investment Bank is now re-
cruiting key project unit staff who will supervise the execution of this
credit. A great deal of interest has been generated in this project and it
is anticipated that it will be declared effective as soon as the head of
the project unit has been recruited.
POWER SECTOR
Loan No. 715 TA - Kidatu Hydroelectric Project: $30.0 million
Loan of December 14, 1970 and $5.0 million Supplementary Loan
No. 712-2 TA of June 24, 1971; Date of Effectiveness - March 31,
1971 and September 26, 1974; Closing Date - June 30, 1976
Construction work for this project is essentially completed. The
project is on schedule and the first and second unit came nn stream in



ANNEX M!
Page 8 of 10
March 1975 and July 1975, respectively. Negotiations were recently held
for the second stage Kidatu power project.
TRANSPORTATION SECTOR
Credit No. 265 TA - Third Highway Project: $6.5 million
Credit of August 6, 1971; Date of Effectiveness -
October 12, 1971; Closing Date - December 31, 1976
After Long delays in completing tender -arrangemhen--j the con-
tract for the Mtwara-Masasi road was signed at nearly three times the
appraised cost. Most of the overrun is covered by a $4.4 million loan from
ADB and use of the $1.8 million balance from the Bank's Second Highway Pro-
ject (Loan No. 586 TA). The portion of the road now financed by the Bank
is nearing completion. Execution of road betterment works in two agri-
cultural areas commenced about a year ago and is progressing satisfactorily
in one area but is behind schedule in the other. Preinvestment studies for
Kilombero and Kilimanjaro areas have been completed and final reports are
being reviewed.
Credit NoJ 507 TA - Highway Maintenance Project: $10.2
million Credit of August 21, 1974; Date of Effectiveness -
November 20, 1974; Closing Date - June 30, 1979
The project is more than one year behind schedule. Tenders for
equipment procurement were opened in October 31, 1975 and orders have now
been placed. The Government has been negotiating with consultants for
assistance in recruiting experts with no result so far. The Bank has been
discussing with the Government how this problem can be resolved as it is
seriously delaying the project. Consultants have submitted the draft final
report of the Trucking Industry Study, being supported under the Credit and
this report may form the basis for a future Bank project.
URBAN SECTOR
Credit No. 495 TA - Sites and Services Project: $10.0
million Credit of July 12, 1974; Date of Effectiveness -
October 3, 1974; Closing Date - December 31, 1978
The project is proceeding very well. Contracts for infra-
structure construction at all seven sites have been awarded and are
expected to be completed on schedule. Other components of the project,
i.e. training, monitoring/evaluation and nutrition studies are progressing
satisfactorily.



ANNEX   II
Page 9 of 10
EAST AFRICAN COMMUNITY
General
Owing to delays in meeting debt service on various loans to
the East African Corporations disbursements to the East African Pailways
Corporation, East African Harbours Corporation, the East African Posts
and Telecommunications Corporation and the East African Development Bank
were suspended on April 28, 1976. Following receipt of outstanding pay-
ments the suspension wqas lifted on June 1, 1976.    The background to
these events is described in paragraphs 12 to 15 above.
Loan 674 EA - Third Railways Project: $42.4 million
Loan of May 25, 1970; Date of Effectiveness -
October 30, 1970; Closing Date - June 30, 1977
The physical execution of the original project has been seriously
delayed due to administrative and political problems within the Community
and the East African Railways Corporation's unsatisfactory procedures for
procurement, investment planning and coordination. In November 1974, the
Executive Directors approved a reallocation of the uncommitted balance of
the Loan to be used for consultant services and emergency investments.
Agreement was reached in July 1975 for the hiring of consultants to assist
EARC with outstanding organizational and financial issues. Coopers and
Lybrand (financial consultants hired by ODM) completed their asset studies
in early 1976 and CANAC (technical consultants) are proceeding with the
decentralization study.
Loan No. 638 EA - Second Harbours Project: $35.0 million
Loan of August 25, 1969: Date of Effectiveness -
December 16, 1969; Closing Date - December 31. 1976
Loan No. 865 EA - Third Harbours Project: $26.5 million
Loan of December 18, 1972: Date of Effectiveness -
April 16, 1973; Closing Date - June 30, 1977
Considerable delays have occurred in implementing the project
financed partly by Loan 638-EA. However, construction is now more than
95% complete. The Closing Date has been postpone from December 31, 1975
to December 31, 1976. The major civil works financed partly by Loan 865 EA
were completed in September 1975, six months behind schedule. Some smaller
project elements intended to be financed under Loan 865_EA, will have to
be deleted. Serious cost overruns for cargo handling equipment, tugs
and lighters financed by CIDA have occurred, and its credit has been
increased accordingly from Can.$26.0 million to Can.$33.5 million. Port
labor productivity has stagnated in Mombasa and declined in Dar es Salaam.
At the same time cargo throughput has declined considerably for Mombasa



ANNEX II
Page 10 of 10
and increased above forecasts for Dar es Salaam, where the three berths
financed under Loan 865-EA are now being used, although transit sheds
and open storage areas for them have not yet been completed.
Loan No. 843 EA - East African Development Bank Project:
$8.0 million Loan of June 28, 1972; Date of Effectiveness -
September 28, 1972; Closing Date - June 30, 1977
Operations of the Bank have been decentralized and the newly
formed regional office teams are now competent in dealing with all aspects
of development financing operations. The entire first loan has now been
committed by EADB.
Loan No. 1204 EA - East African Development Bank Project:
$15.0 million Loan of March 1, 1976: Date of Effectiveness -
June 7, 1976; Closing Date - March 31, 1980
This loan was declared effective on June 7, 1976.
Loan No. 914 EA - Third Telecommunications Project:
$32.5 million Loan of June 22, 1973; Date of Effectiveness -
September 19, 1973; Closing Date - December 31, 1976
Problems within the EAC have only marginally affected the Posts
and Telecommunications Corporation due to the considerable existing decen-
tralization of operating authority. Deterioration of the corporate cash
position and rate of return has been slight in comparison to other Com-
munity Corporations and the situation has improved by a rate increase
allowed by the Community in February 1975. All major items have been
completed by mid-1975, except two microwave links which, due to a long
lead time for delivery, will be delayed by 12 months.



ANNEX III
Page 1 of 3
TANZANIA - KIDATU HYDROELECTRIC PROJECT - SECOND STAGE DEVELOPMENT
Loan and Project Summary
BORROWER     :   Government of the United Republic of Tanzania
AMOUNT       :   US$30 million
TERMS            Standard Third Window Terms with interest at 4.85
percent;to be on-lent to TANESCO at 8.85 percent
per annum for 25 years including 5 years of grace
CO-FINANCING:    The Swedish International Development Authority (SIDA)
will participate in the Project on a joint financing
basis with the Bank. It will extend a grant of 80
million SKr (US$18.6 million equivalent) to the
United Republic of Tanzania. KfW of the Federal
Republic of Germany will parallel finance a number of
project items. It will extend 60 million DM
(US$24 million equivalent) at 2 percent for 30 years,
including 10 years of grace to the United Republic
of Tanzania.
PROJECT
DESCRIPTION :    The Project consists of:
(a) a concrete dam about 45 meters high which
would form a reservoir adequate for yearly
regulation of river water at Mtera;
(b) an extension of the existing Kidatu hydroelectric
generating station by two 50-MW units
(Nos. 3 and 4)
(c)  a 90 MVA transformer at Morogoro
(d) consulting services; and
(e)  training for TANESCO's mid-management and
professional staff.



ANNEX III
Page 2 of 3
ESTIMATED                                                    US$ Million
COST                                                   Local   Foreign   Total
Civil Works                       4.7     14.6      19.2
Mechanical & Electrical Works     2.8     19.5      22.3
Engineering Consultants           0.9      4.3       5.2
Contingencies:  Physical          1.7      6.6       8.3
Price            5.3      14.0      19.3
Sub-total                     15.4     58.9      74.3
Training                          0.2      0.2       0.4
Taxes (on salaries & wages)       3.1      -         3.1
Total Cost of Project         18.7     59.1      77.8
Interest During Construction
on Bank Loan                   2.5      3.5       6.0
Interest During Construction
on SIDA Grant*                 3.4      -         3.4
Interest During Construction
on KfW Loan*                   2.8      1.0       3.8
Total                         27.4     63.6      91.0
FINANCING                                 (in US$ million Equivalent)
PLAN                               IBRD    KfW    SIDA    TANESCO     TOTAL
Amount      30.0    24.0    18.6     18.4       91.0
Percentage   33      26      20       21         100
ESTIMATED
DISBURSEMENT                   (in US$ million Equivalent)
BANK LOAN       :    IBRD Fiscal Year     Annually     Cumulative
1977             4.7            4.7
1978             5.4           10.1
1979             7.5           17.6
1980             8.5           26.1
1981             3.0           29.1
1982             0.9           30.0
Assuming on-lending to TANESCO at Bank terms.



ANNEX III
Page 3 of 3
PROCUREMENT:     All supply and construction contracts financed by the
Bank loan and SIDA grant would be awarded on the basis
of international competitive bidding in accordance
with the Bank's guidelines. Local manufacturers would
be allowed a preference of 15 percent or the existing
rate of duty (whichever is lower) and local civil-works
contracts would be allowed a 7-1/2 percent preference.
Contracts financed by the proposed KfW loan are also
expected to be awarded on the basis of international
competitive bidding. Retroactive financing for
services of consultants and experts to a limit of
$1.1 million is proposed.
CONSULTANT
SERVICES         The Swedish Consulting Group (SWECO) has been appointed
as the engineering consultant for the design, preparation
of bidding documents, bid evaluation and supervision of
all the works included in the Project.
RATE OF
RETURN       :   23 percent
APPRAISAL
REPORT           Report No. 927a-TA, dated June 2, 1976
Regional Projects Department
Eastern Africa Region
- MAP:              A map showing TANESCO's transmission system is attached.






U G   A N D A             32                                          36                   TANZANIA               4'0
TANZANIA       ELECTRIC SUPPLY CO., LTD.
;tKAGERA kobc A      A  E                      K E N Y A         AREA OF ELECTRICITY SUPPLY
.......\.*  \>            Battaba LAK     Masoansa -      N              TRANSMISSION LINES  POWER STATIONS
5                  1             V I C T 0 R I A                           -*-E.lsting 220KV   A   Esisting ther-al stations
5f\ RRWAtN,DA       0 a I     /                                                -  E.isting 132KV  a  E.ist,ng hydro stations
Projected 132KV  3   E.isting bulk purchase
V /                   /     |           Nansen                               ...... Emisting 66KV  ^  Projected ther-ol stations
Eoistiog 33KV  *   The project
i _cJf g|sXheram.l/ Lake Natron                         - -   Projected 33KV  *   Other potential hydroelectric sites
!  B U  R  U  N   D  I                                                    Arus       A, MShl AInternaticnl boundaries
k,Man M                                    roads
' | Mc  Shinyango           La 
M M=       uletwo R. ~~NYU MBA
YA MUNG   some
S   nt *S  .
\Lushlot
K ~    ~    KLMTR                         'in daV/           %                             -        Nwoc>
ToboJo   a to o/Mbobc Rcy                  Tuduru   _    f.         ~   Pembo
Han  itao
FALLS
Po~   soKIJAN          0 C E A20n Nzat.z 
OaDAR ES SALAAM
or             r (
UKWA                fto e o <e=~ 3 \,1 r,~40<Irntrgo O
'\a 'MKASA      -e
>~~oiroU...~~2~  ~   TAVETTA
100      200       300)                                  one
KILOMETERS                              i
0  50   00      50     ~~~~      ~~~~~~200                                                                          > 
MILES                    (MALAWI                                              MOZAMBIQUE
32,                                        36 4h0--



