Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No. 4622
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
TANZANIA: KIDATU HYDROELECTRIC PROJECT SECOND STAGE
(LOAN 1306-T-TA)
Energy Division
East Africa Regional Office
November 30, 1982
Revised June 17, 1983
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.






FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
TANZANIA
KIDATU HYDROELECTRIC PROJECT SECOND STAGE
Completion Report
Table of Contents
Page No.
Preface .....................................................           i
Basic  Data  Sheet  ............................................      ii
Highlights  ..................................................         v
I.  INTRODUCTION ..........................................          1
II.  PROJECT PREPARATION AND APPRAISAL.                                2
Origin, Preparation, Appraisal and Negotiation                    2
Project Description ...................................          2
Justification.                                                   4
Covenants.                                                       5
III.  PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION, OPERATION AND COSTS ...........          6
Loan Effectiveness and Project Start-up ...............          6
Costs and Related Financing.                                     7
Cost Increases .9
Cost Savings ............................                       11
Disbursements .............................--. 12
Project Implementation .............................-. 13
Physical Problems .............................-...          13
Administrative Problems ............................         15
Ecological Aspects .............................-. 16
Performance of Consultants and Contractors .17
Main Contracts ........................................         18
Important Changes in Original Design ..................         18
IV. INSTITUTIONAL PERFORMANCE .20
Management and Organization Effectiveness .............         20
Training .......------------------------------ 20
V.  FINANCIAL AND RELATED ASPECTS .........................         21
Financial Arrangements .21
Accounting and Audit ..................................         23
Financial Performance and Compliance with Covenants ...         23
VI. BANK PERFORMANCE .24
Overall Performance and Working Relationships .........          24
VII.  LESSONS LEARNED .......................................          24
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance
of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



TABLE OF CONTENTS (continued)
Page No.
Annexes
1.   Comparison of Revised Cost Estimates with Appraisal
Cost Estimates ........................................                 27
2.   Construction Schedules - Mtera Dam and Powerhouse           .......       28
3.   Statement of Contracts and Works ........................                 30
4.   Internal Rate of Return .................................                 32
5.   Comparison of Alternative Programs - Equalizing
Discount Rate .........................................                 33
6.   Income Statements .......................................                 34
7.  Balance Sheets ..........................................                  35
8.   Funds Flow Statements ...................................                 36
9.   Comments from the Borrower ..............................                 37



- i -
TANZANIA
KIDATU HYDROELECTRIC PROJECT SECOND STAGE
LOAN 1306-T-TA
PREFACE
The project consisted of the construction of a concrete buttress
dam at the Mtera site; installation of two additional 50-MW hydro units at
the existing Kidatu powerhouse, the construction of a 220/132-KV
transformer station at Morogoro and necessary consulting services and
training program.   Loan 1306-T-TA for US$30 million was signed in August
1976 and became effective in March 1977.      The loan has been completely
disbursed and was closed on December 31, 1981.       The Project Completion
Report (PCR) was prepared by the East African Regional Office - Energy
Division, based on the appraisal, president's, supervision and consultant's
reports and other documents in the Bank's files and on discussions with the
staff of Tanzania Electric Supply Company Limited (TANESCO).
The PCR summarizes the main points of the project particularly
those which presented difficulties or resulted in specific accomplishments
or failures.
Following normal procedures, a draft copy of the report was sent
to the borrower (TANESCO) and the Guarantor (Government) for their
comments.   Comments were received from TANESCO and have been reflected in
finalizing the report. They have also been reproduced as an attachment to
the report (Annex 9).
The project was not audited by the Bank's Operations Evaluation
Department.






- ii -
TANZANIA
KIDATU HYDROELECTRIC PROJECT SECOND STAGE - LOAN 1306-T-TA
COMPLETION REPORT
Basic Data Sheet
Key Project Data                                Original Plan      Actual
Total Project Cost (US$ million) 1/                 89.0             109
Cost Overrun   (%)                                  -               25%
Loan Amount (US$ million)
Original - Loan 1306-T-TA                        30.0            30.0
Disbursed (US$ million)                             30.0            30.0
Cancelled (US$ million)                             -               -
Joint Financing
European Economic Community -
EEC (US$ million, supplementary,
administered by IDA)                           -                7.0
Germany - KfW (US$ million) 2/                   31.0            28.1
Swedish International Development
Authority - SIDA (US$ million)                 18.5            18.5
Date for Completion of
Physical Components                              10/80           08/81
Proportion Completed by
Appraisal Target Date (%)                                        80%
Incremental Financial Rate of Return (%)            23%             18%
Financial Performance                                          Unsatisfactory
Institutional Performance                                        Satisfactory
1/ Based on the average exchange rate between 1976 and 1981.
2/ The final KfW contribution was US$36 million (para. 3.12).



- iii -
Cumulative Estimated and Actual Disbursement
(US$ million)
1976   1977   1978    1979    1980    1981
Appraisal Estimate               2.3    7.3    13.1   22.1    28.1    30.0
Actual                           -      3.1     9.3   17.8    30.0    37.0
Actual as % of estimate          0     42      71     80     107     123
Other Project Data
Actual or
original   Revisions    Est. Actual
First Mention in Files          -          -        1966
(together with
Kidatu I)
Negotiations                    -           -       01/19/76
Board Approval
Loan 1306-T-TA       04/01/76       -        07/01/76
Credit (EEC)             -          -       02/12/80
Loan Agreement
Loan 1306-T-TA           -          -       08/12/76
Credit (EEC)             -          -       03/20/80
Effectiveness
Loan 1306-T-TA       12/01/76       -        03/01/77
Credit (EEC)             -          -       04/08/80
Closing Date
Loan 1306-T-TA       12/31/81       -        12/31/81
Credit (EEC)             -          -       12/31/81
Borrower
Loan 1306-T-TA           -          -        Government of Tanzania
Credit (EEC)             -          -       Government of Tanzania
Executing Agency                -           -       Tanzania Electric Supply
Company Ltd. (TANESCO)
Fiscal Year of TANESCO          -           -       Calendar Year
Follow-on Project Name          -          -        Tanzania Fourth Power
Project (draft green
cover SAR circulated
11/10/82)



- iv-
Mission Data
Month/    No. of   No. of                  Date
Year      Weeks    Persons    Manweeks   of Report
Appraisal                4/ 75      3          5        13.0       06/02/76
Supervision I           10/76       2         2          4.0       12/15/76
II           01/77      1          2          3.0      03/17/77
III           05/77      2          2         4.0       06/17/77
IV           12/77      2          1         3.0       03/14/78
V           07/78      2          2          4.0      08/15/78
VI           03/79      1          1          3.0      05/03/79
VII           12/79      2          2          4.0      01/15/80
VIII           12/80      2          2          4.0      01/30/81
TOTAL                              21                   42.0
Currency Exchange Data
Appraisal                        US$1 = TSh 8.05
Intervening Years Average
1977                     US$1 = TSh 8.1
1978                     US$1 = TSh 8.2
1979                     US$1 = TSh 8.3
1980                     US$1 = TSh 8.4
1981                     US$1 = TSh 8.9
1982                     US$1 = TSh 9.4






-v -
TANZANIA
KIDATU HYDROELECTRIC PROJECT SECOND STAGE
LOAN 1306-T-TA
HIGHLIGHTS
Loan   1306-T-TA  was   for  the   second   phase  of   the  Mtera
Hydroelectric Project that was intended to meet forecast demand up to
1987/88.   The project's achievements can be rated as an overall success,
despite project cost overruns and failure to meet earnings objectives,
since it made possible significant savings in oil utilization (estimated
200,000 tons in 1982) which are critical to Tanzania's foreign exclhange
requirements.   Additionally, the training effort was extremely successful
and should assist considerably in operating performance and decrease in
reliance on expatriates.
A construction cost overrun of TSh 188 million (US$17 million)
was experienced due to higher than anticipated costs of civil works and to
additional works and studies required during the course of construction.
The gross overruns were partially balanced by savings in the costs of
mechanical and electrical plant financed mostly by KfW (PCR paras. 3.09 -
3.20).
In general institution performance was satisfactory except in the
financial area.   TANESCO effectively revised and rearranged its practices
and method to accommodate the increasing operational load. It effectively
utilized a panel of experts to recognize and overcome the difficulties
encountered during construction.    Tariffs were increased twice, by 40% in
June 1976 and by 42% in December 1979,        However these increases were
insufficient, except for 1980, to enable TANESCO to achieve the required 7%
rate of return on revalued net assets in operation. This, combined with an
inability to bill and collect accounts efficiently (due, in part, to
computer facilities failures), resulted in cash shortages throughout the
implementation period. However, this situation was significantly mitigated
by lower debt service due to longer grace period, and lesser dividend
payments (PCR 4.01-4.03, 5.02, 5.06).






TANZANIA
KIDATU HYDROELECTRIC PROJECT SECOND STAGE
COMPLETION REPORT
I. INTRODUCTION
1.01      The project constituted part of a long-range development program
to meet the growing power needs on the interconnected system (coastal grid)
and comprised:   (a) construction of a concrete buttress dam at Mtera site;
(b) installation of two additional 50-MW hydroelectric units at the
existing   Kidatu   powerhouse;   1/  (c)   construction   of   a  220/132-kV
transformer station at Morogoro; and (d) engineering/consultancy services
and training.
1.02      The project was implemented broadly on schedule and as originally
designed.   Its actual cost, however, was substantially greater than the
appraisal estimate for various reasons (paras. 3.03-3.06 and 3.10)
concerning the construction of the main civil work (the dam).
1.03       The original loan of US$30 million (Loan 1306-TA), together with
a credit of about US$18 million equivalent from the Swedish International
Development Authority (SIDA) and a credit of US$24 million equivalent from
Kreditanstalt fur Wiederaufbau (KfW) were intended to finance the total
foreign exchange costs and part of the local costs of the project estimated
to  cost  US$90 million   equivalent.     Actual  cost  increased  to US$110
million.   Cost overrun was covered through the increase of KfW funds by
about an additional DM 10 million and a supplementary EEC Special Action
Credit of US$7 million 2/ (Credit 55 through IDA as administrator, para.
3.12).
1.04        The Mtera dam, the extension of the Kidatu powerhouse by two
50-MW hydroelectric units, and the transmission facilities at Morogoro
substation have been operating successfully since 1981 after overcoming
some initial operating problems such as oil leakages, wrong relay
adjustments, etc.
1.05      The actual growth rates in energy and capacity demand of the grid
throughout the period 1976-1981 have been substantially lower than
projected during the appraisal due mainly to the declining general economic
situation  of  the  country.    The  commissioning  of Kidatu   II led   to a
substantial reduction in the Tanzania Electric Supply Company Ltd's
(TANESCO) thermal generation from oil.     Calculated oil savings in 1981 is
about 175,000 tons and estimated savings in 1982 are 200,000 tons.     Yearly
oil savings will gradually increase as the system's load builds up and will
1/ The Kidatu powerhouse was originally designed for four 50-MW units.
Two 50-MW units were completed     in 1975.    For further information,
please   see   Project   Performance   Audit   Report  (Tanzania   Kidatu
Hydroelectric Project - First Stage, Loan 715-TA and Loan 715-2TA) of
December 19, 1979 No. 2765.
2/ The SIDA, KfW and EEC Special Action credits were channelled through
the Government of Tanzania.



- 2 -
reach 375,000 tons per annum in the 1990s.     Despite the increase in
construction costs, Kidatu II is in fact justified as the least cost
solution over any tlhermal alternative due to very high fuel prices in the
world markets. Mainly because of lower than expected load growth, the
recalculated incremental rate of return on the project is 18%, compared to
the appraisal estimate of 23%.
1.06      TANESCO's financial performance through 1976 was less than
satisfactory. Although the company increased tariffs twice during the
project implementation period, these were not sufficient and, as a result,
consistently failed to achieve the required minimum rate (7%) of return on
revalued net fixed assets in operation, perhaps also due to inappropriate
revaluation. This, combined with excessive accounts receivable partly due
to serious breakdowns in the computer, partly to delinquent customers,
resulted in cash shortages for the company.
II. PROJECT PREPARATION AND APPRAISAL
Origin, Preparation, Appraisal and Negotiation
2.01       The project was basically a continuation of the First Stage
Kidatu Hydroelectric Project, which was appraised in 1970 and jointly
financed by the Bank (Loan 715-TA), SIDA and the Canadian International
Development Agency (CIDA). The First Stage was completed according to the
original schedule, although with substantial cost overruns, and has
operated satisfactorily since May 1975. The water intake, headrace tunnel,
powerhouse, control room, tailrace tunnel, switchyard, and all related
civil works, and the accessories and auxiliaries had been excavated and
constructed according to the ultimate design which included provision for
the Second Stage (the project).
2.02      The history of the development of the Kidatu Hydroelectric Scheme
began almost 15 years ago when the Government asked the Bank for assistance
in financing the First Stage. Additional studies needed to determine the
best solution among known alternatives and design of detail were completed
in July 1968, and the Kidatu development was recommended to be the most
economic scheme. The second stage was prepared on the basis of
reconnaissance and preappraisal missions in May and December 1974, a report
on the geological situation and design by a Bank consultant, and a
feasibility study dated February 1975 by TANESCO's engineering
consultant. The project was appraised in April 1975.
Project Description
2.03      The project components were planned to be constructed at three
main sites, i.e. Mtera, Kidatu and Morogoro. The Mtera site construction
consisted of the following:



- 3 -
(a)  A concrete buttress dam 45 m in height and 260 m in length      which
forms a reservoir with a storage capacity of 3.2 billion J (live
capacity) at a drawdown of 8.5 m, which in turn will provide a
regulated river flow during dry seasons sufficient for the
requirements  of   the  project.   A concrete   spillway with four
radial gates (each 14 m wide and 11.5 m in height) and about 160
m long spillway, a chute, all located on the right bank of the
river.   The dam is equipped with a bottom outlet (5.5 m x 6 m)
for the purpose of regulation of the water;
(b)  About 34 km of road passing over the dam crest to replace a
stretch of the existing Iringa-Dodoma road which was submerged
under the reservoir;
(c)  Employer's village for housing of the operation and maintenance
staff and offices, etc. with all necessary water supply and
sewerage systems;
(d)  Temporary camps constructed at four locations, comprised of 97
blocks of houses with independent water supply and sewer systems
and with accommodation capacity for about 100 senior staff,
including expatriates and over 600 workers/junior staff;
(e)  A floating boom about 2.3 km in length at about 2 km upstream of
the dam to catch the floating debris.      The debris to be removed
by the boat provided for this purpose; 3/
(f)  Bush clearance in the reservoir was done up to about 2.3 km
upstream of the dam in the area of about 140 hectares below the
full supply level of the reservoir; 3/ and
(g)  Ecological   studies  and   measures  including   rehabilitation   of
relocated people from the areas to be submerged and extension of
the Ruaha Game Park boundaries. 3/
2.04       The Kidatu site consists of the construction of the following:
(a)  Extension   of  the   existing  Kidatu   powerhouse   by  two   50-MW
hydroelectric units with vertical Francis-type turbines and
generators, ventilation, cooling water, drainage and dewatering
system and all necessary civil works, auxiliary equipment, and
low and high voltage cables;
(b)  Penstock intakes by removal of the two temporary concrete plugs
and installation of one sliding gate and two cylinder gates (one
for each unit) with appurtenant concrete works at the water
intake area;
(c) Lining of the two existing vertical penstocks with steel and
embedding it in concrete;
3/ This item was not included in the original design but adopted on the
recommendation of the Bank.



(d) A roadway in the access tunnel; and
(e) Extension of the existing pothead yard, the 220-kV switchyard and
connecting transmission lines including appurtenant civil works.
2.05      The Morogoro site consists of the construction of the following:
(a) Expansion of the existing Morogoro substation for the erection of
a 90-MVA transformer of 220/132 kV; and
(b) A storage building for TANESCO's regional needs. 3/
Justification
2.06           The existing   generating  facilities   of TANESCO   before  the
construction of the project consisted of a blend of diesel and hydro
generating plants with limited pondage provided by Kidatu (125 million
m3).   The water flow available at Kidatu for power production was very low
during the dry months     (June-October)  of the year.      TANESCO  needed  an
additional generating capacity in 1980/81.       The Mtera reservoir provides
water   for  power   generation   during  the   dry  years.     Thus,   TANESCO
successfully met the demand in 1980 and can meet the demand up to 1987/88.
2.07        The alternatives to the project were another hydro scheme or a
thermal station.     Some alternative hydro schemes were examined by the
consultants in a series of studies carried out over the previous ten years;
most of them were eliminated without even detailed consideration because
they were   too remote,   too small,   or geologically unsatisfactory.      The
choice was finally narrowed down to three schemes:      (a) Pongwe hydro plant
on the Wami River; (b) Stiegler's Gorge on the Rufiji River; and (c) the
second stage development of Kidatu project (the project). Stiegler's Gorge
was eliminated because the site could only be economically developed with
much higher capacity than the TANESCO sysem could absorb for many years to
come.   The Wami scheme had been eliminated by the comparative study which
was jointly prepared by two consultants in 1971 because of higher cost.
The Second Stage Kidatu scheme was therefore chosen as the preferred hydro
development and compared with an alternative thermal development based on a
diesel station followed by steam units at Dar es Salaam using residual fuel
oil. The possibility of a coal-fired steam power plant was not a realistic
alternative at the time of appraisal because there was no information
regarding the coal deposits, quality, costs and its exploitation; the coal
field was too far from the load centers and transportation was not
practical.   The alternative of imported coal was eliminated on the grounds
that the port facilities were already too overloaded.
2.08       The following three (the most realistic) development alternatives
were presented in the appraisal report (Annex 5):
3/ This item was not included in the original design but adopted on the
recommendation of the Bank.



- 5 -
Alternative 1:  The   proposed  project  followed  by  the Mtera   power
plant, followed by a coal-fired plant;
Alternative 2:   Thermal-hydro blend with a postponement of the project
by two years; and
Alternative 3:   a solely thermal alternative.
The economic analyses indicated that Alternative 1 (starting with the
project) would be preferred over Alternative 2 (thermal-hydro blend) at
discount rates up to 14% and that Alternative 3 (all thermal) is the most
expensive and would only be economic at discount rates higher than 23%.
2.09         A number of calculations have since been made to determine
whether the project would have been selected over the thermal alternative
had the cost estimates at completion been known at the time of the
investment decision.   With the 1980 upward escalation in fuel oil prices,
the equalizing discount rate is now estimated to be about 30%. The project
remains, therefore, the most attractive alternative.
2.10        The internal rate of return on investment for the project is
defined as the discount rate at which the present worth of the estimated
capital and operating costs of the project, over its useful life, equals
the present worth of attributable revenues.    At the time that the project
was appraised in 1976, a discounted cash flow calculation regarding the
above rate of return was also determined on the basis of the project's
estimated costs and sales.    In that calculation, average revenue from the
project was assumed to be about T4 45 per kWh.      A number of calculations
have since been made to determine the revised rate of return on investment
by taking the actual Kidatu II cost and the actual sales into
consideration. With the increased revenues (T4 65 per kWh), rate of return
for the scheme is now estimated at 18%, which is lower than the appraisal
estimate.
Covenants
2.11       The main covenants concerned employment of consultants, rate of
return, revaluation of assets, preparation of tariff study and declaration
of dividends.   Except for the rate of return covenant, all covenants were
met.
2.12      In revaluing assets the average of the Dar es Salaam Retail Price
Index for Wage Earners and the Cost of Living Index for Middle Grade Civil
Servants, with both indices adjusted to include food items, were to be
used, but TANESCO has had difficulty in using this formula because thus
based the revalued assets were very high and indicated tariff levels in
excess of economic power supply to obtain the required rate of return.
Therefore, in the proposed Tanzania Fourth Power Project (Mtera), a cash
generation covenant is proposed with the option of returning to the rate of
return formula when an acceptable reevaluation formula is agreed to.



- 6 -
III. PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION, OPERATION AND COSTS
Loan Effectiveness and Project Start-up
3.01         After completion of the appraisal mission in April 1975, an
issues paper was prepared in May 1975 (dated May 22, 1975) and a decision
memorandum in June 1975 (dated June 12, 1975). Negotiations were held from
January 19 to 23, 1976.     The Bank Board approved the loan (1306-T-TA) on
July 1, 1976, with a delay of about three months due to delays in the
tariff increase which was the condition of Board presentation.        The loan
agreement was signed on August 12, 1976 and became effective on March 1,
1977 with a delay of about three months due to the Government's delay in
the approval of the agreement and other formalities. However, these delays
did not jeopardize the project construction but it may have affected the
contractors' offers for the main civil works as explained in the following
paragraphs.
3.02        Only three offers were received for the main civil works.       The
lowest evaluated bid was about 70% higher than the appraisal cost estimate
due mainly to very big differences in the unit costs for various works.
3.03       The original cost estimate was prepared by TANESCO's engineering
consultant and a cost estimator/consultant in 1975.       Estimates were based
on detailed quantity analysis and carefully calculated unit costs for
various items in the works.     The consultant's cost estimate was rechecked
by the Bank consultant during the appraisal and increased contingencies (by
about 25% physical contingencies and 37% for expected price increases) were
added over and above the original consultants' estimate.       In spite of all
these precautions, a substantial cost overrun occurred. In the opinion of
TANESCO and their consultant this substantial higher bid and cost overrun
was due to reasons of lack of contractors' interest and competition due to
the timing.    Although bidding was internationally advertised and followed
up by the consultant and 14 contractors registered themselves as
prospective bidders and also received bid documents, only three of them
gave offers as indicated above. In fact, the contractors' offers were very
close to each other and possibly included a very large risk element not
aMticipated by the consultant, TANESCO or the Bank. Other possible reasons
could be construction difficulties due to the design of the consultant,
and special risks such as working conditions for expatriates in Tanzania,
which had not been suitably evaluated by the consultant during the
preparation of the bid documents and the costs.
3.04          The Bank then suggested that TANESCO employ an independent
consultant to make a realistic project cost estimate and analyze the bid
results in detail; and also review the bid documents with a view to
identifying special risks and making recommendations as to the line of
action  to be   followed.    TANESCO employed   a cost   consultant   for  this
purpose, and solicited yet a third opinion from a similar firm.
3.05        Although initially TANESCO's engineering consultant had thought
otherwise, both cost consultants had definitely indicated in their
respective reports that the lowest original offer received for the civil



- 7 -
works should be considered reasonable with which they then agreed.          The
primary cost consultant had also made some recommendations regarding
modification to some design aspects and extension of the construction
program.
3.06       In light of TANESCO's consultant's recommendations, the Bank and
SIDA recommended that TANESCO cable the three contractors who have given
offers for the construction of the main civil works to obtain alternative
offers for (i) a lower standard contractors' camp; (ii) about ten months
extension of construction     schedule;  (iii)  a new    payment  schedule  for
temporary works; (iv) amended concrete-pouring speed; and (v) use of mild
steel instead of high-tensile steel in the webs of the dam.          All three
contractors submitted their alternative offers with some reductions from
their original offers for the same civil works.       The original lowest bid
contractor kept its lowest position for the alternative offers with a
reduction  of  about   12%  from  its  original  offer.    TANESCO,   with  the
concurrence of the Bank and SIDA awarded the contract to this contractor
accordingly.
3.07            The  above  contractor  successfully   completed   the  project
substantially within the construction schedule. The ten-month extension of
the schedule did not cause any difficulties because actual power demand in
Tanzania had proved to be lower than the appraisal forecast (Annex 2).
However, if the Bank and SIDA had recommended rebidding, the project would
have not been completed on time and it is very likely that the final costs
would have been even higher due to delays caused by rebidding.
3.08        The main civil contractor at Mtera was delayed in mobilization
due mainly to late deliveries of equipment at site. However, with pressure
by the Bank, the consultant and TANESCO', the contractor was able to recover
the initial delays in the working program.       There were no other unusual
features or events during the project start-up.
Costs and Related Financing
3.09        Comparative cost estimates (appraisal and actual) are given in
Annex 3.   The actual costs of almost all of the contracts were within the
appraisal estimates except     for the main civil works contracts.        Total
actual project costs of TSh 919.6 million (US$109 million) were 25% greater
than the appraisal estimate of TSh 732 million (US$89 million) (Annex 1).
3.10         Contingency allowances estimated at appraisal were generally
sufficient to cover the extra costs due to miscellaneous variations in all
works and to price increases except the main civil and mechanical works at
Mtera.



- 8 -
3.11          The original   financing   plan based on appraisal     report   cost
estimate of TSh 732 million is as follows:
Financing Agency            Funds Allocated (TSh million)
IBRD (untied)               246.57 (US$30 million)
SIDA(       )               152.15 (SKr 80 million)
KfW (       )               253.97 (DM 60 million)
Govt./TANESCO
(to cover local costs)   126.00 (US$15.4 million)
Total Funds              778.69 (US$94.9 million)
3.12        Funds provided by the above arrangement were in excess of the
appraisal cost estimate and the colenders thought that the project can be
constructed without    any  financing  risk.    However,  after receipt    of the
bids, the financing requirements of the project had gone up considerably
and additional financing had been provided for the completion of the
project from EEC, KfW and Government/TANESCO as shown below:
Financing Agency     Funds Received (TSh million)
IBRD                 251.67 (US$30 million)
SIDA                 155.29 (SKr 80 million)
EEC                   58.72 (US$7 million)
KfW                  236.13 (DM 55 million) a/
Govt/TANESCO         217.82 (US$25.9 million)
Total Funds Used     919.63 (US$109.5 million)
a/ The final KfW contribution was DM 70 million. There was a surplus
of DM 15 million, which was used for the purchase of rural
electrification material and some spare parts for the diesel sets,
instrumentation of the dam and load-dispatching communication
equipment.



-9-
Cost Increases
3.13       The main reasons of the cost overruns were:
(a) the initial higher contractors' bids for the construction of the
main civil works at Mtera site and other increases due to various
reasons such as differences in design and actual quantities;
(b) additional works incurred during the course of the construction
including the implementation of the ecological studies; and
(c) contractors' claims.
3.14       Breakdown of the cost overrun is as follows:
Bank/SIDA Financed Portion                       Appraisal  Actual
-TSh million--
Mtera Dam Civil Works                             115.00     410.06
Mtera Employer's Village and
Road Relocation                                 29.00      52.48
Engineering/Administration                         42.00     103.01
Contingencies                                     131.80      -
Subtotal                                        317.80     565.55
KfW Financed Portion
Kidatu Civil Works                                 13.00      66.05
Kidatu Control Equipment                            5.00      15.77
Kidatu Switchyard, Connecting Lines
and Morogoro Substation                         10.00      37.24
Contingencies                                      17.47      -
Subtotal                                        45.47     119.06
Taxes                                              25.00      78.85
TOTAL                                          388.27     763.46
Total Cost Increases: TSh 375.19 million
The net cost overrun (total cost increases TSh 375.19 million minus total
cost savings TSh 187.56 million) were TSh 187.63 million including the cost
increase in the item of "Taxes" of about TSh 53.85 million.
3.15       In addition to general reasons for increases in costs explained
above, there were increases due to additional works not included in the
original design. Breakdown of these are given below:



- 10 -
Additional Works                                      Costs (TSh million)
Bush clearing                                                0.85
Supply of towing and rowing boats                            0.65
Supply of steel boom barrier                                 1.78
Archaeological survey                                        0.25
Water supply at new village                                  0.90
4.33
These costs are included in the "Bank and SIDA Financed" portion.
3.16         The main civil contractor had made various claims during the
course of construction.     Since these were rejected by the consultant on
various grounds, on completion of the works the contractor presented a
final document in respect of claims under contract. This was divided into:
(i) Those items where the contract provides a remedy in the event of
a  specific   breach   (late  payments),   further   covering  items
normally recompensed under the provisions of relevant clause of
the contract in respect of works considered for rerating or
admeasurement; and
(ii) Claims presented pursuant to the provisions of such clauses of
the agreement and subject to evaluation by the consultant in
order to determine if such claims are deemed a contract risk or a
contractor's responsibility.
3.17       The financial implications of the claims under each section were
as follows:
(i)   TSh   6.22 million
(ii)   TSh 21.86 million
Total  TSh 28.08 million
3.18       Breakdown of the TSh 6.22 million is as follows:
TSh Million
-  Interest on late payments                                    1.42
-  Concrete rerating                                            3.24
-  Devaluation of Tanzanian currency                            1.56
Total                                                   6.22



- 11 -
Breakdown of the TSh 21.86 million is as follows:
TSh Million
-  Port congestion and internal delays                           1.44
-  Shortage of cement in Tanzania                                1.08
-  Adjustment in price for imported cement                       2.43
-  Acceleration costs                                           6.04
- Price adjustment on expatriate salaries
and interest on this                                        10.87
Total                                                  21.86
3.19        On analysis of the claims, the consultant fully expected that
arbitration would result in an award in favor of the contractor.        A joint
meeting was therefore held between the contractor, TANESCO and the
consultant and the following amounts were agreed:
under (i) TSh 5.80 million
(ii)  TSh   8.20 million
Total TSh 14.00 million
The consultant felt that the above settlement figure reflected a fair and
reasonable amount, although had the whole issue been presented for
arbitration or to a court, including costs the award could well have been
considerably in excess of this amount. The TSh 14.0 million is included in
"Bank and SIDA Financed Portion" of TSh 410.06 million above (para. 3.15).
Cost Savings
3.20          Cost  savings were related    to the costs of mechanical      and
electrical   plant   mostly   financed   by   KfW   and  to   interest   during
construction. Breakdown of the savings is as follows:



- 12 -
Savings
---- TSh million----
Bank/SIDA Financed Portion                           Appraisal    Actual
Mtera mechanical works                                 46.00       26.57
Contingencies                                                       -
Subtotal                                                        26.57
KfW Financed Portion
Kidatu steel linings and gates                         19.00       13.56
Kidatu turbine and pipework                            37.00       22.36
Kidatu generators                                      33.00       28.81
Kidatu and Morogoro transformers
and Kidatu cables                                   24.00       31.90
Contingencies                                          70.53
Subtotal                                           229.53      123.20
IDC (Total)                                           106.00       29.97
TOTAL                                              335.53      153.17
Total Savings: TSh 182.36 million
Disbursements
3.21      The following table compares actual with forecast disbursements:
Cumulative Disbursements
Appraisal        Actual
------US$ million------
FY
1976                            2.3
1977                            7.3             3.1
1978                           13.1             9.3
1979                           22.1            17.8
1980                           28.1            30.0
1981                           30.0            37.0
Bank Loan Closing Date         12/31/81        12/31/81
Deviations between appraisal and actual were mainly caused by the extension
of the original construction by about 10 months, late mobilization of the
main civil contractor, revised cost estimates (cost overruns), and
suplementary financing (EEC Special Action fund No. 55 for US$7 million).



- 13 -
Project Implementation
3.22        Physical Problems:   The bids received for the main civil works
were substantially higher than the estimates made at the time of
appraisal.   Therefore, alternative offers were asked from the bidders and
the original construction schedule extended by about 10 months. Other than
these there were no unusual features and events except the following:
3.23         Spillway Bridge Slab:    During the pouring of concrete in the
spillway bridge, slab-formwork settled on the downstream side due to
partial failure of one of the screwjacks supporting the pipe columns of the
formwork.   However,   the concreting was completed in this portion after
taking  immediate   measures  to  prevent   any  further  displacement.     The
completed bridge was tested by loading the slab and the results indicated
some loss of strength in the downstream beam because some shear cracks
developed at the ends of the downstream beam of the bridge.      The following
measures had been taken to increase the strength to its designed level:
(i) additional inclined shear reinforcement steel bars were
placed at the ends of the beam;
(ii)  the chipped cracked concrete in the lower portion of both
ends of the beam were replaced by high strength "prepacked
concrete";
(iii)  the  neoprene  bearings   under  the  beam were   replaced  and
repositioned to reduce the beam span.
Standard load tests made after completion of the above remedial measures
have shown that the behavior of the beams were elastic and the spillway
bridge is safe.    The decision by the consultant to retain the bridge slab
by shear strengthening instead of demolishing and recasting it had been
taken to enable mechanical contractor to continue with erection of the
spillway  gates   so  as  to   achieve  timely   completion  of  the   project.
TANESCO's panel of experts who were supervising the project from time to
time also recommended the above remedial measures instead of recasting
(para. 4.02).
3.24       Concrete Quality:   From one of the periodical reviews of the test
results of the moulded specimen of concrete blocks on the dam during
construction, it was found that some individual pours of concrete were
below specifications, particularly in regard to compressive strength and
permeability though the actual strength was still within the acceptable
limits  from  the  design's   point  of  view.    However,  this   problem  was
investigated   and  rectified   immediately.     The   rectification   measures
included strict control of water cement ratio and correct assessment of
water content in the mix so as to compare favorably with the one provided
in the mix design.     A very strict sampling and sample cube preparation
method was also established to obtain realistic results from the tests. In
addition, general improvement on the quality and grading of the aggregate
and sand was also made apart from addition of extra cement as a measure of
additional precaution.    Further, to check on the actual strength of this
concrete as placed in the dam blocks, cores were circled out and tested for



- 14 -
compression strength and permeability.      Schmitt Hammer tests were also
conducted on some of the spillway sill blocks.     As a result of all these
investigations, it was judged that a few of the concrete test results that
were lower than specifications do not impair the stability and water
tightness of the dam.
3.25       Concrete stoplogs of bottom outlet of the dam:     the consultant,
in its design of the dam, provided a bottom outlet with a gate to release
the reservoir water to the downstream power plants during very dry seasons
when the water level in the reservoir is lower than the sill level of the
main  spillway  gates.    The  consultant's  design also provided concrete
stoplogs so that the gate can be raised and hooked up during the normal
operation of the spillway gates.     The main civil contractor had been in
trouble during the placing of the concrete stoplogs due to uneven concrete
surfaces contiguous to stoplog guides.      One of the stoplogs had fallen
during the placement and was damaged. There was no aeration provision for
the conduit between the stoplogs and the outlet gate. During regulation of
water releases this could actuate jutting out of stoplog seals and increase
leakage, with possibility of displacement of stoplogs. To avoid any damage
due to cavitation to the stoplogs and the bottom outlet structure, the
radial gate downstream was closed and the contractor rectified the above
damage and replaced the logs.       There were also difficulties    with  the
stoplog lifting equipment due to poor design.     This also was rectified by
changing  designs  and  lifting methods.     The above   problems  have  been
discussed with the engineering consultants and needed improvements would be
made in connection with the Mtera hydropower project construction. In the
meantime, no specific risks are expected as water releases through the
bottom outlet are not required until reservoir level goes below the dead
storage level.
3.26       Seepage on the left bank of the Mtera dam:     After completion of
the construction of the dam and partial impounding, a seepage of reservoir
water from underneath the buttress dam was noted through an investigation
hole located in the monolith.    When the reservoir level reached to about
80% of the full supply, it increased from 10 liters/min to 45 liters/min.
Although this level of seepage is not very important, grouting was carried
out through the inclined grout holes from the downstream side.       However,
the grouting has not been very successful, so the drainage has been further
improved by drilling additional holes through the rock underneath some of
the monoliths so that water is collected through a pipe and drainage is
provided into the bottom outlet channel.      Further, some seepage of water
has been noted at some points along the left flank downstream of the dam up
to about 500 meters.     However,  there is no evidence of soil particles
coming out with the seeping water and seepage is within safe limits.
TANESCO regularly measures the seepage of water at selected points and
checks water quality for dissolved salts periodically. So far, no unusual
or important indications have been seen.
3.27       Kidatu powerhouse - cracks in turbine floor:    Some cracks on the
turbine floor at unit No. 4 were observed after the commission of the
units, and water oozing from them. The consultant did not consider it very
important but investigated it further to make its final recommendations.
On review TANESCO's panel of experts and the consultant agreed that the
cracks which occurred and will occur in the embedment concrete are not
harmful and can be controlled by providing proper surface reinforcements
and a joint.



- 15 -
3.28       Administrative Problems:    There were important project execution
problems that persisted almost during the entire construction period.
There were port congestion, bad access roads to the Mtera site, fuel and
cement shortages, travel restrictions, and also some delays in payments.
Although none of these was so important as to interrupt the execution of
the project, all created complications for the contractors, the consultant
and TANESCO.
3.29       Port congestion:   Port congestion remained very acute during most
of the construction period.     The ships stayed at outer anchorage 3 to 6
weeks.   However, all the authorities concerned were approached to obtain
priority to the ships carrying the project consignments and this did help
to  a  great   extent  to  get   the  commodities   cleared  generally   within
reasonable times.
3.30        Roads:  Particularly access roads to the Mtera and also Kidatu
sites were in a very bad shape and this resulted in lots of hazardous
situations such as breakdown of transport vehicles and delays in transit of
plant and/or equipment and material.       Here again, TANESCO did manage to
secure some, at least the lowest level, maintenance of these roads from the
Ministry of Works and provided the continuation of transportation.
3.31        Fuel shortage:   The general fuel shortage in the country became
very critical   for construction at one stage during       1979-80.    However,
TANESCO and the consultant warned the contractors in time to build their
storage facilities roughly corresponding to about 3 to 4 weeks requirements
and disruption in progress was prevented.
3.32        Cement shortage:   There was a general shortage of cement in the
country because of frequent breakdowns, of various equipment at the cement
factory (Wazo Hill and also Tanga).       TANESCO with the assistance of its
parent ministry, succeeded in securing enough cement on priority basis and
also adequate storage (about 1,500 tons) was available at project sites.
However, the main civil contractor at Mtera had to import about 3,000 tons
of cement from Italy out of the total requirement of about 25,000 tons.
3.33       Travel restrictions:   The spread of cholera in the country during
the construction period created some difficulties regarding the traveling
of expatriate personnel in epidemic areas in Tanzania.        However, TANESCO
obtained necessary permits for the movement of the contractors? personnel
from local authorities.
3.34        Delays in payments:    Most of the contracts provided 60 and 45
days' period for provisional payment certificates for civil works and
plants respectively.    These periods proved to be inadequate particularly
for the local and/or foreign component of the payments that were to be made
by  the  external  financing   agencies.    Since  most  of  the  finances  are
arranged between the financing agencies and the Government, various
procedures had to be followed which were lengthy due mainly to intermediate
commercial banks (sometimes three or four intermediate banks) which were
agents of the contractor or financing agency.       The contractors sometimes
had difficulties in mobilizing sufficient financing to compensate for such
delays.



- 16 -
Ecological Aspects
3.35         A general ecological review of the Kidatu site and the Mtera
reservoir was completed in 1970 (financed by SIDA) in context of the
ecological aspects of the development of the Great Ruaha Basin.       Following
this general review, an in-depth study of some aspects of the ecology was
completed in 1972 during the course of construction of the First Stage
Kidatu project.    These studies did not indicate negative effects which
would impair the feasibility of the damming at Kidatu and also at Mtera. A
further in-depth study was also completed for the Mtera reservoir on about
35 ecological subsubjects such as vegetation and wildlife, soil erosion
and sedimentation, implanting, limnology, disease ecology, relocation,
etc.   Recommendations resulting from this study were discussed with the
Bank and measures were taken to safeguard certain environmental aspects.
These are given below (those not included in the original design are
detailed in para. 3.57):
3.36      Relocation:   The inhabitants of the areas later submerged by the
Mtera reservoir were relocated at Migoli village after many investigations
regarding the selection of the best area for resettlement.      Migoli village
is about 27 km from the Mtera dam towards Iringa. About 2,000 persons were
resettled at Migoli; apart from some houses, a dispensary, a community
hall, house for medical assistance have been constructed through the
project funds and additional SIDA funds of about $2.0 million.            Water
supply, school, etc. mostly financed by SIDA have been provided by the
regional authorities.
3.37       Relocation of Iringa-Dodoma road:   A stretch of the Iringa-Dodoma
road crossing the river about 6 km upstream of the dam was located below
the reservoir level.    Therefore, about 34 km of this road were relocated
and constructed so as to pass over the crest of the dam before impounding
the reservoir.     The old Iringa-Dodoma    bridge about   6 km upstream was
demolished.
3.38        Extension of the Ruaha National Park:      Extension to the Ruaha
National Park was recommended by the Bank with a view to protecting the
wild animals which would be attracted by the reservoir.           The original
boundaries of the park have been expanded to the reservoir by the concerned
authorities (ministries and the local government).        The entire reservoir
area has been declared as the game control area.
3.39        Foreshore agriculture:    The water shored in the soil when the
lake   level  sinks   will  be   sufficient   for  development   of   foreshore
cultivation in part of the area.        Regional   authorities  have  still  to
initiate concrete measures to prepare land use plans and toward research as
to the crops that can be grown utilizing holding capacity of the soils.
Programs have yet to be worked out for overhead irrigation from the
semi-isolated northern appendix (logi) of the reservoir.
3.40      Fisheries:   Action initiated by the federal and local authorities
has also been taken to tap the fish potential of the lake.           Systematic
development of fisheries is underway.      A minimum yield of 3,000 tons per
annum of fish is expected from the reservoir.



- 17 -
3.41          Soil erosion:    No action program has been drawn up by the
regional authorities for preventive measures against any soil erosion and
consequent silting of the reservoir.     The inflow of about 8 to 10 million
tons per annum of sediment is not significant for the filling of the
reservoir by silt soil erosion, but the washing away of agriculturally
valuable soil is important.
3.42       Disease control:    Health hazards due to bilharzia appear to be
certain as is the case with the other natural lakes in the vicinity.
Adequate arrangements for hygiene and health education are necessary.        No
action program has been worked out so far by the regional authorities due
to budgetary restrictions and other priorities.
3.43      Aquatic weeds:    There is a possible menace of aquatic weeds such
as water hyacinth,    but necessary preventive measures have not yet been
taken.
3.44      Environmental changes between Mtera and Kidatu:     Damming at Mtera
will have little influence on human or wildlife, particularly in view of
the fact that there are only a few settlements at the vicinity of this
stretch of the river.     The changes in the hydraulic regime will decrease
the risk of harmful erosion at the bridges and other places because the
regulated flow by the reservoir operation will increase the dry season
discharges while cutting the peak flow of March - April.
Performance of Consultants and Contractors
3.45       Consultants:   The main consultant for this project was retained
in April 1975.    The consultant prepared the feasibility report, design of
the project, bid documents, specification, and carried out bidding, bid
evaluation, construction supervision and the project management as it did
for  the  first   stage  development.     The  overall  performance   could  be
classified   as   satisfactory.     However,   considering   the   consultant's
long-standing history of professional association with TANESCO, there were
unexpected shortcomings as explained below.
3.46         The consultant's failure to document properly the main civil
contract for the Mtera site, in one case, led to some trouble and gave
advantage to the contractor to make a claim of TSh 10 million regarding
adjustment of expatriate salaries.     The consultant had issued an addendum
during the bidding that only 50% of expatriate salary adjustments would be
covered by the employer.    However, this addendum had not been sent to the
prospective bidders by registered mail and this change had not been
indicated in the corrigenda to the addendum.     Although it is believed that
all other prospective bidders had received the addendum, the Mtera site
contractor told the employer that he did not receive the addendum; thereby,
claiming the right to have 100% compensation of expatriate salary
increases as originally indicated in the bid documents.
3.47      The consultant's cooperation with the employer's field office was
reasonably good but there were some interruptions       in coordination.    For
example,  in respect of variation orders,     the consultant usually was not
punctual   in  submitting   its  detailed  evaluation   of  variation   in  the



- 18 -
quantities of works and reratings of unit prices and daily reports for
drilling, grouting, drainage and anchors, etc.       This created some strain
from time to time between the field office of TANESCO and the consultant.
3.48        Detailed geological mapping regarding the geological structure
and conditions of the completed foundations before concreting have not been
clearly done though this was a principal work of the consultant.          These
maps are sketchy and somewhat difficult to interpret.
3.49        Contractors:    The performance of all the contractors on this
project   in   respect   of   their  tendered   works   has   been   reasonably
satisfactory.    The only   local  contractor   also made   strong  efforts  to
complete works as originally scheduled but failed to do so purely due to
the difficulties that local contractors have in importing essential plant
and materials and    spares.    However, delays   in completion of its works
(relocation of the road and construction of the employer's village) did not
have any negative effect on the final completion date of the project. The
objectives of all the contracts with respect to the original construction
program  for  various   works  at  Mtera,   Kidatu  and  Morogoro   sites  were
generally satisfied.
3.50      The main civil contractor at Mtera took every opportunity to make
a claim, though its unit prices offered for the construction of the works
were unusually high compared to other contractors doing similar jobs in
other countries.
Main Contracts
3.51         The main contracts are summarized in Annex 3.       The important
design changes are summarized below.
Important Changes in Original Design
3.52           Before  and  during  appraisal   the  Bank appraisal   team  had
recommended various design modifications to the original design such as
increase of the thickness and a gentler slope of the buttresses, bigger
spillway dimensions,   etc.   After bidding some additional recommendations
were made regarding the expansion of construction schedule and method of
pouring concrete. During construction many modifications had been done to
the final design on the basis of the results of excavations, soil tests,
and additional drilling, etc. as usual for this type of construction.
However, the most important design modifications are given below.
3.53        In respect of the hydraulic studies as initially done by the
consultant for the design of the spillway, the panel of experts pointed out
that:
(i) model studies dealt more with selection of appropriate cost
profile than with important aspects of energy dissipation;
(ii) studies did not indicate to what shape the surface between the
end of the chute and the river edge should be trimmed to
facilitate proper flow conditions.



- 19 -
Consultants generally agreed to the suggestions of the panel and repeated
hydraulic model   tests   to  ascertain  correct  velocities   of  flow,  water
profiles,  and  information   of  hydraulic  jump,   etc.  under  various  flow
conditions and tailwater elevations.
3.54       The consultant's initial design was to leave the spillway chute
unlined.   Detailed hydraulic model studies and geological investigations
showed that the spillway chute should be concrete lined to avoid costly
repairs during the operation.
3.55          During the construction,    the panel of experts (para 4.02),
subsequent to their detection of some significant rock fractures exposed in
the near vertical cut walls forming the upstream limits of the excavation,
recommended strengthening the left abutment slopes in the vicinity of the
dam.   These fractures were roughly parallel to the original ground surface
and about 1 m to 2.5 m below it and steeply dipping towards the river,
which could cause slides in the area immediately upstream and downstream of
the abutment.    As a remedial measure,    the experts recommended providing
tensioned rock bolts of high grade steel at critical locations.       This was
accepted by the consultants and done.     About 50 tensioned rock bolts were
installed.
3.56        Instrumentation on the dam such as strain gauges, peizometers,
reservoir, water level recorders, thermal probes (to monitor concrete
temperatures during setting) and devices for the measurement of drainage
water pressures, recommended by the panel of experts was generally accepted
by the consultants and these were put in place during the construction.
3.57       Moreover, as was mentioned in Chapter 1, the following additional
works were accomplished though these were not included in the consultant's
original design.
(a) A floating boom was constructed about 2.3 km in length at about 2
km upstream of the dam to catch the floating debris;
(b) Bush was cleared at negligible cost up to about 2.3 km upstream
of the dam in the area of about 140 hectares below the full
supply level of the reservoir;
(c) The original ecology study recommended that the displaced
inhabitants of the project area be resettled at a new village
which would be constructed at a new place about 3 km far from the
lake.    Water   supply would   be  provided  by a well.      During
construction water could not be found at the site selected in the
ecological study, and finally the villagers were resettled in the
old village of Migoli about 27 km from the Mtera dam towards
Iringa.



- 20 -
IV. INSTITUTIONAL PERFORMANCE
Management and Organizational Effectiveness
4.01        In general, TANESCO has worked with competence and carried out
its   project   preparation,   procurement   and   construction   supervision
obligations satisfactorily.
4.02       Apart from the consultant, TANESCO was assisted by a part-time
"panel  of   experts"  consisting   of  three  civil   engineers  (these  are
specialists on design, general civil engineering and concrete structures),
one  geologist/general   civil   engineering   specialists  and   one  claims
advisor.    Moreover,  two  advisors/experts   on  general  construction  and
planning (one at Mtera site and one at the headquarters of TANESCO) had
helped  TANESCO   to  overcome   the  difficulties  encountered   during   the
construction.   Costs of the panel and two advisors were covered from the
proceeds  of   the  Bank/SIDA   joint  funds.     TANESCO's   panel  and  the
advisors/experts' works were useful and satisfactory.
4.03        TANESCO's operations and the workload of the headquarters have
about   tripled  during   the  last   decade.     Fortunately,   TANESCO  has
satisfactorily changed and rearranged practices and methods to overcome
increasing operational loads.
4.04        The help of the local authorities through the coordination of
TANESCO (Regional Development Directors' headquarters staff at Iringa and
Dodoma), particularly regarding the implementation of the ecological
studies, has also been significant.
4.05        The quarterly reports, prepared by the consultant and TANESCO,
and the panel's reports on the progress of the project construction were
well prepared and invaluable to the Bank supervisory staff.
Training
4.06           TANESCO has   developed  a sound   training  program with   the
appropriate objectives for manpower development through the help of SIDA
and the Bank Group for many years.     It has now a manpower development and
training unit with four full-time officers at headquarters and regional
training officers who would follow up training and personnel activities.
TANESCO spends about US$1 to 2 million every year for training.
4.07         TANESCO has a technical institute (TTI) at Kidatu where at
technician level, electricians, general mechanics and diesel mechanics are
being trained.   Forty-eight students per year are admitted (16 in each of
the three categories) and approximately 42 graduates annually.      Since the
appraisal about 170 students have graduated      from the TTI.     The  staff
consists of one principal, 13 techical instructors and 6 general academic
teachers. There are dormitory facilities for about 180 students.



- 21 -
4.08       From 1978 to 1981, through the project loan (1306-T-TA) the Bank
financed an overseas management training program for 27 high level TANESCO
officials, of whom 21 have remained with TANESCO.        This training program
was mainly carried out by a training consultant and has substantially
increased TANESCO's operational efficiency and improved decision-making
practices.    This  program   covered  the  training  of mid   management   and
professional staff in the fields of power planning, design, construction,
stock   control    and    supplies,    auditing,   billing/collection,     cost
accounting/power      company      accounting,       computer      programming,
financing/economic    analysis,   manpower   planning   and   development   and
statistics.   The Bank missions prepared draft terms of reference of each
trainee and approved the program as finalized by TANESCO and their training
consultant, monitored the program during its implementation, identified
weaknesses and improved the program as necessary.      The Bank missions also
interviewed trainees to evaluate their knowledge supplemented as necessary,
and pointed out documents for further self development.
4.09      During the period of 1977-81, an additional 60 TANESCO staff were
trained funded by the Government and various international financing
organizations   other  than  the  Bank  Group.    TANESCO   also  has  a  small
commercial school in Dar es Salaam established in 1978, which offers basic
courses in accounting, meter reading, storekeeping and procurement.        This
school has 3 teachers who train about 50 clerks per year.
4.10       In the early 1970s TANESCO employed about 50 expatriates.     At the
time of the appraisal there were 17; at the time of project completion
there were only 6 expatriates, whose work is purely technical.         This is
largely due to the success of the training programs described above, and
is a remarkable achievement.
V. FINANCIAL AND RELATED ASPECTS
Financial Arrangements
5.01        A comparison of the actual and the estimated financing of the
project in millions of Tanzania shillings and US dollars, converted at US$1
= TSh 8.25, the average exchange rate for the loan, and at the appraisal
rate of US$1 = TSh 8.05, is given below. The appraisal estimates have been
adjusted to reflect the longer implementation period, 1975-1981.



- 22 -
Actual              Appraisal Estimate     Actual over (under)
1975-1981                1975-1981            Appraisal Estimate
TS      US$ m     %      TSh m    US$m     x       ThU$m
Application of Furnds
Kidatu Project                 889.7  107.8    35.8     626.0   77.8    32.7    263.7      30.0
Ongoing Projects and
Other Construction         1,120.1  135.8    45.1   1,021.5   126.9   53.3     98.6       8.9
2,0C9.8  243.6    80.9   1,647.5   204.7   86.0    362.3      38.9
Interest during Construction    57.7    7.0     2.3     188.7   23.4     9.9   (131.0)    (16.4)
Total Construction
Expenditures               2,067.5  250.6    83.2   1,836.2   228.1   95.9    231.3      22.5
Increase in Working Capital    326.3   39.6    13.2      79.1    9.8     4.1    247.2      29.8
Other                           89.5   10.9     3.6       -      -               89.5      10.8
Total Application of Funds   2,483.3  301.1   100.0   1,915.3   237.9  100.0    568.0      63.2
Sources of Furxns
Internal Cash Generation     1,029.2  124.7    41.4   1,396.0  173.4    72.8   (366.8)    (48.7)
Less: Debt Service            (393.0) (47.6) (15.8)    (508.2)  (63.1) (26.5)  (115.2)     (15.5)
Dividernds               (7.8)   (0.9)  (0.3)    (153.5) (19.1)  (8.0)   (145.7)    (18.2)
Net Internal Cash Generation   628.4   76.2    25.3     734.3   91.2    38.4   (105.9)     (15.0)
IB8D loan                      251.7   30.5    10.1     241.5   30.0    12.6     10.2       0.5
SIDA Credit                    155.3   18.8     6.3     149.7   18.6     7.8      5.6       0.2
KfW Loan                       236.1   28.6     9.5     193.2   24.0    10.1     42.9       4.6
EFE                             58.7    7.1     2.4       -      -       -       58.7       7.1
Existing/Other Loans           526.0   63.8    21.2     353.1   43.9    18.4    172.9      19.9
Total Borrowings           1,227.8  148.8    49.5     937.5   116.5   48.9    290.3      32.3
Equity Contribution            581.3   70.5    23.4     226.7   28.1    11.8    354.6      42.4
Consumer Contribution           45.8    5.6     1.8      16.8    2.1     0.9     29.0       3.5
Total Sources of Funds       2,483.3  301.1   100.0   1,915.3   237.9  100.0    568.0      63.2



- 23 -
5.02           Construction  expenditures  were above estimate    for reasons
outlined in paragraphs 3.13 to 3.19. Net internal cash generation provided
23.3% of total financing requirements compared with 38.4% estimated at
appraisal   (32.2%   for   1975-1980).      Internal  cash   generation   was
significantly lower than forecast (paragraphs 5.05 and 5.06) but lower debt
service, reflecting longer grace periods for borrowings on-lent to TANESCO
by Government, and small dividend payments, served to offset this.
Borrowings, equity contributions by Government and consumer contributions
were above appraisal estmates.      Working capital increased substantially
over the period, reflecting excessive levels of accounts receivable (127
days sales in 1980) and of inventories (including a relatively high
proportion of obsolete stocks).
Accounting and Audit
5.03         TANESCO's accounting staff are competent and procedures are
good.   TANESCO has maintained adequate records and, except in FY80 and
FY81, has substantially met the audit covenant which requires its financial
statements to be audited by independent auditors acceptable to the Bank
(the Government-owned Tanzania Audit Corporation, TAC) and submitted to the
Bank within five months after the close of the fiscal year.       Since 1980,
the computer which TANESCO uses to maintain its records has been operating
effectively only intermittently and, as a result, billing and other
accounting procedures have been severely affected and the audited accounts
for the past two years have not been submitted to the Bank as required.
Once the new computer, now on order, has been installed, these problems are
expected to be resolved.
Financial Performance and Compliance with Covenants
5.04        Appraisal estimates and actual Income, Balance Sheets and Funds
Flow Statements covering 1975 to 1981 are given in Annexes 6, 7 and 8.
5.05       The following table indicates percentage variations in financial
operating performance compared to appraisal estimates.
1975  1976  1977   1978  1979  1980  1981
Electricity Sales           - 2   - 9   -18    -14   -13   -12   -19
Ave. Tariff Levels          - 1     2      7   -12   -13     6     6
Revenues                    - 3   - 7   -10   -25    -24   - 7   -14
Operating Expenses            3     3   - 3     - 7  - 4     1    12
(excl. depreciation)
Operating Income            -12   -16   -17    -40   -41   -12   -32
(before depreciation)
Internal Cash Generation    -14   -33   -20   -41    -37   - 9   -29
5.06         Revenues were below forecast due to lower than anticipated
electricity sales and average tariffs; operating expenses were higher
largely because of increases in fuel costs amounting to nearly 23% per
annum. During the project implementation period, TANESCO increased tariffs
only twice:  by 40% in June 1976 and by 42% in December 1979.    These tariff



- 24 -
adjustments were insufficient to enable TANESCO to achieve the required 7%
return on revalued net fixed assets in operation, except in 1980.       This,
combined with excessive accounts receivable (paragraph 5.02) resulted in
cash shortages for the company throughout the period.      The current ratio
has been positive throughout but is based on inventory figures that contain
a significant obsolescence factor.     The Debt/Equity Ratio has been more
conservative than estimated at appraisal due to larger than expected
government equity contribution. Although internal cash generation has been
lower than estimated, debt service coverage was in line with the forecast
because of reduced debt service (paragraph 5.02).
VI. BANK PERFORMANCE
Overall Performance and Working Relationships
6.01        The Bank played an important role in the preparation of the
projects and in coordination and negotiation between the colenders.       The
Bank provided a good project construction supervision unit through the
panel and the two advisor/experts.      TANESCO is very satisfied with the
panel and supervision advisors and continued to use them when necessary
even after completion of the project.     The Bank's environmental expert's
input regarding the implementation of the ecological report was very
helpful and useful.
6.02       The most important supervisory relationships were those between
the Bank and TANESCO and these were       generally very good.      The  Bank
supervision missions did help acceleration of the contractor's mobilization
and the Bank provided the supplemental loan on time for the continuation of
construction. The Bank has systematically guided and encouraged TANESCO's
training program and the program's achievements show the effects of proper
cooperation between the implementation agency and the Bank.
VII. LESSONS LEARNED
7.01        The declining general economic situation of the country, which
was not generally predicted, was the main cause for the actual growth rate
in energy and capacity demand of the grid from 1976 to 1981 having been
substantially lower than projections made during appraisal.         The most
important lesson relates to the initial cost overrun. In order to prepare
realistic cost estimates and a corresponding financing plan, cost estimates
should be reviewed by an independent cost consultant as early as possible
in the preparation of the project, preferably before the appraisal of the
project. Despite this, the tender prices could still be different from the
appraisal estimates because it is difficult to assess in advance the
contractor's or the supplier's cost of doing business in the country at a
particular time.



- 25 -
7.02           Another  important   lesson  is  that  local  indices  for the
revaluation of assets should be used with caution in Tanzania. To provide
a more satisfactory test than a rate of return thus derived, the next
project in this context might include a cash covenant instead of a rate of
return covenant. However, a comprehensive study still needs to be carried
to establish the most suitable method in this regard.
7.03      Ihe other important lessons to be learned could be summarized as
follow:
(a) The engineering consultant and the employer should be punctilious
regarding the proper documentation and punctual mailing of the
bid documents not to create additional reasons for contractors'
claims;
(b) Training is the fundamental means by which technology is
transferred to a developing country, thus a training component,
including management training should be included in projects;
further, the policy for replacement of expatriate personnel by
nationals must be fully coordinated with a training program;
(c) Careful and knowledgeable supervision is essential and, apart
from the main engineering consultant, the services of a panel of
experts and also some additional advisors should be provided when
necessary; services of the panel and advisors could be part-time
and cost of these services will be very minimal;
(d) Timely payments are very important for the healthy progress of
the project implementation and bid documents should clearly
stipulate the timing between the engineer's certificate and the
Bank's order for payments to the contractor's intermediate bank
agent;
(e) The quality of hydraulic model studies is extremely important in
such projects. Some small design changes might give the borrower
significant advantages during the operation of the project;
(f) Instrumentation on the dams and the recording of the initial
measurements regarding seepage and the artesian pressures are
important and these instruments should be included in the bid
documents because unexpected readings can occur even after
construction;
(g) The exceptionally large ecological component of the project
taught that specific supervision of ecological aspects is
warranted from time to time by environmentalists.       It is also
important that institutions should be made aware of the long term
objectives of ecological precautions; and
(h) The local engineering staff should be made available as
counterparts to the main engineering consultant in order to
acquire necessary knowledge and experience in designing and
building power facilities.






TANZANLA
KIDATU HYDROELECTRIC PRWOECT SECOND STAGE
Comparison- of Revised Cost Estimates with Appraisal Cost Estimates
(In TSh Million)
Appraisal Estimate      Estimates after Contract      Cost to Completion
in 1976                Negotiation 1977             August 1981
Contracts/Works                             Local   Foreign  Total    Local   Foreign  Total      Local   Foreign  Total
Bank/SIDA Financed Portion
Mtera dam civil works (CD 1)               27.00   88.00   115.00   111.49   207.06   318.55    143.95  266.11   410.06
Mtera dam mechanical works (CD 2)           5.00   41.00    46.00     4.15    18.80    22.95      4.58   21.99    26.57
Mtera employers village (CD 3)              2.00    -        2.00     14.96   4.22     19.18    includes above CD2
Mtera relocation of road (CD 4)             8.00   19.00    27.00    24.60    6.94     31.54     42.30   10.88    52.48
Training                                    1.00    2.00     3.00     1.00    2.00      3.00      1.00    2.00     3.00
Enginering/Administration                   7.00   35.00    42.00    12.74   75.46    88.20      16.85   86.16   103.01
Contingencies                              43.00   94.00   137.00    55.34   95.17    150.51       -      -       -
Subtotal Bank/SIDA Financed Portion     93.00  279.00   279.00   224.28  409.65   633.93    208.68   386.44   595.12
KfW Financed Portion
Kidatu civil works (CD 21)                  3.00   10.00.   13.00    15.62   46.86     62.48     16.17   49.88    66.05
Kidatu steel linings & gates (CD 22)        1.00   18.00    19.00     1.63    11.27    12.90      1.61   11.95    13.56
Kidatu turbines & pipework (CD 23)          4.00   33.00    37.00     1.28    19.99   21.27       0.81   21.55    22.36
Kidatu generators (CD 24)                   3.00   30.Ou    33.00     2.23   25.34     27.57      2.47   26.34    28.81
Kidatu transformers (CD 25 AK)              -       -        -        -       -        -          1.07   12.92    13.99
Morogoro transformers (CD 25 AM)            2.00   22.00    24.Uu     3.66   28.07     31.73      1.06    8.34     9.40
Kidatu 220-kV cables (CD 25 i3)             -       -        -        -       -        -          1.27    7.24     8.51
Kidatu control equipment (CD 26)            1.00    4.0U     5.00      1.72   13.19    14.91      0.23   15.54    15.77
Kidatu switchyard, connecting lines and
Morogoro substation (CD 27)              1.00    9.00    10.00     7.67   29.92    37.59       7.01   30.23    37.24        >
Contingencies                              17.00   71.00    88.00     5.10   26.87    31.97       -       -       -
Subtotal KfW Financed Portion           32.00  197.00   229.00    38.91  201.51   240.42     31.70   183.99   215.69       a
Taxes (for all works)                      25.00    -       25.00    52.90    -        52.90     78.85    -       78.85
IDC (for IBRD/KfW and amounts)             70.00   36.00   106.00     -      36.00    36.00       -      29.97    29.97
Subtotal                                95.00   36.00   131.00    52.90   36.00    88.90      78.85   29.97   108.82
TOTAL                                  220.00  512.00   732.00   316.09  647.16   963.25     319.23  600.40   919.63



TANZANIA
KIDATU HYDROELECTRIC PROJECT
SECOND STArE DEVELOPMIENT
CONSTRUCTION SCHEDULE
IMTERA DAM)
ACTIVITIES       YEAR OF CONSTRUCTION          7                      9s1791go19
TEMPORARY WORK&  RIICbI  'C,IKOI,a.p.OE                                                                                                                               I0oo.
RE L CEC.. AT       s,   IEO2
DODOM. - I INGA -- 
ROAD        E--.RIO
MCCHAIJICAE.....ORWS
SPILLWVAY CPil~ d         ln.,505
OTER NIAWORKS              G-5TI.cav 'R
SPILLWAY Cmure  ..-d 01-  1.                                             .4 ""~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~AWR002I75



N        A   0  r-   -  i  F  X  3t X =~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~t lP-  -
> o X I 0 1   t        0    0   l    1   0   1    f        l       I       0
41 ~    ~~~ - - -_ - - - ---'.,-,.,,-. ',','''--   -  --   -lll  ___ I lu l= i
Inc00 PWWS Ui -n SI m4EOWG
ncdC,d  111  1 1 1~W-        ' l     I 1 - - -  I I 
pWOdO, di_                            r,0 C ISf ~W j 
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~1 ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ 0-
--W-, M..-o ,.          Si00                      ! ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~C G.,-
3SflOH)t3AOd IlflY 4 1 J tO NOISN3IX3)
3fl0)HC.S-, NOIiDfMlHSNOD
IN tWdO13A3O 3DV15 cINOJ3S
VtNVZNVlN



TANZANIA
GREAT RUAHA PROJECT - PHASE II
Statement of Contracts and Works
Tendered     Completion
Contract No.                                     Sum            Cost                           Scope of the Works
CD 1                                         363,554,247     410,054,611    Temporary Works:  Staff camps, labor camp, community
center, school, dispensary, police station, post
office, and other temporary facilities.
Works                                                                       Ftera Dam:  Concrete structure of the buttress type
with connecting gravity dam at the right bank, crest
length 260 meters, crest width 10 meters and maximum
height 45 meters.
Road: Relocation of the northern and southern parts of
Iringa-Dodoma road (northern part - about 9 km) and
southern part (about 3.3 km).
Miscellaneous: Civil works pertainirg to floating
steel boom, new settlement public facility
buildings, etc.
DC 2 - Mtera Mechanical Works                 24,448,277     26,571,028     Four radial gates with hoists and embedded parts, one           0
bulkhead gate and four sets of embedded parts, one
gantry crane with rails and beam, one bottom outlet
gate with hoist and one set of embedded parts for
concrete stoplogs.
CD 3 & 4 - Employers Village &                56,216,233    52,483,851      (a) Fourteen family houses, guest house (2 blocks) with
Relocation of Road                                                             swimming pool, few employers office (2 blocks),
ancillary works (sanitary, electrical
installations, etc.)
(b) Relocation of southern part of Iringa-Dodoma road
(22 kms), access road including bituminous
surfacing to the employers village and ancilliary
temporary works.
CD 5- Bush clearance                                0.95        0.85        Bush clearance up to 2.3 km upstream of the dam below          x
the reservoir level (about 150 hectares).
1.76       1.78         Supply of steel booms.                                       0
0.64       0.65         Supply of towing and rowing boats.
0.20       0.25        Archaelogical survey/salvage in the submergence area of
the Mtera reservoir.
1.20       0.90        Water supply investigations for new settlement.



CD 21                                        68 ,475,995    66,052,554      Concrete lining of cylinder gate shafts 3 & 4 and
removal of temporary concrete walls in intakes 3 &
4, installation of permanent drainage pipes in
penstock 3 & 4, concrete structures for
installation of generators 3 & 4 together with
appurtenant finishes, extension of cable culverts
and foundations for connecting lines at pothead,
concreting roads in the access tunnels.
CD 22 - Penstock Steel Linings                14,100,046    13,562,554      Two penstock steel linings, one sliding gate with
and Gates                                                                      lifting wires on a drum and spares, two cylinder
gates with hoists and appurtenant equipment and
spares.
CD 23 - Turbines and Pipework                 22,765,320    22,351,637      Two complete turbine units with governors with all
appurtenant equipment, all necessary pipes, valves,
supports, etc. for supply of cooling water, two
pumps, pipes, valves for dewatering of draft tubes
with all appurtenant equipment.
CD 24 - Generators                            29,072,719    28,809,905      Two complete vertical shaft salient pole generators
with excitor and with all appurtenant equipment.
CD 25 AK - Transformers for Kidatu            13,968,630    13,993,420      Seven single-phase, set-up generator transformers,
complete with all appurtenant equipment for Kidatu
power plant (20 MVA, 10.5 kV - 220 kV).
CD 25 AM - Transformers for Morogoro          10,368,100     9,394,700      Four single-phase, 30 MVA transformers with all
appurtenant equipment plus two 20-MVA regulating
transformers all for Morogoro.
CD 25 B - 220 kV cables                        9,394,986     8,509,631      Six single-phase, 220 kV cables with potheads,
including fire protection measures.
CD 26 - Generator   switchgear, control       16,407,100    15,767,743      Generator switchgear, control equipment, extension of
equipment, local power and lighting                                            local power and lighting installation.
CD 27 - 220 kV switchyard, connecting         40,088,630    37,237,117      220-kV lightning arresters and pull-off structure for
lines, Morogoro S/S                                                            the pothead, 220-kV switchyard at Kidatu, 220-kV
connecting lines with all civil works, Morogoro
substation with civil works.



TANZANIA
KIDATU HYDROELECTRIC PROJECT STAGE II
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
Internal Rate of Return
(TSh Million)
Attributable      Operation                                          Deflated 2/
Kidatu    Distribution &        and        Total
Years          II       Transmission     Maintenance    Cost    Benefits 1/    Deflator    Cost   Benefits    Net Benefits
-      --        Costs
1976            2                                         2         0            57.7        3        0            - 3
1977           48                                       48          0            61.0      79         0            -79
1978          210                                      210          0            74.6     281         0           -281
1979          250            22                        272          0            82.4     330         0           -330
1980          283            23                        306          0            85.0     360         0           -360
1981           15            25               6          46        62            90.1       51       69             18
1982                         29               7         36         86           100.0      36        86             50
1983                         33               9         42        178           116.0      42       153            111
1984                                          9           9       262           116.0        9      226            217
1985                                         11          11       342           116.0       11      295            284
1986                                         13          13       384           116.0       13      331            318
1987                                         15         15        424           116.0       15      365            350
1988                                         15          15       465           116.0       15      401            356
1989                                         15          15       502           116.0       15      433            418
1990-2009                                    15          15       502           116.0       15      433            418
2010           80                            15          15       502           116.0      95       433            338
2011-2020                                    15          15       502           116.0       15      433            418
Rate of Return:   18.1%
1/  On the basis of 20% system losses.
2/  Based on T65 per kWh in 1981 and 1982 and T97.5 per kWh in 1983 and thereafter due to expected tariff
increase of 50% in 1983. Rate of return on the basis of T65 per kWh for the entire period is 15.5%.



- 33 -                        ANNEX 5
KIDATU HYDROELECTRIC PROJECT STAGE II
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
Comparison of Alternative Programs
Equalizing Discount Rate
(TSh Million)
--------- Alternative I ---------            ---- Alternative II ----       Net Flow
Kidatu   Diesel     hydro   Diesel           Diesel     Diesel                 for
II     Constr.   0 & M    0 & M    Total   Constr.   0 & M   3/   Total   Alt. # 1
2/
Years
1976          2                   0                 2       0           0          0      -   2
1977         48                   0                48        0          0          0      - 48
1978        210                   0               210       33          0         33      -17 7
1979        250                   0               250       70          0         70      - 180
1980        283                   0               283       84          0         84      - 199
1981         15                   2                 17      69         91        160        143
1982                              4                 4       39        120        159        155
1983                              4                 4       17        175        192        188
1984                              4                 4                 259        259        255
1985                              4                 4                 338        339       335
1986                              4                 4                 379        379        375
1987                              4                 4                 420        42u       41b
1988 I/                           4                 4                 459        459        455
1989-1999                         4                 4                 497       497         493
2000                              4                 4       33        497        530        526
201                              4                  4      70        497        567        563
2002                              4                 4       84        497        581        577
2003                              4                 4       69        497        56b        5b2
2004                              4                 4       39        497        536        532
2005                              4                 4       17        497        514        510
2006-2009                         4                 4                 497        497        493
2010         80                   4                 84                497        497        413
2011-2019                         4                 4                 497        497        493
2020                              4                 4       33        497        530        526
2021                              4                 4       70        497        567        563
2022                              4                 4       84        497        581        577
2023                              4                 4       69        497        566        562
2024                              4                 4       39        497        536        532
2025-2030                         4                 4       17        497        514        510
Equalizing Discount Rate: 30%
1/ After 1987 the two alternative programs will have the common facility of Mtera (in 1987)
followed by a coal-fired plant. Up to 1988 Kidatu II will meet the demiand.
2/  Due to lower load growth no additional diesel construction had been made, but some
production from the existing diesel facilities for back-up.
3/ For the same amount of electricity generation as the Kidatu II case.



TWNZANIA
KMDAU IfH1D  ECllC PRaBCr SMEM II
TANZANIA EI.ECWIC SIPPLY CMAINY, LTD.
Incorm Statenelts
(TSh li limn)
-     1975       -       1976-             1977         --1978--                1979         -     1980      -       1981-
Appraisal Actual   Appraisal Actual  Appraisal Actual   Appraisal Actual  Appraisal Actual   Appraisal Actual  Appraisal Actual
CMn,                            496     48b       537      490       618     516        686     538       752     653        833     738       926     752
Nverag,e Price Ter 1h6 (Tt)      32.1    31.8      39.6    40.3       45.0    48.3      53.0     46.6      53.0    46.2      61.5     b5ji      61.5    65.0
0sratirg i{everi,s
Sales Reverues                159.2   154.8     212.7    197.7     278.1   248.9     363.6    274.0     398.5   3U0.9     515.4    479.7     569.5   488.0
Tot,.                      159.2   ;54.8     212.7    197.7     278.1   2148.9     303.6   274.0     398.5   301.9      515.4   479.7     569.5   488.0
Cj erat    a   tLqw~
Gem-rdt.Lun                    55.8    53.9      54.3     50.3      61.2    b2.1       69.1    76.2      75.6    87.2       83.2   114.3      91.8    140.3
.n,m itsion & Dljtribution     8.8      9.3       9.7     11.2      10.7    12.9      11.7     16.2      12.9    21.0      14.2    30.3       15.6    29.6
AmalrratLin                    31.4    35.7      34.5     40.1      38.0    47.7       41.8    53.6      46.0    57.2      50.6     71.7      55.7    82.5
Lt2UL<Z.i~Iti.Dn               31.5    29.2      47.8     48.7      54.8    62.9      65.0     74.3      76.1    87.1      99.0    102.9     120.5   132.5
tixeTa                         -        -         -       -         16.2     - *      44.4     10.0      49.0    10.0      67.1     -         61.8     -
Total                      127.5    128.1     146.3   150.3     180.9    185.6     232.0   230.3     259.6    262.5     314.1.  319.2     345.4    384.9
Operating InLcre                 31.7    26.7      66A      47.4      97.2    63.3     131.6     43.7     138.9    39b4     201.3    160.5     224.1   103.1
Otier LtccAre (Losses)            1.1    (0.7       1.1    (19.0)      1.3    (3.1)      1.4    (1.0)       1.6    11.(       1.7     10.3       1.9    10.0
Net InL"e Before Interert       32.8    26.0      67.5     28.4      98.5    60.2      133.0    42.7     140.5    50.4    .203.0    170.8     226.0   113.1
interest aiargi to Operations    22.2    12.9      39.6     36.3      38.2    37.3      40.8     37.6      38.8    45.6      46.1     48.6      93.6    41.9
r'gT ':1E                        10.6    13.1      27.9    (7.9)      60.3    22.9      92.2      5.1     101.7     4.8     156.9    122.2     132.4    71.2
Rate of keturn 1/                 3.9     3.2       5.0      3.4       6.5     3.9       7.6      2.3       6.9     1.9       7.6      6.8       7.0     3.3
Luratln.  Rat.io                  80       83        68      76         65      75        64      84         65      87        61      67         60      79
5rrecaation/Gross Plat            2.8     2.6       2.8      2.7       2.8     2.9       2.8      2.9       2.8     3.0       2.8      3.0       2.8     3.0
1/ AppraLsal RiX adjusted to reflect transfer of 'Other Revenues" to "Otter Ire".
a,



TM=dA
KIDAMilJ  RK0EL1(:     C sa'l    II
IANZANIA EUOIR1G SUPi'LY UIIiPANY, Ll.
calance s9ets
(156 Killixj)
Yeiar Ended Deraber 31       -    1975     -        1976      -      1977--       -    1978-       -     1979-             1980-            1981
Ap-praisal Actual  AppraisaL Actual  Appraisal Actual  Apprnsal Actual  Appraisal Actual  Appraisal Aetual  Appraisal Actual
PLait In (peratioci           1,514.6  1,516.0  1,899.0  2,089.7  2,016.5  2,250.0  2,623.0  2,875.2  2,814.9  2,933.7  4,253.6  3,926.2  4,353.6  4,908.9
lIAs: SDepreciation            316.5    314.3    427.9    526.0    482.8    589.0   678.6    807.0    754.8    894.5  1,032.6  1,270.8  1,153.1  1,403.3
t.et Plant                    1,198.1  1,201.7  1,471.1  1,563.7  1,533.7  1,h61.0  I ,9.44.4  2,U68.2  2,U60.1  2,039.2  3,221.0  2,655.4  3,2W.5  i,505.b
';otk in Pr-Wgrtss              165.4   112.4    306.8    204.7    420.6    208.8   668.6    438.1    813.5    705.6    344.8  1,231.9   440.7    6621.
Lor4,-term, invesueints               -        -       -        -        -            -        -        -        1.2     -         1.2     -        1.2
Ourrent Assets
('.te                         13.1      5.2     25.9      7.1     16.2     2.5     13.5      -       15.0      6.0     43.4      -       40.2     -
.kc.Jxints Receivable         28.6     27.7     38.3     47.1     50.1     59.0    65.      66.      71.7     94.8     92.8    167.8    102.5    120.5
Ilnwt ories                   52.5     65.6     52.5     72.0     52.5    60.9     56.7    103.4     61.3    160.0     66.2    193.3    71.4    20t.0
Ocler                          0.1     30.2      0.1     29.2      0.1     71.0     0.1     37.9      0.1     45.6      0.1     96.4     0.1     96.0
Subtotal                     94.3    128.7    116.8   155.4    118.9    193.4    135.7    207.7   148.1    306.4    202.5    457.5    214.2    422.5
'IOTAL                      1,457.8  1,442.8  1,896.7  1,923.8  2,073.2  2,063.2  2,748.7  2,714.0  3,C21.7  3,052.4  3,7b8.3  4,34b.0  3,855.4  4,591.3
_                                                _  _  _  =  _ _ , _ _ _ . _ _ _ . _ _ _ __ _ 
Capital                       514.0   511.1    571.3    557.2    583.5    59b.5   583.8    648.5    583.8    748.6    583.8    877.3    583.9   93b.2
Retair.eo Larnings             3.5     (6.7)    12.5    (21.7)    15.b    (42.7)    52.Z   (7h.3)    95.4   (12J.8)   Z03.7   (177.6)   Zb6.2  (164.7)
CZtpiLal Re-urve               20.6    83.9     20.6     81.3     20.6    10J.3     2(.6   115.3     2U.b     74.3     20.6    253.3     20.6    253.3
Rovalua-ion Reserve           189.8   187.5    430.9    578.4    430.9    578.4    846.9   994.6    846.9    994:6  1,335.1  1,o72.6  1,335.1  1,672.6
Subtotal                   727.9    775.8  1,035.3  1,195.2  1,050.6  1,233.5  1,503.5  1,680.1  1,546.7  1,696.7  2,143.2  2,625.6  2,225.8  2,699.4
Def Tax Provision               49.7     59.9     68.7     67.0     87.9     90.9   104.9    109.8    124.9    109.8    154.3    109.8    184.8   168.1
Lrog ierm Debt                 5b2.5    522.4    665.8    552.3    797.6   595.6    992.4    761.2  1,190.5  1,034.1  1,298.4  1,314.8  1,258.8  1,548.3
Currect L abillities
Accxnts PayabLe               98.2     65.5    105.5     89.3    113.5    116.8    122.0   135.8    131.1    176.8    141.0    234.5    151.5    101.2
overdrafts                     -        -        -        -        -        -       -        0.2      -        -        -       12.9      -       11.1
Subtotal                    98.2     65.5    105.5    89.3    113.5    116.8    122.0    136.0    131.1   176.8    141.0    247.4    151.5    112.3
Q'resun2r Cjntribution          19.5     19.2     21.4     20.0     23.6     26.4    25.9     26.9     28.5     35.0     31.4     48.4     34.5    63.2
TOTAL                       1,457.8  1,442.8  1,896.7  1,923.8  2,073.2  2,063.2  2,748.7  2,714.0  3,021.7  3,052.4  3,768.3  4,346.0  3,855.4  4,591.3
De b/Debt arm Equity              42       3b       33      33       41       31       38       30       42       36      36       32       34       35
Gurront Ratiu                    1.0      2.0      1.1      1.7      1 .0    1.7      1.1      1.5      1.1      1.7      1.4      1.       1.4     3.8
Receivablts/Rev 1                 18       1d       18      24        18      24       18       24       18      31        18      35       18       25



TANZANIA
KIDAMU HMYIELDIC PROJECT SLAGE II
TANZANIA 1ECIRIC 3JPPLY CWFANY, 1,I).
Funds Flow Statenents
(TSh MIliln)
Year Ended DecemnLr 31       -1975           -       1976---           1977      -       1978              1979--      -    1980-        -     1981-    -    1975-1981 lbtal
Appraisal Actual  Appr       Actual  Appraisal Actual  Appra     Actual  Appraisal Actual  Appratsal Actul  Appraisal Actual  Appra      Actual
Intermal srces
Net Income Before Interest   32.8     26.0      67.5    28.4     98.5     60.2     133.0     42.7    140.5     50.4    203.0    170.8   226.0     113.1     901.3    491.6
Depreciatime                 31.5     29.2      47.8    48.7     54.8     62.9     65.0      74.3     76.1     87.1     99.0    102.9   120.5     132.5     494.7    537.6
Total                     64.3      55.2     115.3    77.1    153.3    123.1    198.0     117.0    216.6    137.5    302.0    273.7   346.5     245.6   1,396.0  1,029.2
0perationlal Requirements
Irease (Decrease) in
Working Capital            (3.7)    78.8       2.3      1.0      3.9     15.1     11.1      (2.A)     1.7     51.9    16.1     99.4     4.4      98.3      35.8    342.1
Debt Service                 43.5     50.3      60.4    51.8     81.6     61.2     99.3      58.0     117.2    65.2    131.6     77.3   163.3      86.7     696.9    450.5
Dividerls                     -        -         -       -       37.9      -       38.5       7.8     38.5      -       19.3      -      19.3       -       153.5      7.8
Other                         -        -         -       -        -        -        -         -        -       89.5      -        -       -         -         -       89.5
Total                     39.8     19.1      62./     52.8    123bA     76.3    148.9      63.     157b4    206.6    167.0    176.7   187.0     185.0    886.2    889.9
Net Available from Operations  24.5    (73.9)     52.6    24.3     29.9     46.8     49.1      53.6     59.2    (69.1)   135.0     97.0   159.5      60.6     509.8    139.3
Comtruction Requirements
lXoing Vbrls                224.4              156.6            125.1             113A               111.6             133.3            157.1   1,021.5
Kidatu Stage 11               -                 60.3     _       85.3             163.7              175.6      _      113.8             27.3     626.0
Total (exclud. IDC)      224.4     158.5    216.9    111.4    Z10b     162.8    277.1     291.5    287.2   320.0     247.1    5538    184b     411.8    1,647.5  2,009.8
Balance to Finance            199.9    232.4     164.3    87.1    18U.5    116.0    228.0     237.9    228.0    389.1    112.1    456.8    24.9     351.2   1,137.7  1,870.5
Fianed by:.
Consumers Contributlm         1.7      1.8       2.0     0.8      2.1      6.3      2.3       0.6      2.6      8.1      2.8     13A      3.1      14.8      16.6     45.8
Borrowng
IWD Lom
SIDA taan
KfW Lcon
llRD/Kidatu I
SIA/Kidatu I
otler EPistirng inrs
Kiwira & Sundry E:Kt.
Future lon
Mqariza
Total                     57.5     77.2      117.8   42.1     156.4     65.8    222.7     182.6    226.9    287.1    137.7   295.7     18.6     277.3    937.6   1,227.8
Equity                        156.9    154.1      57.3    46.1     12.3     39.3      0.3      52.0      -      100.1      -      128.8     -        60.9     226.8    581.3
Total Finarning           216.1    233.1     177.1    89.0    170.8    111.4    225.3     235.2    229.5    395.3    140.5    437.9    21.7     353.0   1,181.0  1,854.9
Stirplus (Deficit) of Fuinds   16.2      0.7      12.8     1.9     (9.7)    (4.6)    (2.7)     (2.7)     1.5      6.2     28.4    (18.9)   (3.2)      1.8      43.3   (15.6)
Cumulative                     13.1      5.2      25.9     7.1     16.2      2.5     13.5      (0.2)    15.0      6.0     43.4    (12.9)   40.2     (11.1)     40.2   (11.1)
Debt Service Coverage           1.5      1.1       1.9     1.5      1.9      2.0      2.0       2.0      1.9      Z.1      2.3      3.5     2.1       2.8      2.0       2.3



- 37 -
ANNEX 9
Page 1 of 4
COMMENTS FROM THE BORROWER
AP
41318 TANESCO
TAN/DSM/MD/470        10TH MAY,1983
ATTN . MR. ERKMEN
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT ON TANZANIA:
KIDATU HYDROELECTRIC PROJECT, SECOND STAGE(LOAN 1306 -TA)
PLEASE REFER TO YOUR LETTER DATED 11/3/83 VIDE WHICH A DRAFT OF
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT HAS BEEN SENT TO US FOR COMMENTS:
IN THIS CONNECTION WE WISH TO CONFIRM THAT THE DRAFT REPORT IS
GENERALLY TOOUR SATISFACTION. HOWEVER,WE HAVE TO CLARIFY OUR
POSITION IN RESPECT OF PARAS 3.25, 6.01 AND 7.03 (C) AS UNDER FOR
YOUR FURTHER CONSIDERATION AND INCLUSION IN THE REPORT AS DEEMED
APPROPRIATE.
AA.   PARA 3.25
IN OUR EFFORTS TO UNDERSTAND THE REASONS WHICH LEAD TO FALL
OF A STOPLOG AFTER OUR FIRST PLACEMENT OF STOPLOGS UPSTREAM OF
BOTTOM OUTLET, WE HAVE DISCOVERED THAT THERE IS NO AERATION



- 38 -                            ANNEX 9
Page 2 of 4
ARRANGEMENT/PROVISION FOR THE CONDUIT PORTION BETWEEN THE
STOPLOGS AND THE OUTLET GATE. WHEN THE OUTLET GATE IS LOWERED
WITH STOPLOS IN POSITION, THE LEAKAGE WATER STARTS FILLING
UP THE CONDUIT SPACE BETWEEN STOPLOGS AND THE GATES AND IN
THE ABSENCE OF AIR VENT, AIR PUSHES OUT AT THE SEALS OF STOP-
LOSS AND OUTLET GATE,. FURTHER ,NET FIFFERENTIAL PRESSURE ON THE
UPPER STOPLOSS SHOULD UNDER-GO A SUDDEN CHANGE WHEN THE BOTTOM
OUTLET GATE IS RAISED WITH STOPLOGS IN POSITION,BECAUSE OF
SUDDEN JETTING OUT OF WATER STORED IN THE CONDUIT SPACE(BETWEEN
STOPLOGS AND OUTLET 6ATE) AND DUE TO SUB-ATMOSPHERIC PRESSURES/
VACCUM EXISTING IN THE CONDUIT SPACE OVER WATER SURFACE IN THE
ABSENCE OF ANY AERATION ARRNGEMENT. PROBABLY DURING REGULATION
OF WATER RELEASES,THIS COULD ACTUATE JETTING OUT OF STOPLOG SEAL
S WITH PROGRESSIVELY INCREASING SUCEPTIBILITY TOWARDS INCREASED
LEAKASE AND EVEN DISPLACEMENT OF STOPLO6S. FURTHER IT IS NOTED
THAT SEALS ARE PROVIDED ONLY ON TOP AND BOTTOM OF STOPLOSS-
THERE ARE NOSEALS ON THE SIDES.
WE HAVE ALREADY DISCUSSED WITH OUR CONSULTING ENGINEER TO EXAMIN
E THE ABOVE ASPECTS FOR CARRYING OUT THE NEEDED IMPROVEMENTS
WHICH IS POSSIBLE THROUGH THE MTERA POWER PLANT CONTRACTORS.
HOWEVER NO IMMEDIATE RISKS ARE INVOLVED WITH THE PRESENT ARRANG-
EMENT, AS WATER REGULATION/RELEASES THROUGH BOTTOM OUTLET SHALL
NOT BE REQUIRED UNTIL RESERVOIR LEVEL GOES DOWN BELOW THE DEAD
STORAGE LEVEL/SPILLWAY CREST.
PARA 6.01



-39-                              ANNEX 9
Page 3 of 4
_________________
IN REFERENCE TO THIS PARA WE CONFIRM THAT TANESCO IS VERY
SATISFIED WITH PERFORMANCE OF PANEL OF EXPERTS AS WELL AS
THE TWO FULL TIME EXPERTS/ ADVISERS IN EXECUTION OF THIS
PROJECT.
CC.   PARA 7.03
IN REGARD TO SUB-PARA (C) IN RESPECT OF IMPORTANT LESSONS TO
BE LEARNED FROM THIS PROJECT WE ARE OF THE OPINION THAT
CAREFUL AND KNOWLEDGABLE SUPERVISION IS ESSENTIAL AND THIS
IS BEST ACHIEVED THROUGH.
1)   MAIN ENGINEERING CONSULTANT,WHO IS ALLOWED TO ENGASE ALSO
PART TIME SPECIALISTS/EXPERTS WHEN NECESSARY WITHIN THE
AMBIT OF ENSINEERING A6REEMENT.
11)   PANEL OF PART TIME EXPERTS TO RENDER ADVICE ON VARIOUS
TECHNICAL ANDCONTRACTUAL ASPECTS DURING EXECUTION OF THE
PROJECT.
jil)  WHOLE TIME EXPERTS -WHO HAVE TO DEAL WITH DAY TO DAY
PROGRESS AND PROBLEMS OF THE PROJECT AS PART OF EMPLOYER'S
'INHOUSE EXPERTISE' AND ENSURE THE NEEDED INPUTS/ASSIS-
TANCE FROM THE CONSULTANTS AND CONTRACTORS TOWARDS SAFE AND
SCONOCIC EXECUTION OF THE PROJECT.DD.
DD.   PARA 7.03
WE SUGGEST THE FOLLOWING ADDITIONAL SUB-PARA:-



- 40 -                            ANNEX 9
Page 4 of 4
(N) LOCAL ENGINEERS SHOULD BE ATTACHED TO THE MAIN ENGINEE-
RING CONSULTANT AND WHOLE TIME EXPERTS TO ECQUIRE TRAINING AND
EXPERIENCE ON DESIGN CONSTRUCTION ASPECTS OF THE PROJECT''
WE HOPE ,THE ABOVE INFORMATION IS TO YOUR SATISFACTION.
REGARDS
S.L.MOSHA
MANASING DIRECTOR/TANESCO
41318 TANESCO
41318 TANESCO
CORRE.. IN PARA AA. LINE NO 9 READ NET DIFFERENTIAL PRESSURE....
41318 TANESCO
41318 TANESCO
190802 1353 100583 05150057 1333
01890189 069
NNNN



