DOCUMNTSJ SPECIAL ACTION CREDIT NUMBER 55 TA
Special Action Credit Agreement
(Kidatu Hydroelectric Project - Second Stage)
between
UNITED REPUBLIC OF TANZANIA
and
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
as ADMINISTRATOR of the SPECIAL ACTION ACCOUNT
established with funds contributed by
the MEMBER STATES of the EUROPEAN ECONOMIC COMMUNITY
Dated                             , 1980


﻿SPECIAL ACTION CREDIT AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT, dated                             , 1980, between
UNITED REPUBLIC OF TANZANIA (the orrower) and INTERNATIONAL
DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION as ADMINISTRATOR of the Special Action
Account established with funds contributed by the MEMBER STATES of
the EUROPEAN ECONOMIC COMMUNITY.
WHEREAS (A) by the Agreement, dated May 2, 1978, between the
International Developmint Association (hereinafter called IDA) and
the European Economic Community and its Member States there has
been established by IDA a Special Action Account constituted
by the funds which shall be contributed by the Member States of
the European Economic Community and administered by IDA, acting as
Administrator of such Special Action Account, for the purpose of,
and in accordance with, the provisions of said Agreement;
(B) the Borrower has requested the Administrator for
assistance from the resources of the Special Action Account in the
financing of a project described in Schedule 2 to this Agreement
and the Administrator has determined that such assistance would be
in accordance with the provisions of the Agreement of May 2, 1978
referred to above;
(C) the International Bank for Reconstruction and Develop-
ment (hereinafter called the Bank) has provided assistance towards
the financing of the Project by a loan agreement dated August 12,
1976, between the Borrower and the Bank (hereinafter referred to
as the Loan Agreement);
(D) the Kingdom of Sweden (hereinafter called Sweden,
has provided assistance towards the financing of the Project by a
development co-operation agreement dated August 12, 1976, between
the Borrower and Sweden (hereinafter called the Swedish Agree-
ment);
(E) the Federal Republic of Germany, acting through the
Kreditanstalt fUr Wiederaufbau, (hereinafter called KfW), has
provided assistance towards the financing of the Project by an
agreement dated August 11, 1977, between the Borrower and KfW
(hereinafter called KfW Agreement);
(F) the Project is being carried out at present, and will
continue to be carried out by, the Tanzania Electric Supply
Company Limited (hereinafter called TANESCO) with the Borrower's


﻿-2-
assistance and, as part of such assistance, the Borrower will make
available to TANESCO the proceeds of the Special Action Credit as
hereinafter provided; and
WHEREAS the Administrator has agreed, on the basis inter
alia of the foregoing, to extend the Special Action Credit to the
Borrower upon the terms and conditions hereinafter set forth and
in the Project Agreement of even date herewith between the Admini-
strator and TANESCO;
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
ARTICLE I
General Conditions; Definitions
Section 1.01. The parties to this Agreement accept all the
provisions of the General Conditions Applicable to Development
Credit Agreements of the International Development Association,
dated March 15, 1974, with the same force and effect as if they
were fully set forth herein, subject, however, to the following
modifications thereof (said General Conditions Applicable to
Development Credit Agreements of the International Development
Association, as so modified, being hereinafter called the General
Conditions):
(a) the term "Association", wherever used in the General
Conditions, means the International Development Association acting
as the Administrator of the Special Action Account referred to in
the Preamble to this Special Action Credit Agreement;
(b) the terms "Development Credit Agreement" and "Credit",
wherever used in the General Conditions are amended to read
"Special Action Credit Agreement" and "Special Action Credit",
respectively;
(c) Sections 4.01, 4.02, 4.03, 4.04 and the second sentence
of Section 5.01 are deleted; and
(d) in Sections 6.02 and 7.01, the term "Association" shall
also include the International Development Association acting in
its own capacity.
Section 1.02. Wherever used in this Agreement, unless the
context otherwise requires, the several terms defined in the


﻿-3-
General Conditions and in the Preamble to this Agreement have
the respective meanings therein set forth and the following
additional terms have the following meanings:
(a) "Member States" means the Member States of the European
Economic Community, i.e. Belgium, Denmark, The Federal Republic of
Germany, France, Ireland, Italy, Luxembourg, The Netherlands and
The United Kingdom;
(b) "Administrator" means the International Development
Association acting as Administrator of the Special Action Account
referred to in the Preamble to this Special Action Credit Agree-
ment;
(c) "Project Agreement" means the agreement between the
Administrator and TANESCO of even date herewith, as the same may
be amended from time to time, and such term includes all schedules
to the Project Agreement and all agreements supplemental to the
Project Agreement;
(d) "Joint Financing Agreement" means the agreement dated
August 12, 1976, among the Borrower, Sweden, the Bank, the Asso-
ciation and TANESCO, as the same may be amended from time to time,
and such term includes all schedules to the Joint Financing
Agreement; and
(e) "Subsidiary Loan Agreement" means the agreement to be
entered into between the Borrower and TANESCO pursuant to Section
3.01 (b) of this Agreement, as the same may be amended from time,
and such term includes all schedules to the Subsidiary Loan
Agreement.
ARTICLE II
The Special Action Credit
Section 2.01. The Administrator agrees to lend to the Bor-
rower on the terms and conditions in the Special Action Credit
Agreement set forth or referred to, the following currency
amounts:
Seven million nine
hundred forty-two
thousand                     Belgian francs   (BF7,942,000);
Nine hundred eighty-
eight thousand               Danish kroner      (DK988,000);


﻿-4-
Three million eight
hundred eighteen
thousand                Deutsche marks         (DM39818,000);
Four million thirty-
six thousand            French francs          (FF490369000);
Eight thousand eight
hundred                 Irish pounds              (IrL8,8OO);
Four hundred sixty-
eight million three
hundred nineteen
thousand                Italian lire        (ItL46893199000);
Two hundred fifty
thousand                Luxembourg francs        (LF2509000);
One million fifty-
five thousand           Netherlands guilders (Dfl 1,055,000);
and
Nine hundred seventy-
three thousand three
hundred                 Pounds sterling           (I973,800).
Section 2.02. (a) The proceeds of the Special Action Credit
may be withdrawn from the Credit Account in accordance with the
provisions of Schedule 1 to this Agreement, as such Schedule may
be amended from time to time by agreement between the Borrower and
the Administrator, for expenditures made (or, if the Administrator
shall so agree, to be made) in respect of the reasonable cost of
goods and services required for the Project and to be financed out
of the proceeds of the Special Action Credit.
(b) Withdrawals shall be made only on account of expendi-
tures (i) in the currency of the Borrower, or (ii) for goods
produced in, or services supplied from, (A) any of the Member
States and (B) any developing country which is a member of the
International Development Association and could be the recipient
of a special action credit, as determined by the Administrator.
(c) Withdrawals from the Credit Account shall be made in the
respective currencies in which the expenditures to be financed out
of the proceeds of the Special Action Credit have been paid or are
payable or, at the option of the Administrator, in such currency
or currencies as the Administrator shall from time to time select.
Section 2.03. Except as the Administrator shall otherwise
agree, procurement of the goods and civil works to be financed out


﻿-5-
of the proceeds of the Special Action Credit shall be governed by
the provisions of Schedule 3 to this Agreement.
Section 2.04. The Closing Date shall be December 31, 1981, or
such later date as the Administrator shall establish. The Admini-
strator shall promptly notify the Borrower of such later date.
Section 2.05. (a) The Borrower shall pay to the Administrator
a service charge at the rate of three-fourths of one per cent (3/4
of 1%) per annum, on each of the various currency amounts with-
drawn from the Credit Account and outstanding from time to time.
The amounts of service charge in various currencies so found, and
additional service charges (if any) payable pursuant to Section
3.02 of the General Conditions, shall be payable in the currency
of United Kingdom of Great Britain and Northern Ireland, or in
another currency selected by the Administrator in accordance with
the provisions of paragraph (b) of this Section, after their
conversion into such currency on the basis of exchange rates
determined in accordance with the provisions of Section 4.05 of
the General Conditions.
(b) If the Administrator shall at any time determine that
the currency so specified or selected is not freely convertible or
freely exchangeable by the International Development Association
for currencies of other members of the International Development
Association for the purposes of its operations, service charges
shall be payable in such other currency as the Administrator may
select for such purposes and shall notify in writing to the
Borrower, whereupon, commencing thirty days after the date of such
notice, service charges shall be payable in such other currency.
Section 2.06. Service charges shall be payable semiannually
on May 1 and November 1 in each year.
Section 2.07. (a) The Borrower shall repay the principal
amount of the Special Action Credit in semiannual installments
payable on each May 1 and November 1 commencing May 1, 1990,
and ending November 1, 2029, each installment to and including the
installment payable on November 1, 1999, to be one-half of one per
cent (1/2 of 1%) of such principal amount, and each installment
thereafter to be one and one-half per cent (1-1/2%) of such
principal amount.
(b) Each of the installments payable pursuant to paragraph
(a) of this Section shall be the aggregate of such amounts in the
various currencies withdrawn from the Credit Account as shall be
found by multiplying the total amount in each currency so with-
drawn by the applicable installment percentage as specified in


﻿-6-
paragraph (a) of this Section, unless the Administrator shall
otherwise specify by notice to the Borrower prior to each payment
date for the purpose of avoiding the payment of fractional cur-
rency amounts.
(c) If withdrawal shall have been made in a currency which
the Administrator shall have purchased with one or more other
currencies for the purpose of such withdrawal, the portion of the
Special Action Credit so withdrawn shall, for the purpose of
paragraph (b) of this Section, be deemed to have been withdrawn in
the currency or currencies used by the Administrator for such
purchase in the amounts of such currency or currencies so used.
(d) The Administrator will, at the request of the Borrower
and on such terms and conditions as the Administrator shall
determine, use its best efforts to purchase any currency needed by
the Borrower for payment of principal required under this Agree-
ment upon payment by the Borrower of sufficient funds therefor in
a currency or currencies to be specified by the Administrator from
time to time. In purchasing the currencies required the Adminis-
trator shall be acting as agent of the Borrower and the Borrower
shall be deemed to have made any payment required under this
Agreement only when and to the extent that the Administrator has
received such payment in the currency or currencies required.
Section 2.08. TANESCO is designated as representative of the
Borrower for the purposes of taking any action required or permit-
ted to be taken under the provisions of Section 2.02 of this
Agreement and Article V of the General Conditions.
ARTICLE III
Execution of the Project
Section 3,0l. (a) Without any limitation or restriction
upon any of its other obligations under the Special Action Credit
Agreement, the Borrower shall cause TANESCO to perform in accord-
ance with the provisions of the Project Agreement and the Sub-
sidiary Loan Agreement all the obligations therein set forth,
shall take and cause to be taken all action, including the provi-
sion of funds, facilities, services and other resources, necessary
or appropriate to enable TANESCO to perform such obligations, and
shall not take or permit to be taken any action which would
prevent or interfere with such performance.
(b) The Borrower shall relend the proceeds of the Special
Action Credit to TANESCO under a subsidiary loan agreement to be


﻿-7-
entered into between the Borrower and TANESCO under terms and
conditions which shall have been approved by the Administrator.
(c) The Borrower shall exercise its rights under the
Subsidiary Loan Agreement in such manner as to protect the
interests of the Borrower and the Administrator and to accomplish
the purposes of the Special Action Credit, and except as the
Administrator shall otherwise agree, the Borrower shall not
assign, amend, abrogate or waive the Subsidiary Loan Agreement or
any provision thereof.
ARTICLE IV
Other Covenants
Section 4.01. The Borrower and the Administrator shall
review from time to time the qualifications and experience that
will be regarded as appropriate by the Borrower for appointments
to the position of general manager of TANESCO.
Section 4.02. Whenever there is reasonable cause to believe
that the funds available to TANESCO will be inadequate to meet the
estimated expenditures required for the carrying out of the
Project, the Borrower and the Administrator shall exchange views
thereon, and the Borrower shall make arrangements satisfactory to
the Administrator to provide TANESCO or cause TANESCO to be
provided with such funds as are needed to meet such expenditures.
Section 4.03. The Borrower shall continue to take all appro-
priate measures required on the basis of the recommendation of the
study of the ecological impact of the construction of the dam
included in Part B of the Project.
Section 4.04. The Borrower shall not permit substantial
abstraction of water from the Great Ruaha River or its tributaries
upstream of Kidatu that would reduce the potential output of the
Kidatu generating station.
Section 4.05. The Borrower shall take or cause to be taken
from time to time all measures required on its part in order
to enable TANESCO to adjust its tariffs for electric power ser-
vices and to carry out its obligations under Section 4.05 of the
Project Agreement.
ARTICLE V
Remedies of the Administrator
Section 5.01. For the purposes of Section 6.02 of the General
Conditions the following additional events are specified pursuant
to paragraph (h) thereof:


﻿-8-
(a) TANESCO shall have failed to perform any of its cove-
nants, agreements or obligations under the Project Agreement;
(b) an extraordinary situation shall have arisen which
shall make it improbable that TANESCO will be able to perform its
obligations under the Project Agreement;
(c) the Electricity (Tanganyika Electric Supply Company
Limited) License, 1957 or the Agreement dated February 28, 1957,
between the governor of Tanganyika and TANESCO shall have been
amended, suspended, abrogated, repealed or waived in such a way as
to materially and adversely affect the ability of TANESCO to carry
out the covenants, agreements and obligations set forth in the
Project Agreement;
(d) the Borrower or any other authority having jurisdiction
shall have taken any action for the dissolution or disestablish-
ment of TANESCO or for the suspension of its operations;
(e) a change shall have been made in TANESCO's Memorandum
or Articles of Agreement which will adversely affect the opera-
tions or financial condition of TANIESCO or the carrying out of the
Project; and
(f) (i) Subject to subparagraph (ii) of this paragraph:
(A) the right of the Borrower to withdraw the
proceeds of any grant, loan or credit made
to the Borrower for the financing of the
Project shall have been suspended, cancelled
or terminated in whole or in part, pursuant
to the terms of the agreement providing
therefor; or
(B) any such loan or credit shall have become due
and payable prior to the agreed maturity
thereof.
(ii) Subparagraph (i) of this paragraph shall not
apply if:
(A) such suspension, cancellation, termination or
prematuring is not caused by the failure of
the Borrower to perform any of its obligations
under such agreement; and


﻿-9-
(B) adequate funds for the Project are available
to the Borrower from other sources on terms
and conditions consistent with the obligations
of the Borrower under this Agreement.
Section 5.02. For the purposes of Section 7.01 of the
General Conditions, the following additional events are specified
pursuant to paragraph (d) thereof:
(a) any event specified in paragraphs (a), (b), (c), (d) and
(e) of Section 5.01 of this Agreement shall occur and shall
continue for a period of 60 days after notice thereof shall have
been given by the Administrator to the Borrower; and
(b) any event specified in paragraph (f) (i) (B) of Section
5.01 of this Agreement shall occur.
ARTICLE VI
Effective Date; Termination
Section 6.01. The following events are specified as addi-
tional conditions to the effectiveness of the Special Action
Credit Agreement within the meaning of Section 12.01 (b) of the
General Conditions:
(a) the Agreement Amending the Joint Financing Agreement
has been executed on behalf of the Borrower, Sweden, the Bank and
TANESCO; and
(b) the Subsidiary Loan Agreement has been executed on
behalf of the Borrower and TANESCO.
Section 6.02. The following are specified as additional
matters, within the meaning of Section 12.02 (b) of the General
Conditions, to be included in the opinion or opinions to be
furnished to the Administrator:
(a) that the Project Agreement has been duly authorized
or ratified by TANESCO, and is legally binding upon TANESCO in
accordance with its terms; and
(b) that the Subsidiary Loan Agreement has been duly author-
ized or ratified by the Borrower and TANESCO and is legally
binding upon the Borrower and TANESCO in accordance with its
terms.


﻿- 10 -
Section 6.03. The date                         )  is hereby
specified for the purposes of Section 12.04 of the General Condi-
tions.
Section 6.04. The obligations of the Borrower under Sections
4.03 and 4.04 of this Agreement and the provisions of paragraph
(a) of Section 5.02 of this Agreement shall cease and determine on
the date on which the Special Action Credit Agreement shall
terminate or on a date 20 years after the date of this Agreement,
whichever shall be the earlier.
ARTICLE VII
Representative of the Borrower; Addresses
Section 7.01. Subject to the provisions of Section 2.08 of
this Agreement, the Minister of the Borrower at the time respon-
sible for Finance is designated as representative of the Borrower
for the purposes of Section 11.03 of the General Conditions.
Section 7.02. The following addresses are specified for the
purposes of Section 11.01 of the General Conditions:
'For the Borrower:
Ministry of Finance
P.O. Box 9111
Dar es Salaam
United Republic of Tanzania
Cable address:
TREASURY
Dar es Salaam
For the Administrator:
Administrator of the Special Action Account
(International Development Association)
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Cable address:                      Telex:
INDEVAS                            440098 (ITT)
Washington, D.C.                    248423 (RCA) or
64145 (WUI)


﻿- 11 -
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their
representatives thereunto duly authorized, have caused this
Agreement to be signed in their respective names in the District
of Columbia, United States of America, as of the day and year
first above written.
UNITED REPUBLIC OF TANZANIA
By
Authorized Representative
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
as ADMINISTRATOR of the SPECIAL ACTION ACCOUNT
established with funds contributed by
the MEMBER STATES of the EUROPEAN ECONOMIC COMMUNITY
By                     1st V %i     L'    fo   w
Regional Vice President
Eastern Africa


﻿- 12 -
SCHEDULE 1
Withdrawals of the Proceeds of the
Special Action Credit
1.   The table below sets forth the Categories of items to be
financed out of the proceeds of the Special Action Credit, the
allocation of the amounts of the Special Action Credit to each
Category and the percentage for items so to be financed in each
Category:
Amount of the
Special Action Credit            % of
Allocated (Expressed         Expenditures
Category          in Dollar Equivalents)       to be Financed
(1) Civil works              6,500,000              75%
under Part B of
the Project
(2) Unallocated                500,000
TOTAL         7,000,000
2.   The total dollar amount shown in the foregoing table shall be
adjusted from time to time as required to reflect the aggregate
dollar equivalent of the unwithdrawn currency amounts in the
Credit Account; the unallocated dollar amount shall be adjusted
accordingly.
3.   The disbursement percentages have been calculated in com-
pliance with the policy of the Administrator that no proceeds
of the Special Action Credit shall be disbursed on account of
payments for taxes levied by, or in the territory of, the Borrower
on goods or services, or on the importation, manufacture, procure-
ment or supply thereof; to that end, if the amount of any such
taxes levied on or in respect of any item to be financed out of
the proceeds of the Special Action Credit decreases or increases,
the Administrator may, by notice to the Borrower, increase or
decrease the disbursement percentage then applicable to such item
as required to be consistent with the aforementioned policy of the
Administrator.


﻿- 13 -
4.   Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 above, no
withdrawals shall be made in respect of payments made for expen-
ditures prior to the date of this Agreement.
5.   Notwithstanding the allocation of an amount of the Special
Action Credit or the disbursement percentages set forth in the
table in paragraph 1 above, if the Administrator has reasonably
estimated that the amount of the Special Action Credit then
allocated to any Category will be insufficient to finance the
agreed percentage of all expenditures in that Category, the
Administrator may, by notice to the Burrower: (i) reallocate to
such Category, to the extent required to meet the estimated
shortfall, proceeds of the Special Action Credit which are then
allocated to another Category and which in the opinion of the
Administrator are not needed to meet other expenditures; and
(ii) if such reallocation cannot fully meet the estimated short-
fall, reduce the disbursement percentage then applicable to such
expenditures in order that further withdrawals under such Category
may continue until all expenditures thereunder shall have been
made.
6.   If the Administrator shall have reasonably determined that
the procurement of any item in any Category is inconsistent with
the procedures set forth or referred to in this Special Action
Credit Agreement, no expenditures for such item shall be financed
out of the proceeds of the Special Action Credit and the Admin-
istrator may, without in any way restricting or limiting any other
right, power or remedy of the Administrator under the Special
Action Credit Agreement, by notice to the Borrower, cancel such
currency amounts of the Special Action Credit as, in the Adminis-
trator's reasonable opinion, represent the currency amounts
which would otherwise have been eligible for withdrawal out of the
proceeds of the Special Action Credit in respect of such expendi-
tures.


﻿- 14 -
SCHEDULE 2
Description of the Project
The Project consists of the following Parts:
Part A:
Extension of the existing hydroelectric power station
at Kidatu by the installation of two additional power generating
units of 50-MW each.
Part B:
Construction of a concrete dam at Mtera (including related
mechanical and electrical works) on the Great Ruaha River designed
to form a water reservoir adequate for seasonal regulations.
Part C:
Installation of a 90 MVA transformer station at Morogoro.
Part D:
A training program for TANESCO's middle level management
and professional staff.
The Project is expected to be completed by June 30, 1981.


﻿- 15 -
SCHEDULE 3
Procurement
A.   International Competitive Bidding
1.   Subject to the eligibility restrictions set forth in Section
2.02 (b) of this Agreement, goods and civil works shall be pro-
cured under contracts awarded in accordance with procedures
consistent with those set forth in the "Guidelines for Procurement
under World Bank Loans and IDA Credits" published by the Bank in
March 1977 (hereinafter called the Guidelines), on the basis of
international competitive bidding as described in Part A of the
Guidelines.
2.   For goods and works to be procured on the basis of inter-
national competitive bidding, in addition to the requirements of
paragraph 1.2 of the Guidelines, the Borrower shall prepare and
forward to the Administrator as soon as possible, and in any event
not later than 60 days prior to the date of availability to the
public of the first tender or prequalification documents relating
thereto, as the case may be, a general procurement notice, in such
form and detail and containing such information as the Adminis-
trator shall reasonably request; the Administrator will arrange
for the publication of such notice in order to provide timely
notification to prospective bidders of the opportunity to bid for
the goods and works in question. The Borrower shall provide the
necessary information to update such notice annually so long as
any goods or works remain to be procured on the basis of interna-
tional competitive bidding.
3. Bidders for the works included in Part B of the Project
shall be prequalified as described in paragraph 1.3 of Part
A of the Guidelines.
4.   For the purpose of evaluation and comparison of bids for
the supply of goods to be procured on the basis of international
competitive bidding: (i) bidders shall be required to state
in their bid the c.i.f. (port of entry) price for the imported
goods, or the ex-factory price or off-the-shelf price of other
goods, offered in such bid; and (ii) customs duties and other
import taxes levied in connection with the importation, or the
sales and similar taxes levied in connection with the sale or
delivery, pursuant to the bid, of the goods shall not be taken
into account in the evaluation of the bids.


﻿- 16 -
B.   Preference for Domestic Manufacturers
In the procurement of goods in accordance with the procedures
described in Part A of this Schedule, goods manufactured in
Tanzania may be granted a margin of preference in accordance with,
and subject to, the following provisions:
1.   All bidding documents for the procurement of goods
shall clearly indicate any preference which will be granted,
the information required to establish the eligibility of a bid
for such preference and the following methods and stages that will
be followed in the evaluation and comparison of bids.
2.   After evaluation, responsive bids will be classified
in one of the following three groups:
(1) Group A: bids offering goods manufactured in
Tanzania if the bidder shall have established to
the satisfaction of the Borrower and the Admini-
strator that the manufacturing cost of such goods
includes a value added in Tanzania equal to at
least 20% of the ex-factory bid price of such
goods.
(2) Group B: all other domestic bids.
(3) Group C: bids offering any other goods.
3.   In order to determine the lowest evaluated bid of each
group, all evaluated bids in each group shall first be compared
among themselves, without taking into account customs duties and
other import taxes levied in connection with the importation, and
sales and similar taxes levied in connection with the sale or
delivery, pursuant to the bids, of the goods. Such lowest eval-
uated bids shall then be compared with each other, and if, as a
result of this comparison, a bid from group A or group B is the
lowest, it shall be selected for the award.
4.   If, as a result of the comparison under paragraph
3 above, the lowest bid is a bid from group C, all group C bids
shall be further compared with the lowest evaluated bid from
group A after adding to the evaluated bid price of the imported
goods offered in each group C bid, for the purpose of this further
comparison only, an amount equal to: (i) the amount of customs
duties and other import taxes which a non-exempt importer would


﻿- 17 -
have to pay for the importation of the goods offered in such
group C bid; or (ii) 15% of the c.i.f. bid price of such goods
if said customs duties and taxes exceed 15% of such price. If
the group A bid in such further comparison is the lowest, it
shall be selected for the award; if not, the bid from group
C which as a result of the comparison under paragraph 3 is the
lowest evaluated bid shall be selected.
C.   Preference for Domestic Contractors
With respect to the evaluation of bids for any contract for
civil works included under Category (1) of the table set forth in
Schedule 1 to this Agreement and to be procured in accordance
with the procedures described in Part A of this Schedule, the
Borrower may grant a margin of preference of 7-1/2% to domestic
contractors, in accordance with, and subject to, the following
provisions:
1.   Contractors shall be required to prequalify as provided
in Part A of this Schedule and applicants for qualification
applying for such preference shall be asked to provide, as part
of the data for qualification, such information, including
details of ownership, as shall be required to determine whether,
according to the classification established by the Borrower
and accepted by the Administrator, a particular firm or group of
firms qualifies for a domestic preference. The bidding documents
shall clearly indicate the preference and the method that will be
followed in the evaluation and comparison of bids to give effect
to such preference.
2.   After bids have been received and reviewed by the
Borrower, responsive bids will be classified into the following
groups:
(i) bids offered by domestic contractors eligible
for preference; and
(ii) bids offered by other contractors.
For the purpose of evaluation and comparison of bids an amount
equal to 7-1/2% of the bid amount shall be added to bids received
under group (ii) above.
E.   Review of Procurement Decisions by the Administrator
1.   Review of prequalification. The Borrower shall, before
qualification is invited, inform the Administrator in detail of


﻿- 18 -
the procedure to be followed, and shall introduce such modi-
fications in said procedure as the Administrator shall reasonably
request. The list of prequalified bidders, together with a state-
ment of their qualifications and, where applicable, of their
eligibility for domestic preference under Part C above and of
the reasons for the exclusion of any applicant for prequalifi-
cation and for such eligibility shall be furnished by the Borrower
to the Administrator for its comments before the applicants are
notified of the Borrower's decision, and the Borrower shall make
such additions to, deletions from, or modifications in, the said
list as the Administrator shall reasonably request.
2.   Review of invitations to bid and of proposed awards and
final contracts:
With respect to all contracts estimated to cost the equi-
valent of $120,000 or more:
(a) Before bids are invited, the Borrower shall furnish
to the Administrator, for its comments, the text of the invita-
tions to bid and the specifications and other bidding documents,
together with a description of the advertising procedures to be
followed for the bidding, and shall make such modifications in the
said documents or procedures as the Administrator shall reasonably
request. Any further modification to the bidding documents shall
require the Administrator's concurrence before it is issued to the
prospective bidders.
(b) After bids have been received and evaluated, the Bor-
rower shall, before a final decision on the award is made, inform
the Administrator of the name of the bidder to which it intends
to award the contract and shall furnish to the Administrator,
in sufficient time for its review, a detailed report on the
evaluation and comparison of the bids received, and such other
information as the Administrator shall reasonably request. The
Administrator shall, if it determines that the intended award
would be inconsistent with the Guidelines or this Schedule,
promptly inform the Borrower and state the reasons for such
determination.
(c) The terms and conditions of the contract shall not,
without the Administrator's concurrence, materially differ from
those on which bids were asked or prequalification invited.
(d) Two conformed copies of the contract shall be furnished
to the Administrator promptly after its execution and prior to


﻿- 19 -
the submission to the Administrator of the first application for
withdrawal of funds from the Credit Account in respect of such
contract.
3.   With respect to each contract not governed by the preceding
paragraph, the Borrower shall furnish to the Administrator,
promptly after its execution and prior to the submission to the
Administrator of the first application for withdrawal of funds
from the Credit Account in respect of such contract, two conformed
copies of such contract, together with the analysis of the
respective bids, recommendations for award and such other informa-
tion as the Administrator shall reasonably request. The Adminis-
trator shall, if it determines that the award of the contract was
not consistent with the Guidelines or this Schedule, promptly
inform the Borrower and state the reasons for such determination.
4.   Before agreeing to any material modification or waiver
of the terms and conditions of a contract, or granting an exten-
sion of the stipulated time for performance of such contract, or
issuing any change order under such contract (except in cases of
extreme urgency) which would increase the cost of the contract by
more than 20% of the original price, the Borrower shall inform
the Administrator of the proposed modification, waiver, extension
or change order and the reasons therefor. The Administrator, if it
determines that the proposal would be inconsistent with the
provisions of this Agreement, shall promptly inform the Borrower
and state the reasons for its determination.


﻿INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
CERTIFICATE
I hereby certify that the foregoing is a true
copy of the original in the archives of the Interna-
tional Development Association.
In witness whereof I have signed this Certifi-
cate and affixed the Seal of the Association
thereunto the            day of y   u    ,
19to                                v
FOR SECRETARY


