rFFICL     RSPECIAL ACTION CREDIT NUMBER 55 TA
Project Agreement
(Kidatu Hydroelectric Project - Second Stage)
between
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
as ADMINISTRATOR of the SPECIAL ACTION ACCOUNT
established with funds contributed by
the MEMBER STATES of the EUROPEAN ECONOMIC COMMUNITY
and
TANZANIA ELECTRIC SUPPLY COMPANY LIMITED
Dated                            , 1980


﻿PROJECT AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT, dated           v                  , 1980, between
INTERNATIONAL nEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION as ADMINISTRATOR of the
Special Action Account established with funds contributed by the
MEMBER STATES of the EUROPEAN ECONOMIC COMMUNITY (hereinafter
called the Administrator) and TANZANIA ELECTRIC SUPPLY COMPANY
LIMITED, a company organized and existing under the Laws of
Tanzania (hereinafter called TANESCO).
WHEREAS by the Special Action Credit Agreement of even date
herewith (hereinafter called the Special Action Credit Agreement)
between the United Republic of Tanzania (hereinafter called the
Borrower) and the Administrator, the Administrator has agreed to
make to the Borrower a Special Action Credit (hereinafter called
the Special Action Credit) on the terms and conditions set forth
in the Special Action Credit Agreement, but only on condition that
TANESCO agree to undertake such obligations towards the Adminis-
trator as are hereinafter set forth; and
WHEREAS by a subsidiary loan agreement to be entered into
between the Borrower and TANESCO, the proceeds of the Special
Action Credit will be made available to TANESCO on the terms and
conditions therein set forth; and
WHEREAS TANESCO, in consideration of the Administrator's
entering into the Special Action Credit Agreement with the Bor-
rower, has agreed to undertake the obligations hereinafter set
forth;
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
ARTICLE I
Definitions
Section 1.01. Wherever used in this Agreement, unless the
context shall otherwise require, the several terms defined in
the Preamble to this Agreement, in the Special Action Credit
Agreement and in the General Conditions (as so defined) have the
respective meanings therein set forth and the term "subsidiary"
means any company of which a majority of the outstanding voting
stock shall be owned, or which shall be effectively controlled, by
TANESCO or by any one or more subsidiaries of TANESCO or by
TANESCO or one or more of its subsidiaries.


﻿-2-
ARTICLE II
Execution of the Project
Section 2.01. TANESCO shall carry out the Project described
in Schedule 2 to the Special Action Credit Agreement with due
diligence and efficiency and in conformity with appropriate
administrative, financial and engineering practices.
Section 2.02. In order to assist TANESCO in the execution of
the Project, TANESCO shall continue to employ:
(a) consultants to assist TANESCO in carrying out Parts
A, B and C of the Project;
(b) a construction supervision expert to work full-time
in TANESCO's construction supervision unit at the site of the dam
included in Part B of the Project; and a project management expert
to assist the head of TANESCO's Planning Division;
(c) an advisor on contractors' claims; and
(d) a panel of experts to be entrusted with the critical
review of the detailed engineering design of, and the progress of
construction of, the facilities included in Parts A, B and C of
the Project, as such review shall from time to time be required by
the Borrower, the Administrator or TANESCO. The qualifications,
experience and terms and conditions of the consultants and experts
referred to above, shall be satisfactory to the Administrator.
Section 2.03. Except as the Administrator shall otherwise
agree, procurement-of the goods and civil works required for the
Project and to be financed out of the proceeds of the Special
Action Credit shall be governed by the provisions of Schedule 3 to
the Special Action Credit Agreement.
Section 2.04. (a) TANESCO undertakes to insure, or make
adequate provision for the insurance of, the imported goods to be
financed out of the proceeds of the Credit and the Special Action
Credit relent to it by the Borrower against hazards incident to
the acquisition, transportation and delivery thereof to the place
of use or installation, and for such insurance any indemnity shall
be payable in a currency freely usable by TANESCO to replace or
repair such goods.


﻿-3-
(b) Except as the Association and the Administrator may
otherwise agree, TANESCO shall cause all goods and services
financed out of the proceeds of the Credit and the Special Action
Credit relent to it by the Borrower to be used exclusively for the
Project.
Section 2.05. (a) TANESCO shall furnish to the Administrator,
promptly upon their preparation, the plans, specifications,
reports, contract documents and construction and procurement
schedules for the Project, and any material modifications thereof
or additions thereto, in such detail as the Administrator shall
reasonably request.
(b) TANESCO: (i) shall maintain records and procedures
adequate to record and monitor the progress of the Project
(including its cost and, where appropriate, the benefits to be
derived from it), to identify the goods and services financed out
of the proceeds of the Special Action Credit, and to disclose
their use in the Project; (ii) shall enable the Administrator's
accredited representatives to visit the facilities and construc-
tion sites included in the Project and to examine the goods
financed out of the proceeds of the Special Action Credit and any
relevant records and documents; and (iii) shall furnish to the
Administrator at regular intervals all such information as
the Administrator shall reasonably request concerning the Project,
its cost and, where appropriate, the benefits to be derived from
it, the expenditure of the proceeds of the Special Action Credit
and the goods and services financed out of such proceeds.
(c) Promptly after completion of the Project, but in any
event not later than six months after the Closing Date or such
later date as may be agreed for this purpose between TANESCO,
and the Administrator, TANESCO shall prepare and furnish to the
Administrator a report, of such scope and in such detail as the
Administrator shall reasonably request, on the execution and
initial operation of the Project, its cost and the benefits
derived and to be derived from it, the performance by TANESCO, and
the Administrator of their respective obligations under the
Project Agreement and the accomplishment of the purposes of the
Special Action Credit.
(d) TANESCO shall enable the Administrator's accredited
representatives to examine all plants, installations, sites,
works, buildings, property and equipment of TANESCO and any
relevant records and documents.


﻿Section 2.06. TANESCO shall duly perform all its obligations
under the Subsidiary Loan Agreement. Except as the Administrator
shall otherwise agree, TANESCO shall not take or concur in any
action which would have the effect of amending, abrogating,
assigning or waiving the Subsidiary Loan Agreement or any provi-
sion thereof.
Section 2.07. (a) TANESCO shall at the request of the Admini-
strator, exchange views with the Administrator with regard to the
progress of the Project, the performance of its obligations under
this Agreement and under the Subsidiary Loan Agreement and other
matters relating to the purposes of the Special Action Credit.
(b) TANESCO shall promptly inform the Administrator of any
condition which interferes or threatens to interfere with the
progress of the Project, the accomplishment of the purposes of the
Special Action Credit, or the performance by TANESCO of its
obligations under this Agreement and under the Subsidiary Loan
Agreement.
ARTICLE III
Management and Operations of TANESCO
Section 3.01. (a) TANESCO shall at all times manage its
affairs, plan the development of its properties and facilities,
and maintain its financial position, all in accordance with sound
engineering, public utility, financial and business principles and
practices and under the supervision of experienced and competent
management; and shall cause its plant, equipment, properties and
facilities to be maintained and all necessary renewals and repairs
thereto to be made, all in accordance with sound engineering and
public utility practices.
(b) The Borrower and the Administrator shall review from
time to time the qualifications and experience that will be
regarded as appropriate by the Borrower for appointments to the
position of general manager of TANESCO.
(c) TANESCO shall continue to appoint, retain or promote
sufficient qualified and experienced staff to enable TANESCO
to conduct its operations efficiently.
Section 3.02. TANESCO shall take out and maintain with
the National Insurance Corporation of Tanzania or make other


﻿- 5 -
provisions satisfactory to the Administrator for insurance against
such risks and in such amounts as shall be consistent with sound
public utility practice.
Section 3.03. TANESCO shall not, without the consent of
the Bank, sell or otherwise dispose of any of its property or
assets which shall be required for the efficient carrying on of
its business and undertakings, including the carrying out of the
Project.
Section 3.04. TANESCO shall at all times maintain its cor-
porate existence and right to carry on its operations, and take
all steps necessary to acquire, maintain and renew all rights,
powers, privileges, licenses, concessions and franchises which are
necessary or useful in the conduct of its business.
Section 3.05. TANESCO may establish a subsidiary or subsid-
iaries only after prior consultation with the Administrator.
ARTICLE IV
Financial Covenants
Section 4.01. TANESCO shall maintain records adequate
to reflect in accordance with consistently maintained appropriate
accounting practices its operations and financial condition.
Section 4.02. TANESCO shall: (i) have its accounts and
financial statements (balance sheets, statements of income
and expenses and related statements) for each fiscal year audited,
in accordance with appropriate auditing principles consistently
applied, by independent auditors acceptable to the Administrator;
(ii) furnish to the Administrator as soon as available, but in any
case not later than five months after the end of each such year,
(A) certified copies of its financial statements for such year as
so audited and (B) the report of such audit by said auditors, of
such scope and in such detail as the Administrator shall have
reasonably requested; and (iii) furnish to the Administrator such
other information concerning such accounts and financial state-
ments and the audit thereof as the Administrator shall from time
to time reasonably request.
Section 4.03. Except as the Administrator shall otherwise
agree, TANESCO and all its subsidiaries shall not incur any
debt for purposes other than the Project unless the consolidated


﻿-6-
net revenue of TANESCO and all its subsidiaries for the fiscal
year immediately preceding the date of such incurrence or for
a later twelve-month period ended prior to the date of such
incurrence, whichever period shows the greater consolidated net
revenue, shall be at least 1.5 times the maximum consolidated debt
service requirements for any-succeeding fiscal year on all the
debt of TANESCO and all its subsidiaries including the debt to be
incurred. For the purposes of this Section:
(a) the term "debt" means all debt, including debt assumed
or guaranteed by TANESCO or a subsidiary, except debt incurred
in the ordinary course of business and maturing by its terms
on demand or less than one year after its incurrence;
(b) the term "incur" with reference to any debt includes
any modification of the terms of payment of such debt. Debt shall
be deemed to be incurred on the date on which a contract or lo.a
agreement or guarantee agreement is executed;
(c) the term "net revenue" means gross operating revenue
of TANESCO, adjusted to take account of tariffs in effect at the
time of the incurrence of debt even though they were not in effect
during the entire fiscal year or twelve-month period to which such
revenue relates, less all operating expenses, including adequate
maintenance, taxes, if any, and administrative expenses, but
before provision of depreciation and interest and other charges on
debt;
(d) the term "debt service requirements" means the aggregate
amount of amortization (including sinking fund payments, if any),
interest and other charges on debt; and
(e) whenever it shall be necessary to value in the currency
of the Borrower debt payable in another currency, such valuation
shall be made on the basis of the rate of exchange at which such
other currency is obtainable by TANESCO, at the time such valua-
tion is made, for the purposes of servicing such debt, or, if such
other currency is not obtainable, at the rate of exchange that
will be reasonably determined by the Administrator in consultation
with the Bank of Tanzania.
Section 4.04. Except as the Administrator shall otherwise
agree, TANESCO shall, every two years (as begun with the 1976
financial year) beginning from the 1980 financial year, revalue


﻿- 7 -
its assets in accordance with sound and consistently maintained
methods of valuation acceptable to the Administrator.
Section 4.05. (A) Except as the Borrower and the Adminis-
trator shall otherwise agree, TANESCO and all its subsidiaries
shall take all necessary steps within their power to establish and
maintain tariffs for electric power services and such other
actions as shall be required to provide each fitucial year,
consolidated revenues sufficient to produce an annual rate of
return of not less than 7% on the value of the consolidated net
fixed assets in operation.
(b) For the purposes of this Section:
(i) the annual rate of return shall be calculated
by relating the consolidated net operating income
for the year in question to the average of the
value of the consolidated net fixed assets of
TANESCO and all its subsidiaries in operation at
the beginning and at the end of that year;
(ii) the term "value of the consolidated net fixed
assets in operation" shall mean the gross book
value of such assets, less the amount of accumu-
lated depreciation, as valued from time to time in
accordance with sound and consistently maintained
methods of valuation acceptable to the Adminis-
trator and the provision of Section 4.04 of this
Agreement;
(iii) the term "consolidated net operating income"
shall mean the difference between:
(A) consolidated gross operating revenue; and
(B) the consolidated operating, maintenance and
administration expenses, taxes (if any), and
depreciation computed in accordance with the
rates specified in the license presently held
by TANESCO but excluding interest and other
charges on debt.
Section 4.06. Except as the Administrator shall otherwise
agree, TANESCO shall not declare a dividend on its Ordinary Shares
in excess of 6-2/3% of their nominal value per annum.


﻿-8-
ARTICLE V
Effective Date; Termination;
Cancellation and Suspension
Section 5.01. This Agreement shall come into force and
effect on the date upon which the Special Action Credit Agreement
becomes effective.
Section 5.02. (a) This Agreement and all obligations of
the Administrator and of TANESCO thereunder shall terminate
on the earlier of the following two dates:
(i)  the date on which the Special Action Credit Agree-
ment shall terminate in accordance with its terms;
or
(ii) a date 20 years after the date of this Agreement.
(b) If the Special Action Credit Agreement terminates in
accordance with its terms before the date specified in paragraph
(a) (ii) of this Section, the Administrator shall promptly notify
TANESCO of this event.
Section 5.03. All the provisions of this Agreement shall
continue in full force and effect notwithstanding .any cancellation
or suspension under the Special Action Credit Agreement.
ARTICLE VI
Miscellaneous Provisions
Section 6.01. Any notice or request required or permitted
to be given or made under this Agreement and any agreement between
the parties contemplated by this Agreement shall be in writing.
Such notice or request shall be deemed to have been duly given
or made when it shall be delivered by hand or by mail, telegram,
cable, telex or radiogram to the party to which it is required
or permitted to be given or made at such party's address herein-
after specified or at such other address as such party shall have
designated by notice to the party giving such notice or making
such request. The addresses so specified are:


﻿-9-
For the Administrator:
Administrator of the Special Action
Account
(International Development Association)
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Cable address:                       Telex:
INDEVAS                             440098 (ITT)
Washington, D.C.                    248423 (RCA) or
64145 (WUI)
For TANESCO:
Tanzania Electric Supply Company Limited
P.O. Box 9024
Dar es Salaam
Tanzania
Cable address:
TANESCO
Dar es Salaam
Section 6.02. This Agreement may be executed in several
counterparts, each of which shall be an original, and all collec-
tively but one instrument.
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through
their representatives thereunto duly authorized, have caused this
Agreement to be signed in their respective names in the District
of Columbia, United States of America, as of the day and year
first above written.
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
as ADMINISTRATOR of the SPECIAL ACTION
ACCOUNT established with funds
contributed by the MEMBER STATES of the
EUROPEAN ECONOMIC COMMUNITY
By%                        i'     FCJ\ 6AA
Regional Vice President
Eastern Africa


﻿INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
CERTIFICATE
I hereby certify that the foregoing is a true
copy of the original in the archives of the Interna-
tional Development Association.
In witness whereof I have sigr)ed this Certifi-
rate and affixed the Seal of the Association
thereunto the      -Lday of          OL
F                            R.
FOR SECRETARY


