CONFORMED COPY
DEVELOPMENT CO-OPERATION AGREEMENT
(Kidatu Hydroelectric Project
Second Stage Financing)
between
KINGDOM OF SWEDEN
and
UNITED REPUBLIC OF TANZANIA
Dated August 12, 1976


﻿DEVELOPMENT CO-OPERATION AGREEMENT
(Kidatu Hydroelectric Project Second Stage Financing) between
the KINGDOM OF SWEDEN (hereinafter called Sweden) and the UNITED
REPUBLIC OF TANZANIA (hereinafter called Tanzania).
WHEREAS (A) Tanzania has requested Sweden to assist in the
financing of a hydroelectric project (hereinafter called the
Project) described in Schedule 1 to Joint Financing Agreement
(as defined in Recital (C) hereinafter). Sweden is willing to
agree to such request upon the terms and conditions hereinafter
set forth;
(B) the International Bank for Reconstruction and Develop-
ment (hereinafter called the Bank) and Tanzania have executed and
delivered an agreement (hereinafter called the Bank Loan Agree-
ment) of even date herewith, providing for the Bank to make a
loan to Tanzania in order to assist in the financing of the
Project;
(C) Sweden, Tanzania, the Bank and the Tanzania Electric
Supply Company Limited (hereinafter called the Company) have ex-
ecuted and delivered an agreement (hereinafter called the Joint
Financing Agreement) of even date herewith, in respect of the
allocation, withdrawals and use of the proceeds of the financing
under the Swedish Development Co-operation Agreement and the Bank
Loan Agreement, the execution of the Project, as well as other
matters;
NOW THEREFORE, Sweden and Tanzania agree as follows:


﻿-2-
ARTICLE I
The Swedish Grant
1.   Sweden shall make available to Tanzania an amount of eighty
million Swedish Kronor (Skr8o,ooo,ooo) (hereinafter called the
Swedish Grant) subject to the provisions set forth or referred
to in this Agreement and to such other provisions as may be
agreed upon between the Parties.
2.   The Swedish Grant shall be financed out of the total amount
made available each fiscal year by Sweden for development co-
operation with Tanzania.
3.   The provisions set forth in the annual agreements on Develop-
ment Co-operation between the Parties shall be applied to the
Swedish Grant.
4.   Amounts to be made available for withdrawal during each
Swedish fiscal year shall be agreed upon in the above-mentioned
annual agreements between Sweden and Tanzania concluded prior
to the respective Swedish fiscal year, provided that sufficient
amounts shall be so agreed and made available in each fiscal year
to allow the withdrawal of the Swedish Grant to be made in accor-
dance with the provisions of Article I of the Joint Financing
Agreement.
I


﻿-3-
ARTICLE II
Use of the Proceeds of the Swedish Grant
Tanzania shall cause the proceeds of the Swedish Grant to
be used by the Company in accordance with this Agreement and
the Joint Financing Agreement to assist, jointly with the loan
provided for under the Bank Loan Agreement, in financing the
Project.
ARTICLE III
The Special Account
The amount to be made available in accordance with Article I
shall be paid by Sweden, as required to meet requests by Tanzania
for withdrawals, to the credit of an account in Swedish Kronor
opened on the books of the Sveriges Riksbank, Stockholm, acting
as agent for Sweden. The account shall be denominated "Bank of
Tanzania, Special Account Number Ten (10)" (hereinafter called
the Special Account).


﻿-4-
ARTICLE IV
Withdrawal from the Special Account
1.   The Company, on behalf of Tanzania, shall be entitled, sub-
ject to the provisions of the Agreement and the Joint Financing
Agreement, to withdraw from the Special Account such proportion
of the reasonable cost of goods and services required for the
Project and to be financed by Sweden and the Bank, either sep-
arately or simultaneously, as agreed in accordance with the
terms of the Joint Financing Agreement.
2.   Closing date for withdrawals, with regard to funds made
available under this Agreement, shall be as agreed upon between
the Parties. Any balance at the Special Account then shall be
retransferred to the total amount made available to Tanzania by
Sweden for the actual fiscal year.
ARTICLE V
Effective Date; Termination
1.   This Agreement shall become effective after signature by
duly authorized representatives of the Parties and concurrently
with the Bank Loan Agreement becoming effective.
2.   This Agreement shall terminate when the Parties have ful-
filled all obligations arising hereunder.


﻿-5-
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the Kingdom of Sweden and the United
Republic of Tanzania, acting through their representatives there-
unto duly authorized, have caused this Agreement to be signed.
Done in Washington, D.C., on the 12th day of August, 1976, in two
original copies in English.
FOR THE KINGDOM OF SWEDEN          FOR THE UNITED REPUBLIC OF
TANZANIA
By /s/ U. Dinkelspiel              By /s/ Hamza Aziz


