Page  1
CONFORMED COPY 
 
GRANT NUMBER H185-MAI 
 
Financing Agreement 
 
(Emergency Recovery Project) 
 
between 
 
REPUBLIC OF MALAWI 
 
and 
 
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION 
 
Dated October 12, 2005  
Page  2
GRANT NUMBER H185-MAI  
FINANCING AGREEMENT 
AGREEMENT, dated October 12, 2005, between REPUBLIC OF MALAWI 
(
“Recipient”) and INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION 
(“Association”).   
The Recipient and the Association hereby agree as follows: 
ARTICLE I 
 General Conditions; Definitions 
1.01. 
The General Conditions (as defined in the Appendix to this Agreement) 
constitute an integral part of this Agreement. 
1.02. 
Unless the context requires otherwise, the capitalized terms used in the Financing 
Agreement have the meanings ascribed to them in the General Conditions or in 
the Appendix to this Agreement.  
ARTICLE II 
The Financing 
2.01. 
The Association agrees to extend to the Recipient, on the terms and conditions 
set forth or referred to in this Agreement, a grant in an amount equivalent to 
twenty million eight hundred thousand Special Drawing Rights (SDR20,800,000) 
(“Grant”) to assist in financing the project described in Schedule 1 to this 
Agreement (“Project”). 
2.02. 
The Recipient may withdraw the proceeds of the Financing in accordance with 
Section IV of Schedule 2 to this Agreement.
 
2.03. 
The Maximum Commitment Charge Rate payable by the Recipient on the 
Unwithdrawn Financing Balance shall be one-half of one percent (1/2 of 1%) per 
annum. 
2.04. 
The Payment Dates are June 15 and December 15 in each year. 
2.05. 
The Payment Currency is Dollars. 
Page  3
-
2
-
ARTICLE III 
The Project
 
3.01. 
The Recipient declares its commitment to the objectives of the Project.  To this 
end, the Recipient shall carry out the Project through the Reserve Bank of 
Malawi in accordance with the provisions of Article IV of the General 
Conditions. 
3.02. 
Without limitation upon the provisions of Section 3.01 of this Agreement, and 
except as the Recipient and the Association shall otherwise agree, the Recipient 
shall ensure that the Project is carried out in accordance with the provisions of 
Schedule 2 to this Agreement. 
ARTICLE IV 
Termination 
4.01. 
The Effectiveness Deadline is the date ninety (90) days after the date of this 
Agreement. 
4.02. 
For purposes of Section 8.05 (b) of the General Conditions, the date on which the 
obligations of the Recipient shall terminate is 20 years after the date of this 
Agreement. 
ARTICLE V 
Representative; Addresses
 
5.01. 
The Recipient’s Representative is the Minister of Finance. 
5.02. 
The Recipient’s Address is: 
Ministry of Finance 
P.O. Box 30049 
Lilongwe 3 
Malawi 
 Cable 
address: 
 
 Telex: 
  Facsimile: 
 
FINANCE 
 
44407 (MI) 
 
(265) -1- 789173 
 Lilongwe 
Page  4
-
3
-
5.03. 
The Association’s Address is: 
International Development Association 
1818 H Street, N.W. 
Washington, D.C. 20433 
 
United States of America 
 
Cable: 
  Telex: 
  Facsimile: 
 INDEVAS 
 248423 
(MCI) 
or 1-202-477-6391 
 
Washington, D.C. 
64145 (MCI) 
 
AGREED at Lilongwe, Republic of Malawi, as of the day and year first above 
written. 
 
REPUBLIC OF MALAWI  
 
By /s/ 
Goodall Gondwe
 
Authorized Representative 
 
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
 
By /s/ 
Hartwig Schafer
 
Authorized Representative 
 
Page  5
-
4
-
SCHEDULE 1 
Project Description
 
The objective of the Project is to support the restoration of assets and production 
in order to contribute to the Recipient’s economic recovery, following the drought-
induced emergency in early 2005. 
The Project consists of supporting the Recipient’s efforts to recover from the 
drought-induced emergency through the financing of critical imports by the private 
sector, subject to such modifications thereof as the Recipient and the Association may 
agree upon from time to time to achieve such objective.   
Page  6
-
5
-
SCHEDULE 2 
Project Execution 
Section I. 
Institutional and Other Arrangements
1. 
The Recipient shall establish and maintain at all times during the implementation 
of the Project appropriate arrangements acceptable to the Association, setting forth roles 
and responsibilities of its executing agencies. 
2. 
Notwithstanding the provision of paragraph 1 above and other provisions of this 
Agreement, the Recipient shall: 
(a) 
cause the Ministry of Finance and the Reserve Bank of Malawi to 
cooperate in carrying out the Project activities; and 
(b) 
authorize and cause the Reserve Bank of Malawi, to administer and 
execute the Project through its Department of International Operations.  
Section II. 
Project Monitoring, Reporting, Evaluation 
A. Project 
Reports. 
1. 
(a) 
The Recipient shall monitor and evaluate the progress of the Project and 
prepare Project Reports in accordance with the provisions of Section 
4.08 of the General Conditions and on the basis of the indicators set forth 
below in sub-paragraph (b) of this paragraph.  Each Project Report shall 
cover the period of one calendar quarter, and shall be furnished to the 
Association not later than one month after the end of the period covered 
by such report.  
(b) 
The performance indicators referred to above in sub-paragraph (a) 
consist of the following:   
(i) 
The Recipient’s economy has attained levels of Gross 
Fixed Capital Formation during 2005 equivalent to or higher than 
MKW 19 billion, which was the level attained in 2004; and 
(ii) 
The Recipient’s economy has attained levels of imports of 
US$976 million during the Fiscal Year 2005/06, in line with current 
projections. 
Page  7
-
6
-
2. 
For purposes of Section 4.08 (c) of the General Conditions, the report on the 
execution of the Project and related plan required pursuant to that Section shall be 
furnished to the Association not later than April 30, 2007. 
B. 
Financial Management, Financial Reports and Audits. 
1. 
The Recipient shall maintain or cause to be maintained a financial management 
system in accordance with the provisions of Section 4.09 of the General Conditions. 
2. 
Without limitation on the provisions of Part A of this Section, the Recipient shall 
prepare and furnish to the Association as part of the Project Report, not later than one 
month after the end of each calendar quarter, interim un-audited financial reports for the 
Project covering the quarter, in form and substance satisfactory to the Association. 
3. 
The Recipient shall have its Financial Statements audited in accordance with the 
provisions of Section 4.09 (b) of the General Conditions.  Audit of the Financial 
Statements shall cover the entire Project period.  The audited Financial Statements for 
such period shall be furnished to the Association not later than six months after the 
Closing Date.  
Section III. 
Procurement
A. General
.
1. Goods.
 
All goods required for the Project and to be financed out of the proceeds 
of the Financing shall be procured in accordance with the requirements set forth or 
referred to in Section I of the Procurement Guidelines, and with the provisions of this 
Schedule. 
2. Definitions.
 
The capitalized terms used below in this Section to describe 
particular procurement methods or methods of review by the Association of
 particular 
contracts, refer to the corresponding method described in the Procurement Guidelines. 
B. 
Methods of Procurement of Goods.
All goods and commodities shall be procured through established international 
commodity markets, in accordance with Paragraph 2.68 of the Procurement Guidelines, 
or in accordance with established Private or Commercial Practices which have been 
found acceptable to the Association. 
 
Page  8
-
7
-
Section IV. 
Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the Financing
A. General. 
The Recipient may withdraw the proceeds of the Financing in accordance with 
the provisions of this Section and such additional instructions as the Association shall 
specify by notice to the Recipient, to finance 100% of  the following Eligible 
Expenditures: (a) petroleum and fuel products; (b) agricultural imports and equipment; 
(c) construction materials and equipment; (d) spare parts, raw materials, intermediate 
inputs and machinery for industry and services; and (e) motor vehicles and spare parts. 
B. 
Withdrawal Conditions; Withdrawal Period.   
1. 
Notwithstanding the provisions of Part A of this Section, no withdrawal shall be  
made for payments made prior to the date of this Agreement, except that withdrawals up 
to an aggregate amount not to exceed SDR6,300,000 equivalent may be made for 
payments made prior to this date but on or after April 1, 2005, for Eligible Expenditures.   
2. 
The Closing Date is December 31, 2006. 
Page  9
-
8
-
APPENDIX 
Definitions
 
1. 
“General Conditions” means the “International Development Association 
General Conditions for Credits and Grants”, dated July 1, 2005. 
2. 
“Gross Fixed Capital Formation” means a measure of the net new investment by 
enterprises in the domestic economy of the Recipient in fixed capital assets; 
3. 
“Malawi Kwacha” or “MKW ” means the Recipient’s currency;  
4. 
 “Procurement Guidelines” means the “Guidelines for Procurement under IBRD 
Loans and IDA Credits” published by the Bank in May 2004. 
5. 
“Reserve Bank of Malawi” means the Recipient’s central bank.
 
