                                              Documentof
                                            The World Bank


                                                                                 Report No.T7661-MW




                                        TECHNICAL ANNEX


                                         FOR A PROPOSED


                              EMERGENCYRECOVERY GRANT


                           INTHE AMOUNT OF SDR20.8 MILLION


                                (US$30 MILLIONEQUIVALENT)


                                                 TO THE


                                      REPUBLICOF MALAWI




                                           September 15,2005




Poverty Reductionand Economic Management 1
Southern Africa
Africa Region




This document has a restricted distribution and may be usedbyrecipients only inthe performance o ftheir
official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.

                       CurrencyEauivalents
              (Exchange Rate effective August 16, 2005)

                 CurrencyUnit =Malawi Kwacha
                        MKW 1 =USD0.008
                          USD 1 =MKW 124.4

                      GovernmentFiscalYear
                           July 1-June 30

                      Weights andMeasures
                            Metric System

                  Abbreviations andAcronvms

CAS          Country Assistance Strategy
DFID         Departmentfor InternationalDevelopment
DPL          DevelopmentPolicy Lending
EU           EuropeanUnion
FIkiAG       Fiscal Managementand AcceleratingGrowth Credit
FIMTAP       FinancialManagement,Transparency andAccountability Project
FSJTF        Food Security Joint Task Force
GDP          Gross Domestic Product
GOM          Govemment of Malawi
HIPC         Highly IndebtedPoor Countries
IBRD         IntemationalBankfor ReconstructionandDevelopment
IDA          IntemationalDevelopment Association
IMF          InternationalMonetaryFund
MASAF        Malawi Social Action Fund
MGI          Malawi GovemmentAccount Number 1
MVAC         Malawi Vulnerability Assessment Committee
MKW          Malawi Kwacha
MOF          MinistryofFinance
MOP          Memorandumof the President
MT           Metric Tons
NGO          Non-GovemmentalOrganization
NSO          National StatisticalOffice
ICR          ImplementationCompletionReport
ISDS         IntegratedSafeguardsDataSheet
PAD          ProjectAppraisalDocument
PRGF         PovertyReductionand GrowthFacility
PRSP         PovertyReductionStrategyPaper
QER          Quality EnhancementReview
RBM          ReserveBank o fMalawi
SAF'EX       South African FuturesExchange
SDR          Special DrawingRights
SMU          Sector ManagementUnit
TOR          Terms ofReference
UNDP         United NationsDevelopmentProgram
USAID        United StatesAgency for IntemationalDevelopment




          Country Director:    Hartwig Schafer
          Country Manager:     Timothy Gilbo
           Sector Director:    Paula Donovan
           Sector Manager:     Emmanuel Akpa

                                                                                    FOROFFICLALUSEONLY




                                         TECHNICAL ANNEX FORAN
                                    EMERGENCYRECOVERY GRANT
                                      TO THE REPUBLICOFMALAWI

                                                 TABLE CONTENTS
                                                              OF


    A. BACKGROUND AND RECENT DEVELOPMENTS .......................................................                                              1
      The drought-induced emergency inMalawi...........................................................................                        1
      Economic impact of the drought-induced emergency ............................................................                            1
                                                                                                                                               3
    B WORLD BANK RESPONSETO THE CRISIS ...................................................................
     .The Responseofthe Government and the International Community.....................................
                                                                                                                                              4
                                                                                                                                              4
      Rationale for IDA Involvement..............................................................................................
      IDA'SSupport Strategy...........................................................................................................
                                                                                                                                               5
    C.Rationale                                                                                                                                5

      Project Objectives ................................................................................................................... 5
       THE PROPOSED EMERGENCY RECOVERY PROJECT................................................
                for Emergency Assistance......................................................................................
                                                                                                                                               5

      Project Descnption.................................................................................................................. 6
                   . .
    D.Benefits
      Project Organization andManagement....................................................................................
        INSTITUTIONAL ARRANGEMENTS AND PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION..............7
              andRisks................................................................................................................... 6

                                                                                                                                               7
                                                                                                                                               7
      Procurement............................................................................................................................
      ImplementationArrangements................................................................................................
                                                                                                                                               9
      Table 1. Summary ofProcurementProcedures for Items on the Positive List....................                                             10
      Financial Management..........................................................................................................          10
      DisbursementandFundsFlow..............................................................................................                  10
      Accounting and financial reporting ......................................................................................               11
      External Audit.......................................................................................................................   12
                                                                                                                                              12
     E ACTION PLAN...................................................................................................................
     .Results Framework andMonitoringIndicators ....................................................................
                                                                                                                                              12

      Attachment 2.........................................................................................................................
      Attachment 1.........................................................................................................................   14
                                                                                                                                              15
      Attachment 3 .........................................................................................................................  16




This document has a restricted distributionand may be usedby recipientsonly in
the performanceof their official duties ts contentsmay not be otherwisedisclosed
without World Bank authorization                     .       .I


                                  TECHNICAL,ANNEX FORAN
                              EMERGENCY RECOVERY GRANT
                               TO THE REPUBLICOF MALAWI



                    A. BACKGROUNDANDRECENTDEVELOPMENTS

The drought-inducedemergency in Malawi

1.     Dryweather inJanuary-February 2005 has ledto a widespread failure o f the agricultural
harvest in Southern Africa, and created a new emergency situation. Malawi i s one o f the worst
affected countries and its agricultural production has fallen by 7 percent compared to the
previous year. The maize crop for 2005 has been hit especially severely and i s estimated to be
almost 30 percent lower compared to last year, itself a shortage year, resulting inthe worst maize
season in ten years. The failure o f the maize crop i s o f particular concern for food security as
maize i s the main staple food in the country. The drop in maize production corresponds to an
estimated shortfall equivalent to about 20 percent o f national food consumption requirements
between April 2005 and March 2006 (when the next harvest is expected), which will needto be
filled by substantial imports of maize, mainly from northern Mozambique and South Africa
which have experienced good harvests.

2.     The recent Malawi Vulnerability Assessment Committee (MVAC) analysis has indicated
that the incomes o f at least 4.2 million people, corresponding to more than 1/3 o f the population,
have beenseverely reduced as a result o f the harvest failure, particularly in southern Malawi (see
Map in Attachment 3). These household are unlikely to be able to afford to adequately feed
themselves and engage in productive economic activity in the next agricultural season, even if
large quantities o f food were to be imported in the country. The M V A C has estimated that in
order to maintain regular nutrition levels they will require humanitarian support during the
period betweenApril 2005 and March 2006 for a total o f 272,000 MT inmaize equivalent terms,
assuming that food prices do not increase significantly. Most o f this support will be required
during the period November 2005 to March 2006. In fact most o f the domestically produced
maize crop will have been consumed by that time, and there will be a need to satisfy the food
requirementsfor the following few months, untilthe next harvest is ready inMarch-April2006.

3.     In addition to the immediate humanitarian needs, the crisis i s also expected to have a
severe negative impact on domestic investment and production because the exceptional food
import requirements will place a severe constraint on the regular imports critical to economic
production, notably petroleum, fertilizer, machinery, and construction materials. Further, the
disruptioncausedby the drought to trade and economic activity undermines business confidence,
and imposes additional losses on the economy as a whole. This situation calls for a quick
response from the Government and the Bank to help restore physical assets and investment, and
avoid a collapse inproductive activities duringthe next twelve months.

Economicimpactof the drought-inducedemergency

4.     The drought has severely affected the country's output level and the broader
macroeconomic scenario for 2005. GDP growth for the year 2005 as a whole has been reduced

                                                           2


by almost 3 percent and is now projectedat 2.1 percent (compared with a pre-drought projection
of 4.8 percent). Although this reduction i s mainly on account o f the reduction in agricultural
production, the disaster in agriculture has negatively affected business confidence and the
outlook for growth throughout the economy, notably for manufacturing which is expected to
grow half as fast in2005 compared to the previous year.

5.       The economic outlook beyond 2005 will depend on the recovery from the drought-
induced emergency. The Government has recently agreed a new PRGFprogram with the IMF in
August 2005.        The implementation o f the macroeconomic framework agreement will entail
ambitious fiscal adjustments over the next few years, since it is aimed at rapidly reducing the
domestic debt burden. At the same time, economic prospects have been undermined for 2005
and subsequent years depending on the availability o f inputs for economic recovery, notably
agricultural production. Ifthe humanitarian aspects o f the crisis are successfully mitigated and if
sound domestic macroeconomic and structural policies are maintained, the Malawian economy
could achieve growth rates of 5-6 percent per year over the next few years. Reaching this level
of growth will require extemal financing by the donor community in 2005 as well as a recovery
o f smallholder production and investor confidence that will feed strong manufacturing growth
from 2005 onwards.

6.       Due to the need for exceptional imports o f maize, the drought-induced emergency is
expected to place a severe strain on the smooth operation of trade transactions during the
next few months, thereby threatening economic recovery. Malawi's trade balance i s usually
strongest during the April to September when the tobacco exports, which account for almost 60
percent o f Malawi's exports, are concentrated. This period i s also generally associated with a
stable exchange rate of the Malawi Kwacha vis-a-vis the US dollar and an increase in official
foreign reserves. On the other hand, the trade balance i s usually under most pressure during
September to January when most o f the agricultural inputs and food imports take place. The
drought-induced emergency i s expected to exacerbate this seasonal trade pattem in 2005. It i s
expected that the trade deficits in 3'd and 4" quarters o f 2005 will be 20 percent higher than a
year earlier, mainly as a result o f the exceptional level o f food import requirements.                       This
exceptional level o f imbalance would likely constrain the smooth flow o f imports, thereby
obstructing economic recovery, notably in agriculture, and endangering the program o f
macroeconomic stabilization which has been successfully adopted by the authorities since May
2004.'

7.       The emergency is also putting pressure on fiscal stabilization efforts. The new
Government since May 2004 inherited a potentially unstable domestic debt level, accumulated as
a result of the repeated fiscal slippages o f the previous administration. During its first year in
office the new administration successfully implemented a set o f fiscal measures to stabilize the
domestic debt level. As a result o f the crisis, however, the Government will now be forced to
slow down its fiscal stabilization efforts. The Government's budget approved in July 2005 has
already been expanded to accommodate the additional costs o f the relief operations and ongoing
food security measures by about 2 percent o f GDP (USD 47 million). The Government has


  Infact, contrary to normal seasonal trends, the official exchange rate to the US dollar has depreciated by about 15
percent between February 2005 and July 2005, partly reflecting the very l o w level o f foreign exchange reserves
(which remain below 2 months o f imports as o f end-July 2005), and also reflecting the increasing pressure on the
balance o f payments.

                                                  3


adopted some initial measures to contain the fiscal impact o f the crisis at 1.3 percent o f GDP and
minimize the impact on its debt stabilization objectives, but requires additional financing to keep
its overall deficit within target.  Several donors have already pledged additional support to
finance a good portion o f the Government's planned humanitarian interventions, although the
level o f funding and planned level o f intervention i s not yet sufficient to cover the full
humanitarian needs estimated by the M V A C assessment (see details inparagraphs 9 and 10).

The Response of the Governmentandthe InternationalCommunity

8.      The Government and the development partners have closely coordinated the response to
the food crisis. The Food Security Joint Task Force (FSJTF), which is chaired by the Principal
Secretary in the Ministry o f Agriculture, and includes some 50 representatives o f Government
Ministries, donor agencies, NGOs, and private sector, has been meeting every few weeks since
the onset o f the crisis inMarch 2005, to discuss the situation and agree on a strategy to respond
to the emergency. The World Bank i s a member o f this task force and has actively participated
inthe discussions. Inadditionthe World Bank is also amember ofthemore restrictedTechnical
Secretariat o f the FSJTF, which has assisted in preparing the plenary session meetings o f the
FSJTF.

9.      Giventhe enormity of the problem, the Government is planning to focus relief efforts on
the most severely affected 2 million people (those people with food deficits o f 25 percent or
more), for a total food requirement o f 200,000 MT. Specifically, the Government and the
development partners have jointly discussed and agreed on a set o f interventions to respond to
the food emergency, which entail three levels o f intervention: (i)     provide targeted free food
distribution; (ii)scale up existing safety nets through expanded public works programs; and (iii)
import and sell maize domestically on commercial terms to ensure adequate supplies in the
domestic market. The emergency interventions highlighted above entail procuring 200,000 MT
of maize equivalent through public sector imports, to be distributed through targeted food
distribution and sales on commercial terms.

10.     Several development partners have pledged financial support to the Government to
respond to the humanitarian crisis. Notably the Department for International Development
(DFID) and the European Union (EU) have pledged USD20 million (USDlOSm from the EU
and USD9.5m from DFID) for purchase and distribution o f food, additional to their existing
commitments o f USD7.2 million (USD4m from DFID andUSD3.2m from the EU) to restock the
Strategic Grain Reserve.     The EU has also pledged an additional USDlO million towards
expanded public works program. Further, the EUmay be able to provide a further USD5 million
for relief operations by reallocating resources under one o f its projects. Additional contributions
towards the cost o f humanitarian interventions are likely to be provided by Norway for USD2
million, Japan for USD2 million, France for U S D l million, and Ireland for USD0.6 million.
Finally, USAIDhas signaled that it may be able to provide in-kindmaize contributions o f around
40,000 M T (worth about USD10).

                                               4




                        B. WORLD BANKRESPONSETO THE CRISIS

IDA's SupportStrategy

11.    IDA's response to the drought-induced crisis in Malawi is closely coordinated with the
IMF, and the other development partnersactive inMalawi. Within this coordinated framework,
IDA is following amulti-pronged strategy to help Malawi to cope with this crisis. It consists of:

       (a)    Reallocation o f uncommitted funds under the Third Malawi Social Action Fund
              project (MASAF I11- P075911) to redirect project activities to scale-up social
              protection systems in the areas most affected by the drought. IDA staff are
              working with counterpart Government agencies and other development partners
              to consider how existing IDA operations might provide for the urgent social and
              infrastructure needs arising from the current crisis. The IDA team has proposedto
              the Department o f Poverty andDisaster Management, Office o f the President and
              Cabinet, that some proceeds from MASAF I11activities where disbursement is
              expected to slow down as a result of the drought-induced emergency be
              reallocated within the MASAF I11Project for the quick scaling up o f safety nets
              and reliefintervention.

       (b)    Immediate assistance through financing o f critical imports provided under the
              proposed Emergency Recovery Project. An emergency recovery operation i s
              considered appropriate in the case o f Malawi, because the emergency has
              seriously dislocatedMalawi's economy and calls for a quick response.

       (c)    Assisting the Government in tackling the underlying structural problems which
              lead to food insecurity through technical assistance and investment operations.
              The Bank i s already providing key technical assistance related to weather risk
              prevention and mitigation measures. Inparticular, following a feasibility study in
              2004, the Bank is currently working with the Government and private sector to
              pilot weather based insurance contracts for smallholders to manage weather risk
              through insurance markets, starting with the next agricultural season in October
              2005. The Bank i s also providing technical assistance to the Government o f
              Malawi on the practical issues involved with using SAFEX options to hedge grain
              price risks in Malawi.     Further, an irrigation investment operation including
              drought proofing technologies (through precision farming and improved crop
              management) i s in the advanced stages o f preparation, and Board presentation i s
              expected in late 2005.

      (d)     Ongoing policy dialogue to strengthen food security and agricultural markets. As
              part o f the Fiscal Management and Accelerating Growth Program (FIMAG -
              P072395) structural adjustment credit, the Government is undertaking a set o f
              important policy reforms affecting food security and the efficient operation o f
              agricultural markets. FIMAG supports the Government in addressing medium-
              term reforms, which are progressing according to a well-defined timetable. This

                                                 5


                timetable could not usefully be accelerated in an attempt to gain access to FIMAG
                funds inthe next few months.

Rationalefor IDA Involvement.

12.     Malawi urgently needs additional external financing to facilitate economic recovery and
provide support to investment and production, notably agricultural production, and to return
growth to levels consistent with the government macroeconomic program. In the absence o f
additional resources, the additional need for foreign exchange resulting from the exceptional
food imports requirements during 2005/06 would likely exacerbate the negative effects o f the
drought on the economy, restrict critical imports, and limit progress towards macroeconomic
stabilization during 2005/06. Further,unless adequate funding i s secured the fiscal impact o f the
crisis could reverse progress towards economic recovery, notably the reduction o f the domestic
debt which the Government has achieved during 2004/05. This operation i s a key component o f
the Bank's support to Malawi to mitigate the impact o f the drought crisis and allow a speedy
recovery to a poverty-reducingmedium term growth path.

13.     IDA'Sresponse is consistent with its Country Assistance Strategy (CAS) for Malawi.
The CAS recognizes that Malawi is highly vulnerable to climatic shocks that adversely affect
agricultural production and economic growth. The CAS anticipates that when such events occur,
resources that should have been used for development may need to be reallocated to relief or
emergency activities. In anticipation o f these eventualities, the Bank has been working with the
Government and other donors to diversify Malawi's agricultural exports and to develop a more
robust food security strategy.

Rationalefor EmergencyAssistance

14.     Malawi urgently needs additional external financing to provide support for recovery in
key activities o f the economy which could falter and cause additional social hardship and to
maintain macroeconomic stability. This operation i s a key component o f the Bank's support
strategy for the country. A request for emergency assistance was received fiom the Government
on June 1 2005.


                  C. THE PROPOSEDEMERGENCY RECOVERY PROJECT


ProjectObjectives

15,     The Malawi Emergency Recovery Project is aimed at supporting the restoration of assets
and production following the drought-induced emergency in early 2005, and thereby supporting
the growth path central to the macroeconomic program adopted by the new administration since
May 2004. Specifically, this emergency grant will provide an additional USD30million to allow
critical private sector imports for the restoration o f assets, investment and production to take
place with the least disruption to the economy. The domestic financial resources generated by
the grant will go towards financing the approved Government's budget, including expanded
safety nets and other costs o f responding to the drought, and will allow Government to reduce
domestic debt levels and maintain spending levels in line with the targets o f the IMF PRGF
program which has recently been approved.

                                                   6



ProjectDescription

16.      The grant will provide immediate support to finance a positive list o f imports identified
as necessary to an effective recovery program while supporting macroeconomic objectives by
providing financing for the approved budget. The project will provide assistance for a broad
range o f imports by the private sector, especially imported production inputs and imported
capital equipment, through the use o f a positive list. The proposed grant would finance 100
percent o f the delivered cost o f eligible imports on the positive list, excluding import duties and
taxes. The nature o f the positive list i s such that no Bank safeguards policies are triggered. No
disbursements will be made to cover used or luxury goods, military equipment, or nuclear
reactors. While this type o f operation does not include conditionality linked to macroeconomic
policies, IDMBank monitoring o f economic developments and close collaboration with the IMF
(under the PRGFprogram) will help ensure adequate macroeconomic and fiscal diligence on the
part o f the Government. To accommodate the emergency nature o f the operation, abbreviated
processingwill be used as provided under OP 8.50.

17.      The IDA Grant is proposed to be SDR20.8 million (USD30 million equivalent), based on
an assessment of the country's requirements after considering other sources o f financing.

18.      The proposed grant i s being submitted to the Executive Directors for approval subject to
the availability o fadequate donor resources for the purpose o fenablingthe Association to extend
grants as described in Section I1o f the Memorandum to the Executive Directors on Transition
from IDA13 to IDA14 approved on March 10, 2005. The IDA Financing Agreement will only
be signed after Management has determined that such resources are available for the making o f
this Grant and notified the Recipient accordingly. Prior to signing, Management will satisfy
itself that the Recipient remains eligible to receive the Grant, and that no change has occurred in
the situation o f the Recipient which would significantly and adversely affect the basis on which
the approval by the Executive Directors o f the Grant was made. At this time, Management has
determined that adequate donor resources have been made available for the purpose o f making
this Grant andhas determinedthat it canproceedto signing.

Benefitsand Risks

19.      Project Benefits. The import financing under the proposed grant will provide timely
supply o f essential equipment, materials and commodities which will be critical in assisting the
recovery o f investment and production for key economic sectors, notably agriculture.             The
counterpart finds generated by the sale o f foreign exchange will provide the Government with an
important source o f financing to support the budget approved by Parliament (that has already
been scaled-up to respond to the emergency). The grant will not be used to increase spending
beyond the approved levels. Overall, the grant will complement the support for short- and
medium-termrecovery that will beprovidedby other multilateral andbilateral agencies.

20.      Project Risks. The major risk o f the operation is that the impact of the crisis may be
larger than currently anticipated with additional implications on the balance o f payments and on
economic growth, and that the fiscal deficit will not be controlled because o f the need for
additional relief interventions. If this risk were to materialize, the Bank would work with the
intemational donor community so that necessary additional resources could become available to
the country, and the Bank would propose further support to economic growth through a follow-

                                                7


on DPL operation. A further risk is that the next agricultural season may also be affected by
adverse weather conditions that will undermine economic recovery. If adverse weather were to
persist for a second year in a row, actions would be taken by the intemational community to
provide support for relief and economic recovery and prevent a further collapse inthe economic
capacity o f the country.

     D. INSTITUTIONALARRANGEMENTSAND PROJECTIMPLEMENTATION

ProjectOrganizationandManagement

21.      The project will be implemented by the Ministry o f Finance in close collaboration with
the Reserve Bank o f Malawi since it will largely support import financing requirements. Both
institutions have prior experience in coordination o f disbursements against imports, and this
would ensure compliance with agreed procurement as well as disbursement arrangements.
Consistent with the emergency nature of the proposed support, these arrangements have been
simplified and streamlined to the extent feasible, while seeking to ensure that overall concems
about due diligence, transparency, and avoiding corruption are addressed.

22.      The project will be implemented over a twelve-month period but most disbursement
should be completed in the first six months after effectiveness. The Closing Date for this grant
will be December 31,2006.

ImplementationArrangements

23.      Consistent with the emergency nature o f this recovery assistance, implementation
arrangements have been simplified.       To ensure due diligence and sound governance, the
arrangements would seek to ensure that:

            a) Grant proceeds are used only to finance imports o f items contained in the list o f
                imports permissible under the Grant (Attachment 1);

           b) proper procedures on procurement and accounting and the complete
                documentation o ftransactions; and

           c) provision ofmanagement information usingsuitable monitoring and audit tools.

24.     The Ministry o f Finance and the Reserve Bank o f Malawi have agreed the following
implementation arrangements, defining the assistance to be provided by each entity. The
Ministry o f Finance will be the representative o f the Government for all the purposes o f the
Financing Agreement (FA). The Ministry o fFinance will therefore agree to:

           a) authorize the Reserve Bank o f Malawi to administer and execute the Project;

           b) comply with all the contractual obligations ofthe FA;

           c) undertake the necessary actions to ensure that the quarterly financial management
               and the quarterly progress reports are submitted by the Reserve Bank o f Malawi

                                                          8


                   and copied to the Ministryo f Finance within 15 days after the end o f the calendar
                   quarter; and

               d) request the National Audit Office to carry out the Project final audit, or to appoint
                   independent private auditors for this task, and submit the audit to IDA no later
                   than six months after the closing date o f the Project.

The Reserve Bank o f Malawi will:

                   manage and operate the project's Deposit Account; for this purpose the Reserve
                   Bankwill assign responsibilityofProject Manager to the Director, Department o f
                   International Operations, who will manage and administer the project;

                   using appropriate financial management systems, and provide accountable and
                   timely financial information on project financing and expenditures; prepare
                   disbursement requests under the project and the records for the Statement o f
                   Expenditures;

                   sign and submit the disbursement requests under the project;2

                   establish and maintain appropriate records reflecting the transactions financed
                   under the project, including all the documentation in connection with eligible
                   imports and allow access to such information to the NAO auditors and
                   representatives o f IDA whenever required;

                   prepare and submit quarterly financial management reports in a format agreed
                   with IDA and copy to the Ministry o f Finance by the fifteenth day o f the
                   following calendar month;

                   prepare and submit quarterly progress reports in a format agreed with IDA and
                   copy to the Ministry o f Finance by the fifteenth day o f the following calendar
                   month;

                   facilitate the auditors' activities.

In addition, the Ministry of Finance and the Reserve Bank of Malawi will jointly prepare and
submit to IDAthe Implementation CompletionReport for the project no later than 4 months after
the closing date o f the project.




 For this purpose, in order to accelerate the preparation and processing o f the disbursement requests, the Recipient
will establish a "Verification Team" to carry out the joint (Recipient and Bank) verification of the information inthe
summary statement of'expenditure (e.g. such that the itendgoods are on the agreed positive list, that the prices paid
were competitive and reasonable, and that all the required documentation is included). The IDA procurement
specialist, financial management specialists from the Country Office, and the disbursement officer fromthe regional
processing center, will be part o f the verification team. The statement of expenditures will be endorsed by the
Verification Team prior to submission to IDA.

                                                9


Procurement

25.      The proceeds o f the Grant will be made available to finance eligible private sector
imports against documentation evidencing that the imported goods meet the eligibility
requirements o f paragraphs 1.6 - 1.8 o f the Guidelines: Procurement Under IBRD Loans and
IDA Credits May 2004 (The Procurement Guidelines); and are both on the positive list o f
imports listed in Attachment 1 and procured following the agreed procurement procedures
described below. Second hand goods and equipment will not be eligible for funding under the
Grant.    The Grant will provide for some advance contracting and retroactive financing as
described inparagraph32 below.

26.     The last Country Procurement Assessment Report (CPAR) for Malawi i s dated M a y
2004. The country i s in a process o f procurement reforms which will be supported by several
donors and by IDA under the restructured Financial Management, Transparency and
Accountability Project (FIMTAP - P078408). Public procurement i s guided by the Public
Procurement Act (No. 8 o f 2003). The Act i s assessed as a good UNCITRAL based procurement
law. Procurement regulations to be used with the Procurement Act, desk manuals and standard
bidding and contract documents have been prepared and distributed to the public procurement
entities. The core o f the procurement reform activities are capacity building; study and design of
a procurement management information system as well as the establishment o f country
procurement systems assessment tools.

27.     The Reserve Bank o f Malawi, which in collaboration with the Ministryo f Finance i s the
executing agency for the proposed Project, will be responsible for keeping the records o f the
import transactions financed under the grant, and also to verify that the transactions satisfy the
agreed procurement procedures. The Reserve Bank and the Ministry o f Finance have prior
experience in coordination o f disbursements against imports and are familiar with the Bank's
procurement policies and procedures, as well as the requirements for procurement records
management, procurement monitoring and reporting, and are therefore capable o f ensuring
compliance with the agreed procurement arrangements.

28.      Only imports from private sector contracts will be financed under the Grant. The
prevalent method o f procurement in the private sector is based on long term relationships with
known suppliers and to some extent market surveys. All procurement o f imports by the private
sector under the project will be based on the established private sector or commercial practices
and will not needIDA prior review, since the private sector i s profit oriented and procurement i s
based on value-for-money considerations. In addition, in order to safeguard Malawi's national
financial interests, imports, excluding those expressly exempted, are subject by law to Pre-
shipment Inspection (PSI) for quality, quantity and reasonableness o f price by a professional PSI
firm, In order to avoid excessive transaction costs for IDA and the government, private sector
import contracts of less than USD10,OOO will not be eligible for disbursement o f grant proceeds.

 29.    Overall the procurement risk rating for the project is assessed as "Average".   The Grant
would be used to finance only imports procured in accordance with the procedures presented in
Table 1below.

                                                         10




 ProcurementCategory                Procurementmethod                                     Contractssubject
                                                                                          to Prior Review


 Commodities: contracts costing     Through established international commodity           None
 USD 10,000 or more                 markets, or through other channels of competitive
                                    procurement as defined inparagraph 2.68 o fthe
                                    Procurement Guidelines or through established
                                    commercial practices
 Goods: contracts costing USD       Based on established commercial practices             None
 10,000 or more
 Private sector import contracts    Ineligible for financing under the Project            None
 costing less than USD 10,000


FinancialManagement

30.      A Country Financial Accountability Assessment (CFAA) was carried out in 2001
covering both the public as well as private sectors. The overall conclusion then was that, when
compared to most developing countries, Malawi had a good legal and institutional framework for
public sector financial management and accountability. Nonetheless, weaknesses were identified
inbudget execution inensuringthat the allocated resources were utilized efficiently for intended
purposes and in obtaining comfort that value for money was being achieved. A number of
initiatives have been undertaken by the Government o f Malawi, with the support o f the
international community including the Bank, to strengthen the country's financial accountability
framework.

Disbursementand FundsFlow

31,      Adequate funding and the timely and uninterruptedflow o f resources will be needed to
expedite implementation o f the project. The project will therefore use a quick disbursement
mechanism that uses eligible expenditures from a positive list o f imports to generate counterpart
funds. The proceeds o f the grant will be disbursed against 100percent o f the delivered cost of
imports subject to the agreed positive list. Payments against the positive list o f eligible imports
will be deposited in a Government U S Dollar Deposit Account established specifically for this
project through the Reserve Bank o f Malawi. Disbursements into the Deposit Account will be
made against Statements o f Expenditures listing eligible imports, for which supporting
documentation will be retained by the Reserve Bank o f Malawi. Verification o f the information
given on the Statements o f Expenditure will be carried out jointly by Government and Bank
officials to establish that the goods were actually received, and the prices paid were competitive
and reasonable. The local currency funds generated from the foreign exchange sales will be
deposited in the M G 1 account at the RBM and will go towards financing the Government
budget3 The grant will not be used to increase spending beyond the approved levels, and will
therefore contribute to domestic debt reduction.



 Any withdrawal of foreign currency out o fthe deposit account will have to be matchedby an equivalent deposit in
local currency into the MGl account.

                                                11




RetroactiveFinancing

32.     The drought-induced emergency inMalawi i s expected to place severe strain on the trade
current account and the smooth operation o f trade transactions during the next few months, As
mentioned above, Malawi's trade balance is usually under most pressure during September to
January when most o f the agricultural inputs and food imports take place. The emergency i s
expected to exacerbate this seasonal trade pattern in2005. It i s expected that trade deficits in3rd
and 4th quarters o f 2005 will be 20 percent higher than a year earlier, mainly as a result o f the
exceptional level o f food import requirements. This will place an unusually severe strain on the
current account duringthe next few months, constraining the smooth flow o f imports and thereby
obstructing economic recovery. Inorder to facilitate critical fertilizer and other imports prior to
the start of the agricultural season in fall 2005, the proposed grant would include retroactive
financing in the amount o f SDR6.3 million (USD9 million equivalent), correspondent to 30
percent of the grant amount, which would be provided to finance expenditures incurred up to six
months before grant signing, and inany case not earlier than April 1,2005.

Accountingand financialreporting

33.     The project will only have a limitednumber o f financial transactions, and the emphasis
will be on making sure that the flow o f hnds from the IDA Grant Account through the Deposit
Account at the Reserve Bank o f Malawi to the Government o f Malawi is satisfactory, and that
there are arrangements to record transactions documents, relating to the underlying import
documents to be used to support Bank disbursementsunder the grant. The documentation used
to support Bank disbursements will include the name of supplier, customs declaration number,
value, description o f goods, the name o f importer, date o f payment, amount paidrate o f
exchange. Inaddition, supporting documents for payments will include evidence o f shipment o f
goods and commodities purchased (such as copy of the Malawi Customs Declaration Form 12,
which i s issued by customs upon examination o f the Bill o f Lading and other customs
documentation), proof o f payment or certification that payment was made (such as the
Application to Purchase Foreign Currency Form E appropriately endorsed by a commercial bank
as evidence o f payment), and other relevant custom documentation (which may include a Clean
Report o f Findings (CRF) fkom Pre-shipment Inspection (PSI) Agency or affiliate in exporting
country).

34.    The Reserve Bank o f Malawi will record and maintain details o f all transactions used to
claim reimbursement under the project as per agreed positive list.                Given the short
implementation period o f approximately twelve months, quarterly financial monitoring reports
will be submittedto the Bank within one month after the end o f each calendar quarter showing:
       Progress report;
        Sources and uses o f funds;
       Uses o f funds by project-activityin accordance with the "positive list"; and,
       Bank statement o f the Deposit Account reflecting deposits made by IDA in foreign
       currency into the Deposit Account, and matching transfers in local currency to the MG1
       account from the sale o f the foreign exchange.

                                                    12


35.     The Reserve Bank o fMalawi has inplace adequate accounting and financial management
reporting systems.      Separate project accounts prepared in accordance with International
Accounting Standards will be maintained. It has been agreed that all claims under the project as
per agreed 'positive list' will be recorded and maintained. The Reserve Bank o f Malawi and the
Ministry o f Finance have qualified staff experienced inmanaging World Bank projects. National
standards are in compliance with International Accounting Standards (IAS) and International
Standards on Auditing (ISA).

ExternalAudit
36.     Only one set o f project financial statements covering the entire project period will be
prepared in the same format as for quarterly reports, and will be submitted to the Bank together
with the auditors report no later than six months after the last disbursement date. The Ministryo f
Finance will arrange for a financial audit upon completion o f the project. The terms o f reference
for the audit, to be submittedto the Bank for approval, will include the following tasks:

        0  Assessing the adequacy and reliability o f procedures used for preparing import
           documents;

        0  Examiningimport and other documents used for Bank disbursements;

        0  Transactions on the Deposit Account, including foreign currency deposits to the
            account, and local currency transfers to the M G 1 account from the sale o f the foreign
           currency out o f the Deposit Account;

        0   Assessing the adequacy o f accounting and internal control systems to monitor claims
           underthe project and other financial transactions; and

        0  An opinion as to the reliability o f the procedures applied in verifying or issuing the
            import documents insupport o f the Bank's disbursements.

ResultsFrameworkandMonitoringIndicators

37.     The performance o f the Project will be evaluated on the basis o f the results framework
specified inAttachment 2. The framework focuses on the project development objective (PDO),
as specified in paragraph 15 above, and the intermediate outcomes expected. This information
will be usedto track progress towards the PDO and to make changes inthe project if necessary
duringimplementation. It should be noted that negative performance inthe PDO indicator may
reflect other factors that are responsible for the lack o f rapid economic recovery (as the project is
only a small part o f the wider interventions to facilitate the economic recovery). If the project
intermediate outcome indicators suggest that project performance i s satisfactory, but project
outcome indicators indicate that the economy continues to be under distress this may indicate
that the impact o f the crisis i s proving to be larger than anticipated, and that there may be needto
review the overall intervention strategy and the required levels o f support.

                                          E. ACTION PLAN

38.     Duringnegotiations, the Government delegation and Association representatives reached
speedy agreement on the remaining details o f financial management, reports, and auditing, o f
procurement thresholds, and disbursement procedures to be followed. A set o f performance

                                              13


monitoring indicators was agreed, selected to allow the Association to track the impact of the
project through the behavior of overall macroeconomic conditions without being unduly
burdensometo the Government.

                                                             14



                                                                                              Attachment 1

                                                          Malawi
                                               EmergencyRecovery Project
                                      PositiveListof ImportsEligiblefor Financing
                                       Classified by HarmonizedCommodity Code

ListNo     ImportCategory                   HarmonizedCommoditvCode& ClassificationName
  1        Petroleum and fuel products              27   Mineral fuels, oil & products for their
                                                         distillation, bitumen substances; waxes
  2        Agricultural inputs and          01.02-01.06 Live animals for breeding
           equipment    a                         12.09 Seeds for sowing
                                                     31 Fertilizers
                                                     84 Boilers, machinery, mechanical appliances, and
                                                         parts thereof
  3        Construction materials and                25 Salt, sulphur; earths and stone; plastering materials,
           equipment                                     lime and cement
                                                     68 Articles of stone, plaster, cement, mica or similar
                                                         materials
                                                     72 Iron and steel
                                                     73 Articles o f iron or steel
                                                     74 Copper and articles thereof
                                                     75 Nickel and articles thereof
                                                     76 Aluminum and articles thereof
                                                     79 Zinc and articles thereof
                                                     80 Tin and articles thereof
                                                     81 Other base metals; cements; articles thereof
                                                     83 Miscellaneous articles o f base metal
                                                     84 Boilers, machinery, mechanical appliances, and
                                                         parts thereof
                                                     85 Electrical machinery and equipment andparts
                                                         thereof
                                                  94.06 Prefabricatedbuildings
  4           Spare parts, raw materials,            11 Products o f the millingindustry,malt, starches, inulin, wheat
             and intermediate inputs and                 Gluten'
           machinery, for industryand                19 Preparations o f cereals, flour, starch or milk;pastrycooks'
             services                                     products'
                                                     2 1 Miscellaneous edible preparations'
                                                     39 Plastics and articles thereof
                                                     40 Rubber and articles thereof
                                                     69 Ceramic products
                                                     70 Glass and glassware
                                                     84 Boilers, machinery, mechanical appliances, andparts thereofb
                                                     85 Electricalmachinery and equipment and parts thereof

             ~~

  5        Motor vehicles and spare                  86 Railway or tramway locomotives, rolling-stock and parts
           parts                                          thereof; railway or tramway track fixtures and fittings and parts
                                                          thereof; mechanical (incl. electro-mechanical) traffic signalling
                                                          equipment o f all kinds
                                                     87   Vehicles other than railway or tramway rolling
                                                          stock, and parts an accessories thereof
   Notes:
   a) Agricultural inputs exclude pesticides, insecticides, fungicides, herbicides.
   b) Excluding nuclear reactors and their parts
   c) For the food-processing industry

                                                                 15


                                                                                                    Attachment 2


                                                             Malawi
                                                 Emergency Recovery Project
                                     Results framework and Monitoring Indicators

                               ProjectOutcome           Source of information           Use of ProjectOutcomeInformation
                                   Indicators                for indicators

Support the restoration  Gross Fixed Capital            Monitoredby NSO on       Negative performance mayreflect the fact that the
of assets and production Formation during 2005 and      annual basis (with a 6-  project i s not performing, or that other factors are
to contribute to         2006 is at least as high as in months lag). Will be     responsiblefor the lack of rapid economic recovery.
economic recovery,       2004 (MKW 19 billion,          reported as part of the  Infact, the projectis only asmallpart ofthe set of
following the drought-   corresponding to 9.3 percent   final Implementation     interventions to facilitate the recovery; notably
induced emergency in     of GDP in 2004).               CompletionReport.        disbursement of financingby other donors-as
early 2005.                                                                      detailed inthe IMFPRGF documentation-
                         The level of imports during    Monitoredby NSO on       constitutesan essential prerequisite to a successful
                         FY 2005/06 is inlinewith       quarterly basis (with a  economic recovery.
                         projections (USD976            3-months lag), andwill   Iftheproject intermediate outcome indicators
                         million). Projected quarterly  be includedinproject's   suggest that project performance i s satisfactory, but
                         level of imports:2005Q4:       quarterly progress       project outcome indicators indicate that the
                         D285m                          reports (with a lag as   economy continues to be under distress thismay
                         200641: $190m                  the data may not be      indicate that the impact of the crisis i s proving to be
                         200642: $219m                  promptly available at    larger than anticipated, and that there i s aneedto
                         200643: $285m                  the end ofeachquarter).  review the overall strategy and levels of support.
                         200644: $273m

                            IntermediateOutcome                                       Use of IntermediateOutcomeMonitoring
                                   Indicators

Outcome 1:               Outcome 1:                                              Outcome 1:
Rapid financing of       % ofproject funds disbursed    To be reported in        Low levels may flag either poor implementation
imports necessaryto an   into project deposit account   project quarterly        capacity at RBMor problems with documentation
effective economic       inforeign exchange:            progress and financial   requiredfor procurement and financial management
recovery.                200544: 40%                    management reports       requirements.
                         200641: 80%
                         200642: 90%
                         200643: 100%
                         200644: 100%

Outcome2:                Outcome 2:                                               Outcome 2:
Local currency financial % of project funds             To be reported in         Low levels may flag either poor implementation
resources generated by   transferred into M G I         project quarterly         capacity at RBMor problems with documentation
the grant contribute to  account in local currency      progressand financial     requiredfor procurement andfinancial management
financing the approved   equivalent:                    management reports        requirements.
 Government's budget,    200544: 40%
including expanded       200641: 80%
 safety nets and other   200642: 90%
 costs of respondingto   200643: 100%
 the drought.            200644: 100%

                                                      16



                                                                                            Attachment3

                                                     Malawi
                                     EmergencyRecoveryProject
   Distributionand Severity of the Impactofthe 2005 Drought onHouseholdIncomes

                                                     Malawi
                                Areas at Risk of Food Insecurity forthe
                     Agricultrural ConsumptionYearApril 2005 to March 2006
         Scenario 1: Maize prices adjusted at current    Scenario 2: Maze iardsdin Blantyre at $220UT,
                  average inflation rates                conamer wice adjustedfor storage,distriblrtion
                        K19-K23kg                                       and 5% mark ~p
                                                                          K32K40La




                                           0 20 40    80  120   160
           NatASignificart Risk            n         H     K         ilometors




Source: MVAC report, June 2005, Malawi

