Page  1
1
PROJECT INFORMATION DOCUMENT (PID) 
CONCEPT STAGE 
Report No.:  AB1763 
Project Name 
Malawi Emergency Recovery Project (FY06) 
Region 
AFRICA 
Sector 
General public administration sector (30%);Agricultural marketing 
and trade (25%);Crops (25%);Telecommunications (10%);Power 
(10%) 
Project ID 
P097292 
Borrower(s) 
GOVERNMENT OF MALAWI 
Implementing Agency 
Ministry of Finance, assisted by Reserve Bank of Malawi 
P.O. Box 30049 
Lilongwe 3 
MALAWI 
Tel.: +265 1 789 355 
Fax.: +265 1 789 173 
E-mail: finance@malawi.gov.mw 
Environment Category 
[
]
A
[
]
B
[X] C   [ ] FI   [ ] TBD (to be determined) 
Date PID Prepared 
July 30, 2005 
Estimated Date of 
Appraisal Authorization 
August 2, 2005 
Estimated Date of Board 
Approval 
September 15, 2005 
1. 
Background: The drought-induced emergency in Malawi 
 
Dry weather in January-February 2005 has led to widespread failure of the agricultural harvest in 
Southern Africa, and created a new emergency situation.  Malawi is one of the worst affected 
countries and its agricultural production has fallen by 7 percent compared to the previous year.  
The maize crop for 2005 has been hit especially severely and is estimated to be almost 30 percent 
lower compared to last year, itself a shortage year, resulting in the worst maize season in ten 
years.  The failure of the maize crop is of particular concern for food security as maize is the 
country's main staple food in the country.  The drop in maize production corresponds to an 
estimated shortfall equivalent to about 20 percent of national food consumption requirements 
between April 2005 and March 2006 (when the next harvest is expected), which will need to be 
filled by substantial imports of maize, mainly from northern Mozambique and South Africa 
which have experienced good harvests.  
 
The recent Malawi Vulnerability Assessment Committee (MVAC) analysis has indicated that the 
incomes of at least 4.2 million rural households, corresponding to more than 1/3 of the 
population, have been severely reduced as a result of the harvest failure.  These household are 
unlikely to be able to afford to adequately feed themselves and engage in productive economic 
activity in the next agricultural season, even if large quantities of food were to be imported in the 
country.  The MVAC has estimated that in order to maintain regular nutrition levels they will 
require humanitarian support during the period between April 2005 and March 2006 for a total of 
272,000 MT in maize equivalent terms, assuming that food prices do not rise significantly.   
Page  2
2
Given the enormity of the problem, the government is planning to focus relief efforts on the most 
severely affected 2 million people (those people with food deficits of 25 percent or more), for a total 
food requirement of 200,000 MT.  Specifically, the Government and the donors have jointly 
discussed and agreed on a set of interventions to respond to the food emergency, which entail 
three levels of intervention: (i) provide targeted free food distribution; (ii) scale up existing safety 
nets through expanded public works programs; and (iii) import and sell maize domestically on 
commercial terms to ensure adequate supplies in the domestic market.  The emergency 
interventions highlighted above entail procuring 200,000 MT of maize equivalent through public 
sector imports, to be distributed through targeted food distribution and sales on commercial terms.   
 
The budget cost of the import and distribution of food described above is expected at about 2 
percent of GDP (USD 47 million).  Several donors have already pledged additional support to 
finance 
a
good portion of the Government’s planned humanitarian interventions, although the 
level of funding and planned level of intervention is not yet sufficient to cover the full 
humanitarian needs estimated by the MVAC assessment.   
 
In addition to the immediate humanitarian needs, the crisis is also expected to have a severe 
negative impact on domestic investment and production because the exceptional food import 
requirements will place a severe constraint on the regular imports critical to economic production, 
notably petroleum, fertilizer and machinery.  Further, the disruption caused by the drought to 
trade and economic activity undermines business confidence, and imposes additional losses on 
the economy as a whole.  This situation calls for a quick response from the Government and the 
Bank to help restore physical assets and investment, and avoid a collapse in productive activities 
during the next twelve months.   
 
2.  
Rationale for IDA Involvement 
 
Malawi urgently needs additional external financing to facilitate economic recovery and provide 
support to investment and production, notably agricultural production, and to maintain 
macroeconomic stability.  In the absence of additional resources, the additional balance of 
payments financing needs resulting from the exceptional food imports requirements during 2005/06 
would likely exacerbate the negative effects of the drought on the economy, restrict critical 
imports, and limit progress towards macroeconomic stabilization during 2005/06.  Further, unless 
adequate funding is secured the fiscal impact of the crisis could reverse progress towards 
macroeconomic stabilization, notably the reduction of the domestic debt which the Government 
has achieved during 2004/05.  This operation is a key component of the Bank's support to Malawi 
to mitigate the impact of the drought crisis and allow a speedy recovery to a poverty-reducing 
medium term growth path.   
 
3.  
Project Objectives 
 
The Malawi Emergency Recovery Project is aimed at supporting investment and production 
threatened by the drought-induced emergency and in line with the macroeconomic stabilization 
path adopted by the new administration since May 2004. Specifically, this emergency grant will 
provide an additional US$30 million to the Government of Malawi to allow the critical imports 
for the restoration of assets, investment and production to take place with the least disruption to 
the economy.  The domestic financial resources generated by the grant will go towards financing 
the approved Government’s budget, including expanded safety nets and other costs of responding 
to the drought, and will allow Government to reduce domestic debt levels and maintain spending 
levels in line with the targets of the IMF program currently under discussion.  
 
Page  3
3
4. Project 
description 
 
The grant will provide immediate support to finance a positive list of imports identified as 
necessary to an effective recovery program while supporting macroeconomic objectives by 
providing financing for the approved budget. In order to facilitate critical fertilizer and other 
imports prior to the start of the agricultural season in summer 2005, retroactive financing is being 
considered for this project. While this type of operation does not include conditionality linked to 
macroeconomic policies, IDA/Bank monitoring of economic developments and close 
collaboration with the IMF will help ensure adequate macroeconomic and fiscal diligence on the 
part of the Government. To accommodate the emergency nature of the operation, abbreviated 
processing will be used as provided under OP 8.50. 
.
5. Project 
Financing 
 
The IDA Grant is proposed to be 
SDR XX.X million (US$ 30 million equivalent)
,
based on 
an assessment of the country's requirements after considering other sources of financing.  
 
6. Implementation 
 
The project will be implemented by the Ministry of Finance in close collaboration with the 
Reserve Bank of Malawi since it will largely support import financing requirements. The grant 
will finance imports on a positive list to be agreed with the Government.  Adequate reporting will 
be provided by the Ministry of Finance and the Reserve Bank of Malawi, and auditing will be 
provided by the National Audit Office.  Procurement and disbursement arrangements will be 
designed in compliance with Bank Group guidelines. The project will be implemented over a 
twelve-month period but most disbursement should be completed in the first six months after 
effectiveness.  The grant is expected to be completed by December 31, 2006.  . 
 
7.  
Project sustainability 
 
The emergency recovery project focuses on addressing the short-term import financing needs 
resulting from the food crisis.  The direct impact of the operation is modest, but by contributing 
crucial support needed to finance critical imports, this operation will aim to prevent a sharp 
decline in production, facilitate short-term macroeconomic stability, and, by providing budget 
support, help Government efforts in ensuring that the country’s poverty reduction strategy is 
adequately funded.  This operation will be followed by a development lending operation that will 
improve macroeconomic outcomes and development prospects, and would support sustainability 
of this project.   
 
The Government and donors have agreed to carry out a policy review during 2005/06.  The 
Government realizes that better solutions than free food distribution need to be found in the 
medium-term, and that medium- and long-term interventions need to be implemented to reduce 
the frequency and incidence of food crises.   These likely include increased emphasis on irrigation 
and the development of market-based products for managing weather, price and supply shocks 
ex-ante, that would be developed either for the country or the region (to include weather 
insurance and the use of commodity futures and options).  
 
In this context, the World Bank is already active in assisting the Government in tackling the 
underlying structural problems which lead to food insecurity. Firstly, the project is building on 
the investment of the previous Emergency Drought Recovery Project operation (MAI-P080368; 
approved in November 2002) which has strengthened government capacity to manage drought, 
Page  4
4
particularly with regard to efficient implementation of food delivery systems, and effective 
administrative systems (procurement, disbursement, and monitoring and evaluation). Also, as part 
of the Fiscal Management and Accelerating Growth Program (MAI - P072395) structural 
adjustment credit, the Government is undertaking a set of important policy reforms affecting food 
security and the efficient operation of agricultural markets.  Secondly, key technical assistance 
related to prevention and mitigation measures is being provided separately. In particular, following 
a
feasibility study in 2004, the Bank is currently working with the Government and private sector 
to pilot weather based insurance contracts for smallholders to manage weather risk through 
insurance markets, starting with the next agricultural season in October 2005. The Bank is also 
providing technical assistance to the Government of Malawi on the practical issues involved with 
using SAFEX options to hedge grain price risks in Malawi.  Thirdly, an irrigation investment 
operation including drought proofing technologies (through precision farming and improved crop 
management) is in the advanced stages of preparation, and Board presentation is expected in late 
2005.  
 
8.  
Lessons learned from past operations in the country and emergency operations 
elsewhere 
 
An earlier emergency operation, prepared in response to the 2001/02 draught, presents a number 
of lessons for this operation: (a) financial management and institutional arrangements should be 
flexible and simple so as not to delay disbursement as this would defeat the purpose of the loan; 
(b) disbursements based on the submission of detailed supporting documents and original receipts 
from private sector transactions in a liberalized market is not ideal for speedy processing; (c) the 
supervision task team should be country-office based.  Lessons from other emergency operations 
include: (a) quick disbursing support is best provided through a separate operation such as an 
emergency recovery loan; (b) it is best not to combine short-term support for emergency recovery 
with medium-term structural issues related to strengthening food security and disaster management 
measures; (c) timely response is critical so accelerated and streamlined processing is necessary; 
and (d) indicators of overall impact of this type of operation could include timeliness of Bank 
response and speed of disbursements.  These lessons have been taken into account in the design 
of this operation.
 
9.  
Project benefits 
 
The import financing under the proposed grant will provide timely supply of essential equipment, 
materials and commodities which will be critical in assisting the recovery of investment and 
production for key economic sectors, notably agriculture.  The import financing under the 
proposed credit will also ease the pressure on the balance of payments from the damage to the 
current account caused by the recent drought, and the grant will thereby also assist the 
maintenance of macroeconomic stability.  The counterpart funds generated by the sale of foreign 
exchange will provide the Government with an important source of financing to support the 
budget approved by Parliament (that has already been scaled-up to respond to the emergency).  
The grant will not be used to increase spending beyond the approved levels, and will therefore 
contribute to domestic debt reduction.  Overall, the grant will complement the support for short- 
and medium-term recovery that will be provided by other multilateral and bilateral agencies.  
 
10.  
Project risks 
 
The major risk of the operation is that the impact of the crisis may be larger than currently 
anticipated with additional implications on the balance of payments and on economic growth, and 
that the fiscal deficit will not be controlled because of the need for additional relief interventions. 
Page  5
5
If this risks were to materialize, the Bank would work with the international donor community so 
that necessary additional resources could become available to the country, and the Bank would 
propose further support to economic growth through a follow-on DPL operation. A further risk is 
that the next agricultural season may also be affected by adverse weather conditions that will 
undermine economic recovery. If adverse weather were to persist for a second year in a row, 
actions would be taken by the international community to provide support for relief and economic 
recovery and prevent a further collapse in the economic capacity of the country.  Thirdly, the 
authorities may be unable to provide the coordination necessary for procurement and financial 
management as required by the project, preventing timely disbursement. In this case, Bank 
experience with the previous emergency operation will provide knowledge useful to help 
overcome any issues as they arise. 
 
11.  
Poverty category: 
 
Not targeted. 
 
12.  
Environmental aspects:  
 
Category C 
 
13. 
Contact Point:                                                
 
Antonio Nucifora 
Country Economist  
The World Bank 
1818 H Street, N.W. 
Washington, DC 20433, U.S.A. 
Tel.:  (202) 458 5794 
Fax:  (202) 473 8179
 
Khwima Nthara 
Country Economist  
The World Bank,  
Malawi Country Office 
Development House 
P.O. Box 30557, Lilongwe 3, Malawi 
Tel: (265) 770-611 
Fax: (265) 771-158 / 773-908 
 
14. 
For more information contact: 
 
The InfoShop 
The World Bank 
1818 H Street, NW 
Washington, D.C. 20433 
Telephone: (202) 458-5454 
Fax: (202) 522-1500 
Web: http://www.worldbank.org/infoshop) 
 
