Page  1
1
PROJECT INFORMATION DOCUMENT (PID) 
APPRAISAL STAGE 
Report No.:  AB1778 
Project Name 
Malawi Emergency Recovery Project (FY06) 
Region 
AFRICA 
Sector 
General public administration sector (30%);Agricultural marketing and trade 
(25%);Crops (25%);Telecommunications (10%);Power (10%) 
Project ID 
P097292 
Borrower(s) 
GOVERNMENT OF MALAWI 
Implementing Agency 
Ministry of Finance, assisted by Reserve Bank of Malawi 
P.O. Box 30049 
Lilongwe 3 
MALAWI 
Tel.: +265 1 789 355 
Fax.: +265 1 789 173 
E-mail: finance@malawi.gov.mw 
Environment Category 
[
]
A
[
]
B
[X] C   [ ] FI   [ ] TBD (to be determined) 
Date PID Prepared 
August 15, 2005 
Date of Appraisal 
Authorization 
August 4, 2005 
Date of Board Approval 
September 15, 2005 
1. 
Background: The drought-induced emergency in Malawi  
 
Dry weather in January-February 2005 has led to a widespread failure of the agricultural harvest in Southern 
Africa, and created a new emergency situation.  Malawi is one of the worst affected countries and its 
agricultural production has fallen by 7 percent compared to the previous year.  The maize crop for 2005 has 
been hit especially severely and is estimated to be almost 30 percent lower compared to last year, itself a 
shortage year, resulting in the worst maize season in ten years.  The failure of the maize crop is of particular 
concern for food security as maize is the main staple food in the country.  The drop in maize production 
corresponds to an estimated shortfall equivalent to about 20 percent of national food consumption 
requirements between April 2005 and March 2006 (when the next harvest is expected), which will need to be 
filled by substantial imports of maize, mainly from northern Mozambique and South Africa which have 
experienced good harvests. 
 
The recent Malawi Vulnerability Assessment Committee (MVAC) analysis has indicated that the incomes of 
at least 4.2 million rural households, corresponding to more than 1/3 of the population, have been severely 
reduced as a result of the harvest failure.  These household are unlikely to be able to afford to adequately 
feed themselves and engage in productive economic activity in the next agricultural season, even if large 
quantities of food were to be imported in the country.  The MVAC has estimated that in order to maintain 
regular nutrition levels they will require humanitarian support during the period between April 2005 and 
March 2006 for a total of 272,000 MT in maize equivalent terms, assuming that food prices do not increase 
significantly. Most of this support will be required during the period November 2005 to March 2006.  In fact 
most of the domestically produced maize crop will have been consumed by that time, and there will be a 
need to satisfy the food requirements for the following few months, until the next harvest is ready in March-
April 2006. 
 
In addition to the immediate humanitarian needs, the crisis is also expected to have a severe negative impact 
on domestic investment and production because the exceptional food import requirements will place a severe 
constraint on the regular imports critical to economic production, notably petroleum, fertilizer, machinery, 
and construction materials.  Further, the disruption caused by the drought to trade and economic activity 
undermines business confidence, and imposes additional losses on the economy as a whole.  This situation 
Page  2
2
calls for a quick response from the Government and the Bank to help restore physical assets and investment, 
and avoid a collapse in productive activities during the next twelve months.   
 
2. Project 
Objectives 
 
The Malawi Emergency Recovery Project is aimed at supporting the restoration of assets and production 
following the drought-induced emergency in early 2005, and thereby supporting the growth path central to 
the macroeconomic program adopted by the new administration since May 2004. Specifically, this 
emergency grant will provide an additional US$30 million to allow critical private sector imports for the 
restoration of assets, investment and production to take place with the least disruption to the economy.  The 
domestic financial resources generated by the grant will go towards financing the approved Government’s 
budget, including expanded safety nets and other costs of responding to the drought, and will allow 
Government to reduce domestic debt levels and maintain spending levels in line with the targets of the IMF 
PRGF program which has recently been approved. 
 
3. 
Rationale for Bank Involvement 
 
Malawi urgently needs additional external financing to facilitate economic recovery and provide support to 
investment and production, notably agricultural production, and to return growth to levels consistent with the 
government macroeconomic program.  In the absence of additional resources, the additional need for foreign 
exchange resulting from the exceptional food imports requirements during 2005/06 would likely exacerbate the 
negative effects of the drought on the economy, restrict critical imports, and limit progress towards economic 
recovery during 2005/06.  Further, unless adequate funding is secured the fiscal impact of the crisis could 
reverse progress towards macroeconomic stabilization, notably the reduction of the domestic debt which the 
Government has achieved during 2004/05.  This operation is a key component of the Bank's support to Malawi 
to mitigate the impact of the drought crisis and allow a speedy recovery to a poverty-reducing medium-term 
growth path.   
 
4. Project 
Description 
 
The grant will provide immediate support to finance a positive list of imports identified as necessary to an 
effective recovery program while supporting macroeconomic objectives by providing financing for the 
approved budget. The project will provide assistance for a broad range of imports by the private sector, 
especially imported production inputs and imported capital equipment, through the use of a positive list.  The 
proposed grant would finance 100 percent of the delivered cost of eligible imports on the positive list.  The 
nature of the positive list is such that no Bank safeguards policies are triggered.  No disbursements will be 
made to cover used or luxury goods, military equipment, or nuclear reactors.  While this type of operation 
does not include conditionality linked to macroeconomic policies, IDA/Bank monitoring of economic 
developments and close collaboration with the IMF (under the PRGF program) will help ensure adequate 
macroeconomic and fiscal diligence on the part of the Government. To accommodate the emergency nature 
of the operation, abbreviated processing will be used as provided under OP 8.50. 
 
5. Financing 
Source: ($m.) 
BORROWER/RECIPIENT 0 
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION 
30 
 Total 
30 
 
6. Implementation 
 
The project will be implemented by the Ministry of Finance in close collaboration with the Reserve Bank of 
Malawi since it will largely support import financing requirements. The grant will finance imports on a 
Page  3
3
positive list to be agreed with the Government.  Adequate reporting will be provided by the Ministry of 
Finance and the Reserve Bank of Malawi, and auditing will be provided by the National Audit Office.  
Procurement and disbursement arrangements will be designed in compliance with Bank Group guidelines. 
The project will be implemented over a twelve-month period but most disbursement should be completed in 
the first six months after effectiveness.  The grant is expected to be completed by December 31, 2006.   
 
7. Sustainability 
 
The emergency recovery project focuses on addressing the short-term import financing needs resulting from 
the food crisis.  The direct impact of the operation is modest, but by contributing crucial support needed to 
finance critical imports, this operation will aim to prevent a sharp decline in production, facilitate short-term 
macroeconomic stability, and, by providing financing to the approved budget, help
 Government’s efforts in 
ensuring that the country’s poverty reduction strategy is adequately funded.  This operation will be followed 
by a development lending operation that will improve macroeconomic outcomes and development prospects, 
and would support sustainability of this project.   
 
The Government and donors have agreed to carry out a policy review during 2005/06.  The Government 
realizes that better solutions than free food distribution need to be found in the medium-term, and that 
medium- and long-term interventions need to be implemented to reduce the frequency and incidence of food 
crises.  These likely include increased emphasis on irrigation and the development of market-based products 
for managing weather, price and supply shocks ex-ante, that would be developed either for the country or the 
region (to include weather insurance and the use of commodity futures and options).  
 
In this context, as mentioned above, the World Bank is already active in assisting the Government in tackling 
the underlying structural problems which lead to food insecurity.  Firstly, this project is building on the 
investment of the previous Emergency Drought Recovery Project operation (MAI-P080368; approved in 
November 2002) which has strengthened government capacity to manage drought, particularly with regard to 
efficient implementation of food delivery systems, and effective administrative systems (procurement, 
disbursement, and monitoring and evaluation). Also, in the context of the FIMAG structural adjustment 
credit, IDA continues to work with the Government to implement a set of important policy reforms to 
improve food security and the operation of agricultural markets.  Further, the Bank has been providing 
technical assistance to manage weather risk through insurance markets, and using future markets to hedge 
against volatility in maize price risks.  Finally, an irrigation investment operation including drought proofing 
technologies is in the advanced stages of preparation. 
 
8. 
Lessons Learned from Past Operations in the Country/Sector 
 
An earlier emergency operation, prepared in response to the 2001/02 draught, presents a number of lessons 
for this operation: (a) financial management and institutional arrangements should be flexible and simple so 
as not to delay disbursement as this would defeat the purpose of the loan; (b) disbursements based on the 
submission of detailed supporting documents and original receipts from private sector transactions in a 
liberalized market is not ideal for speedy processing; (c) the supervision task team should be country-office 
based.  Lessons from other emergency operations include: (a) quick disbursing support is best provided 
through a separate operation such as an emergency recovery loan; (b) it is best not to combine short-term 
support for emergency recovery with medium-term structural issues related to strengthening food security and 
disaster management measures; (c) timely response is critical so accelerated and streamlined processing is 
necessary; and (d) indicators of overall impact of this type of operation could include timeliness of Bank 
response and speed of disbursements.  These lessons have been taken into account in the design of this 
operation.
 
9. 
Project benefits
 
Page  4
4
The import financing under the proposed grant will provide timely supply of essential equipment, materials 
and commodities which will be critical in assisting the recovery of investment and production for key 
economic sectors, notably agriculture.  The counterpart funds generated by the sale of foreign exchange will 
provide the Government with an important source of financing to support the budget approved by Parliament 
(that has already been scaled-up to respond to the emergency).  The grant will not be used to increase 
spending beyond the approved levels.  Overall, the grant will complement the support for short- and 
medium-term recovery that will be provided by other multilateral and bilateral agencies. 
 
10. 
Project risks
 
The major risk of the operation is that the impact of the crisis may be larger than currently anticipated with 
additional implications on the balance of payments and on economic growth, and that the fiscal deficit will 
not be controlled because of the need for additional relief interventions. If this risk were to materialize, the 
Bank would work with the international donor community so that necessary additional resources could 
become available to the country, and the Bank would propose further support to economic growth through a 
follow-on DPL operation. A further risk is that the next agricultural season may also be affected by adverse 
weather conditions that will undermine economic recovery. If adverse weather were to persist for a second 
year in a row, actions would be taken by the international community to provide support for relief and 
economic recovery and prevent a further collapse in the economic capacity of the country.  Thirdly, the 
authorities may be unable to provide the coordination necessary for procurement and financial management 
as required by the project, preventing timely disbursement. In this case, Bank experience with the previous 
emergency operation will provide knowledge useful to help overcome any issues as they arise. 
 
11. Safeguard Policies (including public consultation) 
 
The nature of the positive list of imports to be financed under the project is such that no Bank safeguards 
policies are triggered.   
 
12. Contact point 
 
Antonio Nucifora 
Country Economist  
The World Bank 
1818 H Street, N.W. 
Washington, DC 20433, U.S.A. 
Tel.:  (202) 458 5794 
Fax:  (202) 473 8179
 
Khwima Nthara 
Country Economist  
The World Bank,  
Malawi Country Office 
Development House 
P.O. Box 30557, Lilongwe 3, Malawi 
Tel: (265) 770-611 
Fax: (265) 771-158 / 773-908 
 
14. 
For more information contact: 
 
The InfoShop 
The World Bank 
1818 H Street, NW 
Washington, D.C. 20433 
Telephone: (202) 458-5454 
Fax: (202) 522-1500 
Web: http://www.worldbank.org/infoshop) 
 
Page  5
5
