Document of   O
. N   -                      The World Bank
~~~~~~~~~~(                               N 
' OR OFFICiAL USE ONLY
I > .i                            \               ~              -                 Repwt No. 7135-MAG
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT 
I           -        DEMOQRATI0. REPUBLIC OF MDAGA SCAR
SEVENTH-HIGHWY PROJECT
April 18, 1988
-~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~-
'J~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~N
Infrastructure Operations Division
South-Central and Indian Ocean Department
Africa Region                                                                                N
This document has a retricted distrbution and may be used by redipients only in the performance of
I~~~~hi .      oia d-ls It  otnswyntohrieb  icoe  ihu .rdBn  uhrni



CurreacX Eauivalent
Currency Unit    *   Malagasy Franc (FMG)
USS                 FMG 1,200 (as of December 1987)
WeiJhts and Measures
1 meter (m)                  .    3.28 feet
1 kilometer                  -    0.62 mile
1 square kilometer (km2)    X    0.386 sq. mile
1 square meter (m2)          .    10.76 square feet
AcronVms and Abbreviations
AfDB           African Development Bank
AfDF           African Development Fund
BADEA          Arab Bank for Economic Development in Africa
CATP           MTP Training School (Centre d'Application des Travaux
Publics)
CCCE           Caisse Centrale de Cooperation Economique (France)
CMN            Shipping line (Compagnie Malgache de Navigation)
DGE            Directorate of Works (Direction Generale de l'Equipement)
DGP            Directorate General of Planning (Direction Generale du Plan)
DMAT           Equipment Division (Direction du Ma,teriel)
DR             Division of Roads (Direction des Routes)
EDF            European Development Fund (EEC)
EESP           National Technical College (l'Etablissement d'Enseignement
Superieur Polytechnique)
FAC            Fonds d'Aide et de Cooperation (France)
KfW            Kreditanstalt fuer Wiederaufbau (FRG)
LNTPB          National Soils Laboratory (Laboratoire des Travaux Publics
et du Batlment)
MC             Ministry of Commerce (Ministere de l'Industrie
et du Commerce)
MOD            Ministry of Defense
MPARA          Ministry of Agricultural Production and Agrarian Reform
(Ministare de la Production Agricole et de la
Reforme Agraire)
MTP            Ministry of Public Works (Ministare des Travaux Publics)
MTMT           Ministry of Transport, Meteorology and Tourism (Ministare
des Transports, de la Meteorologie et du Tourisme)
ODR            Office of Rice Development (Office du Development Rizicole)
PSAC           Public Sector Adjustment Credit
RN             National Road (Route Nationale)
RNCFM          Reseau National,des Chemins de Fer Malagasy.
SDC            Swiss Development Cooperation
SG             Permanent Secretary (Secretaire General)
SMTM          Shipping Line (Societe Malgache des Transports Maritimes)
Fiscal Year
January 1 - December 31



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
DEMOCRATIC REPUBLIC OF MADAGASCAR
SEVENTH HfLTfAY PROJECT
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
TABLE OF CONTiSiTS
Parte No.
I.  THE TRANSPORT SECTOR ....................  .......... 1-
A.   Geographic and Economic Setting      .................
B.   Transport Sector  . ..      ............................   .    2
C.   The Transport Network ....... . .........  ....... .         4        -
Mi)   Road Transport ......      ...........................   4
(ii)   Rail Transport .      .................................   5-
(iii)  Air Transport ..     .....................  . . ........ .    5
(iv)   Ports and Coaital Shipping ......................    6
D.  Road Administration         ....................... ............    7
(i)    Organization .......................  ..........    7
(ii)   staffing and Training ....................                            2
'iii) Maintenance .... ................................ 0......    9
(iv)   Financing    ......................... ..............  10
(v)    Engineering and Construction ...........    ......   11
(vi)   Traffic Regulation and Safety             ..........  12
E.   Bank Group Role in Transport .......... ............. ...  12
F.   Rationale for Bank Involvement ...........................  13
_:.  THE PROGRAM AND THE PROJECT ........     ...... .............. ....  13
A.   Objectives .................. .    .........                13
B.   Program Description ..................................   14
Mi)    Rehabilitation and Resurfacing of Paved Roads       15
(ii)   Rehabilitation and Regravelling of Engineered
Earth Roads ...........................15..........  15
(iii)  Rehabilitation of Feeder Roads ............. ....  15
(iv)   Routine Maintenance .................. ....         16
(v)    Development of Domestic Contractors ...             16
(vi)   Training and Maipower Development    .............  17
(vii)  Consulting Services    ......      . ...             18
(viii) Traffic Regulation and Safety .......      ..       18
This report is based on the findings of an appraisal mission which visited
Madagascar in-November/December 1987; members of the mission were P. Sooh
(Sr. Engineer), B. Bostrom (Sr. Economist), J.M. Lantran (Sr. Engineer),
and A. Benouahi (Financial Analyst). Secretarial assistance for this
report was provided by Ms. Mary Y. Jackson.
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance
of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authoriastion.



(ii)
Page No.
C.  Program Cost and Financing    .........................   19
D.  Project Cost and Financing . .......................... .   21
E.  Implementation and Procurement              . ......   24
F.  Disbursement ........... .. . .4 ...4 ................. ..   25
G.  Accounting, Auditing and Reporting Requirements ......   27
H.  Environmental Aspects .. .................                28
I.  Poverty Alleviation Aspects    .    ..................    28
III.    ECONOMIC EVALUATION .................. .................   29
A.  General  ................ ..            .......           29
B.  Benefits and Beneficiaires  ..........** ..............   29
C.  Economic Analysis .................... .................   30
D.  Overall Evaluation and Sensitivity Test ..'  ........... .  32
E.  Risks .....                           ...       .......   32
IV. AGREEMENTS TO BE REACHED AND RECOMMENDATION .................  32
Annexes:
1.  Transport Sector PIP (1986-1990)
2.  Vehicle Fleet
3.  Petroleum Product consumption (1J3-1986)
4.  Road Design Standards
5.  Bank Group Projects in Transport
6.  Road Program and Economic Tables
7.  Equipment, Materials and Supplies in Road Maintenance and
Traffic Regulation
8.  Outline Terms of Reference for Technical Assistance in Road
Maintenance, Training and Transport Planning
9.  Project Financing Plan
10. Accounting, Auditing and Reporting Requirements
11.  Related Documents and Data Available in Project File
Charts:
1.  Organization of MTP
2.  Project Implementation Schedule
Dap
IBPJD 20566R



(iii)
MADAGASCAR
SIEENT HIGHWAY PROJECT
Credit and Prolect Summary
Borrowers           Democratic Republic of Madagascar
Beneficiairess      Ministry of Public Works (MTP) and Ministry of
Transport, Meteorology and Tourism (MTMT)
Amounts              SDR 28.9 million (US$40.0 million)
Termes              Standard IDA, terms.
Projects
Obiectives:
The project aims ats (i) strengthening MTP's capacity, especially
ir. policy formulation, planning, budgeting, and supervision;
(ii) facilitating agricultural development, thus promoting food security
and exports of agricultural products; (iii) gradually shifting most
maintenance operations from force account to private contractors who are
already active in the sector; (iv) developing local human'resources and the
domestic construction industry; (v) improving public expenditure practices
in the road sub-sector through a three-year rolling Public Expenditure
Program (PEP) prepared yearly and based on a current updated National
Transport Plan; (vi) improving road safety and enforcing traffic
regulations; and (vii) ensuring  optimal use of donors' assistance through
financing of high priority works.
Description:
At appraisal a four-year program (1988-1991) for road
rehabilitation and maintenance, and institution building was designed to
meet the high priority transport needs of the country. The cost of the
program was estimated at US$197.0 million equivalent 11. With pledges made
by donors during a meeting held in the Bank offices in Paris on January 27,
1988, a project consisting of critical elements of the program has been
designed; it is estimated to cost US$144.1 million. The project presented
in para. 2.21 is self-contained; it is designed so that as additional
financing becomes available, the elements can be easily expanded.
1/   Costs are net of taxes which are estimated at US$29.5 million and
US$21.6 million equivalent respectively for the program and the
project.



(iv)
The proposed Seventh Highway Project is within the scope of
Government's National Transport Plan and conforms to Government's
macro-economic development strategy. The proiect's objectives will be
optimally achieved bys (i) rehabilitating and maintaining during a
four-year period (1988-1991) the main roads and priority feeder roads;
(ii) restructuring and strengthening the role of MTP by (a) entrusting it
with planning, coordination and monitoring of works including those carried
out by other entities; (b) decentralizing MTP's functions by shifting the
management of road operations to MTP's regional heads; (c) gradually
contracting out most maintenance works by LCB to local (antractors;
(d) developing the domestic construction industry by upgrading contractors'
skills through training at MTP's Centre d'Applications des Travaux Publics
(CATP) and providing timely payments through contractual arrangements; (e)
strengthening the professional caliber of civil works personnel by
upgrading CATP to the rank of institut so that its diplomas and
certificates are valid for promotion of its graduates in the public and
private sectors; (iii) providing the Ministry of Defense (MOD), charged
with enforcing traffic regulations and road safety requirements to minimize
road deterioration and accident fatalities, with the legal instruments to
do so; and (iv) providing consultants' services to assist in program
implementation.
Benefits:
The project would support the country's policy reform aimed at
economic development by rehabilitating and maintaining an economic road
network which carries about 90 percent of the traffic, traverses the most
populous regions of the country and links all the major centers of economic
activity, and by rehabilitating the vital feeder road network, which would
facilitate and increase exports of agricultural products and promote food
security thus alleviating poverty in the rural areas. The promotion of
small- and medium-scale domestic contractors who will carry out labor
intensive road maintenance operations will provide employment to the rural
poor.
Risks:
The main risks associated with the project arise from the
possible shortage of local counterpart funds for the maintenance component
and from MTP's capability to manage and and execute force account works.
These risks should be mitigated by the use of the Road Fund which ensures
adequate, timely and easily accessible funds for road maintenance, by using
contractors to carry out most of the civil works and through the technical
assistance provided.
Project Cost:
The total cost of the project is estimated at US$144.1 million
equivalent, with foreign cost of about US$105.6 million and local costs of
US$38.5 million. The detailed costs and financing plan are in the
following table.



(v)
Seventh Iioh'Fo    I   (1963-1991)
PrOl et CoGt ERtI'  tes Mnd Flnncl, F Pl,n
(m5l MII son)
Foreign as
Loal Forelon Total  X of Total
I)    ProWect Cost Estiteson
(1)    Reh16blltation/Resurt.ecna of PLved Road. (1.472 km)             16.6  30.2  46.2        76
(Ii)   Robabilitotlon/R.gravelllna of Enoineered Earth Road. (519 ki)    6.6    1.6   2.1       76
(iii)  Rehabilltation of Feeder Roads (1.790 ki)                         3.5  26J   28.9        70
(iv)   Routine mlnt n ol
(1'  aOperating ond-Cntracting Cost
( a Paved Roads                                               2.3    5.2   8.0    6e
Engineered Earth Roads                                    1.6   2.4   4.0        66
(c) Feder Roads                                               1.0    2.4   4.0       66
(2)   Equipml t, Materials and Supplies                             0.4    4.6   4.4       90
(8)   Infrastructur                                                 0.1   0.6   6.7        of
Sub-Total                                                     1i i4T   21-I3         69
(v) Truin
II Inftrestructure/Equipent                                        0.1   0.6    6.7       96
2)   Fellowships                                                   0.4    0.6    1.6      Ob
Sub-Total                                                     EK    ri      !T       71
(vi) Road Satf*
C1)   Fqui p  nt/Infrestructure                                     6.1   6.9    1.6       90
(vii) Conrulting Services
(1   Supervision                                                    1.4    8.6    7.0      as
(2)   TA Malntenance                                                0.4    1.8    2.2      80
(a)  TA Transport                                                   6.1   0.8   0.4        B6
e4)   TA Training                                                   6.4   1.6    2.2       80
Sub-Total                                                       i    4    11.8 8I    s
Total Base Cost                                                         28.6  76.2  186.8       78
Continencies
-hysITS4r                                                     2.9  7?8   10.7        73
Prico                                                               7.0  19.6       a      78
Sub-Total                                                           11   U7i  87;          74
Grand Total                                                        38.6  195.6  144.1      78
I1)   Financing Plan                                                                   US  million 
Foreign As
Local For*lsn Total S of Total
IDA                                                                      EFr  1I0U  406.6       1F2
AfOB                                                                     4.6  20.6   2.60       17
,EDF                                                                      8.7   28.9  82.6       22
SDC                                                                      0.6   15.6  15.6       11 V/
NORAD                                                                    0.8    1.9    2.7       2
Covernment
Road Fund (Recurrent)                                               7.2  12.6  20 6        14
FNDE (Development Budget)                                           6.2  60.0    62 /    6
Total                                                                  I     lO ifli  144 t
Estimated Disbursemnt
IDA Credit (US1 *13illon)                 FY89       FY          FY91       FY92        FY98
Annual                                   2.I 9-I 8             19                     --6
Cumulative                               2.3       1241        28.7       88.6        40.0
Economic Rate of Return: 34X over 651 of total project cost
Staff Appraisal Report: Madagascar Seventh Highway Project
Report No. 73S-MAG
Map-                     IBRD 265666
V/   Coats are net of taxes which are estimated at US821.6 million equivalent.
V     Equivalent to SOC grant of SFR. 156 0  illion ce'lnancing with IDA and about
SF. 10.0 mIIIIon bilateral 1fnancing.
Of which US6.5  IIlion could be covered by Swiss Government counterpart
funds of Its balance of payments oupport.



r              )~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
MADAGASCAR
SEVENTH HIGHWAY PROJECT
I. ;HE TRANSPORT SECTOR
A. Geographic and Economic Setting
1.01      Madagascar is a large and diverse island with a good natural
base for agriculture. Ecological zones are varied and the agricultural
sector is equally diverse. Rice and cassava are the main food crops,
while cattle raising is common in most areas. Agricultural products,
primarily coffee, cloves and vanilla, comprise the bulk of exports;
however, some minerals, mainly graphite, chromite and mica, are also
exported. The country's mineral resources are limited, but recent
exploration indicates good possibilities that petroleum may be found in
economically exploitable quantities. Manufacturing consists almost
entirely of consumer goods industries catering to local demand and
agro-industries.
1.02      The fourth largest island in the world, Madagascar covers an
area of about 590,000 sq. km. Its topography is generally rugged and a
central mountain range traverses the country from north to south. The
climate is marine tropical with cyclones and heavy rainfall particularly
frequent on the east coast. The country is sparsely populated (about
17 inhabitants per sq. km.) and its population is unevenly distributed,
with about one half of all inhabitants occupying the central one quarter
of the island. The total population is estimated at about ten million
and growing at about 3.0Z p.a.  Ninety percent of the population works
in the agricultural sector; its output accounts for 40X of the Gross
Domestic Product (GDP). Industry accounts for 14? of GDP and annual per
capita income was about US$230 in 1986. Madagascar is thus at an early
stage of development.
1.03      Prompted by economic stagnation and a resultant 122 decline in
per capita income in the late 1960s and early 1970s, significant
investments were made in all sectors of the economy in the late 1970s.
Financed largely by foreign borrowing, the spending boom left the
country with a debt servicing burden that is straining its economy.
Economic development over recent years reflects the need to correct
serious imbalances in external accounts and in the government budget.','
With generally declining exports, the imbalance in external accounts had
to be corrected by cutting back imports. Imports declined steadily from
1981 through 1984; the volume of imports in 1984 was approximately 23?
lower than in 1979. Imports of raw materials and spare parts have been
particularly affected causing disruptions in production. GDP declined
by about 9? in 1981 and 2? in 1982. Estimates for 1983-1987 suggest a
growth of about 1.5? per year. Industrial output has also declined and
shortages of new equipment and spare parts have affected the transport
system and diminished its capacity.



- 2 -
1.04      The stabilization measures which began in 1981, with IMF
assistance, had led to a significant improvement of fiscal balance by
1984. These measures were followed by two IDA sector adjustment credits
in 1985 and 1986, and a broader-based Industry and Trade Policy
Adjustment Credit in 1987. The proposed Public Sector Adjustment Credit
(PSAC) would complete the process of external trade liberalization, and
reform measures in the parastal and financial sectors, and would extend
the reforms to the public expenditure and social areas. In the
transport sector development programs focusing on rehabilitation and
policy reforms have considerably improved overall infrastructure and
restored financial viability to the railways, the port of Toamasina and
the national air carrier. Road freight transport has been liberalized.
Institution building and policy formulation have also been strengthened
through new institutions such as tne new Planning Directorate in the
Ministry of Transport, Meteorology and Tourism (Ministare des
Transports, de la Meteorologie et du Tourisme, MTMT)
B. The Transport Sector
1.05      Development of the tt: .tsport sector has been influenced by:
(i) rugged topography and a tropical climate with heavy rains and
frequent cyclones; (ii) an unevenly distributed population concentrated
in a few isolated regional centers; and (iii) the lack of suitable
construction materials in some parts of the island. As a result, road
construction and maintenance are costly and less populated regions
remain relatively isolated. Transport needs are relatively well served
on the central plateau where half of the population is concentrated.
Nevertheless, the transportation infrastructure fails to provide access
to all productive areas of the country.
1.06      Government policy towards transport development is to:
(i) connect regional capitals by all-weather roads; (ii) improve
communications between the centrally located capital and the main
seaports (Antananarivo, Moramanga, and Toamasina); (iii) improve road
maintenance; and (iv) improve transport organizations and their
services. An overriding objective is to satisfy the country's
quantitative and qualitative transport requirements at reasonable cost.
IDA is in general agreement with these objectives. An action program to
better coordinate measures relating to infrastructure and means of
transport has been agreed. It seeks to: (i) coordinate and plan
transport with regard to services, complementarity, infrastructure, and
pricing; (ii) improve the quality of services by introducing competition
between the different types of transport and, where possible, between
different operators of a given mode; (iii) reorganize training of
infrastructure specialists and transport company personnel; and (iv)
rehabilitate transport companies by importing sufficient quantities of
spares and tires to ensure regular maintenance of the equipment. Other
objectives relate to the general development of Madagascar's economy.
The overall policy goals aim at providing transport at lower cost,
reducing regional isolation through rehabilitation of the secondary road
network, and promoting food security and increasing exports of
agricultural products.



-3-
Sector Management
1.07      Several ministries and government organizations share
reoponsibilities for the transport sectors MTMT and the Ministry of
Public Works (Minist8re des Travaux Publics, MTP) play the most
important role. MTMT has overall responsibilities for road, rail, air
and water transport and oversees several autonomous government agencies,
including the Madagascar Railvay, Air Madagascar, the Port of Toamasina,
and the shipping companies. MTP is responsible for planning, building
and maintaining roads, and other civil works.
1.08      Other government agencies whose responsibilities affect
transport policy icludes the Ministry of Commerce (Ministere du
Commerce, MC), the Ministry of Agriculture (Minist6re de la Production
Agricole et de la Reforme Agraire, MPARA), the Directorate General of
Planning (Direction Gdndrale du Plan, DGP), and regional administra-
tions. MC's responsibility to collect atad market crops significantly
affects road transport capacity, and its price control of basic
commodities influences transport tariffs. The supply of transport
services is also affected by MC's role in setting policies on the
importation and assembly of motor vehi-Aes, as well as in determining,
together with the Central Bank, foreign exchange allocations for
imports.
1.09      Although there are several state-owned road transport
enterprises, the majority of transport services are provided by
cooperatives and private operators. Also, each regional administration
owns a small trucking company and has recently begun limited pass?rnger
services. Passenger transpert is regulated by MTMT and provincial
authorities. Freight tariffs are determined by the operators, with some
guidance provided by indicative costs published regularly by MTMl. As
one of the conditions under the Sixth Highway Project, the liberaliza-
tion of freight transport was largely undertaken during 1986. As part
of the proposed Credit, MTMT will be required to review legislation and
regulations of passenger transport and further liberalize the system if
necessary. This was discussed and agreed during negotiations and is
part of the covenants of the Credit Agreement. The Government will also
be undertaking a rationalization of public enterprises, including those
in the transport sector, in the context of the proposed PSAC.
1.10      As of early 1984, MTRT's Directorate-of Planning has been
charged with transport sector planning. The Directorate's main task is
to coordinate transport investment plans with other agencies, and also
prepare investment programs of the sector. Pending the completion of a
National Transport Plan (NTP), (now virtually finalized), DGP has
prepared a Public Investment Program (PIP) for 1986-1990 (see Annex 1)
with assistance primarily from MTMT and MTP for the transport sector.
IDA and other bilateral and multilateral aid agencies have helped
improve sector planning, but more assistance is still needed. Under the
Sixth Highway Project, planning improved through the establishment of
the planning department in the MTMT with rechnical assistance financed
by French aid and IDA. Given the importance of planning in resource
management, MTMT will update the NTP for IDA review by 1990 and 1993.



-4-
MTP and MTMT will be requested to prepare yearly, for IDA approval, a
three-year rolling Public Expenditure Program (PEP) for the sector
beginning with tvo years in 1989 and three years in 1q90. This was
discussed and agreed upon during negotiations, and is part of the
covenants of the Credit Agreement.
C. The TransDort Network
1.11      Madagascar, as an island, is dependent upon mainline shipping
for its transport links with the outside world. There are four main
ports, 18 lighterage ports and a navigable canal along the east coast.
The country's internal transportation infrastructure includes an
extensive road network, two rail sections of considerable length and a
well-developed air network. Nevertheless Madagascar's transportation
infrastructure is inadequate in that it fails to provide access to all
productive areas of the, country. The country's lifeline, between the
port of Toamasina and the central plateau area where most of the
population lives, consists of a railway line and of a paved road.
Madagascar has also developed an extensive system of ports and coastal
shipping as well as an air transport network denser than in most
comparable countries.
Mi)    Road Transport
1.12      The road network comprises about 50,000 km of roads, of which
about 5,200 km are paved, 5,300 km are engineered earth and gravel and
39,500 km are feeder roads and tracks. The paved road network, the most
important element of the surface transport system, consists of a main
north-south artery (1,700 km) -- RN4 and RN7 -- stretzhing from the
regional center of Mahajanga in the north to Antananarivo in the center
and continuing to Fianarantsoa in the souwb-central region and Toliara
in the southwest (Map IBRD 20566R). Other paved roads branch off from
this central axis or are found around the major coastal towns. The
paved and engineered earth road network is adequate in length and meets
the country's objective of connecting all regional capitals by
all-weather roads, a goal essentially achieved under the Fifth and Sixth
Highway Projects with the construction of bridges and improvement to
engineered earth standards of the Antsohihy-Ambanja road. However, some
productive and potentially productive areas on the east and west coasts
are still not connected to the rest of the country by all-weather roads.
Road links to the southern region are mainly earth roeds or tracks, most
of which are in poor condition although, with the drg climate
prevailing, they are passable year round. Following rehabilitation and
mai-ttenance works under the Fifth and Sixth Highway Projects, the
con. ition of most of the paved and engineered earth roads ranges from
good to fair, while the condition of rural and feeder roads is
deteriorating. In view of limited resources (organization, manpower and
finances), the Government has selected, with IDA assistance, a limited
economic network on which the proposed rehabilitation and maintenance
program will concentrate exclusively. This network (Map IBRD 20566R)
consists of 14,700 km of roads including 5,000 km of paved roads, 3,700
km of engineered earth roads, and 6,000 km of feeder and rural roads.
This network includes the most trafficked roads in the country, carries



- 5
902 of the traffic, covers all major administrative centers and all
major agricultural and industrial zones. It aims at pronoting food
security and increasing exports of agricultural products.
1.13      Total vehicle fleet in 1984 and 1985 numbered about
46,700 vehicles of which 42,000 were in working order.   They include
17,200 commercial vehicles of which 12,000 are pickup trucks for
passengers and freight, and 5,200 trucks and semitrailers (Annex 2). By
contrast, in 1976 there were 104,000 vehicles, 472 of which were
commercial. The decline in traffic is also reflected in the lower
demand for petroleum products, particularly gasoline (see Annex 1).
Since 1985, traffic has begun to increase again as a result of i;roved
road conditions and rehabilitation of the transport fleet.
(iL)   Rail Transport
1.14     The railways are operated by the Raseau National des Chemins de
Fer Malagasy (RNCFM), a parastatal agoncy under the authority of MTMT.
The railways consist of two separate and unconnected single track
systems. The northern system (about 700 km) connects the capital
(Antananarivo) with industrial areas in the high plateau region, the
main port of Toamasina and the rice and chrome producing area of-Lac
Alaotra. The southern system (163 km) connects the regional center of
Fianarantsoa with the main coffee-producing area in the south and the
port of Manakara. The Antananarivo-Toamasina line is the most important
line and the main mode of transport between the most populated and
developed parts of the country. Almost half of the population of
Madagascar llves in the areas directly served by the railway.
1.15     RNCFM is expected to remain the main means of transport for
bulk commodities such as petroleum products, grain, chemicals and
construction materials from Toamasina to the central highlands.
Long-term projections indicate that rail traffic is unlikely to increase
significantly even if the economy continues to grow, due to increased
road competition for non-bulk comioditLes. Freight traffic is thus
expected to stabilize at the current level of 224 million ton-km. In the
short-to-medium term, desplte some 302 decline in passenger traffic
since 1979, the peak year, the railways will still continue to carry a
substantial number of passengers as many existing vehicles for road
traffic need to be replaced, a process which may take some time given
the current scarcity of foreign exchange.
(iii) Air Transport
1.16      By regional standArds, Madagascar has developed a dense
domestic air transport network in response to the-distance between
population centers, the rugged terrain, costly construction and
maintenance of surface transport.   There are 56 airports, of which 17
are built to all-weather standards, including five suitable for
international flights. The remainder are gravel or grass strips. The
international airport at Antananarivo handles 50X of all traffic; 15
small airports carry 302 of the traffic; and 40 very small airports



- 6 -
share the remaining 202. Service to many small airports is not
financially profitable but ensures access to otherwise isolated areas.
1.17      Air Madagascar, of which the Government owns 80Z, Air France
182, and private shareholders 2Z, provides international service to
Paris, Marseilles, Zurich and several countries in East Africa and all
domestic service. Its aircraft fleet includes a B-747 (combination
cargo/passengers) for European service. two B-737s for domestic and
regional service, two HS-748s and four Twin Otters for domestic service.
A subsidiary operates several smaller aircraft for air-taxi and charter
services. In 1984, Air Madagascar's successfully renegotiated
maturities on its long-term debt obligations to foreign banks, and in
1985 began a financial improvement program, which in 1986 resulted in a
profitable operation.
(iv)   Ports and Coastal Shippinx
1.18     Although Madagascar relies on maritime shipping for the bulk of
its foreign trade, coastal shipping is important. The country also owns
a navigable canal along the east coast. Indeed, shipping by water is
the only means of transporting freight between many areas of the country
with no access to all-weather roads. There are four main portst
Toamasina, the main international port serving the populated central
highlands via the railway, handles 55Z of the total traffic; Mahajanga
handles 11; Antsiranana in the north, 52; and Toliara in the south,
about 4Z. The remaining 25Z of traffic is handled by 18 smaller coastal
shipping ports. The port of Toamasina has adequate capacity to handle
present traffic; its operations have improved but are still hampered by
lack of spare parts. The increasing constraints on the railway's
transport capacity in the early 1980s have led to the diversion of some
international traffic to the port of Mahajanga. Capacity there is
limited however, as the port requires lightering and the subsequent long
distance surface transport to Antananarivo via RN4.
1.19      The Societe Malgache des Transports Maritimes (SMTM), the
state controlled international shipping line, operates two carge vessels
for the country's externally traded merchandise. Coastal shipping is
handled primarily by the Compagnie Malgache de Navigation 'CMN), 922
state-owned, operating nine vessels of which eight are leased from the
Government. The government-owned oil company, SOLIHA, operates three
tankers, and a number of lighters and barges. Several private operators
continue operating one or a few vessels each in coastal or inter-island
shipping to nearby islands in the Indian Ocean. Parts of the
intracoastal waterway on the East Coast are now being rehabilitated with
African Development Bank (AfDB) financing but traffic is expected to be
light. Government's objectives toward coastal shipping and ports are to
improve their efficiency. A survey of shipping services was performed
in 1983 with French aid in order to work out a policy to rehabilitate
and develop the country's ports. This and further studies of
institutional improvements for the sub-sector formed the basis for the
recently approved IDA second port project.



D.   Road Administration
(i)     orsanization
1.20      In Madagascar, MTP is only one agency among other public and
private entities, such as Faritany (provinces) and Office du
D4veloppement Rizicole (ODR), entrusted with management responsibilities
of the about 50,000 km road network. This arrangement causes
inefficient operations and ambiguous accountability. In principle, MTP
is responsible only for the administration of main roads (paved and
engineered earth roads).  In practice, however, since '-P is the only
organism equipped and with technical know-how, it is c led upon
continually to intervene in the other parts of the network to perform
'emergency' road repair works, interrupting its own programs, diverting
its resources and overtaxing its management. To alleviate these
problems, the Government with IDA assistance: (a) has selected a limited
14,700 km of economic network (para. 1.12) on which the proposed
rehabilitation and maintenance program will exclusively concentrate;
(b) 1Fas decided to gradually shift to private contractors and
consultants almost all of the road works and to concentrate MTP efforts
in policy formulation, planning and supervision of the implementation.
MTP's new decentralized organization (para. 1.21) will allow this
initiative and ensure that basic, simple and routine maintenance
operations are carried out while emergencies are properly addressed; and
(c) has prepared an "Agreement on Road Network Management" ('Charte de
Gestion du Reseau Routier") which would delineate the responsibility of
each agency and would make MTP the executing agency for others. Works
would thus be designed and supervised under MTP, carried out by
contractors and disbursements made through the Road Fund (para. 1.26)
for MTP and through other agencies with their own separate funds and
accounts. MTP would thus carry out strjctly emergency works as those
needed, for instance, after cyclones. Under the 'Charte', an initiation
will be made to charge local users the cost of maintaining feeder roads.
The decree on the "Agreement" was discussed and agreed upon at
negotiations. The publication of the decree is a condition of IDA
Credit effectiveness.
1.21      The organization of MTP has also impeded road maintenance; a
centralized system with headquarters in Antananarivo designing road
maintenance operations, dispatching brigades and giving instructions to
the regions had resulted in inefficient road maintenance operations with
a lack of adaptability and continuity. Improvement is being made in
this area since MTP has decided to delegate road maintenance
responsibilities to the regions. In November 1986, a decree was issued
setting up a new organization (Chart 1); its main features are discussed
below:
(a) road maintenance operations are to be decentralized to the six
regions of Antananarivo, Antsiranana, Fianarantsoa, Mahajanga;
Toamasina and Toliara, the special division of Toalanaro and
33 subdivisions. Brigades, personnel, equipment, workshops,
and financial resources will be placed directly under the



responsibility of these units to carry out routine road
maintenance operations and emergencies, and execute, through
contractors and consultants, regional road rehabilitation and
maintenance programs; and
(b)  a central administration is to be charged with policy
formulation, planning, financing and supervision of the
implementation. It will monitor regional programs through a
performance accounting system and provide prompt logistical
support to the reSions if needed. The central administration
will comprise the General Secretariat (Secr6tariat General,
SG) charged with administrative, planning and training
functions and a General Directorate (Direction G4ndrale de
l'Equipement, DGE) which includes a Road Division (Direction
des Routes, DR) and an equipment division (Direction du
Hateriel, DMAT).
The legal instruments (Arr@tOs d'Application) implementing this decree
have been published. They satisfied one of the conditions of
negotiations.
(ii)   Staffing and Training
1.22      A shortage of qualified and experienced staff at all levels is
hampering maintenance operations. For the administration of roads, MTP
employs about 50 engineers, 700 technicians and 2,000 skilled and
semi-skilled laborers. This staffing strength is numerically adequate
for MTP's current operations and will require only minor increases to
cope with future workloads.  However, MTP's engineers and technicians
are inadequately trained and generally inexperienced. Hadagascar's
education system is not equipped to train civil works technicians, and
instructions given to engineering students at the Government University
Technical School (Etablissement d'Enseignement Superieur Polytechnique,
EESP) is too theoretical.
1.23      To provide the Public Works and private sector personnel with
the required qualifications, the proposed program aims at improving
(i) training capacities and status of MTP's Centre d'Application des
Travaux Publics (CATP) and (ii) conditions of employment of
professionals and technicians in the sector. CATP, created under the
Fourth Highway Project, has provided road maintenance programs with key
personnel under the Fifth and Sixth Highway Projects. But as the only
in-ititution filling the gap in the education system for the training of
technicians in this sector, it must be able to cater to the needs of the
whole civil works market. Under the proposed program, CATP will be
equipped to fulfill these needs. However, training at CATP is not
recognized as a qualification for the recruitment and promotion of
technicians. To solve this problem, the Government intends to upgrade
CATP's status to an Institutw specializing in vocational training. The
new institute will award diplomas and training certificates which will
be valid for promotion in the public and private sectors. CATP will
remain under the jurisdiction of MTP which will liaise with the two
Ministries of Education and with the "Institut National de Formation-



-9-
Promotion' (INPF). The legal instruments creating the new Institute
have been prepared; they also contain a scheme by which firms sending
participants to courses at CATP would be required to pay fees adequate
to cover at least the average cost per trainee for salaries of local
teachers and consumable goods. They were discussed and agreed upon
during negotiations and specified as covenants in the Credit Agreement.
The publication of these instruments is a condition of effectiveness of
the IDA Credit.
(iii) Maintenance
1.24      During the 1970s, the Government concentrated on building
access roads to regional economic centers and paid little attention to
maintenance. Consequently, inadequate road maintenance has become a
serioua problem and its effects are being felt throughout the economy,
especially in the agricultural sector where farmers find it increasingly
difficult to get their crops to the markets. In 1984, the main
constraints preventing proper maintenance were: (i) inadequate financial
allocations to the Road Fund, established under IDA's Sixth Highway
Project (Cr. 1391/SF4-MAG), from central government's budget and not as
stipulated by fuel tax receipts through the national oil company,
SOLIMA; (ii) sporadic maintenance operations directed centrally by MTP
which lacked adequate management capacity; (iii) multiple management
responsibilities of the road network by other public and private
agencies, such as Faritany (provinces) and ODR with resulting
inefficiencies and ambiguity of accountability; (iv) delayed progress in
rehabilitation works under the Sixth Highway Project caused by arrears
in payments to contractors, consultants and suppliers; (v) lack of          X
enforcement of traffic regulations and safety which has resulted in
accelerated deterioration and high accident fatalities; (iii) cumbersome
administrative and procurement procedures; (iv) shortage of qualified
road maintenance technicians; and (v) poor management, budgeting and
implementation of maintenance operations.
1.25      Major steps have been taken since then to remedy some of these
problems under the ongoing Sixth Highway Project: (i) the November 1986
Decree decentralizing road maintenance operations and entrusting MTP
with policy formulation and supervisory functions; (ii) funds provided
through Caisses d'Avanceu, established under the Sixth Highway Project
(para, 1.26), and the completion of the rehabilitation of workshops (in
Antananarivo, Mahajanga, Toliara, Fianarantsoa, Toamasina and
Taolanaro), financed under the Fifth and Sixth Highway Projects, have
accelerated rehabilitation and maintenance of roads and equipment;
(iLi) seven brigades have been organized in the regions with equipment
procured under the Fifth and Sixth Highway Projects; (iv) MTP has
shifted the execution of about 30? to 402 of the road maintenance works
to private contractors; and (v) a permanent training center, CATP, has
been established and a training program for road maintenance personnel
is in operation. These actions will be expanded under the proposed
program, where further clarification of responsibilities and
accountability for road works will be settled, MTP will concentrate its
efforts on management and most of the werks will be executed by private
contractors (para. 1.20); financing of road maintenance operations will
be secured directly from fuel taxes (para. 1.26 and 1.28); training



- 10 -
activities will be expanded to iccommodate the private sector needs
(para. 1.23) and a program of traffic regulation and safety will be
implemented (para. 1.31).
(iv)   Financingt
1.26      Road maintenance is financed from the recurrent budget while
new construction is financed from the investment budget which comes
mainly from external sources. Thus, funds for new construction do not
compete with other sectors for scarce local fupds. In 1982 when the
Sixth Highway Project was being prepared, an average of FMG 4.0 billion
p.a. was allocated to overall road maintenance (rehabilitation, periodic
and routine maintenance).  This was insufficient to adequately maintain
the economic network. Moreover, the disbursement of these funds was
alw4ys late, thereby interrupting and delaying the works. At that time,
to solve the dual problem of over-investment in new construction and
under-financing of maintenance and ensure reliable, timely and adequate
funds for road maintenance operations, a covenant was introduced under
the Sixth Highway Project requiring that the Government creates a Road
Fund financed by fuel taxes with simplified disbursement procedures. As
stipulated in the Credit Agreement, SOLIMA, the Government Oil Company,
was to deposit FMG 5.0 billion directly into the Road Fund from the
proceeds of fuel taxes. The Road Fund was legally established by decree
on December 14, 1984. It was however untimely and inadequately financed
through the budget with cumbersome disbursement procedures. But a
revolving fund, aCaisses d'Avancel, opened under the Road Fund, is
providing about FMG 600 million quarterly for routine road maintenance
operations, or about half the basic routine maintenance needs of the
network. In response to IDA's request, the Government has issued a
decree *n September 11, 1987 which (i) authorizes SOLIMA to supply
directly the Road Fund, (ii) makes MTP managing entity of the Road Fund,
and (iii) authorizes MTP to designate responsible individuals in the
region to manage regional accounts credited from the Road Fund, and to
expedite the execution of road maintenance operations. This decree has
been published thus satisfying one of the conditions of negotiations of
the proposed IDA Credit.
1.27      As of mid-October 1987, the Government had accumulated about
FMG 4.6 billion arrears of payments during the execution of the ongoing
Sixth Highway Project. This issue, as a condition of negotiations, has
been resolved by Government paying these arrears. If these arrears were
not paid, they would have jeopardized the execution of the proposed
program, as contractors, consultants and suppliers would have increased
the base costs to recover their dues.
1.28      Revenues from road user charges are estimated to have been
about FMG 16.0 billion in 1986. This exceeds the amount spert on roads
for both construction and maintenance and is far above what normally
should have been allocated for road maintenance. Import duties and
sales taxes from transport equipment and spare parts totalled FMG 7.2
billion in 1985 and annual license fees, vehicle inspection fees, etc.,
added another FMG 0.4 billion. Taxes on gasoline and diesel fuel
produced revenues of about FMG 8.5 billion in 1985, and at present level



- 11 -
of fuel prices (November 1987), they are expected to yield about FMG 9.7
billion per year. Thus, the general level of road user charges is
adequate to cover road maintenance needs. To etnsure reliable funding
under the program, the Government agreed to (i) allocate SDR 3.6 million
equivalent yearly to routine road maintenance operations through the
Road Fund, (ii) maintain a sub-account to the Road Fund 'Caisse
d'Avance replenished quarterly to the equivalent of at least
SDR 360,000, and (iii) keep the prices of fuel at competitive levels to
generate resources to cover road maintenance needs, taking into
consideration inflation and expansion in the network. Since a timely
revision of fuel prices is needed to sustain the tax revenue, a
provision for an annual review of the fuel tax revenue was included as a
covenant in the Credit Agreement.
(v)    Engineering and Construction
1.29       The DGE through its DR and regional offices is responsible
for engineering studies and execution of construction works.
Engineering and construction standards follow those developed by the
French Ministry of Equipment but have been adapted to conditions in
Madagascar (Annex 4). The DG carries out project identification and
some preliminary design. But most studies and construction supervision
are executed by foreign firms and their affiliates, the Government-owned
firm DINIKA, and the National Soil laboratory (Laboratoire National des
Travaux Publics et du Batiment, LNTPB).
1.30      Up to now almost all major road construction and maintenance
works have been carried out by foreign contractors and their affiliates
and by force account. Domestic private construction sector has started
to play a small but increasing role. The government-owned construction
firm, Soci6t6 d'Interet National de Travaux Publics (SINTP), has
recently opened its equity to the China Road (China), and a domestic
construction firm, SARA, has captured a sizeable share of the building
construction market. In addition, there are about fifty small domestic
contractors which are involved mostly in building construction but have
occasionally executed small subcontracts for road works.. A survey
carried out under the Sixth Highway Project has shown that many of these
existing or aspiring small and medium domestic contractors have some
basic skills in civil works (as former employees of MTP, contractors or
consultants) but need managerial skills to execute substantial civil
works contracts. The role of the domestic construction industry will
expand under the proposed program as most of the maintenance works will
be executed by contractors. To assist these firms in executing these
small and scattered road maintenance operations for which they have
comparative advantage over foreign firms, a training/work program will
be established (para. 2.12). The applicant-firms will carry out road
maintenance works under close supervision, and if successful, they will
be prequalified for similar operations under the program. There is no
specific financial assistance designed in the proposed program, but to
solve these contractors' liquidity problem contractual arrangements will
be made to provide quick up front payments, and ensure regular payments
through the Road Fund. In addition, under the proposed Small Scale
Enterprise (SME) Project, a financial assistance to SME, including



- 12 -
small- and medium-scale domestic civil works contractors will be
provided on a cross sectoral basis. More specifically, equipment
leasing and renting will be considered, which will result in addressing
one of the main constraints which hamper the development of domestic
construction industry.
(vi)   Traffic Reaulations and Safety
1.31      Regulations governing truck weight and dimensions are
adequate. Weight regulations allow loads up to 10 tons/axle;
weighbridges were bought under the Fourth Highway Project to help
enforce these regulations but enforcement remains poor. Spot surveys
have revealed that more than 60S of trucks are overloaded and many
exceed legal dimensions. The laws governing road safety are adequate
but enforcement is lacking; and driver education, licensing and vehicle
registration are hardly more than formalities. Vehicle inspection is
carried out sporadically and superficially. Although statistics on
traffic accidents are scattered and inconclusive, the large number of
demolished vehicles along major roads point to a high toll of accidents.
Under the Sixth Highway Project, the Government has prepared enforcement
measures which would reduce the rate of road deterioration and ensure
sufficient road safety. These measures will be implemented under the
proposed program (para. 2.17).
E.   Bank Group Role in Transport
1.32      Bank involvement in the transport sector in Madagascar has
been substantial. Between 1966 and 1987 the Bank supported eleven
transport projects with IDA Credits totalling over US$200 million, six
in roads, two in ports, and three in railways. The Bank has and should
continue to play a critical role in improving the institutional capacity
and policy framework for the sector. No other donor is prepared to, or
seems capable of, playing this role. Further details on previously
financed transport projects are given in Annex 5. Through its highway
projects the Bank has assisted Madagascar in meeting its objective of
connecting all regional capitals by all-weather roads, and improving the
maintenance of the network; however, further improvement is still needed
in institution building and financing (paras. 1.24 through 1.28). The
most recent (1986) railway credit (Credit 1694-MAG, US$13.0 million,
1986) is financing priority items of the RNCFM's investment plan for
1987-1989. This consists of the following main componentst
telecommunications and track rehabilitation, reconstruction of a bridge,
provision of a road/rail link to a cement plant, provision of spare
parts for locomotives and wagons, purchase of trolleys for track
maintenance, workshop machinery, tools and other equipment, staff
training, technical assistance and studies. Cofinancing is provided by
Caisse Centrale de Cooperation Economique (CCCE) of Prance.
1.33     The most recent Ports Rehabilitation Project (Credit 1752-MAG,
US$16.0 million, 1987) will provide for the rehabilitation of ports
infrastructure in all the most important ports for coastal shipping,
modifications and improvements to cargo handling in those ports,
strengthening navigation and other services to shipping and



- 13 -
institutional development and reform, particularly for the main port of
Toamasina. The project is expected to reduce the cost of shipping
through improved cargo handling, improved ship utilization and to
improve safety of navigation. The project is supported by cofinancing
from several donors such as CCCE and Kreditanstalt fuer Wiederaufbau
(KfW).
F. Rationale for Bank Involvement
1.34      Transport is a key sector in the Bank's lending strategy in
Madagascar because inadequate transport constrains economic development
in other sectors as indicated in the 1983 Transport Sector Memorandum.
The Bank's heavy investment in the sector has resulted in: (i) a
gradually increasing emphasis on rehabilitation versus new investments;
(ii) progress towards the creation of a highway maintenance institution;
and (iii) increased management and financial autonomy for the railways
enabling them to carry out significant tariff reforms. The Bank has
been promoting an integrated approach to transport to help Madagascar's
economy, to maintain an ongoing dialogue with the Government with a view
toward furthering policy reform, and to balance the Bank's lending among
sub-sectors. This rationale has been the basis for both the most recent
railway and ports rehabilitation projects. The transport modes also
support each other so that both highways and railways must remain
operative to ensure an efficient flow of goods to and from the ports.
1.35      IDA's support of Government's proposed Seventh Highway Program
is therefore justified on the following grounds: (i) assistance to
Government to achieve food security through the development ,of priority
feeder roads; (ii) consolidation and continuation of transport sector
improvements initiated under previously financed IDA projects;
Ciii) support to Government's policy reforms aimed at restoring vital
infrastructure and mobilizing more effectively domestic and external
resources; and (iv) leadership in the coordination of support to a
program which many donors, including AfDP, CCCE, European Development
Fund (EDP), Fonds d'Aide et de Cooperation (FAC), Italy, Japan, KfW,
Norwegian Aid (NORAD), Swiss Cooperation and USAID, are willing to
finance.
II. THE PROGRAM AND THE PROJECT
A. Obiectives
2.01      The road network of Madagascar is adequate in size.  However,
a sustained effort in its maintenance is necessary to meet the country's
economic and social development goals. The Government has prepared a
comprehensive four-year (1988-1991) rehabilitation and maintenance
program of this national asset. This program expands efforts begun
under previous projects and aims at: (i) strengthening MTP's capacity,
especially in policy formulation, planning, budgeting, and supervision;
(ii) promoting food security and increasing exports of agricultural
products; (iii) gradually shifting most maintenance operations from



- 14 -
force account to private contractors who are already active in the
sector; (iv) 4eveloping local human resources and the domestic
construction industry; (v) improving public expenditure practices in the
road sub-sector through a three-year rolling PEP prepared yearly and
based on a current National Transport Plan; (vi) improving road safety
and enforcing traffic regulations; and (vii) ensuring optimal use of
donors' assistance through financing of high priority works..
B.  Proaram Description
2.02      To achieve the above objectives the four-year (1988-1991)
program comprises:
(i) rehabilitation and resurfacing of 2,231 km of paved
roads;
(ii) rehabilitation and regravelling of 1,250 km of engineered
earth roads;
(iii) rehabilitation of 2,783 km of feeder roads;
(iv) routine maintenance of the total economic network
including about 5,000 km of paved roads, 3,700 km of
engineered earth roads, and 6,000 km of feeder roads;
(v)  development of small- and medium-scale domestic
contractors;
(vi) training and development of HTP and private sector
personnel;
(vii)  use of consulting ser"ices; and
(viii)  improvement of traffic regulation and safety.
2.03      The program has been designed to meet the road.transport needs
of the country.  As such it is flexible and could be executed
progressively as financing is acquired, ensuring optimal use of donors'
assistance through financing of high priority components. The design of
the works in the program has been the subject of two comprehensive
studies carried out under the Sixth Highway' Project by consultants. The
first, carried out by Gendron Lefebvre Inz. has produced a sound
rehabilitation and maintenance program for the main paved and earth
roads. The second, executed by Renardet Engineering (France) and SAUTI
(Italy), has identified a prioriA.y feeder road network and proposed
rehabilitation and maintenance itorks to sustain agricultural and
industrial development, and to achieve the country's goal of food
security in the 19909. All rehabilitation and periodic maintenance
works and most of the routine maintenance works will be carried out by
private domestic and foreign contractors. Bidding documents have been
prepared to award such works. As a result, MTP's role will be altered
with most of its efforts directed to policy formulation, planning and
monitoring of the program. An annual review of this program was agreed



- 15 -
upon during negotiations a-id is part of the covenants of the Credit
Agreement.
(M)    Rehabilitation and Resurfacing of Paved Roads
2.04      The program continues the rehabilitation of the paved road
network begun under the Fifth and Sixth Highway Projects. Under these
projects, the rehabilitation of the country's major road axis
Mahajanga-Antananarivo-Fianarantsoa-Toliara (1,700 km) has almost been
completed. The proposed program completes this process; it includes
2,231 km (Arnex 6.1) of paved roads. These roads were built 10 to 20
years ago, they carry about 100 to 500 vpd, with trucks amounting to
about 502 of vehicles on low trafficked roads and 202 on those heavily
trafficked. During the past decade maintenance has been spotty and
carried out on an emergency basis, some pavements have deteriorated to
the extent that reconstruction is necessary while others need protection
to avoid premature breakdown. Pavement widths built within a range of
6.0 m to 5.5 m have eroded to about 4 m to 3.5 m. The works consist of:
(i) improving drainage systems; (ii) repairing structures;
(iii) regravelling of shoulders ranging from 0.5 m to 1.0 m .n width;
(iv) rebuilding of some subgrades; (iv) patching, resealing and
execution of a single surface treatment on some sections;
(v) constructing new base courses of crushed rocks or treated local soil
materials; and (vi) executing double surface treatments or asphalt
concrete wearing courses on others.  The design is based on a realistic
maximum single axle load of 13 tons for an economic life of 15 years.
It is expected that resurfacing will be required after 7 to 8 years.
(ii)   Rehabilitation and Rearavellint of Engineered Earth Roads
2.05      The proposed rehabilitation and regravelling of engineered
earth roads includes 1,250 km (Annex 6.1) of roads, ensuring critical
links between the main paved road network and the feeder road network.
These roads, carrying about 50 vpd were built at the same geometric
standards as those of the paved roads. Some have deteriorated causing
traffic disruption and constitute serious bottlenecks in the entire road
system while some need regravelling to bring them up to standard. The
works proposed are the same as those for the paved roads (para. 2.04)
except that base and vearing courses will be built of gravelly soil
materials.
(iii) Rehabilitation of Feeder Roads
2.06      The proposed program of rehabilitation of the feeder roads
includes clusters of feeder roads totalling 2,783 km (Annex 6.1),
providing access to the most agriculturally productive regions in the
country. Some of these roads have not been maintained during the past
decade and )thers are only tracks on which traffic is impeded during the
rainy season due to, inter alia, lack of adequate drainage, steep grades
and sharp curves. Works proposed includet (i) widening of widths to
about 4.5 m with shoulders of 0.5 to 1.0 m when economically feasible;
(ii) improving drainage; (iii) partially realigning and improving
grades; and (iv) selective regravelling. These works, in conjunction



- 16-
with the rehabilitation of the main road networks, would allow a year-
round circulation system to sustain agricultural and industrial
development in the regions.
(iv)   Routine Maintenance
2.07      The proposed routine maintenance program will cover the entire
14,700 km of economic road network. Since rehabilitation and periodic
maintenance works will be carried out on pars of this network at the
same time, as described above (paras 2.04 to 2.06), routine maintenance
operations will be executed yearly on average on about 3,600 km of paved
roads, 3,000 km of engineered earth roads and 3,900 km of feeder roads.
Routine maintenance operations will consist of (i) clearing of
shoulders; (ii) cleaning of ditches and culverts; (iii) minor repairs of
bridges; (iv) patching and resealing of paved roads, and (v) filling of
potholes and regrading of engineered earth roads and feeder roads.
2.08      Patching and resealing will be carried out by force account as
they cannot be packaged and contracted out economically. Operations on
feeder roads will mostly be contracted out to 6mall- and
medium-scale contractors in the region, under supervision of MTP.
Patching and resealing will be carried out by seven brigades, one in
each of the six regions and- in the special division of Toalanaro.  It is
estimated that each of these brigades will maintain about 400 km of
roads a year. Each region will also have an additional brigade to
handle minor urgent earth works and emergencies in the subdivisions
where the capacity of domestic small and medium contractors is not
sufficient. Force account operations consisting of cleaning of
shoulders, clearing of ditches and culverts, minor repair of bridges and
filling of potholes will be carried out by labor-intensive 'cantonnage'
teams composed of about 15 *cantonniersu supervised by a headman. It is
estimated that each of these teams vill maintain about 75 km of roads a
year. Most of thb equipment and tools for the brigades and teams have
been provided under previous projects. The proposed program will
provide complementary equipment. The physical facilities and equipment
of the 33 subdivisions (para. 1.21(a)) will also be improved. The list
of equipment (Annex 7) was discussed and agreed upon during
negotiations. Equipment will be maintained in the seven workshops
which, along with the regional headquarters, were improved and equipped
under previous projects.
(v) Development of Domestic Contractors
2.09      The shift of road maintenance operations from MTP force
account to private contractors entails an intense utilization of small-
and medium-scale contractors. These contractors have a comparative
advantage over major ones for the execution of small and scattered
routine road maintenance. About 50 domestic small and medium-scale-
contractors have been identified. They are qualified to varying degrees
in the execution of small civil works, with the majority having
extensive eperience in building construction with the capacity to
diversify. To assist in this development, (a) a comprehensive training
work scheme will be established under the proposed program, including
training courses and seminars to CATP. Field works, as part of the road



- 17 _
rehabilitation and maintenance program, will be carried out in the
regions with tutorial management assistance, and (b) contractual
arrangements will be made to provide up-front payments to solve the
contractors' liquidity problems (para. 1.30). To help small-scale
domestic contractors develop their ability to carry out periodic and
routine maintenance, training works will be organized by MTP and
assisted by consultants. The training program (para. 2.12) will
progress gradually, expanding into two new regions every year until it
is in place in all six regions and the special division of Toalanaro.
These contractors will compete for the training works and will receive
technical and management training. Each training-work site will consist
of about 7 km of engineered earth road or feeder road to be
rehabilitated, or maintained, costing about US$50,000 to US$100,000.
Five work sites will be selected in each region during the program.
2.10      Special care will be taken to monitor the progress made by
contractors during implementation. Once training works have been
completed, contractors showing satisfactory performance will be approved
to compete on their own for similar works in the program.
(vi)   Training and Manpower Development
2.11      The proposed training program will expand training efforts
begun under the Fifth and Sixth Highway Projects by offering training
for the entire civil works market. For this purpose the training
center, CATP, built, equipped and operated under previous project, will
be transformed into an Institut  (para. 1.23).  This would fill the gap
in the country's education system by providing necessary practical
skills to civil works personnel.  The targeted NTP personnel includes:
40 engineers, 140 road technicians, 120 equipment operators, 250
mechanics and electricians, 60 accountants, and 70 store clerks. The
Institute has the physical capacity to accommodate the training of
contractors and could expand its teaching core according to demand. The
proposed program would provide the necessary additional equipment, tools
and supplies and the basic corps of experts to implement the training
program (para. 2.15).
2.12      The program will combine classroom and field training.  The
trainees will receive on-the-job training by joining MTP's brigades
under the Institute's supervision, while domestic contractors (majority
owned by Malagasy nationals) will gain field experience by executing
training works (para. 2.09). The training program will include main
subjects such as labor-based methods, quality control, contracting,
administration, construction management, and equipment operation and
maintenance. Successful trainees needing additional instruction will be
granted fellowships for short courses abroad or organized locally.
Malagasy instructors, counterparts to the expatriate experts, will
receive on-the-job training in the Institut and additional training
abroad on short-term scholarships. During their training in the
Institute, trainees will receive daily allowances in addition to their
salaries as an incentive to prospective trainees and a means to attract
personnel from outside hntananarivo. The proposed program is designed
to be the most cost-effective means of providing road construction and



- 18 -
maintenance skill to civil works personnel. The design and execution of
the training program will be reviewed every year by the Government and
the Bank.
(vii) Consulting Services
2.13      As the program envisages MTP in a role of policy tormulation,
planning and monitoring of the implementation, consulting services will
be needed for the execution of the operations. The needed consulting
services are as follows:
(1) Sugervision of Contracted Works
2.14      Consultante will supervise rehabilitation, resurfacing and
regrav.elling works carried out by contractors.
(2)  Technical Assistance to MTP and MTMT
2.15      MTP regional units will need 3 road construction and
maintenance experts, 2 mechanical experts and one administrative and a
financial expert to assist in the implementation of the force account
and tutoring of small contractors for a total of 272 man-months. MTHT
will need 2 transport experts for about 45 man-months to carry out
transport planning and coordination. The experts will assist in 1i)
planning works and supervising the brigades: (ii) carrying out repair
and maintenance of equipment; (iii) procuring equipment and spare parts,
materials and supplies; (iv) procuring and supervising routine
maintenance works carried out by domestic contractors; tv) carrying out
cost-accounting to determine equipment and brigades outpuit, unit costs,
and indices for monitoring equipment utilization and progress of works;
and (vi) transport planning and coordination. The outline terms of
reference of the experts and monitoring procedures (Annex 8) were
discussed and agreed upon during negotiations.
(3) Technical Assistance for Training
2.16      A core of 9 experts will be needed for a total of 400 man-
months to implement the training program. Additionally, 111 man-months
services of various specialists will be needed to carry out short
seminars during the program. The experts will aspist in (i) developing
appropriate curricula; (ii) selecting trainees and-conducting classroom
and field instruction; (iii) selecting institutions and trainees for
short-term fellowships for studies locally or abroad; and (iv)
monitoring the progress of trainees and helping them to be recruited in
MTP, other public services, or private businesses. The outline terms of
reference of the experts (Annex 8) were discussed and agreed upon during
negotiations.
(viii) Traffic Regulation and Safety
2.17      As required under the Sixth Highway Project (par&. 1.31), the
Government has undertaken field experiments in order to design and
implement an appropriate program for enforcement. From these



- 19 -
experiments the Government has designated the Ministry of Defense (MOD)
as the sole authority to approve the technic41 aspects of imported
trucks, and operators' licenses. MOD will also carry out vehicle
inspections, operate weigh-stations, and carry out road patrols from
three centers located in Maevatanana - (RN4y' Brickaville (RN2) and
Ambatolampy (RN7), the major traffic corridors in the country. The
program will provide the infrastructure and equipment for these
operations. Legal instruments conferriag tbloe responsibilities to MOD
and spelling out standards and methods of execution were discussed and
agreed upon during negotiations. Their publication is one of the
conditions of effectiveness of the credit.
C.   Program Cost and Financina
2.18      The total cost of the program, net of taxes and duties but
including contligencies, is estimated at US$197.0 million equivalent
with a foreign component of US$146.0 million (742), and US$51.0 million
of local costs. Taxes are estimated at US$29.5 million. Base costs are
at December 1987 prices. Physical contingencies of 102 have been added,
and price contingencies are based on recent estimated inflation rate as
followss 3.0X in 1988-90, and 4.01 in 1991-1993. The detailed program
costs are shown at Table 2.1.



- 20 -
Table 2.1
Madasascar
Seventh Highway Pr.gras (1 M -1991)
Cost Estimates V
(USs illIton)
Foreign as
Local Foreln Total S of Total
(1)  RRhabilitation/re.irfacina Daved roads (2.281 kn)                        11.7    86.8    47.0       75
(il)  R.habilitation/resrav.llins engineered earth roads (1.256 km)            2.7      0.8     9.0      70
(iii) RehabiIt*on    der roads (2.788 k)                                      18.6    81.5    45.0       70
(Iv)  Routine  .hLt once
(1)   Operating and contracting cost
(a)   Paved roads                                                  2.8     7.2     9.5       75
(b)   Engineered earth roads                                       1.8     8.2     4.6       70
(e)   Feeder roads                                                 1.8     8.2     4.6       70
(2)   Equipment                                                          0.2     2.i      2.5      go
(8)   Infrastructure                                                     0.8     1.2      1.6     8a
Sub-Totel                                                    5.4    17.1    22.5       75
(v)   Training
(1)   Inf rstrueture/Equi pennt                                          0.1     1.4      1.5      80
(2)   F llowships                                                        1.0     1.5      2.5      66
Sub-Total                                                    1.1     2.9      4.6      78
(vi)  Road Safety
(1)   Equipmont infrastructure                                           0.1     0.9      1.0       9
(vii) Consulting Services
(1)   Supervision of works                                               2.0     8.0   10.0        80
(2)   TA mintenance                                                      6.6     2.0      2.5      80
(3)   TA Transport                                                       0.1     6.8      0.4      86
(4)   TA training                                                        6.9     8.7      4.6      80
Sub-Total                                                    8.6    14.0   17.5        80
Total B se Cost                                                         89.0   108.6   146.0       74
Contingences
Physic l                                                                8.6    10.8   14.6        74
Price                                                                    9.2    27.2    86.4       76
Sub-Total                                                   18.6    88.6    51.6       75
Grand Total                                                             51.0   146.0   197.0
Cna .5                       = .    _
V    Costa are net of taxes which *r  estilated at US 29.6 mtillion equivalent.



- 21 -
2.19      The cost of works of paved roads are estimated at US$45,000/km
for rehabilitation and US$6,000/km for resurfacing. The costs for
engineered earth roads are estimated at USS12,800/km for rehabilitation
and US$2,500/km for regravelling. The rehabilitation of feeder roads is
estimated to cost US$16,000/km. Routine maintenance costs are estimated
yearly at US$750/km for paved roads, US$300/km for earth roads and
US$250/km for feeder roads. Supervision services are estimated at 10?
of the cost of works. These unit costs are also based on those of
similar recent and ongoing works in the country. Cost of equipment,
spate parts, materials and supplies are based on recent bid prices and
operations in Madagascar. The man-month cost of technical assistance
services estimated at US$9,000, includes US$7,000 for salaries and
overhead (home office expenses, expatriate allowance, social cost and
other expenditures) and US$2,000 for reimbursable expenses (travel,
telecommunication, houses and other miscellaneous items); these costs
are in line with those for similar and ongoing services in Madagascar.
The costs of fellowships are estimated at US$10,000 per student per
year, including tuition and fees, housing, travel and subsistence; an
average daily allowance of US$4.0 is foreseen for each locally trained
candidate.
2.20      Madagascar is experiencing serious budgetary constraints and
the need for significant government participation in the financing of
the program could impair its execution.  Therefore the Bank Group and
other co-lenders would finance the total foreign costs and a significant
proportion of the local costs. Government's contribution would thus be
concentrated in financing the costs of routine maintenance operations.
During a donors' meeting held in Paris on January 27, 1988, five
institutions pledged a total of US$115.9 million equivalent of ready
financing. They include IDA (US$40.0 million credit), AfDF (US$25.0
million credit), EDF (US$32.6 million grant), Swiss Development
Cooperation (SDC) (US$15.6 million grant), and NORAD (US$2.7 million
grant). The SDC US$15.6 million represent SFR 15.0 million cofinancing
for which IDA is the executing agency and SFR 10.0 million of bilateral
financing. Other donors indicated their willingness to participate at a
later date in the financing of the program; they include Italy, Japan,
CCCE/France, FAC (France) and KfW (FRG). A project (para. 2.zl)
consisting of priority elements of the program has been designed based
on the available financing. The remaining elements of the program will
be executed as additional financing becomes available.
D.   The Proiect and its Financing
2.21      The proposed project would comprise the following elements 11
(i) rehabilitation and resurfacing of (a) 1,472 km of paved roads
estimated to cost US$54.3 million; (ii) rehabilitation and gravelling of
519 km of engineered earth roads - US$2.8 million; and
(iii) rehabilitation of 1,790 km of feeder roads - US$39.0 million;
(iv) routine maintenance on the main road networks and most of the
feeder road network for US$28.4 million; (v) training of key MTP
1/   All cost estimates include contingencies, but not taxes which are
estimated at US$21.6 million for the total project.



- 22 -
personnel - US$2.3 million); (vi) road safety and traffic regulation -
US$1.4 million; and (vii) consultant services to assist in the project
execution - US$15.9 million. The total cost of the project is estimated
at US$144.1 million equivalent, with foreign costs of about US$105.6
million (732) and local costs of US$38.5 million. The project would be
financed by US$115.9 million equivalent pledged 'y foreign donors
(para. 2.20), and by a government contribution .f US$28.2 million to
cover the recurrent costs of routine maintenance. Government's
participation would be provided under the Road Fund - US$20.0 million
for routine maintenance works, the Development Budget (FNDE) - US$8.2
million to cover some local costs co-financed by foreign donors. About
US$5.5 million, under FNDE financing, could be covered by Swiss
Government counterpart funds of its balance of payments support.
Detailed costs and summarized financing plan are given in Table 2.2.
The detailed financing plan is shown in Annex 9.



- 23 -
Seventh HI hiiw:  ram n198-1991)
Prolaet Cost Estimte. Al and Financina Plan
(USu MIIIion)
Foreign *a
Local Foreign Total       of Total
I)    Project Coat Estimate.
(1)   RshabilItationlR.eurfacIne  of Paved Road  (1.n472 km)            10-0  8e2   4e  2        76
(I1)   RehabilitatlonlResravellina of Enginreeed Earth Road. (519 kd    6.6    1.6    2.1        70
.(II)  RehabilIltation of Feeder Roade (11796 km)                        0.6  26.8   28.9        76
(Iv)   Routine Maint c             g  one
(1)   Op r ting *n   ontr cting Cofts
(a) Paved Roads                                               2.8    6.2    8.6      65
(b) Engineered Earth Roads                                    1.6    2.4    4.0      6o
(c) Feder Roads                                               1.6    2.4    4.6    6e
(2)   Equlpment, Materiels and Supplies                             0.4    4.0    4.4      9W
(8)   Infrastructure                                                0.1   0.6    0.7        80
Sub-Total                                                       K   1iTi   2X:T       69
(v)  Trining
(1)   In nratructuro/Equipm_nt                                      0.1    0.6    0.7      s0
(2)   Fe lowships                                                   0.4    0.6    1.6       66
Sub-Total                                                     EK    r1    T7          71
;           (vi) Ro d Saft t
(1)  Equl_pent/Infrastructure                                       6.1    6.9    1.0       90
(vI1) Consulting Services
elr-s"wv| 3u   on1.4    5.6    7.0                                                          80
(2)   TA Maintenance                                                0.4    1.8    2.2       86
(8)   TA Tr nsport                                                  0.1   0.8    0.4        86
(4)   TA Tra ntng                                                   0.4    1.8   2.2        80
Sub-Total                                                    i3 71          11.8      80
Total Bass Cost                                                          28.6   78.2  16.8      78
Cntinonl s
hysienl-                                                            2.9    7.8   10.7      78
Price                                                                7.0   19.6  26.6       73
Sub-Total                                                                  27.4 I           74
Grand Total                                                        88.5  165.6  144.1       78
XI)   Financing Plan                                                              -     US million -
Foreign As
Local Forelon Total  X of Tot I
IDA                                                                       9     86.9  W4         28
AfDB                                                                      4.C   20.5  25.0       17
EDF                                                                       8.7   28.9   82.6      22
SDC                                                                       0.6   15.6   16.6      11 V
NORAD                                                                     0.8    1.9    2.7       2
Government
Road Fund (Recurrent)                                                7.2  12.8  20.0        14
FNDE (Development Budget)                                           8.2    8.9    8.2 6i    a
Total                                                                    88.C  IW. 61 i4- Di
1/   Coot. are not of taxes which are estimated at US821.6 million equivalent.
Il    Equivalent to SDC grant of SFR. 15.0 million cotinancing with IDA and about
SFR. 16.0 million bilateral financing.
VJ   Of which USIS.5 m ilion could be covered by Swiss Governmnt counterpart
funds of Its balance of payment. support.



- 24 -
E. luDlementation and Procurement
2.22      The project will be implemented by MTP through its DGE and by
MTMT for assistance in transport planning and coordination. The
expected implementation schedule for major activities of each project
component is shown in Chart 2. This schedule will be discussed and
agreed upon during negotiations. The project covers a four-year period,
starting June 1988. The rehabilitation of engineered earth and paved
roads will start in December 1988 and take approximately 36 months to
complete. Equipment for road maintenance, offices, telecommunications,
workshops, and training should be delivered by June 1989, about six
months after notification of contracts to the suppliers.  Technical
assistance for training and routine maintenance will continue for four
years starting in December 1988. The project is expected to be
completed by June 30, 1992.
2.23      Procurement arrangements are summarized in Table 2.3:
Table 2.3
Madagascar
Seventh Highway Prolect (1988-1991)
Procurement Arrangements
Procurement Method             (US$ million)
Not      Total
Proiect Element                ICB     LCB   Other    ApDlic. 2
Civil Works                   59.0      6.4               54.4      119.8
(20.8)   (3.5)                        (24.3)
Equipment, Materials           6.5      0.5                 0.1       7.1
and Supplies                (6.5)   (0.5)                          (7.0)
Consultant Services                             17.2                 17.2
and Fellowships                               (8.7) 3/             (8.7)
65.5     6.9     17.2       54.5     144.1
(27.3)   (4.0)    (8.7)                (40.0)
1/   Figures in parentheses are amounts financed by IDA.
2/   Contracts by Government and other donors.
3/   IDA Guidelines.



- 25 -
2.24      Major civil works for the rehabilitation of engineered earth
and paved roads will be carried out by contractors on the basis of
international competitive bidding (ICB) in accordance with the 1985 Bank
Group Guidelines after suitable pre-qualification process. Qualified
domestic civil works contractors would be allowed a preferential margin
of 7.5? over the bid price of competing foreign contractors. Small and
scattered construction works on roads and buildings costing less than
US$500,000 each and aggregated to not more than US$6.4 million will be
carried out by contractors on the basis of local competitive bidding
(LCB) procedures, on the basis of Madagascar Decree 70-089 of
January 28, 1970 provided that: (a) registration of foreign bidders in
the Registry of Commerce will not be required for the acceptance of
their bids; (b) no procurement shall be made on the basis of selected
tendering or direct contracting except in the case of rejection of all
bids: (c) bids shall be opened in public. i.e., bidders or their
representatives should be allowed to be present; and (d) no special
preference will be given to local bidders in the evaluation of bids.
Works estimated to cost about US$1.8 million (out of the US$6.4 million
mentioned above) will be subdivided into small lots of about US$50,000
to US$100,000, which small domestic civil works contractors will execute
as part of field training; these works will be procured under LCB,
limited to participants in the training program (para. 2.12).
Equipment, spare parts, materials and suppliers will be groupad into
suitable lots and procured through ICB. Miscellaneous items of
equipment, spare parts, materials and suppliers in lots of less than
US$50,000 and totalling no more than US$500,000 may be procured by
international or local shopping on the basis of at least 3 quotations.
Consultants for supervision, technical assistance and studies will be*
selected following the 1981 Bank Group Guidelines; their terms of
reference and conditions of employment were discussed and agreed upon
during negotiations. Before awarding the fellowships, the Government
will furnish to the Association for its approval a detailed program for
training. The program would include the qualifications of the
candidates, types and cost of training as well as the training
institutions and an indication of assignments to be given to the
trainees on tneir return to Madagascar. IDA's prior review of
invitations to bid, proposed awards and final contracts will be limited
to contracts estimated to cost US$35,000 equivalent or more. These
undertakings were also agreed upon during negotiations and are a part of
the covenants of the credit.
F.   Disbursement
2.25      The proposed IDA Credit of SDR 28.9 (US$40.0 million) would be
disbursed on the following basis:
(a) 100Z of total expenditure for civil works for the
rehabilitation, resurfacing and regravelling of roads,
improvement of subdivisions, training center and traffic
control centers;
(b) 100? of foreign expenditures for civil works of routine
maintenance of roads;



- 26 -
(c) 1001 of total expenditures for consultants services, technical
assistance and fellowship; and
(d)  1001 of foreign expenditures and 701 of local expenditures for
equipment, spare parts, materials and supplies.
All diet ursements will be fully documented. In order to expedite
payments, a special account in foreign exchange will be opened at an
institution acceptable to IDA. An initial deposit of US$750,001,
representing about 3 months of expenditures for contractors,
consultants, equipment, materials and supplies. will be paid at c.edit
effectiveness.
2.26      The estimated schedule of disbursement is shown below.  It is
based on the project implementation schedule and the disbursement
profile of past projects in the country. It also allows for one year
delay from the end of the physical execution of the project and the last
payment to allow for delays in issuing price indices governing price
variations in contracts.



- 27 _
Estimated Schedule of Disbursements
(US$'000)
Bank Group Fiscal Year                 Cumulative Disbursements
and Quarter Ending                        at end of Quarter
1989
March 31, 1989                                     900
June 30, 1989                                   2,300
1990
Sept. 30, 1989                                  4,700
Dec. 31, 1989                                    7,200
March 31, 1990                                   9,600
June 30, 1990                                  12,100
1991
Sept.,30, 1990                                 15,000
Dec. 31, 1990                                  17,900
March 31, 1991                                  20,700
June 30, 1991                                  23,700
1992
Sept. 30, 1991                                 26,200
Dec. 31, 1991                                  28,600
March 31, 1992'                                 31,100
June 30, 1992                                  33,500
1993
Sept. 30, 1992                                 35,0Q0G
Dec. 31, 1992                                  36,700
March 31,1993                                  -38,300
June 30, 1993                                  40,000
Closing Date: December 31, 1993
G.  Accounting. Auditina and Revorting Renuirements
2.27      Project accounts vill be maintained by MTP with separate
accounts for each component and will be available for inspection by the
Association during project supervision. Project and Road Fund accounts
will be audited annually by independent auditors acceptable to the
Association. The auditor's report together with the project accounts
vill be submitted to the Association not later than six months after the
end of each fiscal year. The borrower will prepare a Project Completion



- 28 -
Report (PCR) to be submitted to IDA not later than six (6) months after
the closing date of the credit. The foregoing, detailed in Annex 10,
were discussed and agreed upon at negotiations and are part of the
covenants in the Credit Agreement.
2.28      Every year, concurrently with the preparation of the annual
budget, MTP will prepare a detailed road maintenance work program for
the following year, taking into consideration the overall maintenance
targets set for the program period and likely budgetary allocations.
This program will describe the type of activities to be carried out by
each brigade; indicate the estimated output of the brigades by major
activity and the corresponding inputs required in terms of personnel and
equipment, equipment utilization, fuel and lubricants, materials and
spare parts. To establish the work program on a sound basis, MTP will
introduce an appropriate permanent road condition inventory system.
Subsequent annual workprograms will be furnished to the Association and
other donors for their comments by October 31 of each year and will be
finalized upon determination of the final budget taking into
consideration comments received.
2.29      Progress of implementation will be reported by MTP on the
basis of the same indicators used in the preparation of the workprogram.
MTP will ensure that systems which currently exist in the Regions, i.e.,
daily, weekly and monthly reports are maintained and improved in the
Seventh Highway program. These reports should be the basis for cost
accounting and adequate financial management. MTP will prepare a
quarterly progress report showing targets and achievements by major
activity and explaining significant discrepancies.  An annual
implementation report will consolidate this information and provide
details on inputs used in the execution of the program, productivity
developments and units costs of the various activities. The quarterly
report will be submitted one month after the end of the period and the
annual report two months after the end of the year. MTP will be
responsible for monitoring the quantity and quality of the works carried
out by Regions and by contractors. It will outline its findings and
recommendations in a note to be issued jointly with the annual
implementation report.
H.   Environmental AsDects
2.30      None of the project's components will harm the environment.
Improvement and rehabilitation works will follow the existing alignment
and will have little or no effect on current land use. In fact,.
improvement of drainage structures will benefit adjacent areas, and the
rehabilitation and maintenance operations, coupled with the
implementation of a traffic regulation program, will considerably
improve road safety.
I.   Poverty Alleviation Aspects
2.31      By improving road conditions in the rural areas, and making
markets for agricultural products more accessible, the project will have



- 29 -
a beneficial impact on the rural poor through higher farm gate prices
and lower prices for inputs and consumer goods. Since the labor-
intensive routine maintenance is undertaken over the entire road
network, largely in low income rural areas, the project would contribute
to poverty alleviation in these areas and foster the country's goal of
food security by the l990s.
III. ECONOMIC EVALUATION
A.  General
3.01      A main objective of Madagascar's Public Investment Program
(PIP) concerning the transport sector and based on a recently completed
National Transport Plan, is to alleviate constraints in the movement,
marketing and export of agricultural produce and to make basic services
available to improve the economy, For the primary sectors of the
economy, improvements to the transport sector are critical to both
agricultural and industrial recovery. For the transport sector the-
highest priorities are rehabilitation of the railways and ports,
restoration of the main trunk roads and priority rural roads,
rehabilitation of road maintenance capacity and. improved institutional
capability. Transport infrastructure rehabilitation has been the
subject of considerable bilateral aid and road maintenance is the main
focus of the ongoing Sixth Highway project (Credit 1391-MAG/SF4-MAG).
In the PIP (para. 1.10) a major remaining goal is the restoration of the
main routes such as parts of RNl through RN33.  The proposed program
would focus on the most critical links of the main road system. (Annex
6.1' Another major part of the program is rehabilitation of rural roads
to achieve the goal of security in food production of essential
commodities by 1990 and alleviate constraints in transport of important
export crops such as coffee, cacao, vanilla, and cotton.
3.02      There are two new features in this project not present in
previous highway projects. One is an increased reliance on private
contractors for highway maintenance, the other a strong emphasis on
rural road rehabilitation. The economic evaluation does not consider
these aspects separately from the overall evaluation. Nevertheless the
institutional development promoted by these features would provide
advantages well beyond what is traditionally measured by the economic
evaluation (para. 3.03).
B. Area of Influence of the Proiect. Benefits and Beneficiaries
3.03      The program includes the rehabilitation of 923 km of the most
seriously deteriorated paved road sections and 561 km of_unpaved road
sections of the highest priority main roads which connect some of the
more populated areas of Madagascar and 2,783 km of the most important
rural roads (Map IBRD 20566R). Such areas include the most developed
highland area of the country and some of the best agricultural
districts, particularly vital for export crop production. The main
benefit of the highway rehabilitation/strengthening will be its impact



- 30 -
in reducing vehicle operating costs. Improved road conditions will
allow better access to productive areas, provide cheaper and more
reliable transport, arrest deterioration of road conditions and improve
MTP's maintenance capacity. Important benefits not quantified in the
economic evaluation include reduced freight damage, accidents and travel
time and better access to social and medical facilities. Except for the
technical assistance, including support to small local contractors for
the rural road program, and studies for which no separate rate of return
have been calculated, all other pxoject components have been subjected
to economic analysis.
3.04      The major direct beneficiaries of the reduced transport costs
will be the owners and operators of cars, trucks and buses. Since
freight transport is essentially free of regulation, it is expected that
transport users and consumers alike would benefit from the resulting
reduced transport costs. Avoiding rapid deterioration will prolong the
lives of both the vehicles and the roads. Reduced fuel consumption
would also result in savings, mostly in foreign exchange. The
Government is also a beneficiary, partly through its ownership of
vehicles. Because of the nature of the benefits, the target groups in
terms of income strata are very difficult to identify precisely. Low
income groups who do not have access to their land will benefit
generally from reduced prices of food brought in from surplus areas and
particularly from the lower cost of rice, the main staple food. Low
income groups will also benefit from a reduction in transport cost for
public passenger transport, enabling them to visit. their villages to
supplement wage income by home-grown produce. All income groups would
benefit from a reduction in cost of a wide variety of industrial goods
through transport cost reductions including a reduction in losses due to
accidents.
C. Economic Analysis
3.05      For the main road rehabilitation, the different road sections
of the program have been individually analyzed. For the technical
assistance and support to domestic contractors, data at this stage does
not permit an economic analysis. For the most important roads, several
sections were analyzed to obtain optimal design solutions, using the
Highway Design Model (HDM) by consultants preparing the studies for
these roads. For the the rural road program, a system of assigning
scores to different roads was used to determine priorities between
different parts of the program.
3.06      The economic analysis of the main road program is based on an
assessment of costs and expected benefits "with' and *without* the
proposed works. The 'without" project case assumes progressive
deterioration of the road surface and a corresponding increase in
vehicle operating costs, estimated by using the HDM model. In the
'with" project case it is assumed that the investments will protect the
road against further deterioration and reduce the Vehicle Operating
Costs (VOCs) by 21Z to 29Z depending on the type of vehicle, the stage
of deterioration, condition and type of road. Only savings in vehicle
operating costs are quantified for the analysis. Benefits not



- 31 -
quantified such as savings in delays of future reconstruction, time
savings and reductions in potential freight damage represent substantial
benefits which, if quantified, would enhance the rates of return. The
economic evaluation therefore underestimates the expected rates of
return.
3.07      The average daily trarfic ranges from 13 to 7,212 vpd on some
of t\e main roads of the country. A summary of the development of road
traf,ic counts is given in Annex 6.2. The proportion of commercial
vehicles, including pick-up trucks, is high, or about 492 of total
traffic, indicating the importance of commercial traffic. Traffic
growth has been estimated at 4? p.a. for the road sections on the main
highway system. This relatively high growth rate is primarily a result
of rapid population growth (3Z p.a.) and expected economic recovery.
3.08      Following major improvements to the main highways as a result
of earlier IDA projects and substantial external financing in recent
years, the 1988-91 program's main goal aims to improve the condition of
the extensive but inadequately maintained rural road network. With
financing under the Sixth Highway project a study of this network was
undertaken to identify a program of rehabilitation and improvement. With
the assistance of MTP, MTMT, MPARA a;.d other entities concerned such as
MPAEF a priority network of these roads of about 4,500 km was studied
and 2,783 km were selected to be of highest priority for the 1988-91
period. Because of the limited current traffic on these roads, the
priority was determined, after economic impact studies of 10 major
regions, by a system of ranking by economic and technical factors. A
total of 153 road sections were ranked, and 106 sections selected. The
economic and social factors considered were, for instance, land under
cultivatioia or prospects of cultivation, production yields, distance to
markets, development projects under implementation, population density,
present service availability, distance to nearby towns and large
villages, etc.
3.09      For this project component as a whole, the road construction
cost for the rehabilitation works, and future road maintenance cost,
were compared to the value added for agricultural production for the 10
principal regions indicated above. Even if one of the main criteria for
selection of the roads in the priority network was an existing or
proposed agricultural project in the area of influence of the roads, the
road investment is not the only factor needed for increased agricultural
production. The timing of increased production is also not very
precise. Rural road improvements need other support such as extension
services, improved fertilizer and seed supply, farm equipment, etc. for
increased production to materialize. Experience with rural development
projects indicates that the road investment accounts for between 1/3 and
213 total initial investment required for such projects, or in other
words that such investments other than roads will be between 50? and
twice the amount of road investment. With the share of roads varying
between 30? and 70? of the production benefits the ERR for the roads
will vary from 13? to 422. The best estimate of one half of this
difference in value added was included as benefit of the overall feeder
road improvement program. The best estimate ERR for this program was



- 32 -
about 292 over the period 1990-2003. As an example of the physical
results of the program, by about year 2000 a total rice production
increase of between 160,000 tons and 208,000 tons of paddy would be
possible as result of better access, in addftion to an increase of
80,000 tons of other crops, and 11,000 tons of export commodities.
D.   Overall Evaluation and Sensitivity Test
3.10      The overall economic rate of return (ERR) for the main highway
program is 392 for all the quantitatively analyzed components,
representing 952 of the program cost. For the program as a whole the
ERR is 34Z. A summary of the program of highway rehabilitation is given
in Annex 6.1. For rehabilitation of paved roads the ERR is 392 and for
engineered earth roads, 35Z. Various sensitivity tests have been
carried out, with returns ranging from 10 to 150S. An indication of
typical vehicle operating costs is included in Annex 6.3. The streams
of costs and benefits for the best estimate are included in Annex 6.4
and the results of different sensitivity tests in Annex 6.5. The best
estimated rate of returns range from 14S to 1591, with first year
returns ranging from 202 for rural roads to 391 for paved roads and 26Z
for unpaved roads based on an opportunity cost of capital of 12X.
E.  Risks
3.11      While the program is designed to reduce as much as possible
risks associated with implementation, the possibility nevertheless
exists that implementation could be delayed due to the lack of
administrative capacity in MTP and in the local agencies. To minimize
impact of this possible inadequacy, the rehabilitation of the main roads
included in the program will be carried out by contractors. Other risks
involve the possible shortage of local resources which to the extent
possible could be prevented through use of the Road Fund.
IV. AGREEMENTS TO BE REACHED AND RECOMMENDATION
4.01      The following principal items were discussed and agreed upon
by Government during negotiations and specified as covenants in the
Credit Agreement:
(i) reviewing legislation and regulations of passenger
traffic and implementing f_rther liberalization if
necessary (para. 1.09);
(ii) updating the National Transport Plan and annually
preparing, for IDA approval, a three-year rolling PEP to
improve allocations of resources and promote a rational
choice of investments (para. 1.10);



- 33 -
(iii) providing at least SDR 3.6 million for annual routine
maintenance through the Road Fund supplied by fuel taxes;
and adjusting these funds annually taking into account
expansion of the road network (para. 1.28);
(iv)  maintaining a sub-account to the Road Fund 'Caisse
d'Avance', replenished quarterly to the equivalent of at
least SDR 360,000 (para. 1.28);
tv)  keeping the prices of fuel at competitive levels to
generate resources to cover road maintenance needs and
reviewing annually fuel prices to sustain tax revenues
(para. 1.28);
(vi) determining accounting, auditing and reporting
requirements (para. 2.15 and 2.27 through 2.29); and
(vii)   setting up procurement procedures for works, goods ar.d
services and award of fellowships financed under the
proposed project (para. 2.24).
4.02      The following items were discussed and agreed upon, by
Government during negotiations; they constitute conditions of
effectiveness of the proposed credits publishing legal instruments: (i)
coordinating all road activities and initiating charging local users the
cost of maintaining feeder roads (para. 1.20); (ii) upgrading CATP to
the status of an institute, empowering it to issue valid training
certificates and diplomas, and charging private contractors the cost of
!            training their staff at CATP (para. 1.23); and (iii) establishing
!            adequate standards for implementation of traffic regulations- and road
safety measures (para. 2.17).
4.03      During negotiations, agreement was also reached on the terms
of reference for the experts providing technical assistance in road
maintenance, management and training (para. 2.15 and 2.16, Annex 8).
4.04      Following agreement on the above conditions, the proposed
project qualifies for IDA lending as a credit amounting to SDR 28.9
million (US$40.0 equivalent), on standard IDA terms.



- 34 -
ANNEX 1
MADAGASCAR
SEVENTH HIGHWAY PROJECT
Public Investment Plan. tor tho Transort Sector
(FPU  bt I lon*)
1094 - 67                            1106 - 1990
Foreltn      Loca l      Total      Forelcn      Local       Tot"l
HIghway
Infrastructure
Rehabilitation               88.14S      65.681     141.207      869.266      66.184    145.400
Workshop, Equipmnt,
and Studies                 2.7M2       2.951       5.788       4.428        0.610      5.08S
90.928      56.012    146.948       98.6e9      56.744     160.488
Rail  Transport
Rehabilitation                6.076        2.562      9.628      10.957      1.15      27.082
New Works                      -           1i.        1.0                      B.800      8.800
Studles & Toech. Aet.                                             2.502         .711      8.218
6.876       8.562       9.626      19.459      14.616      84.076
Air Transort
Rehabilitatton                 -           7.S6#      7.S6        5.607        3.684      9.141
New Works                      -            .168       .16U
Studies and Tech. Ast.         -                 o.-6                           -         0.800
-          7.784       7.784       5.807       8.684       9.441
Maritim  Transoort
Rehabilitation                8.078       0.819       0.62        8.129        2.776     10.905
W  project                    0.714       2.427       8.141
Studies & Tech. aset.                                             1.769        0.422      2.181
0.767       8      248  12.088      9.88        8.19 14.0!6
River and Canal Transport
RehabilItation               18.810        1.490     14.806    19.976          2.219     22.196
(Canal of Pang lanes)
Studios                        _.755                                           0.160      0.916
18.810       1.490      14.68       20.781       2.879      28.110
National Transport Plan          0.782        0.40       0.622       8.66         0.657      1.878
TOTAL                           119.888     72.874    191.957    1S6.880         81.180    281.618
S-!rcsIT: MT
May 1987



SEVENTH HIGHWAY PROJECT
,FAD VERICE MMff  1979, 1982 AND 1984
1AMAISDNM                      NM1MVNrA       F1ANARWIA            ANlSIRMWW&         JMImANARTD            TOMAL
1979 1982 1984  1979 1982 1984  1979 1982 1984 1979 19821984      1979  1982  1984  1979   1982  984  1979  1982  1984
PASS&CR VE_CU
Urban hies                      7   8    6    -    4    4    6   7    3    4   10   7            11    10       3    170  124   188    198  163  211
Statinwagm, 9 places          45  60  42   32  30  20   18  10  10  90   48   57                176   103    9      608   195  192   969  446  420
MInibus, 20-25placas          183 132 165   156 223 241   61  99  116  190 262 293              166   213   217   815  867 1335   1571  1796 2365
Eus, 3D-50 pLos                5    5   -    -   1    -        7   -   -       3    1   -         -     -      -      7     1    -      22    8    -
Suburbmn                        1   -   -      2   -    1-   2   -  1          -   -   -          2      -     -    30   29   52    37   29  54
PaEny3t/crgatrurk8         -       -     -    -   -   32    -      -    -    -     -     -    _     _      _      _    - 1607        -     -  1639
EUlFM=  VEHICLESi
Lem than 3.5 T               615 833)1349  415 -549) 879  355 493) 722  562 859)2120            410   665) 1015  2673 4033) 4119  5030 7432)10204
Frm 3*5 T to 7 T              113  120)       70  81)         52  80)        151  199)           78    98)           348  481)         812  1059)
7 T ard ower                 245 321  271   242 252 214   197 337  144  210  278  70            172   251    122   887  1401 1707  1953 2840 2528
Tractors                       67  140  35    6   11   -    12  47   7    5   12  13             23    44      12    35   53  18    148  307   85
Trailers & sedl-traler         78  146  59    12  25   -    19  97   11    7   21   5             3     18      -     75   127   56   194  434   131
PRIVAIE TRNl  VEHICaES
Taida                         176 149   -   208  161   -   265  188   -   295 2C4   -           165   150       -   2137 3430     -   3246 59        -
Passugewr translportation      15)             14)            13)             10)                48)                 135)    -         235)
Drivibg siool cas               5) 956   -      5) 426   -     9) 723   -      4) 739   -        10)  740       -    49)10398    -    82)13175    -
PrivaeW  cars                 986)           470)            686)           1449)               862)               11205)             15658)         -
1UrCAL                         2541 2870   -  1632 1763   -  1702 2081   -  2980 2633   -        2126  2292       -  19174 21139    -  301S5 32778    -
1/ Station-MUat, 9 placesatdr-be
Bus, 30-50 pdeces/Autocar
So :  Centre de SeLurite Rotlere
May 1985



- 36 -
ANNEX 3
MADAGASCAR
SEVENTH HIGHWAY PROJECT
Petroleum Product Consumption (1973-1986)
(Thousand m3)
1973     1974      1975    1976    1977    1978    1979
Gasoline             115.5    113.5    111.3   110.5   109.9   116.5   113.8
Gas oil              177.1    175.5    169.7   147.2   146.6   163.3   182.0
Total motor fuel    292.6    289.0    281.0   25747  256.5   279.8   295.8
1980     1981      1982    1983    1984    1985    1986
Gasoline             110.8     95.2      79.2    78.7    73.3    74.9    79.0
Gas oil              183.1    169.9    149.1   147.3   146.6   150.5   172.9
Total motor fuel    293.9    265.1    228.3   226.0   229.9   225.4   251.9
Sources SOLIMA
December 1987



- 37-
ANNEX 4
MADAGSCAR
SEVENTH HIGHWAY PROJECT
Road Desisn Standards
Primary                      Secondary
|   1.   Roads                 Road Network                  Road Netowrk
Maximum design speed       (km/h)        80                   50
Minimum radius for
horizontal curves        (m)          200 (30) 1,          70  (25)
Maximum radius for
vertical curves
Crest                (m)        2,000 (1,500)        1,000 (750)
Sag                  (m)        1,000 (750)            500
Maximum grade              Ca)            8                  12  (14)
Transversal slope\
Pavement                (X)             3                   3
Shoulders                 (X)             4                   3
Pavement width             (m)          5.5  to  7.0       4.50
Platform width             (m)          8.8  to 10.3       6.50 (4.00)
Maximum permissible
Axle load                (t)           10                  10
2.   BridQes
Carriageway width          (m)         3.5  and 7.0         3.0
,Sidewalks                  (m)         2x0.75 to 1.00     2x1.0
Design load:
in accordance with fascicule           61                 61B
F Figures in parentheses indicate values adopted in exceptional cases
\for specific short secdLons located either in very mountainous terrain
or in other particularly difficult conditions
Sourcet Ministry of Public Works, 1987.
/
/



- 38 -
ANNEX 5
Page 1 of 3
MADAGASCAR
SEVENTH HIGHWAY PROJECT
Bank Group Proiects in the Transport Sector
1.       The First Highway Project (Credit 90-MAG. US$10 million, 1966)
provided for construction to paved standards of two sections of the
Antananarivo-Hahajanga road (145 km). The Project Performance Audit Report
(PPAR, No. 1409), dated January 3, 1977, found that the cost of the road
construction was far below original estimates and the recalculated economic
rate of return (between 15Z and 202) was greater than that estimated at
appraisal (11Z). Surplus funds were used to finance supplementary works and
studies, which necessitated a delay in project completion.
2.        The Second Highway Project (Credit 134-MAGILoan 570-MAG, US$8
million, 1968) helped to finance construction of 146 km of two major trunk
roads and construction of three bridges. The project did not completely
meet its objectives, and completion was delayed by about one year due to
difficulties of the contractors who carried out the project. Actual project
cost was US$15.2 million, including contingencies. This represented an
overrun of 302, of which about half was due to price increases and half to
increased quantities. The cost overrun was financed in large part by the
Government, but savings under the First Highway Project also contributed to
financing. PPAR No. 811, dated July 18, 1975, found that the economic
justification of one of the project roads, Ambilobe-Ambanja (91 km), was
doubtful in view of its low rate of return -- 82 primarily eaused by higher
construction costs than foreseen at appraisal. The ERR on the individual
components of the Second Highway Project ranged from 42 to 212 compared to
the 8Z to 162 estimated at appraisal.
3.        The Third Highway Project (Credit 351-MAGlLoan 570-MAG, US$30
million, 1973) provided for construction of 417 km of primary roads,
detailed engineering of the Antsohihy-Ambanja road and a review of the
traffic c.ounting system. In 1975 the project had to be modified due to
substantial cost increases as a result of price and quantity increases not
anticipated at appraisal, as well as the devaluation of the US dollar. A
supplementary credit of US$5.6 million was therefore provided while
construction was reduced by 67 km. PPAR No. 2143, dated July 27, 1978,
found that while the overall recalculated rate of return of 142 was
acceptable and in line with appraisal estimates (or slightly below the
originally estimated 162), two road sections had individual rates of return
of 102 or less, since expected agricultural benefits failed to materialize
due to the deteriorating political and economic situation of the country.
The PPAR outlined the project's deficiencies, including insufficient
provision of funds for road maintenance and a failure to train Halagasy
nationals which would have contributed to institution building.



- 39 -
ANNEX :5
Page 2 of 3
4.        The Fourth Highway Project (Credit 641-MAG, US$22 million, 1976)
helped finance construction of 370 km of secondary roads between
Tsiroanomadidy and Maintirano and the 67 km of primary roads between
Arivonimamo and Analavory deleted from the Third Highway Project. A road
maintenance component provided for a study to evaluate maintenance needs,
including equipment and technical assistance for training local staff in
road maintenance. The project's road construction component is partially
completed but the largest section, Tsiroanomandidy-Maintirano, encountered
major difficulties due to poor management and organization of works by the
state-owned construction company (SINTP). Bridges have been completed but
earthworks and approaches were finished much later. The maintenance study
led to purchase of road maintenance equipment; implementation of the
recommended training program has been delayed. Since training of local
staff was essential to improving maintenance operations under the Fifth
Highway Project, the Government agreed to take measuies to allow an early
start of training. A PCR in 1985 gave an overall ERR of 14Z.
5.        The Fifth Highway Project (Credit 938-MAG, US$24 million, 1979;
plus a US$10 million EEC Special Action Credit) has helped finance urgently
needed resurfacing on about 200 km on RN4 between Mahajanga and
Mtananarivo. construction of bridges for the Antsohihy-Ambanja road,
continuation of improvement of maintenance operaticns begun under the Fourth
Highway Project, a feasibility and detailed engineering study, and training
of MTP staff by technical assistance. The project was about two years
behind schedule due to mismanagement and lengthy Government procurement
procedures. However, since early 1982 implementation greatly improved with
all major components now completed, and the Credit now closed.
6.        Bank Group assistance has also helped finamce construction of
feeder roads under agricultural and rural development projects. The Village
Livestock and Rural Development Project (Credit 506-MAG, 1974) financed the
construction of about 170 km of secondary roads in Mahajanga province and
maintenance of about 280 km of roads. The Mangoro Forestry Project (Credit
525-MAG, 1974) provided for construction and maintenance of 56 km of
gravelled service roads, 840 km of plantation truck roads and 910 km of
tracks. The Morondava Irrigation and Rural Development Project (Credit 332-
MAG, 1972) included the improvement of 24 km of secondary rural roads and
construction of about 9 km of feeder roads. Construction of farm roads was
also included in the Lake Alaotra Irrigation Project (Credit 214-MAG, 1982)
will help in the construction and maintenance of about 100 km of rural
access roads, continuing the work begun under the first project.
7.        The latest highway project is the Sixth Highway Project (Credit
1391-MAG and SF-4-MAG) which continues the earlier Bank emphasis on highway
maintenance and rehabilitation of major roads. This project has also been a
platform for considerable cofinancing (AfDB, FAC, Swiss Cooperation). The
major effort is to conclude the rehabilitation by contract of the vital



- 40 -
ANNEX 5
Page 3 of 3
Hahajunga-Antananarivo road (RN4) and, financed by AfDB, its continuation to
the South (RN7). Initially, the project got a slow start but the
implementation is now almost complete. Included is also support for
institution-building of both MTP and MIMT. The establishment of a new
Directorate for Transport Planning and Coordination (DEPCT) in MTMT for
joint work with MTP (and partly assisted by FAC) is one of the results so
far.
8.        Bank Group assistance has included three projects to aid the
Reseau National des Chemins de Fer Malgache (RNCFM). The First Railway
Project (Credit 488-MAG. US$6 million, 1974) assisted RNCFM in replacing
outdated equipment to provide a modest increase. in transport capacity,
improving the railway's managerial and operational capacity, and setting up
a framework for transport planning. The project had to be reduced in scope
due to cost overruns and was completed with a three-year delay. Although a
transport planning and coordination unit was created in the Ministry of
Transport. it did not succeed in setting up a general framework for
transport pelicies mainly because the Government failed to integrate this
team into the decision-making process. The recalculated rate of return on
the project was less than 102. The major problems faced by the project
resulted from deteriorating economic conditions and from general political
uncertainty regarding transport policy formulation and the overall
institutional environment. Management of the railway was, however,
considered generally efficient.
9.        The Second Railway Project (Credit 903-MAG, US$13 million, 1979)
continued the rehabilitation efforts undertaken in the first project and
provides for replacement of outdated equipment, track renewal, and
improvements in telecommunications and workshops. It also provides for
implementation of measures to strengthen the railway's financial management.
Most of the physical elements of the project have been implemented
satisfactorily; however, in view of the deterioration in the management of
the railway and non-compliance with a number of covenants, the credit was
suspended in June 1982. It was later reinstated (December 1982) following
implementation by the Government of a complete and successful financial
program for the railway.
O.t       The Third Railway Project (Credit 1694-MAG. US$13 million, 1986)
also became effective in 1986. After some initial delays this project is now
making good progress.
11.       A first Port Project (Credit 200-MAG, US$ 9.6 mil_ion, 1970)
zrovided for extension of Toamasina Port, creation of the -oamasina Port
Authority and technical assistance for management personne_ and training. In
1973 the credit was increased by USS 1.8 million to cover a shortage of
funds resulting from currency realignments. PPAR No. 2299, dated December
22, 1978 concluded that (i) the physical objectives of the project were
sat -sfactorily carried out; (ii) a lower, revised econcmic return of 7.0?
was due to lack of traffic growth resulting from adverse local and
international political and economic conditions that cculd not have been
foreseen at the time of appraisal, and (iii) technical assistance for
institution building did not achieve satisfactory results.



- 41 -
ANNEX 6.1
MADAGASCAR
SEVENTH HNGIWAY PROJECT
Sumary of Highway RehabilItation (Base Coot)
Road
No.   Location:                           Rehabilitation    PrTodic LMintenance  Traffie  Rate of   Total
Paved Reods:                   Lonat  hnmF        Ion L nath km FMl IIIon Yoh/Dao Return X FMC tillIon
I     Antananarivo-Anslavory            26.WS' 4279                          .9      1      10T.-0    839.8
2      Antananarlva-Tomaeina             9.4        487.6      129.1     *07.        262      62.0   1244.0
8      Antananarivo-Anjorosobe          69.4       1476.7        2.6       44.7      485      62.6   1516.4
SA    Vohidiala-Vohitralvo                                     104.$      211.8      228    169.0    211.8
so     Ambariomiaubana-Andapa                                   06.0      179.9      118               179.9
4      Antananarivo-Mahajanga          119.0       6l10.0                            147      23.6   6lo.6
6     Toamasins-Soanitrans-Ivongo      162.4       1568.1       61.6       88.2      lal      88.0   1671.3
GA    Sambava-Vohemar                   70.0       2485.6       74.0      264.3      114      28.0   2769.9
6      Fort Serge-Antlranana          220.5       6971.6      119.2      476.1      I0S      18.6   7449.9
6      Ambondrommy-Fort Berge          106.1       6966.6       51.9      600.0      16o      14.0   7760.0
12    RN2S-Vangaindrano                  6.8        190.8      146.6      988.4      161      27.0   1176.7
18    Toalagnaro-Ambovoie               74.6       1660.9       39.0     436.9       232      32.0   2119.8
22    RNS-Anj ahamb                                             65.6      290.1       41      28.0    290.1
81     RN6-6.alanana                                            89.5      56.5                          66.6
32     RN6-Sefandrlana                   9.6        841.2       67.0      906.9       25      19.0    486.1
84    Antairab-Ma lalmbandy                                    386.0     1606.6      in6     906.    1566.3
64     Mahajanga Airport Road            6.0        280.6                                              200.6
SOA   RN4-RN7                            6.6        210.0                                              216.0
Sea    Antananarivo-PAPMAD               7.0        245.0                                              246.0
City Acces                                  1600.6                                             1600.6
TOTAL (FMC million)             618.6      86991.6    1412.6    6677.0                        37668.5
TOTAL US# million
(USS1 u FUG NO6)              86.7                                8.8                         47.0
Earth Roads:
5A    Sambava-Antlaha-Maromandio        #6.6       1861.1      85.3        46.6       70      17.0   1697.9
0      Tollary-Tanandeve                                       876.0    1391.2        66      44.6   1391.2
i9    Tollary-Ampaniky-Ambovembe        06.2       468.1       10.6        39.8       46      40.0    497.4
12A   Toalangnaro-Mananterln&           62.6        474.6      41.3        37.4       14      14.6    512.0
27    Farafangena-Ihosy                 74.4        460.0      144.4        6.1       15      35.6    462.1
81    Ambato.i-SeB lanana               82.6        62.6                              22      S8.0      62.6
48     AmbohTbary-SoavinandrieaFa       52.0        611.6       45.0        1.9      l1       69.60    512.9
44     Moramanga-Vohitravo              68.9        644.2     1lU.1        46.7      121      41.0    690.9
RN4 Mine Acc                     36.0        221.0                                              221.6
Regional Acces                               962.0                                              952.0
TOTAL (FMU  million)            4S8.5       5681.2      791.9    1669.4                        7200.6
TOTAL USS million
(US21 =PG 666)                 7.6                                 2.0                         9.6
Foeder Roads:
Faritany Mahajanga              621.6       7441.0
Faritany Toliary                497.0       4946.6
Faritany Fianarantsoo           660.0       9568.6
Faritany d'AntTranann            906.0       919.0
Faritany d'Antanarivo           610.0       9404.0
Faritany Toamasina              299.6       4062.0
TOTAL (FMU  million)           2783.6      86282.0
TOTAL USS mlliIon
(USSi a FUC 6)                             45.4
March 1968



- 42 -
ANNEX 6.2
MADAGASCAR
Si.ENTH HIGHWAY PROJECT
Summarv of Road Traffic Counts 1980-1986
(Totals for 134 Counting Stations)
Vehicle Tvne          1980      1981      1982      1983      1984     1985      1986
Private Cars        24,870    24,124   17,740    19,086   17,817   15,487   19,843
Taxis and Buses      8,334     8,351    7,066      6,953    6,747    5,791    6,995
Pickup Trucks        8,040     8,351    7,066      6,953    6,747    5,791    6,185
Trucks               7,509     6,746    6,650      5,729    5,062    4,286    5,230
Semi-Trailers          473       680       939       666       507      412       732
Other Vehicles         113        82       106        51        72      104       108
Totals              49,339    48,334   39,567    39,438   36,952   31,871   39,093
Sources MTMT
October 1987



- 43 -
ANNEX 6.3
MADAGASCAR
SEVENTH HIGHWAY PROJECT
Vehicle Overating Cost
(FMG/vehicle kmn)
Paved Road              Earth Road
Small car (taxi-be)                    253                      322
Pickup truck                           211                      278
Bus (autocar)                          382                      536
Semi-trailer                         1,398                    1,845
Truck                                  555                      734
Source: NTMT April 27, 1987
May 1987



- 44 -
ANNEX 6.4
MADAGASCAR
SmVENTH HI04AY PROJECT
Cost and Benefits
(FMG MlliIlon)
Paved Road Sections
RN I        RN 2                   MRN  8A       RN5         RN A           RN O        RN o
Year:                                                                                    South       Worth
-929        -W7         -84         -201          -88         -284             a        -476
1989            0        -487       -1M09         -11        -1688         -2485        -2687       -280M
1990         1691        10S         637         926          579           5oo        -2586       -1235
1991        l1f7         1046         882         857          62            O          -1647       -1264
1902         2045       187          s65         892          626          038          1082        1152
1998         2127        118B 1o                  927          651          864          1126        1106
1994         2212        1176         986         966          677          69e          1179        1246
1095         2301        1228         978        1098          704           718         1217        1296
1996         2398        1272        1012        1048          782           747         1266        1843
1997         2468        1828        1058        1085          761           776         1816        1402
1999         2588        1876        1096        1126          792           887         1869        1468
1999         2691        1481        1189        1174          923           848         1424        1516
2000         2799        1466        1184        1220          5ss           878         1481        1677
2001         2911        1547        1281        1269          891           on          1S40        1640
2002         8026        1609        1281        1820          926           945         1602        1706
2008         8149        1674        1882        1878          968           982         1666        1773
2W94         8276        1741        1885        1428         1002          1022         1782        1844
2096         8408        1810        1441        1486         1042          1068         1802        1918
Paved Road Sections
RN 7       RN 12      RK  13       RN 22        RN 32        RN 84                     Rural
lRoads
Yea r:
-1040        -778       -1689           0            o            o                     -9887
1989        -2800        -77n        -s4         -290         -48           -660                    -9041
1990          460         871         774          72           76         lse                      -766
1991          479         as8         a6           75           78          1441                     8579
1992          498         402         687          y8           81          1499                     9684
1998          618         418         870          81           84          1559                     9867
1994          588         484         966          04           83          1621                     929
1996          66o         452         941          88           91         les                      9s98
1996          582         470         979          91           96          174                      98652
1997          69          489        1016          96           99          1824                    10656
1998          6e          608        1069          99          198          1897                    115609
1999          656         526       l1l          102          107          1978                    12418
2090          6Sl         649        1146         107          1ll          2062                    18871
2001          709         671        1191         1ll          115          2184                    14388
2902          787         694        1289         116           120         2219                    16462
2009          766         61s        1283         120          126          2808                    16608
2W4           797         643        1840         125          1go          240
2005          829         869        1s89         189          1886         2496
Ensineered Earth Road Sections
RN S        RN 9       RN 1       RN 12A        RN 27        RN 31         RN 4a       RN 44
i            -a-98      -1891        -497        -612         -462           -68         -518        -891
1990         -780         562         181          66          148            22          88          2569
1991          2m0         605         188          69          152            28          849         269
1992          291         629         18s          71          168            24          868         286
1998          aos         656         204          74          164            25          878         291
1994         a8s          6Sl         212          n           171            28         898          808
199S          828         708         220          so          178            27          409         816
1996          841         786         229          84         18             28          425         828
1997          354         766         2a8          87          192            29          442         841
1998          39          797         248          90          200            as          460         854
1999         s8s          828         258          94          208            81          478         89
2800          899                     268          98          216            as          497         888
2001          414                     279         102          225            84          617         309
2802          481                     290         106          284            85          583         415
2008          448                     881        l1           248            87          669         431
2084          466                     818         114          258            39          682         449
2005          486                     826         119          268            40         6e5          486
January 1998



- 45 -
ANNEX 6.5
MADAGASCAR
SEVENTB HIGHWAY PROJECT
Economic Returns and Sensitivity Tests
Best        Benefits       Costs      Benefits -10?
Road Section            Estimate         -20?        +10?         Costs +10l
RN 1      Paved            104            90          98             91 X
2                        62           52           57             53
3                        52           43           48             44
3a                      159          139          150            140
5                        38           31           34             31
5a                       23           18           21             18
6 North                  18           14           16             14
6 South                  14           10           12             11
12                        27            22          25             23
13                        32            27          30             28
22                        28           22           25             23
32                        19           15           17             15
34                        96            78          88             79
RN 5a     Gravel            17            13          15             13
9                        40           33           37             33
10                        40           33           37             33
12a                       14            10          12             11
27                        35            28          32             29
31                        38           31           35             31
43                        69           56           64             58
44                        41           33           38             34
Rural Roads                 29            22          26             22
Source: Mission estimates
January 1988



- 46 -
MADAGASCAR
SEVENTH HIGHWAY PROJECT
A.     HiLhwav Enuipment for Road Maintenance
1.   EquiDment                          Ouantitv                Cost
(USS'000)
Hand compactor                          30                    293
4-wheel-drive vehicles                  20                    340
Motor pump,                             10                     75
Truck                                   33                  1,366
Water tank                               7                     44
Fuel tank                                7                     44
Service trailer                          5                     94
Pneumatic compactor                      2                    138
Road patching truck (Camion Pat)         1                    106
Total                                                          2,500
2.   Snare parts, materials and suDDlies                       1,900
3.   ImProvement and eauioment of 15 subdivisions                700
B.     TRAFFIC SAFETY AND REGULATION
CUS$'COO)
1.   Infrastructure                                              750
2.  Equipment                                                    250
Total                                                          1,000



ANNEX 8
Paige Iof 3
MADAGASCAR
SEVENTH HIGHWAY PROJECT
Technical A,sistance for Trainint
Manasemont of MTP Road Operations, and Transport PlanninA
Outline Terms of Reference
Technical Assistance for Trainint and Implementation of Road Management
Sstee
1.       The main objective is to establish and maintain a comprehensive
and effective road management system. The objectives of the technical
assistance ares
(a) Strengthening of the road management system developed during
the Sixth Highway Project Including
(i)     sound programming o_ivoad works;
(1i)     monitoring the eicution of the road workss and
(iii)     continuous inventory of road network including
structures;
(b) professional development of MTP and domestic contractors
staff for Implementation of (a) above through training and
seminars.
2.       To achieve the above objectives, MTP and MTMT will need technical
assistance.
Oualificationa
3.       Each expert should haves
(a) fluency In spoken and written French;
(b) training experience in his field In order to facilitate
professional and technical instruction; and
(c) work experience in a developing country.
Road Maintenance and Construction Experts
4.       They should be road engineers or senior road work superintendents
with at least five and ten years' experience in their respective fields.
In particular they should have extensive knowledge of and experience ins
(a) road maintenance and construction and maintenance of equipment; (b) use
of heavy equipment; (c) various elements of road construction management,
contract and specifications; and (d) soils engineering. They shouldt
(i)     train the road engineers, construction foremen and
laborers;
(ii)     assist in ttaining equipment inspectors and operators;
and
(iii)     provide technical, on-site training of regional road
chiefs.



- 48 -
ANNEX 8
Page 2 of 3
Mechanical Experts
5.       They should have at least eight years' professional experience in
the use of heavy equipment for public works. Their qualifications should
be as followss
(a)   specialization In both diesel and gasoline engineers;
(b)   experience in operation and maintenance of equipment used in
maintenance work;
(c) knowledge of vehicle electrical systems; and
(d)   basic knowledge of general mechanics.  They should:
(i)     train and give refresher courses to diesel- and
gasoline-engine mechanics;
(ii)     train and give refresher courses to mechanics and
mechanic-helperslgreasers for workshops and mechanized
roads units;
(iii)     train spare-parts storemen; and
(iv)     assist in training equipment inspectors.
Experts in Training Eauipment Operators
6.       They should have at least ten years' experience in training
equipment operators, and be familiar with the major types of heavy
equipment currently used in road construction and maintenance. They will:
'i)     train and give refresher courses to operators of
various types of road machinery; and
(ii)     supervise the mechanics assigned to worksites.
Financial Advisor
7.       He should have at least ten years' experience in financial
management. He will
(i)     improve costing, accounting and reporting systems and
procedures at local, regional and national levels;
(ii)     review existing cost recovery practices and charges
from beneficiaries in particular for feeder roads and
make recommendations for improving revenue generation;
(iii)     introduce management information systems;
(iv)     prepare financial statements, cost accounting, and
budget program procedures; and
(v)     train personnel assigned to these tasks.



- 49 -
ANNEX 8
Page 3 of 3
Transport Experts
8.       In order to assist MTMT expand and improve its transport planning
capability, the project will include experts to work closely with Malagasy
officials in this respect. The team of experts will includes
(a) an economic planner (mission head) to be responsible for technical
assistance for transport coordination; and
(b) an engineer-economist specialized in road transport surveys.
9.       The experts shall be attached to the Transport Planning and
Coordination Unit in MTMT. The consultants may also assist the Directorate
General of Planning ('JGP) in the Presidency, as required by the Government,
but they shall report in all cases to the MTMT Coordination Unit.
iO.      The unit is responsible for establishing the proper inter-
ministerial coordinating mechanisms and works closely with the DGP in
establishing transport demand models based on macroeconomic projections.
11.     -In addition, the experts will:
i)    determine and assist in collecting and compiling the data
required to implement a continuous and effective transport
planning mechanism in the country, and in particular
necessary origin-destination surveys;
(ii)   recommend and assist in setting up an effective system of
intersectoral development information enabling transport
planning to be made responsive to priorities developed for
other sectors (inter-ministerial meetings or through the
Direction Gin;rale du Plan), and improving the level and
effectiveness of intersectoral investment coordination;
(iii)  train Malagasy nationals in matters related to
transportation planning and coordination so that once these
services are completed the Malagasy staff will be capable
of taking over full responsibility for transport planning
in Madagascar, including the preparation, evaluation and
supervision of transport projects and policy formulation;
(iv)   advise and assist the Government and the MTHT on current
transportation problems and issues, including planning,
reviewing and coordinating transport studies and evaluating
major investments proposed for transportation projects;
(v)    assist MTMT in preparing coordinated transportation
investment programs including budgeting of investment and
operating funds for the entire transport sector; and
(v)    advise and assist the Government in transport policy
formulation such as pricing and regulation.



WAR
SEV8IrRT~pgOECT
f-ina"cln Pl4n 
Totnl Cost    Road Fund    FNDE            MDA         AfDF          EDF    B     WrTA       later      NORAD
6.5                      1.8                                                               4.7
RN, aA                                  2.9                      *.7                                                 2.2
at:, RN 1/                             14.4                      1.4                       13.0
RNi    , R1184                         15.1                                  16.1
RN4, Mils                              18.4                                                            15.4
tl)  Eolnered Earth Road
ii)                                     1.1                      8.3                                                  0
RN48                                   0.9                      0.1                         o.0
ili) Feeder Roads                          39.0                       .3           0.6 8          .g        12.2 V        5.4 Y                   2.7 V
IV)  Routine Maintenanc
Rocurrnt cos e                        21.5          29.9                      1.6
Equipment, Materials and SuWpile       6.0 0.
Infrestructure                         .9.                      9.1           9.6   /          3 V
v)   Tralnina                                2.-                                                             1.3                        1.e
Vi)  Road Safety                             1.4                                   1.4
vii) Consltio Srvi c4
Siipervision                           9.4                      *.6           2.2           2.3         2.9          10           e.6
TA Maintenance                         a.o                                    a o
TA Transport                           e.6                                    0.5
TA Training                            8.0                                    3.
.~ ~ ~ ~ ~~~~~T- .                                    W. .T.   i
/  Ambodromamy-Port Berger
v Port Bergver-Ante ranano
4/   300 km of *e_   rods  of which 19 km In Antananarivo region and 2J0 km In Fianar nteoa.
460 km of feeder roads In  rha aJna p nd In Antananorive
560 km of foeedr roads of which 860 km In MahaJanoa-  10 km In Antananarivo and 199 In Tollor .
N 3so km of feder road  ot which 259 km In Lake Alaotra ar  and 100 t  In Antnanarivo
% 130 km of feeder roads In Antananarivo
Improvm,nt of 10 subdivielon.
I   Improvement of 5 subdivisions
il Of which USI5.5 million could be covered by Swirs Government counterpart funds
of its balanco of payment support.
l  Equivalent to SDC grant of SFR. 15.0  tillIon *t US u 1.U  SFR.',
31  Equivalent et SOC grant of about SFR. 1. mlillIon  t USSII * 1   SFR.
lncl. participation In financing of foreitn coats of maIntepance,
. .~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~



- 51 -
ANNEX 10
Page 1 of 3
MADAGASCAR
SEVENTH HIGHWAY PROJECT
A. Progravning and Monitoring of Maintenance Program
1.        The principal aim of the annual and quarterly programming and
monitoring scheme is to increase the efficiency of MTP's operations. The
preparation of annual workprograms will be undertaken simultaneously with
the annual budget exercise. Programs will be finalized upon determination
of the final budget. Execution will be monitored on a quarterly basis.
The programming and monitoring will be based, inter alia, on the followings
Permanent Road Condition Inventory
2.        The permanent road condition inventory will make possible to
determine the priority works to be included in the following year's
workprograms of each brigade and unit and to schedule the works during the
year. The inventory will also form the basis for monitoring the quality of
the works carried out.
Activities
3.        The main activities to be programned/monitored includes
-    paved road maintenance (m2)
-    gravelling (m3)
-    spot improvements - earth works (m3
-    surface grading (km)
-    manual maintenance (km)
-    manual maintenance (m3 of selective material)
-    culvert maintenance (units')
-    bridge maintenance (units)
Inputs Required
4.        The inputs requirediused to achieve the activity targets by
brigade or unit include:
-    personnel (by qualification)
-    equipment (units and utilization)
-    fuel (liters)
-    spare parts (FMG)
-    materials (m3 or tons)
Efficiency Indicators
5.        Efficiency indicators will include availability rates (in Z) and
utilization rates (in hours or km) of major equipment categories.



- 52 -
ANNEX 10
Page 2 of 3
-    graders
-    bulldozers
-    trucks
-    pick-ups\
- - loaders
The combination of input and output indicators will also provide measures
of productivity and unit costs.
Workshops
6.        Indicators measuring workshop activity would be:
-    repairs by major type
-    overhauls by major type
-    spsre parts consumption (FMG)
Trainint
7.        Main indicators of training would be:
*i) standard training sessions
-    number of trainees,
-    average length of training
(ii)  special training seminars
-    number of trainees
-    average of training
SunmarY Report
8.        A summary report shall accompany the above indicators and
include, inter alia,
-   'key information which is not provided by the quantitative
indicators;
-    information on unforeseen events which have a bearing on the
implementation of the program;
-    explanation as to to deviations from the targets set and
description of the corrective measures which have been taken
or are being prepared;
-    information on key staff changes in MTP; financial
information on the execution of the budget or on budget
revision.
B. Proiect Reporting Requirements
1.        The Borrower will prepare Progress Reports on the elements of the
Project not included in the quarterly and annual reporting on the
implementation of the maintenance program and covering:



- 53 -
ANNEX 10
Page 3 of 3
-    physical progress and difficulties encountered
-    expected deviations from implementation schedule
-    costs of the component
-    financial situation of the Credit
-    status of covenants
Proiect Completion Report
2.        The Borrower will prepare a Project CompletIlon Report (PCR), to
be submitted to the Association not later than six (6) months after the
Closing Date.
3.        The primary objective of the PCR is to reinforce the
self-evaluation capacity by the Borrower and the Association's operating
departments and to facilitate dissemination of lessons learned through the
project.  The PCR will examine and assess
(a) the performance by the Borrower and the Association of their
respective obligations under the Credit Agreement and whether the
Association could have been more helpfull
(b) the results that can be expected from the project, as compared
with expectations at appraisal, and whether the original
expectations were realistics and
Cc) whether in retrospect the project was worth doing or could have
been done better,
7.        For those components of the project for which a rate of return
was estimated during appraisal, the PCR should contain a new estimate of
the return the project is now likely to yield and analyze the reasons for
physical or economic deviations. However, the new rate of return
calculation should be as simple as possible under the circumstances and
should absorb only a minor portion of the tim devoted to the preparation
of the PCR. An annex with the relevant informtion supporting this
analysis should be included.



- 54 -
ANNEX 11
MADAGASCAR
SEVENTH HIGHWAY PROJECT
Related Documents and Data Available in the Prolect File
1.   Etudes des Routes Bitumies et des Routes en Terre (Mare 1987)
2.  Etudes des Routes d'Acces des Zones Productives (Janvier 1987)
3.   Plan National de Transport (1987)
4.   Exploitation du Pont Bascule de Maevatanana - RN4
5.   Etude Sous-Sector Transports Routiers (Novembre 1986)
6.   Procas-Verbal Pr6dvaluation Septi&me Programme Routier (Aug. 1987)
7. Proces-Verbal Evaluation Septieme 1'rogramme Routier (D6cembre 1987)
8.  Etude Global du Transport Aeriev Malagasy (Septembre 1986)



u ow w UM" U"
lN~~~~~~~~~~~~~~l
g~,
/ ~ ~
1W12 iE W E HEOfOW~SI HUMSE
tq $**me e
3 E  aW  ] E   s                  DV CHIN



CHART 2
MADAGASCAR
SEtEW  HHIGWAY PROJECT
PROJECT IMPL4EMRTATION SCHEDULE 1/
*   Calendar Yea-
1998     1989       1990       1991        1992
Item         Item Components         Activity             Action By        _  _  -       _990              199_ _       1 9 9
.                                       ~~~~~~~~~3   4  l1 2  31 4  1  21 _3  4  11 2  3  4  1 2
Credit                                 Signing                 Government/IDA
Effectiveness          Government/IDA
Routine main-   Equipment. Materials  Preparation of Bids    Suppliers
tenance         Materials and          Evaluation and Award   Government/IDA
Supplies               Supply                  Suppliers
Subdivisions           Preparation of Bids    Contractors
Improvement           Evaluation and Award   Government/IDA
Works                   Contractors
Works by Contractors  Preparation of Bids    Contractors
Evaluation and Award   Government/IDA
Works                   Contractors            _  _ _  _  _  _ _  _  _  _        _  _  _
Technical Assistance  Proposals                Consultants
Evaluation and Award   Government/IDA
Services                Consultants            _  _ _  _  _  _ _  _  _  _ _  _  _  _
Rehabilitation  Paved, Engineered      Preparation of Bids    Contractors
/Resurfacing    Earth and Feeder       Evaluation and Award   Government/IDA
Roads                  Works                   Contractors            _  _ _  _  _  _ _  _  _  _ _  _
Road Safety     Equipment              Preparation of Bids    Suppliers
Evaluation and Award   Government/IDA
Supply                  Suppliers
Transport       Technical Assistance  Proposals                Consultants
Planning        HTRT                   Evaluation and Award   Government/IDA
Services                Consultants                              .  .  .  .  .     .  .  .
Training        Equipment              Preparation of Bids    Suppliers
Program                                Evaluation and Avard   Government/IDA
Supply                  Suppliers
Technical Assistance  Proposals                Consultants
Evaluation and Award   Government/IDA
Services                Consultants     _  _  _  _ _  _  _  = _  =
1/             All bidding documents and short lists of consultants will have been completed by September 1988.



I18R 20566R
t  440                       45                          1        CP D'AMM
2  MADAGASCAR C AR                                                                               r
SEVENTH HIGHWAY PROJECT
Main Road Network
PAVED ROADS:                                                           NOSS141E
Rehabilihtion and Resurfacing                                           I-wiIl0     'hna
Resurfacing                                                                                           I,
Maintenance
ENGINEERED EARTH ROADS:                                                             ANTSI RANANA                        '
140           Rebabilitation/ Regravelling
EXISTiNGC
-  Paved roads
All-weather roads                                             Anolpof0 ;
*,-----    Railroad                                                      Aftohi
Rivers                                                                                 /-
Faritany boundaries                                     ,CAPEST
International boundaries                                   >
KCILOMETERS 0  50   IqO   110   20,
MILES        L"= ic)   lo                                                                                          MASOAL
CAP SAINT-ANDRE/1
. BesolambY o_-              ,1        '9X\i,t}  5  i A
'             ' 'S  /                  / iCii   bh,!TT                    / ' 1Maes$anon/  f'Y
/                                        amy            lamefl
,1/  MAHAJANGA                                ,
S~~~~~~~~~ A --dt<
~~~. -'  ~~~~~                ~       ~        ~       .         Vavotg~~~~~~~~~~~~~lnaonn
~~U  >.~ Morofenobe
Moint~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~Attodaar
T ,, <>Antso a     ANTANANAR
Mo'  '           'r ombob                                                                                               l
\       {   FANANARNtAR os 
2r CAP5SAINT-VINCENT    1t 9W PU PUmP _                                            -tWvwds 1brWc2
2?                                                                                                       The Mb~~~18w~*a ~~aIacAk,  T2i
ftodrIV020                                    Aawo' ) Siwe d Nw
"0-                                 ForrS - B e/' - _ 
-24'  '  t      ekily                  9      /                    24 - 43 MAtXt    <           C~~~~~~~~~~~~ilNw  USUFWOMORS
-21f ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~~~~~~~~~~U
|~~~~ ~ ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ .                                                             Uw fa .-j  |  iSn,
.~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~u 'f Th Wb*1w ..                                  Mu   ADGS
Variko ~ ~   ,u,N~ ~e ~paam
.  8eloha g   Taobnor~~~~~~~Ohio       . 
T moph bow  pwa b
Tp                     --      ~    ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ J                   ~     ~     ~ AkZoIbRE    TANZANIA         Th WaBf
24~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~vhb                                                                    o"m   CQtx=MORO
*of &v       tmu w or SW
MADAGASCAR
4?                 44*     ~~~~~~~~CAP SAINTE-MARIE                           *AILN



