Page  1
                                                    CONFORMED COPY
                                            CREDIT NUMBER 1905 MAG
                     (Seventh Highway Project)
                              between
                 DEMOCRATIC REPUBLIC OF MADAGASCAR
                                and
               INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
                        Dated July 18, 1988
                   DEVELOPMENT CREDIT AGREEMENT
     AGREEMENT, dated July  18,  1988, between DEMOCRATIC REPUBLIC
OF  MADAGASCAR  (the   Borrower)   and  INTERNATIONAL  DEVELOPMENT
ASSOCIATION (the Association).
     WHEREAS (A) the Borrower,  having  satisfied itself as to the
feasibility and priority of the Project described in Schedule 2 to
this Agreement, has  requested  the  Association  to assist in the
financing of the Project;
     (B)  the Borrower intends  to  obtain  from the Government of
the Swiss Confederation  (Switzerland) a non-reimburseable contri-
bution (the Swiss Contribution) in  an amount of SwF 15,000,000 to
assist in financing the  Project  on  the terms and conditions set
forth in an  agreement  (the  Swiss  Contribution Agreement) to be
entered into between the Borrower and Switzerland;
     (C)  Switzerland has appointed  the Association to administer
the Swiss Contribution  in  accordance  with  the  provisions of a
Procedural  Agreement,  dated  April  9,  1987  (the Arrangement),
between  Switzerland  and  the  Association,  the  Association has
accepted such appointment and the Association shall administer the
Page  2
Swiss Contribution  in  accordance  with  the  provisions  of this
Agreement;
     (D)  the  Borrower  intends  to  contract  from  the  African
Development Fund (AfDF) a  loan  (the  AfDF  Loan) in an amount of
20,000,000 UA to assist in financing  the Project on the terms and
conditions set forth in an  agreement (the AfDF Loan Agreement) to
be entered into between the Borrower and AfDF;
     (E)  by an agreement, dated December  22, 1987 (the EDF Grant
Agreement), the European Development Fund (EDF) has agreed to make
a grant (the EDF Grant) to  the Borrower in an aggregate principal
amount of 25,500,000 ECU to assist in financing the Project on the
terms and conditions set forth in the EDF Grant Agreement;
     (F)  the Borrower intends  to  contract  from  The Kingdom of
Norway  (NORAD)  a  grant  (the  NORAD  Grant)  in  an  amount  of
16,000,000 NKr to assist in financing the Project on the terms and
conditions set forth in  an  agreement (the NORAD Grant Agreement)
to be entered into between the Borrower and NORAD;
     (G)  the Borrower intends  to  obtain  from the Government of
the Swiss Confederation (Switzerland) a grant (the Swiss Grant) in
an amount of SwF 10,000,000 to  assist in financing the Project on
the terms and  conditions  set  forth  in  an agreement (the Swiss
Grant Agreement)  to  be  entered  into  between  the Borrower and
Switzerland; and
     WHEREAS the Association has agreed, on the basis, inter alia,
of the foregoing, to extend  the  Credit  to the Borrower upon the
terms and conditions set forth in this Agreement;
     NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
                             ARTICLE I
                  General Conditions; Definitions
     Section 1.01. The "General  Conditions Applicable to Develop-
ment Credit Agreements" of the Association, dated January 1, 1985,
with the last sentence of Section 3.02 deleted (the General Condi-
tions), constitute an integral part of this Agreement.
     Section 1.02.  Unless  the  context  otherwise  requires, the
several  terms  defined  in  the  General  Conditions  and  in the
Preamble to this  Agreement  have  the respective meanings therein
set forth, and the  following  additional terms have the following
meanings:
     (a)  "Special Accounts"  means  the  accounts  referred to in
Section 2.02 (b) of this Agreement;
     (b)  "MTP"  means  the   Borrower's   Ministere  des  Travaux
Publics;
     (c)  "MTMT" means the Borrower's Ministere des Transports, de
la Meteorologie et du Tourisme;
     (d)  "SOLIMA"  (Solitany   Malagasy)   means  the  Borrower's
Entreprise  Nationale  for   the   refining  and  distribution  of
petroleum products, established and operating under Ordonnance No.
76-021, dated June 25, 1976; and
     (e)  "Swiss   Contribution   Account"   means   the   account
established  by  Switzerland  for   the   purposes  of  the  Swiss
Contribution.
                            ARTICLE II
                            The Credit
Page  3
     Section 2.01. The Association agrees to lend to the Borrower,
on the terms and conditions set  forth or referred to in the Deve-
lopment Credit Agreement, an  amount in various currencies equiva-
lent to twenty-eight million nine hundred thousand Special Drawing
Rights (SDR 28,900,000).
     Section 2.02. (a) The amount of  the Credit and the amount of
the Swiss Contribution may  be  withdrawn  from the Credit Account
and the Swiss  Contribution  Account,  respectively, in accordance
with  the  provisions  of   Schedule   1  to  this  Agreement  for
expenditures made (or, if  the  Association  shall so agree, to be
made) in respect  of  the  reasonable  cost  of goods and services
required for the Project described in Schedule 2 to this Agreement
and to be financed out of the proceeds of the Credit and the Swiss
Contribution.
     (b)  Except  as   the   Association   and  Switzerland  shall
otherwise  agree,  the  allocation  and  withdrawal  of  the Swiss
Contribution shall be governed, mutatis mutandis, by the provision
of the General Conditions.
     (c)  The Borrower shall,  for  the  purposes  of the Project,
open and maintain two  special  accounts,  one  in dollars and the
other in Swiss Francs, in its Central Bank on terms and conditions
satisfactory to the Association.  Deposits  into, and payments out
of, the Special  Accounts  shall  be  made  in accordance with the
provisions of Schedule 4 to this Agreement.
     Section 2.03. The Closing  Date  shall  be  June 30, 1993, or
such  later  date   as   the   Association  shall  establish.  The
Association shall promptly notify the Borrower of such later date.
     Section 2.04. (a)  The  Borrower shall pay to the Association
a commitment charge  on  the  principal  amount  of the Credit not
withdrawn from time to time at a rate to be set by the Association
as of June 30 of each year, but not to exceed the rate of one-half
of one percent (1/2 of 1%) per annum.
     (b)  The commitment  charge  shall  accrue:  (i)  from a date
sixty days after the date of  this Agreement (the accrual date) to
the respective dates on  which  amounts  shall be withdrawn by the
Borrower from the Credit  Account  or  cancelled; (ii) at the rate
set as of the June 30 immediately preceding the accrual date or at
such other rates  as  may  be  set  from  time  to time thereafter
pursuant to paragraph (a) above.   The  rate  set as of June 30 in
each year shall be applied  as  of  the  next payment date in that
year specified in Section 2.06  of this Agreement, except that the
rate set as of June 30, 1988 shall be applied as of July 1, 1988.
     (c)  The commitment charge shall be  paid: (i) at such places
as  the  Association   shall   reasonably  request;  (ii)  without
restrictions of any kind imposed  by,  or in the territory of, the
Borrower; and (iii) in  the  currency  specified in this Agreement
for the purposes of Section  4.02  of the General Conditions or in
such other eligible currency  or  currencies  as  may from time to
time be designated or selected  pursuant to the provisions of that
Section.
     Section 2.05. The  Borrower  shall  pay  to the Association a
service charge at the rate of three-fourths of one percent (3/4 of
1%) per annum on the principal  amount of the Credit withdrawn and
outstanding from time to time.
     Section 2.06. Commitment charges and service charges shall be
payable semiannually on May 1 and November 1 in each year.
     Section 2.07. (a) Subject  to  paragraphs  (b) and (c) below,
the Borrower shall repay  the  principal  amount  of the Credit in
semiannual installments  payable  on  each  May  1  and November 1
commencing  November  1,  1998,  and  ending  May  1,  2028.  Each
installment to and  including  the  installment  payable on May 1,
2008, shall be one percent (1%) of such principal amount, and each
Page  4
installment thereafter shall be two percent (2%) of such principal
amount.
     (b)  Whenever: (i) the Borrower's  gross national product per
capita, as determined by the Association, shall have exceeded $790
in constant 1985-dollars for five  consecutive years; and (ii) the
Bank shall consider  the  Borrower  creditworthy for Bank lending,
the Association may, subsequent to the review and approval thereof
by the  Executive  Directors  of  the  Association  and  after due
consideration  by  them  of  the  development  of  the  Borrower's
economy, modify  the  terms  of  repayment  of  installments under
paragraph (a) above by requiring  the  Borrower to repay twice the
amount of each such  installment  not  yet due until the principal
amount of the Credit shall  have  been  repaid. If so requested by
the Borrower,  the  Association  may  revise  such modification to
include, in lieu of some or all  of the increase in the amounts of
such installments,  the  payment  of  interest  at  an annual rate
agreed with the Association on  the principal amount of the Credit
withdrawn and outstanding from time to time, provided that, in the
judgment of the Association,  such  revision  shall not change the
grant  element  obtained   under   the  above-mentioned  repayment
modification.
     (c)  If, at any time  after  a modification of terms pursuant
to  paragraph  (b)  above,  the  Association  determines  that the
Borrower's economic condition  has deteriorated significantly, the
Association may, if so  requested  by the Borrower, further modify
the terms of repayment to  conform to the schedule of installments
as provided in paragraph (a) above.
     Section 2.08. The currency of the United States of America is
hereby specified for the purposes  of  Section 4.02 of the General
Conditions.
                            ARTICLE III
                     Execution of the Project
     Section 3.01. The  Borrower  declares  its  commitment to the
objectives of the  Project  as  set  forth  in  Schedule 2 to this
Agreement, and, to this end, shall  carry out Parts A through G of
the Project through MTP, and  Part  H of the Project through MTMT,
with  due  diligence  and   efficiency   and  in  conformity  with
appropriate engineering,  administrative  and financial practices,
and shall  provide,  promptly  as  needed,  the funds, facilities,
services and other resources required for the Project.
     Section  3.02.  Except  as  the  Association  shall otherwise
agree, procurement of the  goods,  works and consultants' services
required for the Project and to be financed out of the proceeds of
the Credit and the  Swiss  Contribution  shall  be governed by the
provisions of Schedule 3 to this Agreement.
     Section 3.03. (a)  By  August  31,  1989,  the Borrower shall
furnish to  the  Association  for  approval  a  public expenditure
program for MTP and MTMT covering the years 1990 and 1991.
     (b)  By August 31, 1990, and  each August 31 of the following
years during execution of the  Project, the Borrower shall furnish
to  the  Association  for  approval  a  three-year  rolling public
expenditure program for MTP and  MTMT covering the following three
years.
     (c)  By June 30, 1990 and  June  30, 1993, the Borrower shall
furnish to the Association  for  review  an update of the National
Transport Plan (1986-90).
     Section 3.04. The Borrower shall:
          (i)  maintain in its  Central  Bank,  in accordance with
               procedures acceptable to the Association an account
               (the  Road  Fund  Account)   to   be  used  by  MTP
Page  5
               exclusively for road maintenance purposes;
         (ii)  cause SOLIMA to deposit  into  the  Road Fund, on a
               monthly basis, revenues  from  taxes  and duties on
               motor fuel;
        (iii)  ensure that the  amounts  deposited  into said Road
               Fund for each fiscal  year  during execution of the
               Project shall  be  in  conformity  with the current
               public expenditure program, provided, however, that
               such amount  shall  not,  for  any  such year, fall
               below the equivalent of SDR 3,600,000;
         (iv)  maintain at its  Central  Bank  as a sub-account to
               the Road Fund a  Caisse d'Avance and replenish such
               Caisse d'Avance at the beginning of each quarter by
               the equivalent of at least SDR 360,000.
     Section 3.05.  By  August  31,  1989,  and  at least annually
thereafter, the Borrower  shall  review  with  the Association the
adequacy of the fuel  tax  revenues  to cover the road maintenance
needs and, after any such  review, if necessary, take all measures
to ensure such adequacy.
     Section 3.06. The Borrower  shall take all necessary measures
to ensure  that  private  participants,  or  sponsors  of any such
private participants, in courses  at  the  institut referred to in
Section  6.01  (b)  of  this  Agreement,  shall  pay  tuition fees
adequate to  cover  at  least  the  average  cost  per  trainee of
salaries of  local  teachers  and  consumable  goods  for any such
program.
     Section 3.07. (a) By  December  31,  1989, the Borrower shall
carry out a review  of  its legislation and regulations pertaining
to road passenger transportation.
     (b)  By June 30, 1990,  the  Borrower  shall consult with the
Association on: (i) the  results  of  the review carried out under
paragraph (a) above; and  (ii)  adequate measures to be undertaken
regarding liberalization of road passenger transportation.
     Section 3.08. (a) Before  commencement of any training course
under Parts F and H of  the  Project, the Borrower shall submit to
the Association for approval  a  detailed training program for any
such course.
     (b)  Before awarding  any  fellowships  under  Part  F of the
Project, the Borrower shall submit to the Association for approval
a detailed training program, the qualifications of each candidate,
type and cost of training  and  an indication of assignments to be
given to the trainees on their return.
                            ARTICLE IV
                        Financial Covenants
     Section 4.01. (a) The Borrower  shall maintain or cause to be
maintained records and accounts adequate to reflect, in accordance
with sound  accounting  practices,  the  operations, resources and
expenditures in  respect  of  the  Project  of  the departments or
agencies of the Borrower responsible  for carrying out the Project
or any part thereof.
     (b)  The Borrower shall:
          (i)  have the records and accounts, referred to in para-
               graph (a) of this  Section, including those for the
               Special Accounts and the Road Fund Account for each
               fiscal   year,   audited,    in   accordance   with
               appropriate   auditing    principles   consistently
               applied, by independent  auditors acceptable to the
               Association;
Page  6
         (ii)  furnish to the  Association,  as soon as available,
               but in any case not later than six months after the
               end of each  such  year,  a  certified  copy of the
               report of  such  audit  by  said  auditors, of such
               scope and in such  detail  as the Association shall
               have reasonably requested; and
        (iii)  furnish to the  Association  such other information
               concerning said  records,  accounts  and  the audit
               thereof as the Association  shall from time to time
               reasonably request.
     (c)  For all expenditures  with  respect to which withdrawals
from the Credit  Account  or  the  Swiss Contribution Account were
made on  the  basis  of  statements  of  expenditure, the Borrower
shall:
          (i)  maintain or cause  to  be maintained, in accordance
               with paragraph  (a)  of  this  Section, records and
               accounts reflecting such expenditures;
         (ii)  retain, until at least  one year after the Associa-
               tion has received the audit  for the fiscal year in
               which the last  withdrawal  from the Credit Account
               or the  Swiss  Contribution  Account  was made, all
               records   (contracts,   orders,   invoices,  bills,
               receipts  and  other   documents)  evidencing  such
               expenditures;
        (iii)  enable the Association's representatives to examine
               such records; and
         (iv)  ensure that such records  and accounts are included
               in the annual audit referred to in paragraph (b) of
               this Section  and  that  the  report  of such audit
               contains a separate opinion  by said auditors as to
               whether  the  statements  of  expenditure submitted
               during such fiscal  year,  together with the proce-
               dures  and  internal  controls  involved  in  their
               preparation, can  be  relied  upon  to  support the
               related withdrawals.
                             ARTICLE V
                    Remedies of the Association
     Section 5.01. Pursuant  to  Section  6.02  (h) of the General
Conditions, the following additional events are specified:
          (i)  Subject to subparagraph (ii) of this paragraph:
               (A)  The right  of  the  Borrower  to  withdraw the
                    proceeds of the  Swiss  Contribution, the AfDF
                    Loan, the EDF  Grant,  the  NORAD Grant or the
                    Swiss  Grant  made  to  the  Borrower  for the
                    financing  of  the  Project  shall  have  been
                    suspended, cancelled  or  terminated  in whole
                    or in  part,  pursuant  to  the  terms  of the
                    Swiss Contribution  Agreement,  the  AfDF Loan
                    Agreement, the EDF  Grant Agreement, the NORAD
                    Grant Agreement, or the Swiss Grant Agreement,
                    or
               (B)  the  AfDF  Loan  shall  have  become  due  and
                    payable prior to the agreed maturity thereof.
         (ii)  Subparagraph (i) of this  paragraph shall not apply
               if the Borrower establishes  to the satisfaction of
               the Association that:  (A) such suspension, cancel-
               lation, termination or prematuring is not caused by
               the failure of the  Borrower  to perform any of its
Page  7
               obligations under such  agreement; and (B) adequate
               funds for the Project are available to the Borrower
               from other sources on  terms and conditions consis-
               tent with  the  obligations  of  the Borrower under
               this Agreement.
     Section 5.02. Pursuant  to  Section  7.01  (d) of the General
Conditions, the following  additional  event is specified, namely,
that the event specified in  paragraph  (i) (B) of Section 5.01 of
this  Agreement   shall   occur,   subject   to   the  proviso  of
paragraph (ii) of that Section.
                            ARTICLE VI
                    Effective Date; Termination
     Section  6.01.  The   following   events   are  specified  as
additional conditions  to  the  effectiveness  of  the Development
Credit Agreement within the  meaning  of  Section 12.01 (b) of the
General Conditions:
     (a)  the Borrower has  promulgated  the  Charte de Gestion du
Reseau Routier; such Charte to be acceptable to the Association;
     (b)  the   Borrower   shall    have   upgraded   the   Centre
d'Application des Travaux Publics to the status of an institut;
     (c)  all conditions precedent to  initial disbursement of the
Swiss Contribution have been met; and
     (d)  the  Borrower  has  published  the  decret  and  the two
arretes relating  to  traffic  regulation  and  road  safety; such
decret and arretes to be acceptable to the Association.
     Section 6.02. The date  ninety  (90)  days  after the date of
this Agreement is  hereby  specified  for  the purposes of Section
12.04 of the General Conditions.
     Section 6.03. The obligations  of the Borrower under Sections
3.04 through 3.06 of this  Agreement and the provisions of Section
5.02 of this Agreement shall  cease  and  determine on the date on
which this Agreement shall terminate or on the date 15 years after
the date of this Agreement, whichever shall be the earlier.
     Section  6.04.  In   the   event   that  Switzerland  or  the
Association  terminate  the   functions   of  the  Association  as
Administrator pursuant  to  paragraph  5  of  the Arrangement, the
Association shall notify  the  Borrower  promptly  of  the date on
which Switzerland shall assume  the  rights and obligations of the
Association under this Agreement.
                            ARTICLE VII
             Representative of the Borrower; Addresses
     Section 7.01. The  Minister  of  the Borrower responsible for
finance is designated as  representative  of  the Borrower for the
purposes of Section 11.03 of the General Conditions.
     Section 7.02. The following  addresses  are specified for the
purposes of Section 11.01 of the General Conditions:
     For the Borrower:
          Ministere aupres de la Presidence
            de la Republique charge des
            Finances et de l'Economie
          Antananarivo, Madagascar
          Cable address:                      Telex:
Page  8
                MINFIN                          22339
                Antananarivo
     For the Association:
          International Development Association
          1818 H Street, N.W.
          Washington, D.C. 20433
          United States of America
          Cable address:                      Telex:
                INDEVAS                          440098 (ITT)
                Washington, D.C.                 248423 (RCA) or
                                                  64145 (WUI)
     IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the  parties hereto, acting through their
duly authorized representatives, have  caused this Agreement to be
signed in their  respective  names  in  the  District of Columbia,
United States of  America,  as  of  the  day  and year first above
written.
                          DEMOCRATIC REPUBLIC OF MADAGASCAR
                          By /s/ Leon Rajaobelina
                                         Authorized Representative
                          INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
                          By /s/ Paul Isenman
                                    Acting Regional Vice President
                                                            Africa
                            SCHEDULE 1
             Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the Credit
                    and the Swiss Contribution
1.   The table below  sets  forth  the  Categories  of items to be
financed  out  of  the  proceeds  of  the  Credit  and  the  Swiss
Contribution, the allocation of the  amounts of the Credit and the
Swiss  Contribution  to  each   Category  and  the  percentage  of
expenditures for items so to be financed in each Category:
                                           Amount
                                           of the
                                         Swiss Con-
                          Amount         tribution
                          of the          Allocated
                          Credit         (Expressed     % of
                         Allocated        in Swiss    Expendi-
                       (Expressed in       Francs     tures to
     Category         SDR Equivalent)   Equivalent)   be Financed
(1)  Civil works
     under:
     (a)  Parts A,
          B, C,
          D (ii)
          and G
Page  9
          of the
          Project
          to be
          financed
          by:
        (i)   the        14,000,000                   100%
              Asso-
              ciation
       (ii)   Switzer-                  12,100,000    100% of
              land                                    foreign
                                                      expen-
                                                      ditures
                                           Amount
                                           of the
                                         Swiss Con-
                          Amount         tribution
                          of the          Allocated
                          Credit         (Expressed     % of
                         Allocated        in Swiss    Expendi-
                       (Expressed in       Francs     tures to
     Category         SDR Equivalent)   Equivalent)   be Financed
     (b)  Part D (i)      1,000,000        600,000    100% of
          of the                                      foreign
          Project                                     expend-
                                                      tures
(2)  Equipment,           4,000,000                   100% of
     spare parts,                                     foreign
     materials                                        expendi-
     and supplies                                     tures
                                                      and 70%
                                                      of local
                                                      expendi-
                                                      tures
(3)  Consultants'
     services and
     fellowships
     to be financed
     by:
     (a)  the Asso-       5,500,000                   100%
          ciation
     (b)  Switzer-                       1,300,000    100% of
          land                                        foreign
                                                      expendi-
                                                      tures
(4)  Unallocated          4,400,000      1,000,000
                          _________      _________
         TOTAL          28,900,000      15,000,000
2.   For the purposes of this Schedule:
     (a)  the term  "foreign  expenditures"  means expenditures in
the currency of any country  other  than  that of the Borrower for
goods or services supplied from the territory of any country other
than that of the Borrower; and
     (b)  the term "local expenditures"  means expenditures in the
currency of the Borrower  or  for  goods or services supplied from
the territory of the Borrower.
Page  10
3.   Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 above, no with-
drawals shall be made in respect of payments made for expenditures
prior to the date of this Agreement.
                            SCHEDULE 2
                    Description of the Project
     The  objectives  of  the  Project  are  to  strengthen  MTP's
capacity in planning, coordination  and  monitoring of road works,
to  develop  the  domestic   road  construction  industry  and  to
strengthen MTMT in transport planning and coordination.
     The Project consists of the  following parts, subject to such
modifications thereof  as  the  Borrower  and  the Association may
agree upon from time to time to achieve such objectives:
Part A:   Rehabilitation and Periodic Maintenance of Paved Roads
     Carrying out of rehabilitation programs  on about 1,500 km of
paved  roads  including:  improving  drainage  systems,  repairing
structures,  regravelling  shoulders,   rebuilding  of  subgrades,
patching, resealing and execution  of  a single surface treatment,
construction of new base courses of crushed rocks or treated local
soil materials  and  execution  of  double  surface  treatments or
asphalt concrete wearing courses.
Part B:   Rehabilitation and Periodic Maintenance of Earth Roads
     Carrying out of a rehabilitation  program  on about 500 km of
engineered  earth  roads  including:  improving  drainage systems,
repairing   structures,    regravelling    shoulders,   rebuilding
subgrades,  construction  of  new  base  and  rolling  courses  of
gravelly soil materials.
Part C:   Rehabilitation of Feeder Roads
     Carrying out of a rehabilitation program on about 1,790 km of
feeder roads including: widening  of  widths  to  about 4.5 m with
shoulders of 0.5  to  1  m  when  economically feasible, improving
drainage,  partial  realignment  and  improvement  of  grades  and
selective regravelling.
Part D:   Routine Maintenance
     Carrying out of  a  routine  maintenance  program on the main
road and feeder road network of Madagascar, including:
          (i)  clearing  of  shoulders,  cleaning  of  ditches and
               culverts,  minor  repairs   of  bridges,  patching,
               resealing  filling  of   potholes,  acquisition  of
               equipment, materials and supplies; and
         (ii)  rehabilitation of workshops and offices.
Part E:   Development of Domestic Contractors
     Carrying  out  a  training   program  to  assist  small-scale
domestic contractors  in  improving  their  ability  to  carry out
periodic  and  routine   road   maintenance,  including:  training
courses, seminars and training works.
Part F:   Training and Manpower Development
     Training of staff members  of  MTP, including engineers, road
technicians,  equipment  operators,  mechanics  and  electricians,
accountants, and store clerks, acquisition of equipment, tools and
supplies needed therefor, and  provision of fellowships for short-
Page  11
term courses.
Part G:   Traffic Regulation and Safety
     Construction of office buildings and acquisition of equipment
needed for three road control centers.
Part H:   Transport Planning and Coordination
     Strengthening  of  MTMT  in  the  carrying  out  of transport
planning and coordination, and training of staff members of MTMT.
                           *     *     *
     The Project is expected to be completed by December 31, 1992.
                            SCHEDULE 3
               Procurement and Consultants' Services
Section I.  Procurement of Goods and Works
Part A:   International Competitive Bidding
1.   Except as provided in Part D hereof, goods and works shall be
procured under  contracts  awarded  in  accordance with procedures
consistent with those  set  forth  in  Sections  I  and  II of the
"Guidelines for  Procurement  under  IBRD  Loans  and IDA Credits"
published by the Bank in May 1985 (the Guidelines).
Part B:   Preference for Domestic Manufacturers
     In the procurement of goods in accordance with the procedures
described in Part A  hereof,  goods manufactured in Madagascar may
be granted a margin of  preference in accordance with, and subject
to, the provisions of paragraphs  2.55  and 2.56 of the Guidelines
and paragraphs 1 through 4 of Appendix 2 thereto.
Part C:   Preference for Domestic Contractors
     In the procurement of works in accordance with the procedures
described in Part A  hereof,  the  Borrower  may grant a margin of
preference to domestic contractors in accordance with, and subject
to, the provisions of paragraphs  2.55  and 2.56 of the Guidelines
and paragraph 5 of Appendix 2 thereto.
Part D:   Other Procurement Procedures
1.   Contracts for  works  estimated  to  cost  the  equivalent of
$500,000 or less  up  to  an  aggregate  amount  not to exceed the
equivalent of $6.4 million may be procured under contracts awarded
on the basis of the Borrower's  Decree 70-089 of January 28, 1970,
provided, however, that:
     (a)  registration  of  foreign  bidders  in  the  Registry of
Commerce shall not be required for the acceptance of their bids;
     (b)  no procurement shall be  made  on  the basis of selected
tendering or direct contracting except in the case of rejection of
all bids;
     (c)  bids shall be opened  in  public, i.e., bidders or their
representatives shall be allowed to be present; and
     (d)  no special preference will  be given to domestic bidders
in the evaluation of bids.
2.   Minor civil works under  Parts  C  and  D  (i) of the Project
estimated to cost the  equivalent  of  $100,000  or less, up to an
aggregate amount not to exceed the equivalent of $1.8 million, may
Page  12
be procured under contracts awarded on the basis of the provisions
set forth in paragraph 1  above  and restricted to participants of
the training program under Part E of the Project.
3.   Contracts for equipment, spare parts, materials and supplies,
estimated to cost the  equivalent  of  $50,000  or  less, up to an
aggregate amount not to exceed  the equivalent of $500,000, may be
awarded on the basis of price  quotations solicited from a list of
at least three local suppliers.
Part E:   Review by the Association of Procurement Decisions
1.   Review of invitations to bid and of proposed awards and final
contracts:
     (a)  With respect  to  each  contract  estimated  to cost the
equivalent  of  $35,000  or  more,  the  procedures  set  forth in
paragraphs 2 and 4 of  Appendix  1  to the Guidelines shall apply.
Where payments for  such  contracts  are  to  be  made  out of the
Special Accounts, such procedures shall be modified to ensure that
the two conformed copies of  the contract required to be furnished
to the Association  pursuant  to  said  paragraph  2  (d) shall be
furnished to the  Association  prior  to  the  making of the first
payment out of the Special Accounts in respect of such contracts.
     (b)  With respect to each  contract  not governed by the pre-
ceding paragraph, the procedures set  forth  in paragraphs 3 and 4
of Appendix 1 to  the  Guidelines  shall apply. Where payments for
such contracts are to be  made  out  of the Special Accounts, such
procedures shall be  modified  to  ensure  that  the two conformed
copies  of  the  contract  together  with  the  other  information
required to  be  furnished  to  the  Association  pursuant to said
paragraph 3 shall be furnished  to  the Association as part of the
evidence to be furnished pursuant to  paragraph 4 of Schedule 4 to
this Agreement.
     (c)  The provisions of  the  preceding  subparagraphs (a) and
(b)  shall  not  apply  to  contracts  on  account  of  which  the
Association has authorized withdrawals  from the Credit Account or
the Swiss  Contribution  Account  on  the  basis  of statements of
expenditure. Such contracts shall  be  retained in accordance with
Section 4.01 (c) (ii) of this Agreement.
2.   The figure of 15% is  hereby  specified for purposes of para-
graph 4 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines.
Section II.   Employment of Consultants
     In order to assist the  Borrower in carrying out the Project,
the  Borrower  shall   employ  consultants  whose  qualifications,
experience  and  terms  and  conditions  of  employment  shall  be
satisfactory  to  the  Association.   Such  consultants  shall  be
selected in accordance with principles and procedures satisfactory
to the Association on the basis  of the "Guidelines for the Use of
Consultants by World  Bank  Borrowers  and  by  The  World Bank as
Executing Agency" published by the Bank in August 1981.
                            SCHEDULE 4
                         Special Accounts
1.   For the purposes of this Schedule:
     (a)  the term "Categories" means  the Categories set forth in
the table in paragraph 1 of Schedule 1 to this Agreement;
     (b)  the term "eligible Categories" means:
        (i)   in respect of Special  Account A, Categories (1) (a)
              (i), (1) (b), (2) and (3) (a); and
Page  13
       (ii)   in respect of Special  Account B, Categories (1) (a)
              (ii), (1) (b) and (3) (b);
     (c)  the term "eligible  expenditures"  means expenditures in
respect of the reasonable cost  of goods and services required for
the Project and to be financed  out  of the proceeds of the Credit
or the Swiss  Contribution  allocated  from  time  to  time to the
eligible Categories in accordance  with the provisions of Schedule
1 to this Agreement; and
     (d)  the term "Authorized Allocation" means: (i) an amount of
$750,000 in the case of Special  Account  A; and (ii) an amount of
SwF 500,000 in the case of  Special  Account B. Such amounts to be
withdrawn  from  the  Credit  Account  or  the  Swiss Contribution
Account  and  deposited  into   the  respective  Special  Accounts
pursuant to paragraph 3 (a) of this Schedule.
2.   Except as the Association shall otherwise agree, payments out
of the Special  Accounts  shall  be  made exclusively for eligible
expenditures in accordance with the provisions of this Schedule.
3.   After the Association  has  received evidence satisfactory to
it that the Special Accounts have been duly opened, withdrawals of
the Authorized Allocation and  subsequent withdrawals to replenish
the Special Accounts may be made as follows:
     (a)  On the basis of  a  request  or requests by the Borrower
for a deposit or deposits which  add up to the aggregate amount of
the Authorized Allocation, the Association shall, on behalf of the
Borrower,  withdraw  from   the   Credit   Account  or  the  Swiss
Contribution Account and  deposit  into  the  Special Account such
amount or amounts as the Borrower shall have requested.
     (b)  The Borrower shall  furnish  to the Association requests
for replenishment of the Special Accounts at such intervals as the
Association shall specify.  On  the  basis  of  such requests, the
Association shall withdraw from  the  Credit  Account or the Swiss
Contribution Account and  deposit  into  the Special Accounts such
amounts as shall  be  required  to  replenish the Special Accounts
with amounts not exceeding the amount  of payments made out of the
Special Accounts  for  eligible  expenditures.  All  such deposits
shall be withdrawn by the  Association  from the Credit Account or
the  Swiss  Contribution  Account  under  the  respective eligible
Categories, and in  the  respective  equivalent  amounts, as shall
have been justified  by  the  evidence  supporting the request for
such deposit furnished pursuant to paragraph 4 of this Schedule.
4.   For each payment  made  by  the  Borrower  out of the Special
Accounts for which the Borrower requests replenishment pursuant to
paragraph 3 (b) of  this  Schedule,  the Borrower shall furnish to
the Association, prior to  or  at  the  time of such request, such
documents and other evidence  as  the Association shall reasonably
request,  showing  that  such   payment   was  made  for  eligible
expenditures.
5.   (a)  Notwithstanding the provisions  of  paragraph  3 of this
Schedule, no further deposit  into  the  Special Accounts shall be
made by the Association  when  either  of the following situations
first arises:
          (i)  the  Association  shall  have  determined  that all
               further withdrawals should be  made by the Borrower
               directly  from  the  Credit  Account  or  the Swiss
               Contribution  Account   in   accordance   with  the
               provisions of Article  V  of the General Conditions
               and  paragraph  (a)   of   Section   2.02  of  this
               Agreement; or
         (ii)  the total unwithdrawn amount  of  the Credit or the
               Swiss  Contribution   allocated   to  the  eligible
               Categories, minus  the  amount  of  any outstanding
               special commitment entered  into by the Association
Page  14
               pursuant to Section 5.02  of the General Conditions
               with respect to the Project,  shall be equal to the
               equivalent of twice  the  amount  of the Authorized
               Allocation.
     (b)  Thereafter, withdrawal from  the  Credit  Account or the
Swiss Contribution Account, as the  case  may be, of the remaining
unwithdrawn  amount  of  the  Credit  or  the  Swiss  Contribution
allocated to the eligible  Categories shall follow such procedures
as the Association shall specify  by  notice to the Borrower. Such
further withdrawals shall be  made  only  after  and to the extent
that the  Association  shall  have  been  satisfied  that all such
amounts remaining on deposit  in  the  Special  Accounts as of the
date of  such  notice  will  be  utilized  in  making payments for
eligible expenditures.
6.   (a)  If the Association  shall  have  determined  at any time
that any payment out of the Special Accounts: (i) was made for any
expenditure or in any amount  not eligible pursuant to paragraph 2
of this  Schedule;  or  (ii)  was  not  justified  by the evidence
furnished to the  Association,  the  Borrower shall, promptly upon
notice from the  Association,  deposit  into  the Special Accounts
(or,  if  the  Association   shall   so  request,  refund  to  the
Association) an amount equal to the  amount of such payment or the
portion thereof not so  eligible  or justified. No further deposit
by the Association into the  Special  Accounts shall be made until
the Borrower has made such deposit or refund.
     (b)  If the Association  shall  have  determined  at any time
that any amount outstanding  in  the  Special Accounts will not be
required to cover further  payments for eligible expenditures, the
Borrower shall, promptly upon  notice from the Association, refund
to the Association such  outstanding  amount  for crediting to the
Credit Account or the Swiss  Contribution Account, as the case may
be.
