Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
MICROFICHE COPY
Report No. 10407-AR  Type: (PCR)                    ReportNo. 10407
DONALDSON,/ X31757 / T9 017/ OEDDl
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
ARGENTINA
VOCATIONAL TRAINING AND TECHNICAL EDUCATION PROJECT
(LOAN 1905-AR)
MARCH 9, 1992
Human Resources Division
Country Department IV
Latin America and the Caribbean Regional Office
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
Name of Currency:         Peso Argentino ($P) at Appraisal and
Austral (A), at Cancellation
Rate at Appraisal:        US$1.00 - $P 1,620
Rate at Cancellation:    US$1.00 - A 1.38
WEIGHTS AND MEASURES
Metric System
ABBRE'VIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
CONET     :    National Technical Education Council
VTC        :    Vocational Training Center



FOR OFICIAL USE ONLY
THE WORLD BAN,A
Washington, D.C. 20433
U.S.A.
Office of Directow-Geneual
Opetations Evaluation
March 9, 1992
MEMORANDUM TO THE EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS AND THE PRESIDENT
SUBJECT: Project Completion Report on ARGENTINA
Vocational Training and Technical Education Project (Loan 1905-AR)
Attached, for information, is a copy of a report entitled "Project
Completion Report on ARGENTINA - Vocational Training and Technical Education
Project (Loan 1905-AR) prepared by the Latin America and the Caribbean Region.
No audit of this project has been made by the Operations Evaluation Department
at this time.
Attachment
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the perforrnance
of their of ficial duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disc osed without World Bank authorization.



FOR OFmFCIAL USE ONLY
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
ARGENTINA
VOCATIONAL TRAINING AND
TECHNICAL EDUCATION PROJECT
(LOAN 19O5:AR)
TABLE OF CONTENTS
Page No.,
Preface   .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .    .     .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  i
Evaluation Swmary  ....  .        .  ....... . . . ...                iii
PART I    REVIEW FROM BANK'S PERSPECTIVE                                1
Background and Context  . . . .          .. . . . .           1
Project Objectives.                     . . . .               2
Project Design and Organization ..2
Project Results . . .       .       . .  . . . . . .          3
PART II   REVIEW FROM BORRO'W1ER'S PERSPECTIVE: THERE IS NO PART 11     5
PART III  STATISTICAL INFORMATION                                       7
Table 1:  Related Bank Loans  . . . . . . . . . . . . .   . .           7
Table 2:  Project Timetable   ... .      .  .  .  .  .  .  .    . . .   .  7
Comments oa Project Timetable   . . . . . . . . .  .          7
Table 3:  Loan Disbursements  . ... o ,          ...........       .    8
Table 4:  Project Costs and Financing . . . . . . . . . . . . .         9
Table 5:  Project Activities: Missions. . . . . . . . . . . . .        11
Comments on Missions       . . . . . . . . 
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance
of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
ARGEt4TINA
VOCATIONAL TRAINING AND
TECHNICAL EDUCATION PROJECT
(LOAN 1905-AR)
PREFACE
1.        This is a Project Completion Report for the Argentina Vocational
Training and Technical Education Project for which Loan 1905-AR in the amount
of US$58 million was approved on October 7, 1980. The loan became effective
on February 22, 1982. After almost six years of very limited disbursement,
the Government of Argentina requested and in July 1986 the Board approved the
cancellation of US$37.8 million of the original loan and the reprograming of
the remainder. After total disbursements of approximately US$ 0.9 million,
the remaining US $19.3 million was canceled on February 18, 1987. No projact
completion report was prepared in the months following closure because the
project had never really become operational. As a number of important lessons
can be learned from the failure to implement a project, this PCR has been
prepared four years after closure.
2.        The loan was extended to the Government of Argentina, to be carried
out by the National Technical Education Council (Consejo Nacional de Educaci6n
T6cnica, CONET), a semi-autonomous entity under Argentina's Ministry of
Education.
3.        The PCR was prepared by the Human Resources Division of Country
Department IV, Latin America and Caribbean Region on the basis of project
documentation in the LAC Information Center and discussions with present and
former Bank staff, including the leader of the Appraisal Mission and task
managers at various stages in the project's history. Discussions were also
held with the current President of CONET in Buenos Aires on two occasions,
once to explain the PCR process and request his assistance in evaluating the
project from the Argentine Government's point of view, and a second follow-up
meeting. However, no records of the project were found in CONET's files. In
view of the turnover in CONET staff and the lack of files, the Borrower did
not complete a PCR. No formal Project Completion Mission was carried out by
Bank staff.



- iii -
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
ARGENTINA
VOCATIONAL TRAINING AND
TECHNICAL EDUCATION PROJECT
(LOAN 1905-AR)
EVALUATION SUMMARY
1.        This project was the first social sector project in Argentina.
Initiated during a period when structural reform was being attempted, it was
expected that the upgrading of technical capacity would reinforce the
Government's effort to open up the economy. In design, the project was fairly
typical of other vocational projects the Bank had supported in Latin America.
While large and involving a number of innovative components, analysis
supported the size of investment proposed; during the late stages of project
negotiations a reduction was made in project size in response to the Ministry
of Economy's concern about available country counterpart funds.
2.        What would distinguish this project was the total inability of the
Government and Bank to proceed int  *-- implementation phase.  In spite of
considerable effort on the part of .e Jovernment, its implementing agency,
and Bank staff, less than 2% of t.,  .an would disburse over the entire seven
year period of implementation. Underlying this performance was a set of
interacting factors; chan3es in project administration, project complexity,
deteriorating economic ccnditions, and political turmoil. Individually, none
of these was unique end each would typically be addressed effectively through
supervision and follow up. That such efforts, which were considerable and
marked by increasing intensity over time, did not succeed in getting the
project on track, supports a view that their combined presence at project
start up be.came an overwhelming block to successful implementation. Clearly,
they presented a situation that undermined the typical commitment to project
goals which would facilitate progress over time. Perhaps the fact that this
was the initial project in the sector added to the difficulties --counterparts
were not familiar with Bank procedures and differences with the Bank, in
particular misunderstandings about procurement, contributed to the failure to
get the project going.
3.        A number of clear lessons emerged from the project's record.  The
importance of developing a broad commitment to the project concept is clearly
underlined. The record also reinforces the important role that macroeconomic
constraints play and demonstrates the difficulty of getting a large, complex
project implemented in a sector new to the Bank. Yet perhaps the most
important lesson is on the need for more a disciplined review of how/whether
to proceed when project implementation has been unsuccessful over an extended
period of time. For over seven years considerable efforts were made by
Government and Bank staff to get the project going. If there had been a more
systematic and formal requirement to assess the prospects for progress, the
considerable frustration that emerged over this project on all sides
(particularly during its later years) could have been avoided and resources
could have been redeployed either toward redesign or developing another,
potentially more successful, approach to the social sectors.



PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
ARGENTINA
VOCATIONAL TRAINING AND
TECHNICAL EDUCATION PROJECT
(LOAN 1905-AR)
PART I.  REVIEW FROM BANK'S PERSPECTIVE
Pro1ect Identity
Project Name:  Vocational Training and Technical Education Frr 'c
Loan No.:       1905-AR
RVP Unit:      Latin American and the Caribbean
Country Department IV
Country:       Argentina
Sector:        Education
Subsector:     Vocational Training and Technical Education
Background and Context
1.        The Economy.  Argentina's decline from one of the richest countries
in the world to one beset by seemingly intractable economic problems can be
attributed to a fundamental reorientation of the economy following the
economic crisis provoked by the Great Depression of the 1930s. For the next
four decades the country's development strategy turned inward, promoting rapid
industrialization financed largely by transfers from agriculture, the sector
upon which early prosperity had been built. However, the exhaustion of
import-substitution options led to increasingly frequent balance of payments
crises and erratic economic growth.
2.        Major efforts were undertaken in 1976 and again in 1978 to reverse
the trend, but persistent inflation and failure to contain public expenditures
undermined these programs, leading to extreme instability which, in turn,
concentrated the efforts of decision-makers on short-term, speculative
operations which were unsustainable and perceived as such.  At the time of the
development of this project the Government was, therefore, in the process of
making an effort at structural reform.
3.        Sector and Prolect Environment.  As part of its effort to stabilize
its economy in the late 70s, the Government opened up its financial system and
reduced protection "nvels.  These measures exposed the industrial sector to
increasing international competition.  As this economic strategy emphasized
growth and strengthening of the modern industrial sector, vocational and
technical education were perceived as key contributors to this strategy.
Project design, which required a long period from identification to appraisal
and high levels of staff time input, was carried out in this environment. The
period leading to loan effectiveness and that of the first years of the
project's life were extremely tumultuous. Economic difficulties continued,
with high rates of inflation and large fiscal constraints. In the political



-2-
.rea, the country was experiencing the last years of military government and
elthin months of effectiveness, Atgontina embarked on the Malvinas war, which
complicated efforts to get the project started.
4.        The executing agency, the Consejo Nacional de Education Tecnica
(CONET), had been formed to incorporate two major training activities, one
that had provided secondary level vocational education through a large network
of National Technical Schools and another a largely postsecondary technical
education program. The project was expected to double enrollment in the
vocational education program, and was designed to introduce innovative
approaches to vonational training through mobile training units, and to
finance studies and technical assistance intended to lay the groundwork for a
new "dual system" of vocational education in which the private sector was to
play an important role.  There was resistance to some of these policy reforms
within CONET.
Proiect Obiectives
5.        The project aimed to increase thL capacity and improve the quality
of Argentina's vocational training system in order to support the Government's
economic policies and facilitate expected growth of production in sectors
repuiring technically trained workers. It focussed on skill formation for
m. Lfacturing, utilities, construction, and mechanized agriculture and on
moCernizing training facilities to meet the needs of more technically advanced
I. ..s in Argentina. The mobile units included in the project were intended to
make training available on a cost-effective basis in smaller communities
around the country.
Proiect Design and Organization
6.        There were three main components of the project.  (i) A vocational
component was to provide curriculum development, teacher training,
construction and equipment of 12 new vocational training centers and
rehabilitation or replacement of 18 existing centers, as well as purchase and
ecuipment of 50 mobile units to provide short term training to workers in
response to recognized demands. (ii) A technical education component
provided for planning and development of a "dual system" of technical
education and improving the organization and quality o' the technical
subsector. (iii) A techrical assistance component serving both the
vocational and technical education components of the project, providing
studies of the labor market and evaluation of CONET's existing operations.
The project fnllowed fairly traditional patterns for Bank vocational education
activities witn the exception of the mobile units and studies and plans
leading to the proposed "dual system" of technical education. CONET was to be
responsible for implementation through a special project unit that was to
supervise construction and procurement activities and coordinate the technical
assistance and quality improvement components that were to be carried out by
CONET's Directorates of Vocational Education, Technical Education and
Planning. The head of the Project Unit was to report to the President of
CONET. Architectural designs for ten vocational training centers were
prepared by CONET's staff and consultants, who were to complete the remaining
architectural designs after implementation began. The private sector was to



3
participate through Advisory Committees linked with all of CONET's training
centers.
Proiect Results
7.        For a number of reasons the project never became truly operational
and, therefore,did not achieve any of its objectives.  The civil works program
progressed as far as designing the new vocational centers.  Otherwise the only
significant expenditures were on project administration during the long effort
to begin operations.  A major effort and project restructuring was made in
1986 when over 652 of the loan was canceled and a renewed effort at project
start-up was made. This effort was not successful Lnd at project closing less
than 2% of the original loan was disbursed during the seven years period of
implementation.  On the basis of the documents available and the opinion of
Bank staff associated with the project at various stages in its frustrating
history, the reasons for non-implementation included the following.
(i) Changes in CONET administ;-ation and lack of sustained commitment to
the obiectives of the prolect.  After the project was appraised and
negotiated, CONET's management changed and a permanent replacement
was not named for an extended period.  Complicating this situation,
some of the reforms to be financed under the project were
controversial within CONET. Finally, there were reservations in
some parts of the Government about borrowing for social sector
investments.  The lack of strong leadership combined with policy
conflicts at the technical level greatly complicated the start up
of the project.
(ii)   Project Complexity.  Although the design of the project conformed
to norms for vocational education projects throughout the Bank, its
size and complexity were too great for an initial operation in the
sector. In addition, many Bank requirements were new to CONET and
presented a set of issues which was not easily addressed.
Procurement problems were noteworthy --in particular many officials
in CONET did not support the use of ICB.
(iii)   Deteriorating Economic Conditions.  Concurrent with the final
agreement on the project, Argentina entered a period of extreme
economic crisis that both undermined the ability of the Government
to meet counterpart financing requirements and distracted the
attention of key government officials from project implementation.
While the Ministry of Economy expressed its reservations on funding
at the final steps of project preparation and the project size was
reduced to address this, as the overall environment deteriorated,
financial problems were not effectively addressed.
(iv)   Rapid and Continuous Political Change.  The period during which the
project was to be initiated was marred by dramatic political
change. These changes, affecting CONET projict management and the
ministries involved, made the process of reaching a sustained
consensus on project design and priority elusive.



-4-
8.        Leaons Learned
a)   Dearse of Comitment to Proiect Concept.  The breadth of
government commitment to a project is particularly critical in
a time of rapid economic and political changes. Surviving a
change in government or project leadership and/or financial
constraints will depend directly on how broad and deep the
level of support for the project is, both within the project
entity/ministry and with the core ministries.  In this case,
problems were presented from both sides and in spite of
considerable goodwill and effort over the life of the project,
the initial concerns on pi:oject size (in the Ministry of the
Economy) and on project concept (within CONET) could not be
overcome.
b)   Impact of Macroeconomic Constraints.  Government inability to
deliver counterpart funding marked this project from its
inceptiot. Financing difficulties overshadowed all other
problems through the period of implementation.
c)   New Borrower Constraints.  As an initial operation in the
education sector, this project presented a number of special
problems. Its large size and complexity presented a
considerable constraint. In addition, unfamiliarity with Bank
procedures (particularly ICB) emerged as a large issue. This
argues for a careful review of project size and complexity in
new sectors and underlines the importance of full
understanding of Bank procedures with new borrowing entities.
d)   Project Reviews.  The most interesting aspect of this project
was the period over which it remained open in spite of a
virtual standstill in implementation. At the initial stage
inactivity was seen as a start-up problem. Then, the war in
the Malvinas and the change in government intervened.
Finally, there was the restructuring effort and a complex set
of financial problems. Taken alone, each cf these situations
is easily explained. In total, they present a situation where
the project languished for a period of alaost seven years.
Clearly, this experience argues for a more decisive process of
review when issues of commitment or macroeconomic
circumstances remain for an extended period. The recent trend
toward incorporating a formal mid-project review may represent
an appropriate response. It is interesting to note that it
was the Bank's determination not to extend the original
closing date that contributed to agreement on the cancellation
of a pc,-tion of the loan and the major project restructuring
in 1986. Having a definite date at which the project is
reviewed (as in a mid-term review) could have presented an
opportunity to cancel or redesign the project much earlier
than was eventually done.



-5-
PROJECT COMPLETI)N REBrURT
ARGENTINA
VOCATIONAL TRAINING AID
TECHNICAL EDUCATION PROJECT
(LOAN 1905-ARI
PART II.  REVIEW FROM THE tORROWER'S PERSPECTIVE
No comments were received f-.   the Borrower.



-7-
PROJ"ECT COMPLETION REPORT
ARGzi.TINA
VOCATIONAL TRAINING AND
TECHNICAL EDUCATION PROJECT
_        .(LOAN 1905-AR)
PART III. STATISTICAL-INFORMATION
Table 1: Related Bank_Loans
Loan Title      Pur2ose        Years of ADproval   Status    Comment
This was the first Bank loan in the Education Sector or in any of the
Social Sectors in argentina.
Table 2:  Proiect Timetable
Item               Original Loan Dates               Actual Dates
Adentification                                           May, 1978
Preparation                                               March, 1979
Appraisal                                                 January, 1980
Loan Negotiations                                         July, 1980
Loan Approval                                             October, 1980
Loan Signature                                            October, 1980
Loan Effectiveness        April, 1981                     February, 1982
Loan Completion           December 31, 1985                 N.A.
Partial Cancellation                                      July, 1986 1/
Final Cancellation                                        February, 1987 1/
1/   US$37.8 million was canceled on July 30, 1986 and the balance
was             canceled on February 18, 1987.
Comments on Project Timetable:  Project formulation took twenty-two menths,
including a significant amount of field time (44 m/w)



- 8 -
ARGENTINA
VOCATIONAL TRAINING AND TECENICAL EDUCATION PROJECT (Loan 1905-AR)
Table 3: Loan Disbursements
A:   Cummulative Estimated and-Actual Digsbursements (USSMillion)I
Y81   FY82   FY83    7Y84    7lE    FY86
(a)  Planned      0.7    4.2    14.8    41.4    58.0
(b)  Actual       0.0    0.0      0.0     0.32    0.8    0.934    1/
(c)  As Z of (a)  0.0    0.0      0.0     0.01    0.01
Corments: Project implementation was slow due to inadequate budgetary
allocations, legal problems affecting procurement and management changes in
CONET. The delay was so protracted that cancellation was necessary.
1/ The final cancellation of funds to bring total cancellation to US$57.066 was
made on February 18, 1987. The Loan was closed on July 30, 1988.



-9-
ARGENTINA
VOCATIONAL TRAINING AND TECHNICAL EDUCATION PROJECT (Loan 1905-AR)
Table 4: Prolect Cost and Financing
A:  Proiect Costs
(US$Million)
Appraisal Estimate a/               Actual
Project Component    Amount   % of Total             Amount  Z of Total
Facilities             134.11        89.7                 N.A.1/
Mobile Units            10.26         6.9
Technical Assistance    1.81          1.2
Studies                  0.43         0.3
Project Administration  2.89          1.9
149.5         100%
a/  Includes contingenzies
1/   Tenders were received on 14 VTC's and construction was initiated but none
of the VTCs was ever completed. As a result, there are no actual costs
for construction, for mobile units, equipment or any other component.



- 10 -
PRGENTINA
VOCATIONAL TRAINING AND TECHNICAL EDUCA.ION PROJECT (Loan 1905-AR)
B: Project Financing
(US$)
Original             Actual
Allocation           Disbursements
1.  Civil Works                 10,600,000           552,291
2.  Furniture                    3,200,000             7,422
3.  Equipment                   34,000.000            14,784
4.  Consultants, Fellowships,   2,200,000            359,465
Studies, Prof. Admin.
5.  Unallocated                  8,000,000
Total             58,000,000           933,962



- 11 -
ARGENTINA
VOCATIONAL TRAINING AND TECHNICAL EDUCATIONPROJECT (Loan 1905-AR)
Table 5: Missions
No.                         Performance    Type
of                 S.W.        rating        of
Stage of            Date    per-                  in    Status  Trend   prob-
project cycle        (mo/yr)  sons  Specialty a/  field       b/      c/    lem d/
Identification        05/78    2    E,EP                2
Reconnaissance        12/78    4    2E,EP,VT*           6
Pre-Preparation       03/79    1    E                   1
Preparation           03/79    4    VT,E,TE,A*        9.5
Preparation Review   05/79    1    EP                 1.5
Preparation Review   10/79    4    EP,VT,E,TE*          8
Appraisal             01/80    4    E,VT,A,TE*         12
Post Appraisal        05/80    2    E,A                 4
Subtotal                                         44
Supervision 1         12/80    3    E,TE,A*             3     3      2    F,L
Supervision 2         12/81    3    TE,E,A*             5     2      1    F,L
Supervision 3         12/82    2    TE,A                3     2      1    F,L
Supervision 4         02/83    1    LO                0.5
Supervision 5         01/84    2    TE,A*               3     2      2    F,L
Supervision 6         07/84    3    E,TE,A*             5     2      2    F,L
Supervision 7         12/84    1    E                   2     3       1    F,L
Supervision 8         04/85    1    E                 0.5     3      2    F,L
Supervision 9         03/86    2    TE,1,EP          2.5      3            F,M
Supervision 10        12/86    3    TE,EP,A*            1     3
Subtotal                                       25.5
Comments:  The frequency of supervision missionswas not satisfactory.  There
is barely one per year for a project which had problems getting
started. In addition three of these missions consisted of only one
person, which proved inadequate for a project of this complexity.
a/ A: Architect; E: Economist; EP: Educational Planner; LO: Loan Officer, TE:
Technical Educator; *Mission included consultants.
b/ 1: Problem free or minor problem; 2: Moderate problem; 3/4: major problem
c/ 1: Improving; 2: Stationary; 3/4: Deteriorating.
d/ F: Financial; L: Legal; N: Management



