Document of
The World Bank                    [fljp
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No. 2978b-AR
ARGENTINA
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
OF A
VOCATIONAL TRAINING AND TECHNICAL EDUCATION PROJ
September 10, 1980
Regional Projects Department
Latin America and the Caribbean Regional Office
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
(as of January 15, 1980)
Currency Unit         = Peso Argentino ($a)
US$1                  = $a 1,620
$a 1                  = US$0.000617
$a 1,000,000          = US$617
WEIGHTS AND MEASURES
2
1 hectare             = 10,000 m  = 2.47 acres2
100 hectares          =1 square kilometer (km ) = 0.39 square miles
I meter               = 3.28 feet
1 kilogram (kg)       =2.2 pounds
1.060 kgs             = 1 metric ton = 0.98 long ton
1 liter (1)           = 0.26 gallons
ABBREVIATIONS
CONET = National Council of Technical Educatinn
CNE    = National Council for Education
ENET   = National School for Technical Education
INSPT = National Higher Institute for Technical Education Teachers
OAS    = Organization of American States
VTC    = Vocational Training Center (run by CONET)
ILO    = International Labour Organization
GDVT   = CONET's General Directorate for Vocational Training
GOVERNMENT OF ARGENTINA
Fiscal Year
January 1 to December 31
Academic Year
Mid-March to Early December



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
ARGENTINA
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
VOCATIONAL TRAINING AND TECHNICAL EDUCATION PROJECT
TABLE OF CONTENTS
Page No.
I.   SOCIO-ECONOMIC BACKGROUND AND ECONOMIC POLICIES
RELATED TO EDUCATION AND TRAINING DEVELOPMENT   ......    1
- Socio Economic Background  .........................       1
- Human Resource Requirements for Development    ........    3
II.   THE EDUCATION AND TRAINING SYSTEMS ....       ...............  5
A.   The Education System ........ .....................    5
-  Overview       .......................................  5
-  Administration   ........... . 0......... .... .* .. .  5
- The Different Levels of Education ..............    6
- Financing ................. .*.............    8
- Efficiency ..................................................    9
B.   The Vocational Training System         ...................  10
- Overview ...................................................   10
- The National Council of Technical Education
(CONET) .................... ............   11
- Strategy for the Development of Vocational
Training            ............         ....   17
III.    THE PROJECT ...............                      . .. 19
A.   Objectives and Content ...................  ........  19
B.   Elements of the Project    ....... .............   21
- Vocational Training ................... ...  21
- Technical Education ........             ......  25
- Technical Assistance                  .........   25
IV.   COST ESTIMATES, FINANCING AND IMPLEMENTATION
OF THE PROJECT        ..   .. ........27
Cost Estimates ..................... .         .27
Financing    ...29
Implementation .................30
Procurement ..... .         .........      .      .32
Disbursements              . ..33
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance
of their ofllcial duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



TABLE OF CONTENTS (Continued)
Pag,e No.
V.   BENEFITS AND RISKS .........................*.....*     34
Benefits                 ...                  ...... , .. .   34
Risks .o............ ...***..*..**.... *............          35
VI    AGREEMENTS REACHED AND RECOMMENDATIONS ........ .....         36
ANNEXES
ANNEX 1 - Supporting Tables and Charts
Tables
T-1 Comparative Education Indicators
T-2 Distribution of the Labor Force by Occupational
Category and Sector of Economic Activity, 1960-1990
T-3 Qualified Workers Demanded and Supplied per Year,
1980-1990, in the Manufacturing, Utilities, and
Construction Sectors
T-4 The Patterns of Schools and Enrollments, 1977
T-5 Growth and Distribution of Enrollments, 1973-1977
T-6 Secondary Education: Establishments and Enrollments, 1977
T-7 Secondary Education: Basic Cycle/Bachillerato Course:
Coefficients of Retention and Dropout
T-8 CONET Training Output, 1985
T-9 Technical Assistance
T-10 Project Costs Estimates
T-11 Annual Recurrent Costs Generated by the Project
T-12 Implementation Schedule
T-13 Disbursement Schedule
Charts
C-1 The Education System of Argentina
C-2 Organization of the Ministry of Culture and Education
C-3 Organization of CONET
C-4 Present Organization of CONET's Vocational Training Directorate
C-5 Proposed Organization of CONET's Vocational Training Directorate
ANNEX 2 - Plan of Studies for "Dual System"
ANNEX 3 - Selected Documents Available in the Project File
MAP
This report is based on the findings of an appraisal mission that
visited Argentina in January-February 1980. The mission consisted of
Messrs. S. Apergis (Economist), A. Alberti (Vocational Trainer),
I. Matallana (Architect, Consultant) and J. Gailer (Technical Educator,
Consultant).



I. SOCIO-ECONO01IC BACKGROUND AND ECONOMIC POLICIES RELATED TO EDUCATION
AND TRAINING DEVELOPMENT
Socio-Economic Background
1.01      Argentina, the second largest Latin American country, possesses
abundant natural resources ranging from excellent agricultural land with
various potential uses (cattle grazing, grain production, fruit and vege-
table cultivation, etc.) to extensive fish banks, energy sources (oil, coal
and waterfalls) and a varied array of minerals. Many of these resources are
still unexploited or even unexplored. Even so, the country had reached an in-
come per capita of US$1,910 in 1978, one of the highest in Latin America,
although it is clear that its economic potential is much higher than this
figure indicates.
1.02      Total population was estima5ed at 26.7 million in 1978, and popula-
tion density at 10 inhabitants per km . The low population density despite
the abundance of natural resources has been mainly the result of: (a) the
preference of policy makers for immigrants of European origin which, together
with the slowdown of European emigration after the 1920's, resulted in low
immigration for most of this century; and (b) the declining birthrates--
which have resulted at present in a population growth rate of 1.3%.
1.03      Population sparsity is further intensified for the majority of
Argentina's twenty-two provinces by unequal distribution. One third of
the population resides in the Greater Buenos Aires area, and over 50% in
the Buenos Aires province which, however, occupies only 11% of the national
territory. On the other hand, the Buenos Aires province produces about 80%
of manufacturing output and about 45% of agricultural output. What these
figures indicate is that probably Argentina is one of the few countries in
which additional supplies of labor still produce increasing returns at the
margin. Side by side with this phenomenon, however, it is easy to detect,
e.g., from the distribution of employment by sector, that large numbers of
economically active people in the big urban centers are employed in low-
productivity jobs. Therefore, a more even distribution of population and
labor force among provinces resulting from a relative reduction of low-produc-
tivity workers in the large urban centers could increase the productivity of
both labor and capital, while at the same time alleviating the existing
problems of congestion and pollution, especially in the Buenos Aires area.
1.04      The central government is currently assessing the probable benefits,
as well as problems, of reorienting its investment towards provinces with high
potential but sparsely populated and of offering incentives to private inves-
tors to move in the same direction. Some steps have already been taken in
this direction as a result of the national government's decision to transfer
several of its activities to provincial governments. An important additional
measure in this context should be the decentralization of educational and
training facilities, in order to create a qualified labor force at the local



-2-
level as an attraction for prospective investors, and at the same time
stem the outflow of young people towards the great urban centers in search
of educational and training facilities.
1.05      Argentina's pattern of growth, and the principal policies determin-
ing economic growth and structure, have also significant implications for the
development and utilization of human resources.
1.06      In the last half century, and following the grave repercussions on
the country's welfare produced by the Great Depression, which were felt
particularly acutely because of specialization along the line of comparative
advantage and reliance on international trade for the provision of the bulk
of manufactured goods, Argentina has adopted a policy of industrialization by
means of tariff protection, quantitative import restrictions, exchange sur-
charges, and production subsidies. High protection to manufacturing (which
has not always been consistent, as shown by comparatively high protection to
manufacturing inputs as well) continued, until recently, even during periods
when international conditions called for a more efficient international
division of labor. During the first half of this period, tariff protection
was less important relative to other policies promoting industrialization,
while the opposite was true after 1960. As recently as five years ago
tariff rates on the average were on the order of 90-100 percent. At present
they are more moderate and for most manufactured items do not exceed 40-50
percent. However, in conjunction with relatively high international trans-
portation costs and, at least until recently, sluggish demand for Argentina's
main agricultural exportable products (which contributed to persistent
pressures on the balance of payments), they resulted in fairly rapid growth
of an extensive range of manufacturing activities, many of which could be
expected to suffer seriously if exposed to full international competition.
1.07      Greatly increased exposure to international competitition is exactly
the policy adopted by the present government, which has announced a plan of
gradual tariff reductions that within five years would bring tariffs down to
approximately half their present level.
1.08      Given the vulnerability of many industrial branches, the success of
the liberalization policy--even its implementation in the first place--depends
on the parallel adoption of measures that contribute to a smoother period of
transition. An important measure in this regard is the acceleration of skill
upgrading of the labor force by means of courses offered to employed workers
as well as to those preparing for entrance into the labor force for the first
time. At present manufacturing and other firms facing actual or potential
competition from abroad find themselves handicapped because of the deficiencies
or even complete lack of skill formation systems. In fact, it appears that
the vast majority of the labor force at the lower level in all sectors of
economic activity acquires its skills on the job, by means of informal apprentice-
ship schemes. This system tends to perpetuate inappropriate practices while at
the same time it keeps the productivity of labor at relatively low levels.
Therefore, the need for introducing improved methods of skill formation for the
labor force extends beyond manufacturing to most other sectors of economic
activity, although it is clearly more urgent in those branches that face the
prospect of increased foreign competition in the near future.



-3-
Human Resource Requirements for Development
1.09      In the context of the basic parameters of economic growth and the
principal economic policies of the government affecting the rate and pattern
of growth, discussed in paras. 1.01-1.08, this section proceeds to estimate
the implications for human resource development and utilization, with
special emphasis on low-level skilled industrial workers and auxiliary
technicians.
1.10      Since the government has not published an economic development
plan, no consistent framework exists for planning human resource development.
The following exposition should consequently be seen as reflecting general
tendencies rather than specific plans for action.
1.11      The slow growth of Argentina's population implies a correspondingly
slow increase in the labor force. It has been projected that between 1980 and
1990 the labor force will increase by about 10 percent. With regard to the
distribution of the labor force among major sectors of economic activity, on
the other hand, the following developments are likely.
1.12      In the agricultural sector, the slow increase in population, combined
with high nutritional standards already attained, will result in slowly grow-
ing domestic demand for agricultural products that can, even when taking into
account higher expected foreign demand, be accommodated by increasing labor
productivity (as a consequence of increasing mechanization, higher yielding
seeds, etc.). The net outcome of these developments will likely be a reduction
in the absolute size of the agricultural labor force.
1.13      In the manufacturing and utilities sectors, existing data indicate
that the size of the economically active population declined between 1960
and 1970, both in absolute terms and as a percentage of the total labor force.
Although statistical errors may have played a hand in this phenomenon, the
biggest factor was probably the modernization of Argentina's manufacturing sector
throdgn t'ie introduction of labor-saving techniques.  Although no similar infor-
mation exists about developments between 1970 and 1980, indications from the
household surveys are that manufacturing and utilities employment increased
in absolute terms, but at a slow rate, paralleling that of population in-
crease in urban areas. On the basis of these developments, and government
plans to expose Argentine industry to foreign competition, it is estimated
that employment will increase in response to increased demand for manufac-
turing production and public utilities, as a function of increasing popula-
tion and incomes per capita, but at a slow pace to accommodate increased
productivity implied by the need to face foreign competition.
1.14      Construction activities can be expected to expand during the next
decade, beyond the growth rate implied by population increase and the de-
mand for housing resulting from increasing incomes. The priacipal factors



- 4 -
supporting this expectation are the ongoing effort to build up the productive
and social infrastructure of the country (highways, modern factories, ports,
schools, etc.) and, also, the planned transfer of spending authority from the
central to provincial governments, which, it is hoped, will speed up capital
formation at the national level through the incentive provided by integrating
the decision makers and the beneficiaries of these decisions in the same
entity, i.e., the provinces and their governments. As a result of the
operation of these forces, it is expected that employment in the construction
sector will keep rising more rapidly than in other sectors, as it has also
done in the past. A dampening influence on rapid employment increases will
be the ongoing modernization of the sector by means of introducing to an
ever greater extent labor saving processes and equipment (cement mixers,
materials elevators, cranes, prefabricated parts, etc.).
1.15      Finally, the services sector can be expected to absorb, as in the
past, the contingents of rural area workers emigrating to the cities and the
new workers appearing in the labor market as a result of increases in the
labor force, who cannot be accommodated in manufacturing and construction.
At present, Argentina's labor market is very tight and unemployment rates are
at record lows. Given the country's low population growth, its capacity to
produce domestically a very large part of its oil requirements, and its low
dependence on foreign trade, there are no serious "structural" obstacles to
continuing this favorable situation, and therefore practically the totality of
the labor force can be expected to have a job. In such a full-employment mar-
ket, it can be projected that the employment-elastic service sectors will
grow at a faster pace than the rest of the economy.
1.16      Beyond their effect on the sectoral distribution of the labor force
the preceding considerations have also implications for the occupational
distribution of employment and unemployment. In general, it can be expected
that the "Professional, Technical, and Related Personnel" category will in-
crease faster than average to cover the needs for modernization and intro-
duction of new technology, and also to accommodate the rapidly increasing
numbers of university graduates and dropouts; "Farm Workers" and "Administra-
tive and Related Personnel" will diminish their participation in the total,
the first reflecting the projected decline of employment in agriculture
and the second the consolidation of many small establishments into larger
productive units; and "Service Workers" and "Other Workers" (Mining, Transport,
Manufacturing and Construction Workers) will approximately maintain their
share in total labor force. A summary of these expected developments is
presented in Annex 1, Table T-2.
1.17      The implications of the expected changes in the structure of the
labor force by sector and occupational categories for annual requirements of
qualified workers during the next decade in the manufacturing, utilities and
construction sectors which (together with skilled workers critical to the
mechanization of agriculture) are the focus of the project under appraisal,
are presented in the first part of Annex 1, Table T-3. It is estimated that
annual requirements for skill formation of new entrants are on the order of
45 thousand, and for upgrading of existing workers an additional 30 thousand.
Some preliminary estimates of the output of existing facilities in these
skill areas are provided in para. 2.25.



II. THE EDUCATION AND TRAINING SYSTEMS
A.   The Education System
Overview
2.01      The education system is depicted in Annex 1, C-1 and the pattern
of schools and enrollments for 1977 in Annex 1, T-4.
2.02      An important deficiency of the system is that enrollments at the
primary level exclude a significant part of school age population and dropouts
are too high for a country with Argentina's socio-economic background.
2.03      The education system could also be made more relevant to the
country's social and economic needs. The need to improve the relevance of
the education system is especially strong in the areas of technology and
science where greater technological competence and a strongly developed
innovative ability would help to foster a virile and competitive industrial
base. Equally important is the need to effect a better and broader bridge
between education and employment so that the increased relevance can be
brought to bear on industry. This in turn calls for a hard look at the
science and mathematics teaching to ensure that a good base is being laid,
especially at the secondary education stage where many of the curricula were
worked out in the mid-sixties and some of which are already overdue for review
with the object of improving the vocational orientation aspects of the system.
2.04      The establishment of linkages between the formal and informal
systems of education is of particular importance in bridging the education-
work gap since (a) the mobility provided either way introduces a desirable
flexibility, (b) it allows for a fine tuning arrangement not easily possible
in a school, for topping up skills, just prior to entry to industry, and
(c) it allows standards to be inter-related.
Administration
2.05      The Argentine education system is administered simultaneously by
organs of the national government, the provincial governments, the municipal-
ities and private school owners. At the national level the educational
functions come under the Ministry of Culture and Education which has a number
of Councils, departments and directorates-general upon which it devolves
responsibility for the four levels of education (Annex 1, Chart C-2).
2.06      The overall administration and supervision is centralized in the
Ministry under the National Directorates for Secondary and Higher Education,
Agricultural Education, Artistic Education and the School Health Administra-
tion, Conservation and Investigation. There is also a group of decentral-
ized organizations: the National Council for Education (CNE), the National
Council for Technical Education (CONET), and the National Universities.
2.07      The provincial governments carry out their educational functions
through Ministries of Education, operating through Councils and Directorates.
Current plans call for the gradual transfer of the administration of primary
education to provincial governments. The implementation of this policy has
encountered some problems due to the fact that the less prosperous provinces
do not possess adequate financial and human resources to undertake this
responsibility in a completely satisfactory manner.



-6-
2.08      The fragmentation of the administration of the education system,
while promoting the objectives of decentralization and flexibility, creates
some problems regarding equity considerations and the fulfilment of education's
role as a unifying factor in terms of culture and national identity. An
increase in the coordinating activities of the Ministry of Education might
be the optimal response to this dilemma.
The Different Levels of Education
2.09      Primary education is of seven years duration.  Of the 24,986
schools available for primary education, some 40% are operated by the
National Government, 50% by the Provincial Governments and Municipalities,
and the remainder are privately run. The corresponding percentages for the
enrollments show the provinces with 55%, the National Government with 29%
and the private schools with 16%. Approximately 89% of the age group
(6-12 years) was enrolled in 1977, with boys making up 51.5% and girls
48.5% of total enrollments. The overall picture at Annex 1, Table T-5
suggests that primary education is having a declining share in the total
enrollments, the result of low population growth and faster expansion of
secondary and post-secondary enrollments. An important problem in the
primary education area, but existing at higher levels as well, is that
many teachers have two or more jobs and as a consequence are not willing
to work in rural areas where an urban post exists, nor do they give any
kind of personal commitment to their schools. The government is making
a new attempt to solve the problem through the organizing of full time
teaching arrangements for teachers willing to do so; they will be paid at
a special and higher rate than hitherto but will be expected to teach 25
hours a week in the same school.
2.10      Secondary education provides opportunities for the pupil to under-
take further education within a range of diverse fields whilst at the same
time preparing him or herself either for entry to tertiary education or for
employment. It is not compulsory and is free in state schools. In 1977,
53% of the age group was enrolled. Girls are a majority in secondary schools
with 52.8% of total enrollments. The course normally lasts five years and
involves a 3-year 'basic cycle' and a 2-year 'senior cycle', but it extends
over six years in the National Schools for Technical Education (ENETs) run
by the National Council of Technical Education (CONET) and may reach seven
years, according to the type of program followed:  general, commercial,
agricultural, technical, vocational, art and social welfare. Annex 1,
Table T-6 indicates the number and distribution of establishments, courses
and enrollments. Private schools make a strong contribution both to
academic and commercial education institutions but less so to technical
education where the operating costs are doubtless a ruling factor.
2.11      There are a total of 1,093 institutions of various kinds concerned
with secondary technical education owned and run variously by the National
Directorate of Adult Education (5), by CONET (318 ENETs + 92 others), by
the National University (7), the Ministry of Social Welfare (2), the
Provincial Governments (500), the Municipalities (2), private owners



167 of wbhich 1              _VY           d nn ILL)   spec '1 JaU (10))   They pro-
vide a wide variety (2)-3 of' s-pacialtle5 altbough the more Important in
terms of student numbers fall wi.thin the imechanical, electrical and construc-
tion trade                       o-':s- Th   Q½*ffer mtainly a hasir . ycle of three-7ears
duration which is intended to be pre-vocational and orientational in character,
followed by a further three-year co-urse at the senior cycle stage for those
wishing to pursue this optiorn or by a cie-year course leading to work as an
auxiliary technician. These courses are offered on both a day and evening
basis.  A range of short courses are also included in the evenings0
2.12      With regard to instruction offered in CONET's schools, a detailed
assessment of this institution and of the principal weaknesses character-
izing its operation is offered in paras. 2.29-2.51.  With regard to the
second large group of technical schoilS, i.e., those run by Provincial Govern-
ments, there have been assertions that their graduates do not reach the level
attained in CONET schools but that, in effect, they obtain basic skills
corresponding to semi-qualified workers. It appears th-iat there are indeed
important differences in quality between the two groups of schools.
2.13      The wide variety of entities operating technical schools poses a
problem too, and the lack of coordination probably leads to a loss in overall
efficiency. Many of the schools have had advice on curricula and operational
matters from CONET, but there are not formal arrangements for supervision
by that body, and there will eventually be a need for some form of standing
'council', be it CONET or other body, which can act as overall coordinator
for such matters as deciding on course patterns, staff development, super-
vision arrangements, linkages between formal and non-formal education and
the establishment of national assessment and accreditation arrangements.
2.14      In the technical education field the lack of trained teachers is
a particular problem, calling for a concerted approach through in-service
courses and using distance lear-ning techniques for the rural areas. The
lack of industrial experience in technical teachers is another outstanding
problem.
2.15      Higher education consists of two elements, non-university studies
and university education.  The former largely accounts for teacher education
courses for the different levels and modalities (62,173 students enrolled,
or 87% of the total) although it also makes some provision through one-to-
three-year courses for technical, medical and other specialities (9,110
students enrolled in 1977).
2.16      Teacher education is carried out in colleges providing for the pre-
primary, primary and secondarv education levels including the technical and
commercial fields. Secondary school teachers receive a 4 or 5 year training
at post-secondary levels, the final qualification, "profesorado", being
equivalent to a university degree. Some teacher education institutions
(national, provincial and private) are independent and some are attached
to universities.
2.17      There are 26 national and 23 private universities, 60% of them in
the Buenos Aires, Santa Fe and Cordoba areas. Total enrollment in 1977 was
465,167 of which 193,868, or 41.7%, women. Of this total, 15.8% studied
medical subjects, 37.7% were in basic science and technology fields, 36.9%



- 8 -
studied social sciences, and 9.6% humanities. An important problem arises
from a lack of liaison with the secondary schools, resulting in entrants
who are inadequately prepared and swell the dropouts in the earlier years
of the courses, sometimes to as high as 60%. This type of dropout is
particularly wasteful since it would obviously be unsuitable for middle
level positions. Lack of finance for salaries, buildings and equipment
is perennial.
Financing
2.18      Public expenditure on education in 1978 made up 11.4% of total
public sector expenditure, and absorbed 4.4% of GDP. These figures are
significantly higher than those registered in 1976-1977, when public
education was allocated 6-7% of total public expenditures and absorbed
around 2.5% of GDP, and are mostly accounted for by the adjustment in the
purchasing power of teachers' salaries which had been badly eroded by
inflation during the previous period. Still, the figures are lower than
those observed in some comparable countries (and, furthermore, some avail-
able data for 1979 indicate that they tend to diminish again). The difference
is probably due to three main reasons: (a) Slow population increase has
alleviated the demand for educational services, especially at the primary
and secondary levels; (b) teacher salaries are still low when compared to
other occupations in Argentina and the teacher salary/GNP ratio is lower
in Argentina than in other countries (Annex 1, Table T-1); and (c) private
education is of greater quantitative importance in Argentina than in most
comparable countries.
2.19      No data are collected at the Ministry of Education or other public
entity on the amounts spent in private education, but some approximate esti-
mate can be obtained from enrollment figures. The participation of private
schools in total enrollments ranges from 13% in University education to 31%
in secondary education. Accordingly, and despite some direct subsidization
of private education by public funds (amounting to around 5% of public expendi-
ture on education), direct financing of private education by enrolled students
and their families should absorb between 1 and 1.5% of GDP, raising the
overall proportion of GDP spent on education to about 5.5%.
2.20      The decision of the national government to (gradually) transfer the
administration of public primary education to the provincial governments has
necessitated a corresponding appropriation of funds from the national budget
to supplement the provinces' resources available for education. This, together
with direct transfer of funds from the Ministry of Finance to the Universities,
has resulted in a high percentage of public expenditures on education being
handled outside the budget of the Ministry of Education. Thus, in 1978, only
53% of public expenditures on education were administered by the (national)
Ministry of Education, while 47% were administered by other public entities,
such as provincial Ministries of Education.
2.21      CONET, which has the responsibility of administering public technical
education and vocational training at the national level, absorbed between
5 and 7% of total public expenditure on education in the period 1976-1979.
In 1978, its expenditures amounted to $a91,998 million (US$145 million at
June 1978 exchange rates). Of this amount, 92% was allocated to technical



- 9 -
education, 4% to vocational training, 1% to the "Instituto Nacional Superior
del Profesorado Tecnico" (INSPT), and 3% to general administration. From
another point of view, 88% was spent for recurrent expenditures and 12%
for capital expenditures. CONET has achieved a fairly efficient use of
its resources, with costs per student/hour amounting to the equivalent of
US$0.90-1.00 for vocational training and US$1.30 for technical education (at
January 1980 prices and exchange rates), which are low compared to countries
with levels of development similar to that of Argentina.
2.22      CONET's main source of financing is general tax revenue accruing to
the national government. In 1978, about 86% of its expenditures were funded
by appropriations from the national budget. The remainder was covered by
the proceeds of a technical education payroll tax collected from private
firms that benefit from CONET's skill formation activities. The tax amounts
to 1% of the firms' wage bill, but it can be lowered to a minimum of
0.2% on the basis of CONET's certification that the (partially) exempted
firms have developed their own training facilities or are participating in
cooperative training activities developed by CONET. It is estimated that
exemptions for 1979 amounted to about 30% of the revenues received by CONET
from the proceeds of the payroll tax. It should be noted that the law estab-
lishing the tax is rather vague as to which firms are included in the tax
scheme and as a result some tax evasion occurs. Also, that the government
is currently considering elimination of all specific taxes and their
substitution by general tax revenue. If such a policy is adopted, CONET
would lose a rather effective means of influencing decisions of private
firms for entering cooperative training agreements.
Efficiency
2.23      Problems affecting the overall efficiency of the education system
are the high rates of repetition and dropout (Annex 1, Table T-7), and the
apparent tendency of students to favor the academic rather than the practical
aspects of education. Repetition has declined somewhat, especially in the
earlier grades of primary education, but in 1976 still showed 9.2% in the sixth
grade. Indeed in that year only 45% of the boys and 55% of the girls of corres-
ponding age completed grade 7 and at the secondary level less than 30% of the
age group went into the two-year superior cycle. In 1978, in the country's
general secondary ("bachillerato") courses there was an overall retention of
60.4% but with striking disparities between provinces, e.g., 77.2% in the
capital, 31% in Tierra del Fuego, 58% in Cordoba. The rate appears to be
declining, however, as in 1974 the corresponding average figure was 70.9%,
approximately 10 percent higher than in 1978. The economic difficulties of
the recent past faced by parents, especially those in the rural areas, are
thought to be one reason for this change. The dropout figures (averaged
here at 40%) are greater in the early stages of the basic cycle course.
2.24      Technical subjects, especially agriculture (27% and 1.5%, respect-
ively, of the total enrollment for the secondary stage in 1978), are still
favored far less than academic and commercial ones in secondary education
which further suggests a need to review the vocational orientation aspects
as well as the vocational guidance arrangements of the various programs at
the basic cycle.



- 10 -
B.   The Vocational Training System
Overview
2.25      Institutions specializing in the provision of vocaticnal training
in Argentina supply at present only a minor portion of corresponding needs,
expressed in terms of new entries into the labor force and retraining of
existing workers in new techniques of production and/or new occupations.
Although relevant information is weak in this area, it would appear that
such institutions supply an annual output of approximately 20,000 graduates.
Of these, approximately 8,000 are prepared by the National Council of Technical
Education (CONET) through vocational training centers in occupations that
correspond, for the most part, to the manufacturing, utilities, and construc-
tion sectors, and 12,000 are produced by private vocational schools in occu-
pations that correspond mostly to the services sectors.
2.26      New entries into the non-agricultural labor force are on the order
of 90,000-100,000 per year, while retraining needs can easily be on the
order of another 100,000. An important part of the difference between these
figures and the annual supply of graduates estimated in the previous para-
graph is accounted for by higher level occupations and, on the other hand,
it corresponds to workers with skills that require very little or no initial
training. However, another, and very important, part corresponds to workers
who acquire their skills inside productive establishments through on-the-job
training or specially designed training courses.
2.27      On balance, this is an undesirable situation.  Other things being
equal, the burden imposed upon firms for initial training of their workers
(and, to a lesser extent, for retraining them), given the freedom of
trained workers to move to competing firms in search of better employment
conditions, turns them towards premature capital deepening and, at least
in the short run, it results in some avoidable unemployment of workers.
From another point of view, training under these conditions tends to be
as much as possible firm specific, and this diminishes the mobility of the
labor force below desirable levels. Finally, the lack of certification for
training provided is an additional reason for creating uncertainty in the
labor market regarding individual workers' qualifications, resulting pos-
sibly in some unemployment and, much more importantly, in wages below a
worker's true worth to the firm during the initial period of testing worker
capabilities.  For these reasons, it is considered important to change the
present system of training of the labor force by moving towards the direction
taken by an increasing number of countries, i.e., assumption of this activity
to the maximum feasible degree by a public entity financed either by general
revenues or, more typically, by a payroll tax shared between employers and
employees. Such a development could, and should, be accompanied by strong
participation of the private sector and workers' representatives in decid-
ing curriculum content, course mix, geographical distribution of training
facilities, etc. The private sector could further participate in training
arrangements by means of courses taking place inside the plant, albeit with
course content, instructors, and final certification of trainees provided
by the public entity responsible for training at the national level.



- 11 -
2.28      CONET is well placed to undertake this role.  It is the only
public institution that provides vocational training to any considerable
extent through its network of vocational training centers distributed
over the entire national territory (a situation which, in addition,
facilitates planning for desirable decentralization of training arrange-
ments), and its agreements with firms for offering in-firm certified train-
ing. In addition, its undisputed position of leadership in the field of
lower and middle level technical education ensures the appropriate institu-
tional setting for a coordination between technical education and vocational
training. Furthermore its specialization in training for occupations
typically associated with the critical sectors of utilities, manufacturing,
construction and mechanized agriculture argues for a buildup of its training
facilities on a priority basis.
The National Council of Technical Education (CONET)
2.29      Organizational Structure.  By law, CONET has a nine-member Board of
Directors, including its Chairman, representing government, teachers, private
employers and workers. In 1976, CONET'S Board was temporarily suspended and
since then an "Interventor" has had the responsibility of managing the whole
institution on behalf of the National Government. The organizational structure
(Annex 1, Chart C-3), in addition to the Chairman, consists of the following:
(a) General Secretariat, which assists the President in CONET's
daily operations and legal matters;
(b) General Directorate of Personnel, which is responsible for
personnel management;
(c) General Directorate of Control, which is responsible for
supervision of the overall execution of the program;
(d) General Directorate of Administration, which is responsible
for administrative, financial and accounting matters;
(e) General Directorate of Planning, which is responsible for
assisting the President of CONET and the General Directorates
of Technical Education and Vocational Training in the
planning of CONET's activities;
(f) General Directorate of Technical Education, which is in charge
of the operation of the formal secondary technical education
system throughout the country; and
(g) General Directorate of Vocational Training, which is in
charge of the operation of CONET's non-formal vocational
training activities.
2.30      Technical Education.  CONET's principal responsibility at present lies
in preparing graduates at the secondary level in its 318 National Technical
Education Schools (ENETs). Enrollment in these schools forms 55% of the total
number of enrollments in the 1,093 technical schools existing in Argentina.



- 12 -
Their influence, from a curriculum and standards point of view, however, on
schools outside CONET's jurisdiction, is much wider than this percentage would
suggest. Their importance in the CONET scene can be assessed from the fact
that they absorb 92% of its annual budget.
2.31      The schools provide secondary pre-vocational (grades 8-10) and
secondary technical education (grades 11-13) in basic and senior cycles
with entry from primary grade 7. As in the other secondary schools the
basic cycle constitutes a pre-vocational orientation period but vocational
guidance as such is limited to a few schools. Furthermore, the curriculum
in use is too academic in orientation for an institution that has the express
purpose of preparing the overwhelming majority of its students for the world
of work rather than for university careers. Dropouts are high (40%) in the
earlier years of this stage. The basic cycle is common to all ENET courses
and horizontal articulation is readily achieved. The senior cycle, after
experience in industry, enables students to take on quality control, and
supervisory types of tasks. In 1977, 12,130 students were enrolled in the
final grade of this course and past experience suggests that over 80% can be
expected to complete their course and gain the title of 'tecnico'. As an
alternative to the senior cycle, an one-year course is available leading to
the certificate of an auxilliary technician.
2.32      Parallel to the basic six-year technician courses the ENETs offer
a broad variety of other courses ranging from the auxiliary technician
mentioned in para. 2.31 to girls' arts and crafts courses. No assessment of
skills imparted to the students of each type of course exists at present,
although it is fairly clear that some of them operate as alternative forms
of vocational training. This is an important area for further study that
can lead to more rational allocation of CONET's resources between technical
education and vocational training.
2.33      CONET's General Directorate for Technical Education is assisted by
two General Inspectorates, one covering the area of pedagogical and technical
matters, and the other of operations of ENETs. Since 1974, there has also
been a network of seven Regional Inspectorates (Northwest, Northeast, Central,
Cuyo, Litoral, Buenos Aires and South), which are responsible for the super-
vision of daily operations of the entire network of ENETs.
2.34      There are about 15,000 full-time and 13,000 part-time teachers in
the 318 ENETs. The pre-service and in-service training of these teachers is
the responsibility of the INSTP which has received financial and technical
assistance from OAS, the Ford Foundation and the British Government. It
should be pointed out, however, that presently less than 3% of ENET teachers
are graduates of the INSPT while, in addition, in-service training takes place
at a very slow rate. The Institute also provides courses for technical education
teachers from neighboring countries.
2.35      CONET is currently reviewing the curriculum for the six-year
course, which constitutes a part of formal secondary education and which
was initially designed with the intention of producing middle-level tech-
nicians.  It is also developing a "dual system", which will attempt to



- 13 -
integrate school studies and work (in plants) in the course of the fourth
and fifth grades, and is considering rapid expansion of its currently limited
post-secondary technician training. The results of these two experimental
efforts, plus the revision of the existing curricula of both the "basic
cycle" and the "senior cycle," would constitute the basis for a possible
reform in the technical education system in Argentina.
2.36      The "Dual System" approach to training seeks to provide an alter-
native option to the present senior cycle courses operating full-time in an
institution, whereby a student will be in close contact with industry and
industrial practice through an industry-based part-time day course of two
years duration, at a much earlier stage than hitherto. The method, which
provides a sure response to industry's needs, albeit on a temporary basis and,
for the industry, at the price of providing space and equipment for training,
allows the student to earn at an earlier stage and helps him achieve maturity
through mixing with fellow workers in the plant. As plant experience is
planned to complement the technology acquired in the schools, the overall
approach is sound enough.
2.37      The overall program and course structure is set out in Annex 2.
The content of both the school and industrial education and training periods
is planned and shaped with particular job descriptions in mind. This planning
is in the hands of CONET working with the guidance of the Executive Committee
referred to in para. 2.40.  The relationships between the trainee, the firm,
and CONET are governed by legally based agreements. The training to be
carried out within the firm will be under the control of an in-plant instructor
and his assistants regularly supervised by the local school staff and periodi-
cally by the CONET regional inspectorate. The instructors will be trained by
CONET.
2.38      On completion of the "Dual System" course, the trainee has two
options open to him. He can stay in industry aspiring to full skilled worker
status (the scheme does not in any way guarantee future employment with
a given firm), or he can enter the second year of a senior cycle course
in his specialty with the object of resuming his career towards potential
technician status.
2.39      The firms involved pay a reduced portion of the 1% payroll tax
earmarked for CONET (subject to a minimum of 0.2%) and have a large say in
developing the arrangements. They are responsible for paying the instructors
and trainees and for all equipment, tools and materials costs involved. Small
firms would group together. CONET covers all insurance risks and the annual
one month's paid holiday.
2.40      The scheme will operate through an Executive Committee under the
guidance of an assembly of industrial representatives (unpaid), whose voting
strength is graduated according to the number of trainee-places they are
providing. The president and vice-president of the Executive Committee are
appointed from CONET and the remaining 4-6 from the Assembly. The arrange-
ments came into force in mid-May, 1980, and a number of prestigious local
and foreign firms have already signed agreements with CONET for participating
in the scheme. It is expected that whilst all ENETs will eventually become
involved in the scheme only a few will undertake experimentation with the
"Dual System"' approach and pilot the way ahead for the others.



- 14 -
2.41      CONET's present arrangements for producing potential technicians
at the supervisory level and its planned introduction of the "Dual System"
are only two approaches to technician training. The universities have under
consideration a proposal to establish arrangements for the production
of high level technicians whose background needs to be similar to that of the
university trained technologists; but in between these arrangements is another
group of technician occupations oriented more to the skilled worker and where
the practical approach of CONET is necessary. CONET's intention to cover
this area by expanding its currently limited post-secondary courses is well
justified. However, a study of technician education systems should be under-
taken before facilities are created for offering more post-secondary courses
and should draw on the experiences of several developed countries with a
similar industrial base to that in Argentina, and with wide experience of
technician education and training.
2.42      Vocational Training.  Despite overwhelming emphasis on technical
education, CONET is still the main source of vocational training for the
manufacturing, utilities, and construction sectors in Argentina. Its role is
to complement the formal education system by concentrating on non-degree,
directly job-related training of adolescents and adults seeking jobs in the
industrial labor market. Such training takes place in CONET's Vocational
Training Centers (but see also para. 2.32) or in facilities provided by firms
in accordance with cooperative agreements. CONET's activities are comple-
mented by in-plant training provided by the industries themselves. Such
training is not consistent throughout the regions or in the industrial sub-
sectors. Larger firms tend to provide better organized in-plant training
than small and medium-size firms.
2.43      CONET had its first experiences in the field of vocational training
for workers in 1965, receiving some technical assistance from the Interna-
tional Labour Organization (ILO) which lasted until 1976. However, it was only
in December 1974 that Supreme Decree 1968/74 was enacted, consolidating
vocational training activities under a General Directorate at the level of,
for example, technical education and planning.
2.44      The General Directorate of Vocational Training has the following
supporting units (Annex 1, Chart C-4):
(a)  Technical Secretariat, responsible for the elaboration of
the work program for each year; for monitoring the work
program; for technical cooperation with other institutions;
for the compilation of statistics; and for the delivery of
certificates.
(b)  The General Inspectorate for the Supervision of Activities,
in charge of quality control of the various training modes
(fixed centers, monotechnic missions (para 2.48). etc.).
(c)  The General Inspectorate for Support Services and Assistance,
responsible for occupational analysis, curriculum development,
and provision of teaching materials, audiovisual aids and equip-
ment. It cooperates with the General Directorate of Administra-
tion in monitoring the logistical support of the different
training units throughout the country.



- 15 -
(d) Regional Inspectors, located in the seven regions (para. 2.28),
representing the Director General for Vocational Training, and
responsible for implementation of the work program at the
regional level. They deal with provincial and city authorities,
industrialists, etc., and participate with Headquarters in the
formulation and supervision of the annual working program. They
propose and often hire the teaching staff and other personnel
employed at the regional level. The regional inspectors for
vocational training report to the Director General for Vocational
Training and administratively to the Regional Inspectors for
Technical Education.
2.45      Training activities are carried out in 35 vocational training centers
(VTCs), 8 centers for rehabilitation of the handicapped, 70 Monotechnic Missions,
and 20 Rural and Domestic Culture Centers (for women).
2.46      The VTCs are the core of vocational training activities in manu-
facturing, utilities and construction in Argentina. Generally speaking, they
are not well-equipped, and very often buildings are poorly adapted to training
needs regarding basic design and construction standards. The majority of the
workshops are devoted to building construction trades, because of the lower
cost on initial investment. Therefore, important trades, e.g., mechanics,
automechanics, electricity, etc., are not served properly. Furthermore, the
VTCs' approximately 600 instructors have received only an initial training of
about 270 hours, and no upgrading training has been given to them subsequently.
The duration of initial training appears to be too short when compared to that
of similar institutions in other countries. Instructor training has been
further insufficient, in that the instructors are not up-to-date in pedagogical
and technological matters. Since CONET plans to enter new fields of more
advanced technology, a dynamic policy of instructor training is indispensable.
Even though some occupational analysis and some curriculum development (includ-
ing the utilization of ILO-CINTERFOR teaching materials) have been carried
out, there is room for improvement in this field.
2.47      During the day the VTCs are mainly devoted to two-year courses
(about 60% of the time in workshops) for adolescents (14 to 18 years of age).
Normally, these students are school drop-outs, who have no more than six
years of primary education. During 1979, 2,462 adolescents were studying at
the VTCs. Adults are offered courses at a skilled level in the evening, which
range from 180 to 700 hours depending on the trades being taught. During
1979, about 6,755 adults were trained at the vocational training centers.
2.48      Monotechnic missions are aimed at providing some complementary
education and, especially, training to youngsters (14 to 18 years old) in
rural areas or small communities. They offer just one trade and move on to
another community every two years, a period that coincides with the duration
of the course. The rural and domestic culture missions, on the other hand,
offer courses for women in domestic subjects. Enrollment in these two
types of activities in 1979 was about 2,800 persons. The eight centers for
handicapped people served about 800 students in 1979. In essence, these four
types of training are of a very rudimentary nature and their graduates are
usually well below the skilled worker level obtained in VTCs.



.  16 -
2.49      CONET also participates in in-plant training activities in which it
assists enterprises to develop internal training programs, mainly in the
preparation of instructors. This is not a steady activity, however, and
so far has been limited to rather sizable industries with which CONET has
signed agreements. The General Directorate for Vocational Training has so
far signed more than 200 agreements with firms, which provide for technical
assistance for the implementation of the firms' training programs.  This is a
field where a large expansion of activities could take place. From a
quality point of view, though the firms visited before and during appraisal
expressed their satisfaction with CONET's support, several improvements
regarding course content and other technical matters could be introduced, and
better supervision and follow-up mechanisms could be envisaged. About 2,800
workers were trained in 1979 under these agreements.
2.50      According to the law constituting CONET, the private sector's
employers and workers should be represented on CONET's Board. However, since
1976, CONET has been under "intervention" on  the part of the executive power
and its Board of Directors has been suspended (para. 2.29). At the local
level, there is some participation of private firms, though through informal
channels. The other way by which the entrepreneurs participate in the develop-
ment of CONET's activites is through the channels for in-plant training
projects (paras. 2.42 and 2.49).
2.51      Assessment of CONET.  The Council faces a number of problems in
conducting its operations, which can be summarized as follows:
(a) Need to improve planning, programming and evaluation by means of
manpower studies, better communication with the public and private
sectors, and conducting evaluation (tracer) studies; and there is
also need for improved communication and interaction between, on
the one hand, the General Directorate of Planning and, on the other
hand, the two principal Operational Directorates, those of Technical
Education and of Vocational Training;
(b) need to modernize its approach to technical matters (such as
developing new teaching techniques and promoting research);
(c) need to pay more emphasis to the treatment of instructor and
teacher training (paras. 2.34 and 2.46);
(d) need to enhance cost consciousness, and to modify the structure
of CONET's accounting system, in order to render cost control
feasible;
(e) need to increase the contacts with the productive sector and
to collaborate more deeply on in-plant training schemes and
with small-scale entrepreneurs; and
(f) need to improve the regional structure and supervisory
function. Even though Supreme Decree 1668/74 decentralized
CONET's operation and was an important step in improving CONET's
operations in the field, there is still some room for improvement,
e.g., the nature of the dependence of the Inspectors for Voca-
tional Training on the Chief Inspector of Technical Education
needs clarification and precision to avoid friction, delays and
misunderstandings.



- 17 -
Strategy for the Development of Vocational Training
2.52      The elements which, from the preceding analysis, should form the
basis of a strategy for expansion and improvement of vocational training in
Argentina are the following:
(a) The present arrangements by which the great majority of
training in productive skills takes place within firms,
typically in an unorganized fashion, keep labor productivity
at low levels and should be replaced as rapidly as proves
feasible by vesting responsibility for vocational training
at the national level with a public entity, working in close
cooperation with representatives of entrepreneurs and workers
in determining the scope and content of its activities;
(b) the goal of long-term economic growth, and the prospect of
greatly increased foreign competition for local manufacturers,
require that vocational training activities be expanded on
a priority basis in the manufacturing, utilities and
construction sectors, as well as in occupations related to
the mechanization of agriculture;
(c) underpopulation, low population growth, heavy concentration of
the population in a few urban centers, the phenomenon of large
numbers of the urban labor force employed in low-productivity
occupations, and the availability of natural resources in a
number of sparsely populated regions indicate that decentral-
ization of economic activities could speed up economic growth
and that as a consequence vocational training should take forms,
such as mobile training units, that would facilitate the
provision of training to residents of small towns and rural
areas;
.(d)  the vocational component of secondary technical.education
should increase through curriculum reform, provision of
adequate laboratory and workshop facilities, and appropriate
training of instructors, and terminal courses should be avail-
able for the large number of technical schools students who
at present, mostly because of economic pressures, drop out
of school and enter the labor market. Given the large size of
formal secondary technical education, such reforms should be
introduced on an experimental basis while testing student and
market response in order to avoid possible economic waste;
(e) given the likely need for technicians with longer education
than the six grades currently offered at the secondary level,
a number of relevant studies should be undertaken and used as
sources of information for an eventual reform of secondary
education in this regard;



- 18 -
(g)  CONET is well placed to take responsibility of vocational
training at the national level. Favorable factors are its
past experience in vocational training in priority occupations,
and its position of leadership in formal technical education
(which allows it to effect reforms in technical education that
would strengthen its vocational component, and also to harmonize
its technical education and vocational training activities).
However, CONET must face and resolve a number of problems affecting
its operations. Therefore, provision of material resources to CONET
in order to expand rapidly its vocational training facilities and
reform technical education should be accompanied by a commitment
on the part of CONET to implement a number of institutional reforms
and to improve its administrative procedures.
2.53      This strategy was discussed during appraisal with high officials
of the National Government and with CONET's leadership, and reflects the
thinking of the national authorities with regard to the present state of,
and desirable changes in, the vocational training and technical education
areas.



- 19 -
III. THE PROJECT
A. Objectives and Content
3.01      The proposed project aims primarily at increasing the capacity and
improving the quality of Argentina's vocational training system in ways that
would respond to the country's principal economic policies and would facilitate
the realization of its evolving pattern of growth. This objective suggests
that priority should be given on the one hand to the formation of skills that
are critical for the development of the manufacturing, utilities, and cons-
truction sectors (and also for the mechanization of agriculture), and on the
other hand to the modernization of vocational training facilities up to a
level comparable to the technological environment of the more modern firms
operating in Argentina at present. At the same time, the spatial distribution
of facilities to be provided under the project should conform to the arguments
developed in favor of decentralization and should facilitate training and
retraining of the part of the labor force residing in small towns.
3.02      The project would also provide a number of studies and technical
assistance in the area of formal technical education in order to explore the
feasibility of work-study programs, extension of secondary technician
education, and reform of course mix and curriculum content in the standard
six-year technical education program.
3.03      The proposed project would concentrate on building up CONET's
vocational training capacity, and on improving quality standards for both its
vocational training and technical education activities, in accordance with
the strategy presented in para. 2.52.
3.04      Specifically, the project would provide for:
1. Vocational Training
(a)  construction, equipment and furniture for the creation
of 12 new vocational training centers (VTCs), replacement
(with increased capacity) of 18 existing, and reequipping
of 5 existing VTCs (para. 3.06);
(b)  acquisition of 50 mobile units to operate in rural areas
and small communities (paras. 3.07-3.08);
(c)  upgrading of about 600 instructors and 100 technicians
presently employed by CONET, and initial training for
about 550 new instructors (para. 3.09);
(d)  strengthening CONET's organizational structure and
improving its planning capacity by means of retraining
existing personnel, hiring new staff, and establishing new
units, in order to enable the General Directorate of
Vocational Training of CONET to review its study programs,
and test the quality of its instruction and graduates
(paras. 3.10-3.11); and



- 20 -
(e) improving the institutional aspects of CONET's
vocational training activities (para. 3.12).
2. Technical Education
(a) technical assistance in the form of specialists services
fellowships and basic studies, with a view to introducing
appropriate elements of reform into Argentina's technical
education system (para. 3.14).
3. Technical Assistance
(a) the financing of 120 man-months of specialists'
services and 67 man-months of fellowships, in
support of the proposed activities in the vocational
training area; and
(b) the financing of 39 man-months of specialists'
services and 58 man-months of fellowships in
support of the proposed activities in the
technical education area.
4. Studies
(a) a study of supply and demand for, and training needs of,
low- and middle-level skilled manpower;
(b) a study of the types and quality of CONET instructional
programs and output in its various areas of activity;
(c) a tracer study of CONET graduates;
(d) a cost accounting study of CONET's different activities;
and
(e) an occupational analysis of skilled workers, with
special emphasis placed on technician occupations.
5. Project Administration
(a) financing of the salaries of key specialists contracted
by CONET for planning, coordinating, and monitoring of
the implementation of the project.



- 21 -
3.05      The project content, as described above, differs from that given in
the Government's loan request in that it proposes: (i) a reduction in the
number of vocational training centers (from 48 to 35) and mobile units
(from 78 to 50), and (ii) the elimination of 9 technical schools. The proposed
reduction in VTCs is based on mission findings that (a) the existing scant
information on global demand for manpower does not clearly justify an
immediate expansion of the size proposed; (b) possible changes in Argentina's
mix of economic policies in the near future (especially those affecting the
exchange rate) may greatly upset cost calculations; (c) CONET's administrative
and technical capability to execute the proposed project may be overstrained;
and (d) CONET should first explore the expansion of existing alternative
arrangements for preparing skilled workers (para. 2.42) that do not require
the construction of fixed training centers. The reduction in mobile units
and the elimination of the 9 technical schools was agreed upon during negotiations
following the Government's decision to reduce the scope of the project on the
basis of budgetary considerations.
B.   Elements of the Project
Vocational Training
3.06      The project would provide construction, equipment and furniture for
the replacement of 18 existing VTCs (out of 35) that are housed in inappro-
priate buildings and are poorly equipped; the construction and equipping of
12 new VTCs; and the reequipping of 5. As the VTCs replacing existing ones
are planned with increased capacity, this expansion program would permit an
increase in training places from 3,000 to about 7,500, to be used in three
shifts per day, equal to 10-15 hours of use, throughout the country. (Special
attention has been given to distributing these centers among CONET's seven
regions in accordance with the general objective of decentralizing training
facilities, and estimates of local training needs prepared by CONET's Regional
Inspectors. Furthermore, it is planned to expand enrollments of adolescents
much more rapidly than those of adults (Annex 1, Table T-8) in order to redress
the imbalance noted in para. 2.47). As a result, CONET's annual output in
terms of industrial training would increase from 8,355 in 1978 to about
16,000 in 1985 (Annex 1, Table T-8) (these figures exclude graduates from the
Monotechnic Missions and Rural and Domestic Culture Centers which impart
rudimentary skills only and should stabilize at about 800 graduates per
year). The acquisition of modern equipment would permit the centers included
in the project to offer training courses of a level commensurate with the
technology of Argentina's modern industrial enterprises. The duration of
courses for adults would vary from 180 to 700 hours; the normal course for
adolescents is two years.
3.07      The project would also provide for the acquisition of 50 mobile
units. These units would constitute the basis for establishing a mobile
training network system, aimed at providing training in industrial, building
construction and agricultural trades to rural areas and small towns and
communities so far deprived of opportunities. This system would complement
the actions in fixed centers, in-plant, and in the Monotechnic Missions



- 22 -
(mainly for youngsters) and would permit the level of skills to increase
throughout the country outside important cities. This will fill a vacuum in
the present approach and permit the reaching of the population with lower
standards of living. Initially the number of mobile units (78) and the trades
to be offered were proposed by the regional inspectors on the basis of the
assessment of training needs on localized areas, bearing in mind the
characteristics of the economic activities of the small areas, the distance
from the communities to be served to the existing and the proposed new
centers, and the size of the target population. Subsequently, the total
number was reduced to 50 in order to accommodate the Government's desire for
a reduced project scope, while still obeying the above criteria of distri-
bution between regions and specializations.
3.08      It is understood that these mobile units would change place
according to a program to be established on a yearly basis, in accordance
with specific surveys to be undertaken in each region. Once the annual
program, proposed by the regions and approved by headquarters, is established,
its implementation would be under the responsibility of each region. To
facilitate the operations, each mobile unit would be assigned to the VTC in
whose area the mobile unit would operate until the time that the unit were
moved to another area. The VTC would be in charge of supervision, communi-
cations, logistic support, maintenance, etc. The length of courses would
vary from 60 to 240 hours, depending on the subject matter. The programming
should permit a maximum utilization of each mobile unit each year. It is
envisaged that about 4,500 workers would be offered, and about 3,800 would
complete, training courses each year. Since CONET has had no experience in
this field, technical assistance (24 man-months of experts and 6 man-months
of fellowships) is foreseen as necessary to assist CONET in programming,
organizing and operating the mobile units, and to develop appropriate curricula.
Maintenance of the units will follow specifications provided by the eventual
supplier.
3.09      Staff Training.  Under the project, the present program for new
instructors will be reviewed and refresher courses will be offered to existing
instructors, directors and technical staff. Overall, these arrangements will
eventually include the present 600 instructors, and approximately 100 directors
and technical staff, and about 550 new instructors. A new unit, in charge of
instructor retraining and initial training, would be established under the
General Inspectorate for Support Services and Assistance. Technical assistance
(12 man-months of experts and 8 man-months of fellowships) would be given to
CONET to help implement this part of the project. An outline of CONET's plan
for staff training will be submitted to the Bank for approval by October 31,
1980. A detailed annual plan will be submitted to the Bank for comments by
December 31 of each year until 1984, referring to the upcoming academic year
(M4arch to December).



- 23 -
3.10      Research and Experimentation Unit.  The project would provide for
the establishment of a Research and Experimentation Unit under the General
Inspectorate for Support Services and Assistance, responsible for developing
or experimenting with new methodologies (e.g., modular training, individualized
instruction, distance learning, etc.); curriculum development, including the
review of existing curricula and teaching materials in the context of an
occupational analysis whose object would be to verify that course content
corresponded to occupational profiles prevailing in the labor market (this
review would be closely linked to the corresponding manpower studies (para.
3.17 points (b) and (e)) to avoid any duplication); and elaboration of models
for, and experimentation with, trade testing and certification and research in
several technical matters, aiming at creating in CONET a dynamic approach to
the way it deals with training problems in a changing society. A number of
units whose activities formally include some of the tasks to be assigned to
the proposed Unit already exist under this Inspectorate. It was felt, however,
both by CONET officials and by the mission, that the creation of a new unit
characterized by innovative spirit would be more effective for studying these
matters and pressing for their introduction. To the extent that proposed
reforms generated by the Unit's activities are broadly introduced, and the
level of existing units is raised, the overlapping tasks would be transferred
to the existing units. Technical assistance, comprising 21 man-months of
experts and 6 man-months of fellowships, would be provided to this Unit. A
minimum of 7 well-qualified professionals would be assigned to the Unit, which
would be created no later than April 1, 1981, at which date a two-year plan
of activities would be presented to the Bank for comments. The Unit will
start implementing the plan of activities by June 30, 1981.
3.11      An additional innovative element of the project would be the
introduction, on an experimental basis, of a six to twelve-month follow-up
period for the graduates of the two-year adolescent courses. During this
period the graduate would be supervised on the job by CONET instructors
and his/her direct plant supervisor. The Research and Experimentation Unit
(para. 3.10) would be responsible for gathering and processing information on
the results of this activity, and for drawing conclusions on whether it would be
advisable for CONET to adopt it on a generalized basis. A draft regulation
establishing this experimental activity would be sent to the Bank for comments
by April 1, 1981.
3.12      Institutional Improvement.  The proposed project aims not only
at a quantitative expansion of CONET in the vocational training field, but
also, and more importantly, at strengthening its institutional aspects --
technical, operational, administrative and planning. Along these lines, the
following are considered:
(a) Planning and Programming of Activities. Notwithstanding the
planned reinforcement of CONET's General Directorate of
Planning (paras. 3.18 and 4.11), the Technical Secretariat of
the Vocational Training General Directorate would be strength-
ened to permit better planning and programming of activities,
but in close contact with the General Directorate of Planning
and the Regional Inspectorates. Local staff would be increased
by 2 professionals and technical assistance (24 man-months of
experts and 4 man-months of fellowships) would be given throughout
this project;



- 24 -
(b) Internal Coordination. CONET would undertake a study of all
its activities related to vocational training and technical
education. The diversity and complexity of activities under
the jurisdiction of CONET suggests the need for such a study
as a prerequisite for rationalizing CONET's activities and
developing them in a more coordinated manner. One of the
issues is the possibility for CONET to establish a credit
transfer system ("convalidacion de estudios") between vocational
training and technical education. This study would be part of
a broader one, as mentioned in para. 3.17(b);
(c) Tracer Studies. (See para. 3.17(c));
(d) Cost Accounting. CONET does not have a reliable cost accounting
system, and given the importance of this aspect for the internal
efficiency of CONET, practical measures would be taken to
establish an effective cost accounting system by June 30, 1982.
A plan of activities leading to the introduction of the system
will be presented to the Bank for comments by June 30, 1981 and
technical assistance (12 man-months of experts and 5 man-months
of fellowships) will be provided under this project to help
implementation;
(e) Decentralization. Decree 1668/74 (December 4, 1974) created
the General Directorate of Vocational Training and established
the seven regions. This was a substantial step forward for
CONET, but there is still some room for potential improvement.
For instance, clearer guidelines could be established
to draw a line between vocational training inspectors and
technical education chief inspectors in terms of their rela-
tionships to each other (and with headquarters), and respon-
sibilities and authority outlined in present regulations need
to be more sharply defined. Before December 31, 1980, CONET
would review the present regulations regarding decentralization
and would take measures that might improve its operations at
the regional level and the relationships between regions and
headquarters. A report on this matter containing recommendations
would be submitted for comments to the Bank by January 1, 1981;
(f) Staffing and Procedures. The organization of CONET's
technical education function is the foundation for the
organization of its vocational training activities as well.
In spite of the two sections' inherent differences, they
maintain basically the same personnel composition and are
subject to the same regulations, procedures and nomenclature.
Yet, it appears that a reduction of staff needs and a
simplification of procedures are possible for the vocational
training section and, therefore, an in-depth study should
be carried out in order to evaluate possible changes. The
conclusions of this study would enable the VTCs to operate
in a more efficient, cost-effective manner. This study
would be linked to (or included in) the one referred to in
para. 3.17(d);



- 25 -
(g) Private Sector Participation. Even though CONET already works
with the private sector (paras. 2.42, 2.49, 2.50), this coopera-
tion could be substantially increased and improved. One of
the main means for achieving this is to promote an increased
interaction between CONET and the employers and employees, who
are the ultimate beneficiaries of its activities. The first
step in this connection would be the establishment of advisory
committees in all of CONET's vocational training centers.
These committees would assist each VTC in determining the
courses to be offered that would be more relevant to the actual
economic activities and needs of the service areas of each
particular VTC. In addition, they would assist in exchanging
views and making recommendations on technological developments,
manpower needs, quality of the training offered by the center,
new courses, improvement in management, programming and budgeting,
physical installations (including equipment), follow-up of
graduates, upgrading of instructors, etc. A draft resolution
creating these advisory committees was presented to the mission
during appraisal. The committees would be established by June 30,
1981.
3.13      The expected contribution of CONET's various activities, after Project
completion, to the supply of skilled workers for the manufacturing, construction
and utilities sectors is described in Annex 1, Table T-3. Despite the large
expansion of VTCs and the purchase of mobile units, unorganized, on-the-job
training activities will continue to play an important role in skill formation,
indicating the need for further investment in this area in the future. Worth
noting are also (a) the projected large expansion of CONET-industry cooperative
programs, and (b) the quantitative importance of CONET's technical education
activities for covering lower skills needs, through technical education dropouts,
and also graduates who do not succeed in obtaining technician status.
Technical Education
3.14      Despite concentration of physical facilities in the area of vocational
training, the Project will include several important activities in the area of
technical education as well. Specifically, the Project will supply specialist
services for curriculum design, the in-plant training part of the "dual system"
and administrative reorganization (involving CONET's accounting system and record-
keeping), a number of fellowships to CONET personnel for building up their profes-
sional capacities in several areas, and basic studies of CONET's operations and
output as well as of prevailing conditions in local labor markets. The principal
objectives of these activities are (a) the analysis of the interrelationships
between CONET's technical education and vocational training areas, with a view
to reorganizing CONET's operations in more efficient ways (paras. 2.32, 3.12(b)),
(b) the upgrading of the professional level of CONET's personnel and, eventually,
of its operations, and (c) the preparation of the groundwork for an eventual
further participation of the Bank in the future in CONET's operations.
Technical Assistance
3.15      Specialists.  Specialists' services to be provided under the project
would amount to 120 man-months for the vocational training area and 39 man-
months for the technical education area (Annex 1, Table T-9). The specialties



- 26 -
of the experts were chosen by taking into account CONET's need for having
available high-level specialists to assist local personnel in developing
various activities, such as planning of vocational training activities,
administration of mobile units, in-plant training, occupational analysis,
instructor and teacher training, institutional planning for technical education,
general administration and documentation system. The specialists would be
under the administrative control of the director of the Project Unit
(para. 4.10) to ensure maximum use of their services in the context of
the project. The government gave assurances that the specialists would be
selected and employed under terms and conditions acceptable to the Bank.
3.16      Fellowships.  Fellowships to be provided under the project would
amount to 67 man-months for the vocational training area and 58 man-months for
the technical education area, to complement the assistance to be given by the
specialists (Annex 1, Table T-9). Assurances were given that CONET will
select candidates for these fellowships acceptable to the Bank and make
appropriate arrangements for the placement of fellowship recipients.
3.17      Studies.  The proposed project would provide an estimated US$600,000
to undertake the following five studies:
(a) study of supply and demand for, and training needs of,
skilled manpower and technicians per industrial sector
and per region;
(b) quantitative and qualitative evaluation of the types
of training offered by CONET through its vocational
training and technical education programs;
(c) tracer study on graduates of CONET, including the
elaboration of an appropriate methodology for operating
a follow-up system to trace graduates;
(d) selection and application of appropriate methodologies
to determine cost of education and training for
different courses and regions. Results from this
would be applied immediately in CONET;
(e) educational profiles of skilled workers, with an emphasis
on the profiles of technicians needed by the Argentine
industry, including the possible need of preparing
post-secondary technicians.
3.18      These studies would be conducted by CONET's General Directorate of
Planning. It is expected that this arrangement will increase the currently
insufficient communication and interaction between this Directorate and the
operational Directorates of Technical Education and Vocational Training.
3.19      The plans for each study (including costs, terms of reference,
and implementation program) will be submitted to the Bank for approval
prior to the initiation of these studies, and not later than May 31, 1981.
The results of the studies will be submitted to the Bank.



- 27 -
IV. COST ESTIMATES, FINANCING, AND IMPLEMENTATION OF THE PROJECT
Cost Estimates
4.01      The total cost of the project, net of taxes, is estimated at
US$149.5 million, as summarized below (more detailed estimates of costs
are provided in Annex 1, Table T-10).
US$ (Thousand)
Local      Foreign        Total
Vocational Training                  63,500       37,180      100,680
Construction                         52,660        8,570       61,230
Professional fees                     6,120            0        6,120
Furniture                             1,700        2,550        4,250
Equipment                             2,080       18,720       20,800
Mobile units                            710        6,390         7,100
Technical assistance *                  170          710           880
Studies                                  60          240           300
Technical Education                     130          540           670
Technical Assistance                     70          300           370
Studies                                60          240          300
Project Administration                2,000            0        2,000
Base Costs **                        65,630       37,720       103,350
Contingencies
-  Physical                           6,560        3,770       10,330
-  Price                             19,020       16,760       35,780
Total Project Costs                  91,210       58,250      149,460
61%         39%          100%
* Technical assistance for vocational training (specialist services and fellow-
ships) is provided with regard to phasing in the mobile units (3.07-3.08),
staff training (3.09), support to the Research and Experimentation Unit
(3.10-3.11), strengthening the Technical Secretariat of GDVT (3.12(a)), and
a number of other project activities, including participation in the design
and preparation of five principal studies (3.17).
** Base costs refer to prices on January 15, 1980.



- 28 -
Base Costs
4.02      Civil Works.  Building construction costs for the project schools (net
of taxes) have been derived from construction contracts for two CONET schools
and one private school located in Greater Buenos Aires, and estimates obtained
from contractors based on typical construction specifications for project schools.
On the basis of this information, the estimated cost per square meter of gross
floor area ranges from US$450 in Buenos Aires to US$495 in certain small
provincial towns. The cost of site works has been estimated at 15% of the
cost of construction of the buildings. Professional fees have been estimated
at 10% of the cost of construction of the buildings plus cost of site works.
4.03      Furniture costs, for both loose and fixed furniture, have been
estimated at 8% of the cost of construction of the buildings.   Equipment
costs are based on core lists developed by CONET. Mobile Units cost was
estimated on the basis of informal offers made to CONET by interested foreign
manufacturers and mission recommendations, accepted by CONET, to aim for
models that, while satisfying technical requirements standards, would cut
"luxury" elements to the minimum.
4.04      Technical Assistance.  Technical assistance costs are estimated
on the basis of an average base cost per month of US$6,000 for specialist
services and US$2,500 for fellowships.
4.05      Contingency allowances have been added to the base cost estimates as
follows:
(i) Physical Contingencies. 10% for buildings and site works and
10% for professional fees, furniture, equipment, mobile units,
technical assistance and project administration;
(ii) Price Contingencies. With regard to the foreign exchange
component, account has been taken of current rates of inflation
in the U.S., current plans and efforts to bring such inflation
gradually under control, and the record of the relation, in
international markets, between changes in the general price
level and changes in the prices of equipment and furniture for
school buildings, consultant fees, etc. As a result of these
considerations it is estimated that (dollar) inflation for equip-
ment and furniture for 1980 will amount to 14%, for 1981 12%, for
1982 10%, and for 1983-1985 8%; while for civil works and
consultant fees, for 1980 it will amount to 10.5%, for 1981 to
9%, for 1982 to 8.0%, and for 1983-85 to 7.0%. With regard to
the local component (calculated in terms of dollars), it has
been taken into account that economic policy makers in Argentina
have announced, for 1980, the continuation of the set of economic
policies that result in a lagged response of the peso/dollar
exchange rate to the difference between Argentine and inter-
national inflation. Starting with 1981, however, it has been
assumed that this set of policies will change. As a consequence,
it is expected that, starting in 1981, the adjustment in the
peso/dollar exchange rate will be faster than the difference



- 29 -
between Argentine and international inflation. As a result
of these considerations, it is estimated that prices of inputs
produced locally (in dollar terms) will rise by 22% in 1980 and
4% in 1981, will remain unchanged in 1982 and 1983, and will
diminish by 2% in 1984 and by 4% in 1985.
Financing
4.06      The foreign exchange component is estimated at about US$58 million,
representing some 39% of the total project cost, calculated as follows:
(i) buildings and site works, 15%; (ii) furniture, 60%; (iii) equipment and
mobile units, 90%; (iv) technical assistance and studies, 80%. The proposed
Bank loan would finance an amount equivalent to 100% of the foreign exchange
component of total project cost of which about US$1.3 million equivalent will
cover a part of project administration costs.
4.07      Estimated annual financing requirements (in US$ million equivalents)
to be covered by the proceeds of the loan and Argentine Government appropria-
tions in each Bank fiscal year are as follows:
Government
Loan Proceeds         Contributions             Total
FY             Amount         %       Amount        %       Amount        %
1981               0.7      1.2          4.6       5.1         5.3       3.6
1982               3.5      6.0         19.8      21.6        23.3      15.6
1983              10.6     18.3         43.0      47.0        53.6      35.8
1984              26.6     45.9         19.8      21.6        46.4      31.0
1985              16.6     28.6          4.3       4.7        20.9      14.0
Total       58.0    100.0          91.5    100.0        149.5    100.0
Financing requirements to be covered by Argentine Government appropriations
in terms of Argentina's fiscal years are as follows:
FY   Amount (US$ million)       %
1980          1.0                1.1
1981         10.0               10.9
1982         41.4               45.2
1983         30.5               33.3
1984          8.0                8.7
1985          0.6                0.7
Since the above estimates of local fund requirements are net of taxes,
additional funds will have to be appropriated to cover value added taxes
on civil works (the equivalent of about US$10 million). Regarding import
duties, on the other hand, Argentine laws exempt public agencies importing
goods for use in the education sector from paying such duties.
4.08      Recurrent Costs Generated by the Project.  When completed, the project
would generate an increase in CONET's costs of operations equivalent to
US$16.9 million, at January 1980 prices and exchange rates (Annex 1, Table T-11).



- 30 -
The principal source of this increase is the planned quintupling of
adolescent courses in VTCs which, despite relatively low costs per
student/hour, accounts for US$13.9 million or 82% of the total. The next
most important source of recurrent expenditure increases (US$1.8 million
or 11% of the total) is the planned introduction of mobile units whose cost
per student/hour has been estimated at about US$2.10, or about double that
for adolescent courses in VTC, due to higher costs for teachers and equipment
maintenance.
4.09      The estimated increase in recurrent expenditures amounts to about
7% of CONET's current budget for this category and would increase the share
of vocational training in the total budget from 4% to about 11% (assuming
that, other than the proposed project, no change will take place in CONET's
current activities). The mission received assurances during appraisal from
both CONET and Ministry of Finance officials that sufficient funds would be
made available to CONET to cover these additional expenditures. Whether the
source of these funds would be the technical education tax levied on payrolls
(through increased efforts to diminish tax evasion) or general tax revenue
cannot be determined at this time, given that the Government is studying at
present (para. 2.22) the feasibility of abolishing all specific and earmarked
taxes and replacing them with general taxes on income, wealth, consumption, etc.
Implementation
4.10      Overall project implementation will be the responsibility of CONET.
A special Project Unit, headed by a director reporting to CONET's president,
has been established within CONET for the purpose of planning, programming,
coordination and monitoring of project execution. The staff comprises the
director, a technical assistance coordinator, a construction works coordinator,
a construction cost specialist, an equipment procurement coordinator, an
accounting coordinator, and a legal advisor, and is assisted by an adequate
number of administrative personnel. A number of positions are filled by
present CONET staff members, and all administrative personnel (with the
exception of a bilingual secretary) are provided by CONET. The remaining
positions, estimated to about 5, are being filled by contracted specialists
of top quality (in the interim period, these positions too are filled by
CONET personnel). Hiring of such personnel by CONET will be done on the
basis of criteria regarding qualifications and experience mutually agreed
upon beforehand between CONET and the Bank, and will be subject to Bank
approval.
4.11      It is intended, both by CONET and the mission, that project execution
should be an integral part of CONET's operations in order to: (a) avoid build-
ing an oversized ad hoc implementation mechanism outside CONET's organizational
structure, that would create potential problems after project completion; and
(b) involve directly the various CONET units affected by the project so that
problems of imposing reforms from above or from outside the affected unit,
and of assimilating the physical components of the project, could be reduced
to the minimum. Applying this principle, responsibility for implementation
of the various project components would be distributed among CONET's principal
units as follows:



- 31 -
(a) the General Directorate of Vocational Training, with the addition
of the new units proposed in Annex 1, Chart 5, would be in charge
of the "software" aspects in the vocational training area, described
in paras. 3.09-3.12, and would participate in (i) the preparation of
lists and technical specifications for equipment and furniture and
(ii) the review and analysis of the bids for procurement of equip-
ment and furniture. However, for a number of points mentioned in
para. 3.12, which cover a broader area than vocational training,
close cooperation with the Project Unit and the General Directorates
of Technical Education, Planning, and Administration will be required
for successful implementation;
(b) the General Directorate of Technical Education would be in charge
of the "software" aspects in the technical education area described
in paras. 3.15 and 3.16;
(c) the General Directorate of Planning would conduct the five studies
described in para. 3.17 in close consultation with those CONET units
that, for each study, could be expected to provide valuable inputs
in terms of information and experience;
(d) the General Directorate of Administration would be in charge of
project accounting, project procurement, and putting into place
a satisfactory accounting system discussed in para. 3.12(d); and
(e) the Project Unit, with the help of private consulting firms, would
be in charge of supervision of school construction.
4.12      Furthermore, a standing committee composed of representatives of
the four General Directorates under (a) - (d) above and the Project Unit
would be in charge of solving questions of responsibility overlap, ensuring
prompt response to requests for cooperation from one unit to another, and
soliciting necessary help from existing units to the Project Unit for the
prompt execution of the project.
4.13      Professional and Technical Services
(a) Design work. Following review by the mission of the professional
capacity of CONET to do the required design work it was agreed in
principle:
(i) that CONET technical staff, assisted by qualified engineers
(structural, electrical and sanitary areas), would do the
design work (preliminary plans and final plans) for 10 schools;
the preliminary designs for these schools are ready at the
present time;
(ii) that for the remaining 20 schools the design work (preliminary
plans plus final plans) will be done by private consultant
firms, selected on terms and conditions satisfactory to
CONET and to the Bank.



- 32 -
(b) Supervision. Following review by the mission of the professional
capacity of CONET to do the required supervision work, it was
agreed that appropriate standards for supervision are as follows:
(i) supervision of the construction of schools with a gross
floor area of up to 3,000 square meters should be the
responsibility of a construction foreman ("Maestro mayor de
obras") working full time and responsible to the Project
Unit;
(ii) for schools of over 3,000 square meters supervision tasks
should be the responsibility of qualified architects and/or
engineers, working full time and responsible to the
Project Unit.
Prior to carrying out the tasks of design work and supervision
CONET should (i) obtain clearance from the National Directorate
of School Construction (DINAE) of the Ministry of Education and
from the Public Expenditures Control Office (for contracting
outside personnel), and (ii) select the consultant firms. In
addition, CONET should obtain authorization from DINAE for the
continuing presence of DINAE's delegation in CONET Headquarters
for monitoring and supervising project execution in the areas of
design and construction. This delegation was formed to supervise
a previous IDB project, and it is advisable that it should
remain unchanged given its familiarity with CONET operations.
4.14      Maintenance.  CONET will:
(a) prepare maintenance guidelines for buildings, furniture, and
equipment and present them to the Bank by June 30, 1981;
(b) appoint promptly the required maintenance personnel; and
(c) allocate annually sufficient funds for maintenance purposes.
4.15      Sites.  All sites will be acquired through donation.  Basic
standards for size, form, location, availability of public services, and
soil and topographic conditions were agreed on during the mission. As of
July 15, 1980 CONET had already acquired (ad referendum) twenty sites, and
was taking legal steps for the acquisition of the remaining sites through
donations. CONET assured the mission that at least 90% of the necessary
sites would be selected and acquired by the end of 1980. CONET ownership
of the sites will be certified by its Notary Public ("Escribano").
Procurement
4.16      The construction contracts will not be large enough or suitable
for packaging because of their dispersed locations. Therefore, procure-
ment of civil works for these contracts would be on the basis of competitive
bidding advertised locally (in accordance with procedures acceptable to
the Bank) in which interested foreign contractors could participate.
Contracts for procurement of equipment and furniture would be awarded



- 33 -
on the basis of international competitive bidding in accordance with Bank
guidelines. However, equipment and furniture that cannot be grouped into
packages of at least US$200,000 would be procured on the basis of local pro-
cedures acceptable to the Bank; procurement under these procedures would not,
in aggregate, exceed US$5 million (equivalent to about 10% of estimated total
cost of equipment and furniture).
4.17      Implementation Schedule.  The project would be implemented over a
period of five years, with the physical facilities scheduled for completion
by December 31, 1984 (Annex 1, Table T-12). To allow the proper closing of
accounts and cover the defects liability period, the closing date would be
June 30, 1985.
Disbursements
4.18      The loan would be disbursed over five years as follows:
(a)  100% of total expenditures for imported goods and services for
civil works and 15% of total expenditures for locally procured
civil works.
(b)  100% of total expenditures for directly imported equipment
and 90% of local expenditures for equipment procured locally.
(c)  100% of total expenditures for directly imported furniture
and 60% of total expenditures for furniture procured locally.
(d)  100% of total expenditures for consultants' services, fellow-
ships, studies, and project administration's selected specialist
salaries and international travel expenses.
The loan would include retroactive financing up to US$.7 million under
item "d". Disbursements would be supported by standard documentation.
A schedule of disbursements (Annex 1, Table T-13) based on the implementa-
tion schedule mentioned in para. 4.17 has been prepared.



- 34 -
V.   BENEFITS AND RISKS
Benefits
5.01      The principal thrust of the proposed project is to serve as an
important first phase towards a transformation of vocational training arrange-
ments in Argentina. By concentrating its physical facilities (buildings,
mobile units, equipment) and its quality improving inputs (technical assistance,
studies, curriculum updating, organizational reforms) in the context of CONET,
the project would secure two principal benefits in this regard: first, it
would replace an important portion of vocational training activities that
currently take place in an unorganized fashion within firms, and whose output
as a consequence are trained workers with reduced mobility and versatility, by
basically uniform training, albeit adapted to local production requirements,
whose main features will be increased capacity to take up a broad variety of
jobs, and universally accepted certification by a public agency. And second,
it would reduce the cost of training by means of scale effects reflected in
the ready availability of instructors, continuous instruction in basic occupa-
tions, better utilization of training facilities.
5.02      The planned strengthening of CONET will also lead to an increase in
cooperative agreements with private firms whereby private firms will provide
physical facilities for training their workers and CONET will provide instruc-
tors, study programs, and certification. Such agreements will guarantee worker
versatility through the use of core study programs and will safeguard cost
effectiveness through scale effects while at the same time securing maximum
adaptation to specific production conditions.
5.03      By concentrating its efforts in the context of CONET, the project
can also be expected to contribute towards better articulation of technical
education and vocational training. At present CONET is predominantly an
organization in charge of formal secondary technical education. Its technical
schools (ENETs) house a number of expressly vocational programs, while the
ENET's technical courses "produce", in the form of large numbers of dropouts,
a significant portion of (what eventually becomes) the skilled segment of
the labor force. It is not difficult to see that neither of the above modes
of skill formation are very efficient or productive. The proposed project
explicitly calls for an internal reexamination of CONET's output, in terms of
quality, cost, and market demand, with a view to restructuring the scope of
its activities.
5.04      The expected beneficial influence of the proposed project on the
quality of technical education and vocational training should lead to increased
productivity of the domestic workforce and increased competitiveness in inter-
national markets--a very important consideration in view of government policies
that force local industries to face foreign competition at an increasing
pace.
5.05      The extensive use of mobile units (34% of the planned increase in
the annual output of trained workers would correspond to this training mode)
is expected to have multiple beneficial effects: it will extend training



- 35 -
facilities into currently unattended rural areas and small towns, thus
making training arrangements more equitable; it will increase the avail-
ability of skilled workers outside the large industrial centers, thus
providing an incentive to industries to move into the less densely populated
regions; and it will tend to diminish rural-urban migration resulting from
young individuals' desire to acquire schooling unavailable at locations
close to their place of birth.
5.06      Under the proposed project, the majority of qualified workers
entering the manufacturing, utilities and construction sectors after 1985,
as well as existing workers in need of retraining, would have attended
courses either directly offered or supervised by CONET. Specifically, out
of annual average needs for 75 thousand trained workers, about 50 thousand
would be supplied by CONET, or CONET-sponsored courses (Annex 1, Tables T-3
and T-8). In addition, about 2 thousand graduates of VTCs and 2 thousand
graduates of mobile units would take up each year occupations that are critical
for supporting and promoting mechanization in agriculture (Annex 1, Table T-8).
The great majority of these trained workers can be expected to belong to low
income families whose economic status would be improved very significantly as
the result of higher wages paid to skilled workers (skilled workers earn at
present about twice as much as unskilled workers in Argentina).
5.07      All courses offered under the proposed project would be open to
girls as well as boys, although the particular vocational content of these
courses would normally attract more boys than girls (Annex 1, Table T-4
indicates that, in secondary education, girls find general and commercial
tracks more attractive than technical and agricultural ones. Also, vocational
courses leading to blue collar occupations in the manufacturing and construction
sectors typically attract boys rather than girls in all countries). From
another point of view, the proposed project would benefit the quality of
courses offered to women in CONET's Monotechnic Missions and Rural and
Domestic Culture Centers as it is planned that existing equipment (in VTCs)
replaced by more modern equipment provided by the project would be incorpo-
rated into the facilities of the Monotechnic Missions and Culture Centers.
Risks
5.08      CONET is an autonomous public entity, whose top line management
has been stable over a rather long period. This situation has produced a
highly experienced managing group, but at the same time it has also created a
conservative outlook that mistrusts radical departures from established
practice and discourages initiatives that would appear to threaten the
established equilibrium between operational departments. As a consequence,
there is the risk that the institutional and organizational reforms planned
in the context of the project might be resisted strongly while the provision
of planned physical facilities advanced according to schedule; this situation
might result in only a slight improvement in Argentina's vocational training
and technical education delivery systems, as the important objectives of course
relevance, cost effectiveness, and quality improvement would be frustrated.



- 36 -
VI. AGREEMENTS REACHED AND RECOMMENDATIONS
6.01      During negotiations agreements were reached on the following topics:
(a) Operation and updating of a staff training and development plan
for vocational training (3.09);
(b) establishment of a Research and Experimentation Unit in CONET (3.10);
(c) changes in CONET's accounting system allowing cost accounting of
CONET's operations (3.12(d));
(d) establishment of advisory committees at each VTC (3.12(g));
(e) selection and contracting of specialists (3.15);
(f) criteria for selection of fellowship candidates (3.16);
(g) timetable for initiating five principal studies (3.19); and
(h) filling of key positions in the Project Unit (4.10).
6.02      Subject to the above conditions the proposed project constitutes a
suitable basis for a Bank loan of US$58 million with a term of 15 years.
September 10, 1980



37                                                             ANE
ARGENTINA                                                            Tab> "-
VOCATIONAL TRAINING AND TECHNICAL EDUCATION PROJECT                                                                Pa I  of 2
Cornparative Education Indicators
(September 1, 1980)
S  NP/I I  GNP   t% TUTALIS%  OF PUBLIC  I                           I               39 1,  AV.81.                               lOL
a   ICAPITAa  D1eVOTEDIPUBLIC  I EDUCATION    ILITER-  t PRI,  tCOMPLE.  $STU.   A a&CHTEAMIP                   0G3*I~ SEC~  Sa-*  0'o~
* aAT   a TO EDU.j  FXP,  a RECURRENT    lACY                   IENROLLITION         IDENTSISALARY ~IN!N  RATE  I D            L4R i   0D40OENLL,
a  1* E8.1   (PUBLICSOEVOTED8EXP  ALLUICATED1I  RATL INATIO  1PRATEFU 60919 I9 ELATIJON I000J9  PRZ,110IU  S1040  100
a  U,IPRIE    REPr,       I  T       I      rOE        IC  O      IaNET I aRI. CH.STACITO 0N9/  ITO S00,   i0    IT00E    UDS
yRoHILLS.a  CUSIa  ONLY)   I  EOU. aPR!. SEC. HI,EADULTS)l (II   ICYCLESiIER    I CAPITA                               003)         IX ~ 30 14       (01
( C) as   (2) 3  (3)    a   141)                             ( 5  6)    a (7)   a   18)    a (9) a   (10)         fill       I 0120   1037   WAIO
AS 9 ANOED
AUSTRIA      TA~~7    7,36 5,6296       5,3V    8,5FY  24Yo  Sly   15v    99             RB         931D      260        7,00        990        SoOD      0D    lt0530~
-             ~~~~~~CANADA       75   22,9   7,535         7,5    16.7        30    37    26       98        99        97         19        2,0         99         00O      10       04,00
SERMANY 9,REP.75  61.8   6,670               S.0    10,2       31EY 6989  26EY  99            90        99         23EY       ...         990        040      oUt     R~~t
JAPAN             75  1131.6   4:4S0         9.35   20.TE    AOUV 37UY 11UY  99               990       99C        25         2,031       990       0l00y   200    avo-03o
NETHERLANDS    75   Ii.    S 923             9.9    22.90    21    39    25         99        95        95         29         2.o         97        40        eO      020
NEW ZEALAND    73    3,1. it, 200            5  t  .2    ...   39    24    29       99        99        99         2b         ...         95        47        le      o  . oo
NORWAY            76    9,0   A,0A3          T*7    19,9       54    24    1s        99       99         99        IA         1,5         9941       92       It      11.00
SWEDEN            76    8,S      ,5          8P      1,:2              9     1      9          9        9 IA                  ,...7                 90        10      3,0
u.K.75   SY,    STB                     7.1      3.        26    91    19       99       99         ...       24         2.0         ,..        99       07      Z1,000
U.S.A.            76 21.    7,950           5.8    19,8    ...    72*k  26          99E.    99          99         22         ..          99        93        to      29,04
FUROPE
GREEC             76    9,1   2,594          2.6    10.9       37    26    2)       968       99        820)       31       2.0           '04       40        27      15,00
IRFLAND           79    !.1G 2,620G         9.1    13.90    930   910   14Y    98            10900      99A        35       ,,,           Y0~.4     4500    (9        15,o7y
PORTUGAL          77    4,    1,o5           3.6    15.4       4)    21    15       70G        82       60.        19       2,0           744        35       02       3,00
ROMANIA           75   31:,2   1,280         9,n      6,t4    36    19    13        98        1019      ...        21         - . .       '0        29        22      10,00
SPAIN             79   36,90  d,990G        2.98   IS.2A    A9Y   220   ISY    99A    1)50              *.         35A      ...           .,        78oo    30        17,400
AFRICA
ALIOpRI           79   t9.$   1,260          7,)    24,77      39K   2b9   21K    55H         9499      4SK7       37K       .,OK         ' 52KT    30       370          ,0090 
BENIN             T  7 ,4         )8aG la04  7.2N   06,00    470   230   IOD    110           0900y     709        I 030    25.00         030        410'    394       0,.7 40
81OTSAANA         T a    0,8a     6 20       5.94    19.0      us8   39    1 3       35      a90        7 0        3 1       9,0          50        / 0                I02  0, 0
.UUNONI           78    4,1       130OH      2,0    22.19    968   339   219    25            234       45         02        9,0         22           30      14       0,S
CAMEROON          76    7,7       319        3,7    21,5       33    43    20        ...      60        95         52       4,0          00          90      241       0,9OCo
C.A.R.           .74    15,9      2209       3.00   17.00       6AR   19  ...        ..      7940       25         690      ..,.          If,        249    276'    0,219
CHAD              7S    4 0       120        3.0    10.0       79    22   ..,.       IS       29090     30         ts90     (S.C           a          2oAY   30        0,0190
eoNGDIs)          74    1.3F    5106         6.0    19.3       90    32    21       S0?    1339         63         ol         9.0         49        230      42        0,4o
EGYPT             78   38,7?      900        5.5      ...      30    35    26       449       73        s0         307        .. ,         2        49        177      13,00
ETHIOPIA          77  299,        100        2.6    12.5       99    31    14        10       26b       ...        so         ...         03         03       38        ,
GARON             79      ,3   d,5OF         S. 00   20.60    250)   90   110    ...    1000            25C       .4bL         ,0         144&      000       000      0,290
tAMBIA            76'   0,5:      170        3.3    11.5       46    24       6      10       27        90         33       ...           00        13       as         ,,
GHANA             74    9.9       5906       ...    19,7Y    939   220   2000   ...           bo609     b2         300      ..            1 4t2     3000    0400       1,090
S0098.4           76    9,7       IOBO       9,3N8  ...        00    30    30       ,.        304       64        '.5       12,oF          86         110      26       il,u00
IVORY C4AST    76    1,0          610        '.8a    23.1      33    4 6    13       91      so         86         'A3       7,0         47         1700    26         1,640
8ENYA             76.  17.9       294        5,9    26,0       NT    23    10       90        80?       907        34        6.0          30        16       27        1,0
LESOTHO)          75    1,2       160      12.OP   23.0        49    1a    20       90        AS        50         52        7,04N       90         to       24        1.00
LIRERIA           77    1,7       930        3.1    12.9       23    13    26       30        510       ...        04        4,0          7o        290       14i      ...
MADAGASCAR        77    a.        2490       4.0    24.0       53    28    19       So        90        33         49        o.           38        094      03        I,T0
MALAWI            77    9,6       090        2.2      9,3      40    17     22      24        560       21         9l        5,0;                    So      21        0,47
MALI              75    3,19       906       9.29   33.09    95F   37F   10F    100           2200F      ...       496      9,50         00F         40      21 
MAURITANIA        71    1:,F9   320F         4.19   20,00       ......148A                    1040      ...        22A         .           .          300    299       ..
MAURITIUS         76      9,L    689         4.7    12,1       so    2o       9     aoc       94        99         04        4,5           90       94       32        1,50
MOROCCO           76   09,2       520        6.3    15.e       399   9919   139    29         990       35         39        9,00         40        200      21        Q.0.o
NIGER             77    4.9       160        2.9(w   12.20    52    43        4       9       17        50         39       10.0           35         2      241       .
NIGERIA           79   75,0F    3906         4.1DY 24.200   230   183   920    ...            4990      ...        340)0      ...         ...       100 x    2000      0, 1990
RWANDA            7 3    9,09     140F       3.?C   29,00 )..    .            .     23        52        ...        50          - .        ...        2        13       0,230o
SENEGAL           77    5,2       920        5.0    23.0       96    39    20       14        32        ...        49       b0.0         2o         00       Al        I's
SIERRA LEONE   73    7,06    2406F           3.4    23,9       51    36    30       197       344       4N         32        4,04        49         130      21        0,5360
3OMALIA           79    i,8       225        2,0     11,0      Ss    10    21       50        94       .. ,         2        9,0         410         5        1        1,00
SUDAN             76   1S,9      290        9.5    119.9       49    36    14       20       34         74        33         3.9         33         094      29         1,24
SWAZILAND         79    9,5!      560       6,1H   12.2        37    33    23       65        920       99         07         Q,0H       99         320      20         2,000
TANZANIA          T8   17.)       230       6.9N   15.8        93    19    10       6,G      96         A7         59        3.0           9         9       200       0,38
T00O              77    2,.4      390       5.5    26.0        30    29    a1       le        74        910        so        9,0         92          *         4       2.0
TUNISIA           713   -3, 7.    800G      6.3    23.4        37    13    19       55        72        91         41        9.0          II        191      21        3,0 0
UGANDA            75   11.6       230        3.400  15.7D0   34EY 940L  22EY0  2SA            5300      ...        3144 Y      - ,         Q9         9900   214       1,590
uPPER VOLTA    77    3.9          119        3.4    23.9       31    19    32         SC      13        23         01       24,0          19         02      25        1,0
ZAIRE             7,   33,6       lA0       4.0    22,0        49    26b   25       1s        hex       44         424       2.0         41         ISo      27        1,000
ZAMBIA            76   to.1       460o      6.8    15.9        59    22    22       39       97X        90         49        7..)        21         09       23        1,90
CENRAL41 4900100 AND THE 1.A91B6LAN
94A9A9AS          79    4.e   2,305          5,7    19,1       36    34    II       93        99        97         24        4,0         07         75        19
9898O0108         76    0,2   1,620          9.1    22.1       43    31    lo       99       1090       YR         P1         3.0         99        940       17       ..
COSTA RICA        78J   7,1    16499         6,6    33,0*    370   270   30         90D       93         77        32         ...         77         SY*      19      13,040
CURA              76    9,3   9,500          8,0    11,0    ..          ..9..        8t       98        99         02         0.7         99        65        is      15.00
3nmIN1tAN 90972    0.80    790G              3.0    13,9       42    29    22       51        90        17         04         3,000       93        14        24       7,00
EL SAL.VAOOOME   77    9,1        570        4,.0    27,2      64 a    9    27      62        994       32         09         0,2         41        23        21       1.00
GUATEMALA         73    6,26    7000i        1.9    06,0       35    23    19       97        9 4       26         35         S ,0        be          9       25       4 090
HAITI             lb    9.7       2001       1.0      9.0      6j    21    Li       208       25F        13       590.        3,0         62          4       ...,      0,7
HONDURAS          75    ,90 9G    4006       4.26   19,90    620   144,  090    53            79i        30        35         3,o         99        00        07       4,00
JAMAICA           76    2,1   1072           9,9    18.2       37    33    22       868.      91        52         39         4,S         '0g       64        25       7,99
MEXICO            75  5Y,9   1,050           3.103o 12,000   Sly   290   120    76           11240      31         49b        3,0         93        OSoY    234        8,97EY
NICARAGUA         74    2,3S4    7000        2.5    14.2       91    13    13       57        65        21         37        2,0          93        17       29        7,00
PANAMA            79    1,6H~ 1,220          5,9    ...        42H   13H   13       829       97        92E        32H4       3.0         950       49        349H    20,00
TRINIDAD 9 T. 77    1,1   2,199              4.5    14,1       49     32    20      95        98        91         3)"        3,0         49        6a       29          ,
IIMUTH AMERICA
Akrt*MrZhA         78  74.7  1,910            1.4    11.4       43K   319   ISM      83       8          12        17         2.0         &?'        31        5        3.00
AdLIV A           76    4,8       3156       5.0    17,5F    ..., .....              la       179       290        24i        SF          ...         99      180      ,,
RRAZIL            75 119.1"  1,3006          2.9H   02.4       426   20L   2eN    64A         990        .,,       2700       ..          ...       290       1500    6,009
CHILE             75   10.34  1,4506         3.99Y 12.590   230   140   509          ...    11900        ...       350        ..          ..        "90       ..       6.5
COLOMBIA          74   70,3G    9940         1,30Y 21.2DY  4000  2200  110    73             10540      020        330        4.0                             ;"3.0  4  6,670
ECUADOR           75    I,9G    7004         3.7f)  27.70                            9       120                    9                                3400    140
GUYANA            74    4,8F    5129         5,94N   14.:70    t* ~i4    [          836       9 120     'YA        33C                               3 60     24C
96940060     ~~~79    2,60    6504      I,9    11.0        55    13    22       91       90         76        30         0.9        t14         17       12       S,00
PERU              75   19,0 UG    8OGO       4.200  21.709   90Y  220   150    72            11140       38        390,       3.0         TO         4900    2300   14,410
UitUGUAY          75    2,64; 1, 3704        2.5    13.3       46    34    20       99        93X        ...       04         ,,         o                    It, 1
9E.NEZUELA        7 3   12,3SG O9,4944      Li,6    19,9       303q  284   35,1   77A        91         ,,         33        0,4          .         33        ..      1,30



- 38-                        ~ANNEX 1
Table T-1
Comparative Education Indicators                                        Page 2 of 2
(September 1, 1980)
.. ............... .......................... --------------------------............ ...................................................................... ............ ........................... ....
t       t GNPi I Y GNP  tX TOTAL:t  OF PUBLIC I               I       I          iPRI. oAv.QRI.  I             I        ISEC   I
I       ICAPITAI DEVOTCDIPUBLIC  I EDUCATION    ILITER-   PRI. ,CnMPLE- ISTU- ,SCH.TEACMIPROGRESS-3 SEC. ISIU- IRHIGERI
I   AT  I Tn ED U .   EXP. I RECURRENT    sACY        IENROLLITInN       IDENTS3SALARY INIiUN RATE IENROLLIDENISIENROLLI
I       IMANKEKI  (PURLICIDEVUTEDSEXP ALLUCATtDS  RATt NAT710 IRATE FORIPER   0RELATION  ;.NIW  PR9.1RATIO IP'ER  IRATIU I
IPUP   IPRICESI EXP.   t  TO   I         TOI      t 1  Of  I NET  ,PRI.SCH,ITEACHI TO GNP/ ITU SEC.  I NET  ITEACH- IiROSSI
YRIMILLS,t (USSII ONLY)         E tDU. tPRT. SEC. HI.IADULTS)i  IX)  tCYCL;tt)lER    I CAPITA   I  (Z)            I (X1  IER    I c0)  I
I       t            I       t        I             I         I         t               1     I       I        I       I         t     t
I      3 1s  (2) 1  (3)    a  (0)  1       (51      a (SI    I (7)  i  (8)   I (9) 1  (I)               I Il)  Ic12)  3(13) II21   a
..,._..____............,.,,,,.................__...........,.,......._____..._  ..................._.._____................._  .   _   . 
ASIA AND UCEANIA
........ .........M...                            4.    . 9a
A!nnANISTAN    77M  14.,    1804       I.A    u.b       I7 19   15         12 2a     0      h9        37       3,OG        62        ex     17      1,00
rANGLADFSM      73  80.AG    9oG        1.2   20.2      44Y  22Y  21Y   230    Se Y          ..       48D      ...        ...      23xD    28
INDIA           75 620.46   1400       2.60 VY                             298     6SXY        .      43A      ...        ...      2900    20AY    2,34EY
INDONESIA       78  S6,.0     36o      2.4    9.1    2CG   32C  15   4*2           92       48        32       3.0       7'        19       17      2. 00
IRAN            73  13,66 2.0e0C       3.3    12.6    So9  188  128   50           77       74A       32       5,00       800      24       32      4 32Cr
IRAQ            75  lie"5  1,390       6C   $3DR  ,.?  .,,,   26C                  93xr     ,,        22       ,,         ...              zeC      e.7r
JORDAN          77   d,S    997        4 5K    7 IK   2R  590R    3R   70          97x      a1        32       2.0        91       68       22     10. 0
KOREA           7E  37,0  1,242        2 8   17.5       35   29   3e    93        102x      94        49 0                9.9 1     o0      45     18.00
LEBANON         72   Si6  1,070G        35  la,0       39   40    10    68        60       6S        19      2Z0         b3       2eu      25     23.00
MALAYSIA        76  1i.       860      6. 7   26.u      42   34   15    tOC        ss       93        32       3.7        78      40        28      3.00
NEPAL           7b 12,6F    1QF         1.1        0.0  29   20   41       19      S9       28        31       2.3        04        14      24      0.8
OMAN            72   U,fF d,300F          .7N   3. 8    96                 20      24x      Y9        27F      7.0        .,,      0,4X      9 
PAKISTAN        75  71.30    180C       l.6   l0.2      45   25   18    21         47X      So        39      2z,0        ...       17x     18      e,o0
PAPUA N,G.    75   2.80   450G         S.6    06.1      38   16   24       32      57?      73P       31      11.0        90       12x?   24        0.90?
PHILIPPINES   704  4S.G    4206    2.5    14.9          73   IS   12    B7        104x                34      15,0        ... ,    4b       ...   21.00
SINGAPORE       74   2.3G  2Is8o0      2.7Y    9.2Y    39Y  39Y  I7Y   75A    109xY         72A       31Y      ...        99A     40x    204        7,o8r
SYRIA           75   1,h6    8300       3.6     6.9     39   25   26    53         89       70        35       2.0        92       45       21     12.00
THAILAND        77  44,1      410      4,0V  20. 0    S5   30   15   SfF           83       3n        35       5.011      70       28      25       3. 00
TURKEY          73  40,96 1,ol0       5.6cy 20.6cr...   ,.  ...   ,,,            BSr      ...       340      ...        ,.       24      271D     5.830
YEMEN           73   S,4G   300c       o.s    400    45P  21P  23P    10           1Sx       18       3f       5.0        75        2X      19      0.05Hr
YEMEN P,D,R.  76    1.7    280         6.6 h            57   28      6    20       89x      48        30       5.u        94       21x    24        0.10
SUMMARY FOR DEvELOPINC LUONTRIESa
NUMBER (IF COUNTRIES1                 1oo     94       91   91   09    93        101       79       10         70       H3       99      97        89
RANGES                              (0.5.  (3.8-  (21. (8.  (a.   (5.           113-     (13-     (16.       (1.5-    (S.      (14.   (9.         (.01.
12. 0 I 16.0)   96 1 721  50)   99)         1330)   99 )    69 )    25.0 I   99)            95  1  45)    30.1I
GUARTILESIUPPER I                    5.9   21.2       49   35   22      86       98       91       42          6       91        MA      25     11.0
MEDIANI                  4.2    06.0    42   2O   18    60           82       65        34         4        68       24      22       3.4
LUWER 1                  3. 0   12.4      34   21   I1    25         56       33        29         2       *4        11       18         o.
SYMBOLSt,.. DATUM UNAVAOLOAELE                021970 (JR RlEFOL            M=CUROENI  PRICES                        SODOcESI
_  MAGNITUDE NIL UR NEGLIGIBLE 621971                           N.GDP
7  QUESTIONAfLE        -            CmI972                      PRINCLUDING FOREIGN AID                   CUL NNSII AND 2           BARLO 6ANK ATLAS
*  INCLUDES PART-TIME STUDENTs D01T73                           QCENTRAL GLIvT. nNLY                                         ON IBR1   MISsIuNs
MM  COMbINED 2109 PRIMARY            EuI974                      RSMINJaAOY  IF EDUCA1 IUN (MOE) OiNLY               3 TU 14 ldRD MISSIONS
..  UNDER  &RVIE*                     P.1975                      SMOUE AND STATE G(0VT. t)NLY                                  AND/OR UNESCO
G31976                     TYEXCLUDING CENTRAL GOVT.                                     STATISTICAL
MwJ977                      U-PUBLIC ONLY                                                YEAROUOK
K21978                      VaINCLUDING PRIVATE EXPEN[)ITURE
XXINCLuDING (IVERAGFD STUDENTS
YZUNESCO SOIURCES
COMPARATIVE EDUCATIUN DATA ARE USEFUL IN THE EVALUATION UF VARIOUS ELUCATInN SYSTEMS AND ANALYSIS UP RELATIVE STA6ES UF EUUCATIUNAL
DEVELOPMENT BETMfEEw VARIUUS CUUNTRIES. HOWEVER,ON THE BASIS fIF THM  PReSENT 0AIA,Ck(ISS.NATIONIAL CoiMPARISUN SHOULD BE AVPROALHED .0TH
GRFAT CAUTIO)N. DATA PHESENTEB IN THE ABOVE TABLF HAVE HEEN COILLECTED LARGELY Hr THE bA-0 HMSSlIloS FRO, i,(0EWNMENiT SUUWCESI ThE
REMAINDER ARE STAFF ESTIMATES UR TATA FROM UNESCO. EFFORTS HAVE BEEN MADE TL STANDVARD17  DEFINITIONS ANI  oITHIN LIMITS, TU CHECK THE
ACCIJRACY OF THF DATA. NEVERTHELEBS.SUCH DATA ARE STILL IMPERFECT IN SEVERAL RtSPECTS AND THE HANK IS WURKING TU IMPRUVE THEM
PROGRES31VELY ON THE UCCASION UF TTS nPERATIONAL WORK, IN THE USE OF THESE DATA, THE FOLLO0wl', (LIALIFICATIONS SHOULD BE BURNE IN
MINDI
(I)^EDUCATIUN" AS ODFINED IN THE TABLE INCLUDES ALL EDUCATION AND TRAINING, F(IRMAL AND N(1N-FORmAL:
(2).PRIMARY EDUCATIUN REFERS Tn EMUCATION AT THE FIRST LEVEL AND "SECONDARY' EDUCATION REFERS TO ALL EDUCA1lUN AT THE SECONUARY
LEVEL REGARDLESS UF TYPE (E.G. GENERAL, TECHNICAL, AGRICULTURAL) I
(3)"LITERACY RAIES-(COL.6) ARK OFTEN OBTAINED FRUM CUUNTRY CENSUSES. IN MANYCOUNTRIES THEY ARE UNLY APPROXIMATIUNS AND IT IS
DOUBTFUL THAT ANY UNIFURM TEFTNITION OF 'LITERATEn HAS BEEN FULLLOWED CONSISTENTLYI
(4)"PUBLIC EXPENDITURL IN EDULICATION"(COLS.3,ii AND 5) REFER TO ALL CAPITAL AND RFCURRENT EXHENDITUkFS LEVOTED TO EDUCATIUN BY
PUBLIC AND QUASI-PUBLIC AGENCIES3
(5)'ENROLLMENT WATIUSM(COLS 7, 12 AND 14) REFER TO SCHUOL YEAR AND MEAN THE PtRCENTAGE OF tLIGIBLE CHILDREN ENROLLED HULL.TIME
IN THE APPRUoDRiATE SCHUOL, PUBLIC AND PRIVATE bY LEVEL  THEt ARE UFTEN SUBJECT TO1 A HIDE MARGIN uF ERRnk IN THE DEVELOPINti
COUNTRIES ONIN  TOI VARIAlTInN IN TOE ACCURACY LF BASIC 6ATA(I.E. AGE.SPECTFIC PIIPtJLATION AND kNROLLMENTS). ENAoLLMENT FIGURES
FREQUENTLY AiE HIOHER THAN THE NUMBER OF STUDENTS ACTUJALLY IN  SCHLIOL. nvERAGED STUDENTS WHOSESE INCLUSION IS INDICATED  80
FOUOTNOTES ALSO CAN INFLATE THE RATIOS.



- 39 -
ANNEX I
Table T-2
ARGENTINA
VOCATIONAL TRAINING AND TECHNICAL EDUCATION PROJECT
Distribution of the Labor Force by Occupational Categorv
and Sector of Economic Activity, 1960 - 1990 (in thousands)
Totl 'Prof.Tech: Admins.    Farm    '  Service ' Other
Total      Total  Related    Related    Workers    Workers   Workers            N.E.S.
1960     7,425       449          998        1,332       1,386      2,621       639
1970     9.011       678        1,163        1,296       2,209      3,091       574
1980    10,424r       900       1,220        1,250       3,154      3,650       250
1990    11,504P   1,173         1,376        1,221       3,409      4,025       300
Agric. - Min.
1960     1,364          3          10        1,255           8         39        49
1970     1,376          5          17        1,242          16         88         8
1980     1,320          8          18        1,212          22         60         -
1990     1,300         13          26        1,181          30         50         -
Manuf. - Util.
1960     1,940         26         20/           58          48      1,574        27
1970     1,868         57         291           21         108      1,325        66
1980     2,200         80         300           15         130      1,675         -
199n     2,400        120         300           10         180      1,790         -
Construction
1960        426        11          18            -           5        387         5
1970        711        25          39            2          11        625         9
1980        800        30          4s            -          20        705         -
1990        900        40          5(            -          25        785         -
Services - NES
1960     3,695       409          763           19       1,325        621       558
1970     5,056        590         816           31       2,074      1,053       492
1980     6,104       800          850           25       3,029      1,150       250
1990     6,904    1,000         1,000           30       3,174      1,400       300
Sources: 1960, 1970: Population Censuses;  P = Labor force projections bv
CONET; mission estimates.



-40                         ANNEX 1
Table T-3
ARGENTINA
VOCATIONAL TRAINING AND TECHNICAL EDUCATION PROJECT
Qualified Workers Demanded and Supplied per Year, by 1985 in the
Manufacturing, Utilities, and Construction Sectors (in thousands)
Workers Demanded                                           75
Increase in Labor Force                                  10
Replacement of Retiring Workers                          35
Upgrading and Retraining of Existing Workers             30
Workers Supplied                                           75
CONET VTC's                                              15
CONET Mobile Units                                        2
CONET Vocational Training Programs in ENETs               1
CONET Technical School Dropouts (Ciclo Superior)         13
CONET Technical School Graduates                          4
CONET - Private Firms Cooperative Agreements             15
In-plant Training by Private Firms                       25
Sources: ANNEX 1, Table T-2; CONET; mission estimates.



ARGENTINA
VOCATIONAL TRAINING AND TECHNICAL EDUCATION PROJECT
The Pattern of Schools and Enrollments, 1977
Enrollments                  Teachers
Establishments          Total        Male           Total      Male
REPUBLIC OF ARGENTINA                                       41,625            6,578,160   3,264,559        471,620   112,128
PRE-PRIMARY                                                  6,435              430,916      214,406         22,060         63
PRIMARY                                                     24,986            3,884,025   2,000,781        217,865    18,047
School Age                                                20,538            3,680,185   1,869,210        199,384    14,862
Post School Age                                            3,978              170,973      112,260         10,183     2,735
Adults                                                   1,267               99,206       67,721          6,946     2,202
Centers                                                  2,711               71,767       44,539         3,237        533
Special                                                      470               32,867        19,311         8,298       450
SECONDARY                                                    4,845            1,288,107      607,791        173,714    63,253
Bachillerato                                               1,674              441,907      164,630        60,199    14,774
Commercial                                                 1,610              435,122      168,546        55,203    16,772
Technical                                                  1,093              352,189      247,386        48,268    27,281
Agriculture                                                  208                19,549       14,985         4,469      2,285
Artistic                                                     135                29,754        9,304         3,876      1,309
Social Worker                                                 96                5,250           796         1,023        468
Various                                                       29                 4,336        2,144           676        364
HIGHER                                                         942              536,450      280.547         42,500    26,229
University                                                   421               465,167      271,299        29,368    22,153
Non-University                                               521                71,283        9,248        13,132      4,076
NON-SYSTEMATIC COURSES                                       4,417               438,662      161,034        15,481      4,536
Source:  Ministerio de Cultura y Educacion,  Departamento de EstadisticaA
4-r



AREENTINA
VOCATIONAL TRAINING AND TECHNICAL EDUCATION PROJECT
Growth and Distribution of Enrollments 1973-1977
Growth                                                  Distribution
Year    Administration                                    Stage                                                                Stage
Pre      Pr  ris    Media      Superior Parasiste                 PrIs ri    riazria    Media    Superior  Par sg *:!e
_________    Primaris  _ __ _                         altics  a             Primaria                                      GA__ _  _____ st Ic a
rTOTAL  ..      ..8.... 9s0 soo    290.834  3.728.332  1.124.364   432.461    407.909     100.00        4.86      62,30       18.79       7.24        6.91
National  ... .. 2.078.441       61.670  1.092.033    528.763   341.017       54.138      34,73        1.03      13,26        8,84       5o7    0     , 90
1972     Provincial  .  2.460.795  .132.163  2.042.483    225.682    23.266            31.201      41.12        2.21      34,13        377 1       0,39    0 ,3e2
Municipal ... - 27.767            6.066       5.328     10.324        601      5.248   0, 47           0,10       0.09        0.17       0.02        0.09
LPrivate  ....  . 1.416.897       90.935    587.663    359.595    67.377    311.322        23,68        1,52       9,82        6.01       1.13        3,22
(rOTAL  ..... .   . 6.208.896    317.793  3.778.434  1.197.729   497.727    417.213       100,00        3,12      60.86       19.29        6,01       6,72
National  . .. . 2.173.351       66.972  1.085.570    562.7539   402.605      55.445      35.00        1.06      17.49        9.06       6.48        0.D3
1974(P)  Provincial  . . 2.525.508    142.640  2.082.794    247.603    23.829          28.642       40.63       2.30      33.55        3.99        0.38       0.46
Municipal  ...    30. 813         6.696       5.291     10. 856    1.159       6.811       0.50        0,11       0.08        0.18       0.62        G,:
IPrivate .          1.479.224    101.485    604.779    376.511    70.134    326.3.15       23.82        1.63       9.74        6.06       1.13        3,C6
TOTAL  ..... .   . 6.450.924    369.0e2  3.605.454  1.243.058   596.736   A436.594       100.00        5,72     53.99        19.27       5,25        6.__
National    ...  2.291.806       87.150  i.069.682    574.8ll  502.182        57.931      25.33        1,35      16.58        6.91       7,79        0.90
1917(p)  Provincial         2.589.652    163.179  2.105.C63    272.516    20.167       28.727      40,14        2,53      22,63        4.22        0,31       0.45
Municipal  ...        32. 507     7.470  .  5.519       10. 822    1.305       7.383       0,50        0.12       0.05        0,17       0,02        0.11
Private ...... 1.536.959    111.275    625.190    384.909    73.082    342.503            23,83        1,72       9.70        5.97       1,13        5.31
TOTAL .6.540.740    402.702  3.832.360  1.283.056   600.768    421.354                   100,00       6,16       38.39      19.62        9.18        6.45
National  .... 2.311. 330        99.492  1.064.474    583.353   498. 508    65.503        23,33        1,52      16.27        6.92       7.62       1.0C
L976(p)  Provincial         2.665.063    178.049  2.132.306    298.827    23.311       32.070      40,75        2,72      32,61        4,37       0.36        0,49
Municipal             34.022      7.721       5.943     10.828     1.426       3.102       0.52       0.12        0,09       0,17        0.02       0.12
LPrivate ...... 1.530.323    117.440    629.135    390.048   77.523    316.179             23,40       1,So        9,62       3.96        1.18       4.84
(TOTAL .6.624.715    436.600  3. 318.250  1.325.515   619.950    424.400                  100,00       6,.5       57,64      20.01        9,36       4.40
National  ...  2.328.645    110.000  1.039.830    598.925   513.220          6.650        35,14       1.66       15.70       9.04        7.75       1,01
1977(1)  Provincial         2.701.150    194.000  2.136.430    314.370    23.660       32.650      40,77        2,93      32.25        4.75       0.36        0,48
Municipal  5.         3.33        8.100       6.340     11.245     1,500       8.200       0,53       0.12        0,10       0.17        0.02       0.12
Private  .        i.. 1 9  124. 500 .500    633.610    400.975    81.330    316.900       23,54       1,83        9o39       6.05        1,23       4.79
(P)   Provisionalj            (E) Estimated
_.>--   *                                        X  ><~~~~~~~~~~~~~~-Al
-~~~~ t8 
.                                                    .~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~L



ARGENTINA
VOCATIONAL TRAINING AND TECHNICAL EDUCATION PROJECT
Secondary Education: Establishments and Enrollments, 1977
Establishments                           Enrollments (in '000)
Course                               Provin-  Muni-                                  Provin-  Muni-
TOTAL  National  cial       cipal  Private    TOTAL  National  cial          cipal   Private
Basic Cycle -    1,674        398       266      -      1,010       442       189       50        -         202
Bachilleratos   (100)       (24)      (16)      -       (60)    (100)       (43)     (11)        -        (46)
Commercial        1,610       423       392      1        794       435       175      107        -         152
(100)      (26)      (24)   (0.1)    (49)       (100)    (40)    (25)          -        (B5)
Technical         1,093       424       500      2        167       352       199      118        2          32
(100)     (39)      (46)   (0.2)      (15)      (100)     (57)     (34)      (0.6)      ( 9)
Agricultural        208        46        99      2         61        20         5        8        0           5
(100)      (22)     (48)   (1.0)      (29)      (100)     (26)    (44)        (0)       (29)
Others              260        63       118    28          51        39        10       16        7           5
TOTAL             4,845    1,354    1,375    33         2,083    1,288        579      303        9         397
(100)      (28)    (28.4)  (0.7)  (43.0)    (100)         (45)    (24)    (0.7)         (31)
SOURCE: Ministry of Culture and Education.
NB:  The figures in parenthesis indicate the percentage involvement of each administration.
M ! 1
'-3,--
cr



ARGENTINA
VOCATIONAL TRAINING AND TECHNICAL EDUCATION PROJECT
SECONDARY EDUCATION - Basic Cycle/Bachillerato Course: Coefficients of Retention and Dropout
The retention and corresponding dropout percentages for the 1974-78 cohorts tabled below
are 60.4% and 39.6%, respectively.
Enrollments                                                                             YEARS
1974                   197S                    1976                     1977                      1979
Total           ........                             442.9aO                 447.639                  441.383                 438.408                 437.$92
Male      ..............                  176.889                 176.937                 168.734                  162.072                .1437.i4
Female      ............                  266.C91                 270.802                                         162.649  275.536 22.39'
lst. Year  ..........1.......                       112.135                 111.915                 109.036                  106.?99                *C,.gs 
Male      ..............                   44.819                  43.793                  40.090                 31.63                   , 4J. 132 3
Female      ............                   67.316                  68.122                  68.146                  6t.936                  6,.;0   4-
2nd. Year   ..................                       95.350                  98.6417                 94.296                  95.070                  t2.145
Male      ..............                   37.781                  38.749                  35.389                  34.45                    2.0
Female ............                        57.569                  59.89a                  58.908                  60.62C 0.1:
3rd. Year    .................                       85.061                  87.822                  88.22.                  86,216
Male ......................                34.246                  34.821                  33.824                  32.2kb                  X2 463
Female      ............                   50.815                  52.99q                  54.398                  54.Co o
4th. Year    .................                       77.456                  80.06,                  80.305                  80.113
Male                                       31.063                  321322                  31.526                  31. 22
Female    .............                    46.388                  47.744                  48.779                  49.Z91
5th. Year    .................                       72.978                  69.189                  69.524                  69.410
Male      ..............                   28.975                  27.150                  27.106                  26.12L
-   eirale .l...... . . . . . . .          44.00a                  42.039                  42.416                  43.269                  4.5I1
The data for 1976 and 1978 are provisional
Source:   Ministry of Culture and Education                                                                                                    g.m
-3



ARGENTINA
VOCATIONAL TRAINING AND TECPNICAL EDDCATION PROJECT
CONET Training Output. 1985
A. VOCATIONAL TRAI[NING; >NTFiS                           C  0  U  N  T  R  Y        T  0  T  A  l                                     ENROLLMENT AND DISBURSEMENTS FROM PROJECT
SPLU. &--  -_RE(IONS              RS  AS. REIIO          C,NrFAT REGION.         CUlYO RECION        LITORAL REGION         NORThEAST. REGION    NORTHWEST. REGION    SOUTHERN REGION                TOTAL
TRDE LL.A.                                                                                                                                                               NRLL&GA. hOL.                   GRD
TRADE~S        '   -   _ENROLL.    GRAD-        ENROLL.   GRAD,        ENROLL,    GRAD,       ENROL(,,    C R..      ENRO_LL.    GRAD.      ENROLL.    GRAD          E
Carpentry                         360        150         144        60          288        120         288        120         288        120         360        150         216          90       1.94'.       810
Building Construction             576        240         360      150           288        120         360        150         288        120         360        150         432         180       2,664      1.110
Industrial Seni g                 144         60          -         -            -          -          108         45          -          -           -          -            -          -          252        105
Electricity                       432        180         288       120          216         90         432        180         216         90         360        150          360        150       2,304        960
Electronics                        -          -           -         -                                         -          -           -          -           -                                        7 -  -0    -0
Foundrv                      I    -           -                                  -          -           72         30
iron Work                    j   144          60          -         -  -         -                     288        120          -          -           -          -            -          -          432        180
Leather Work                       -          - _                                                       72         30          -          -           -          -            -          -           72          30
Agricaltural Mechanics             -          -           72        3)          144         60         216         90         144         60         360        150          144         60       1,080        450
Auto Mechanics                    648        270         360       150          216         90         504        210         144         60         360        150          360        150       2,592      1,080
General Mechanics                 648        270         504       210          288        120         216         90         216         90         360        150          288        120       2,520      1.050
Radio & T.V. Repair                -                      -         --           -          -                                                                                 72         30          72          30
Watch Repair                       36         1-                                                        - _        _                                                                                 36          15
SUb-TOTAL YOUTII GROGP           2,988       1,245    1,728        720         1,440        600      2,556      1,065       1,296        540       2.160        900       1.872         780      14,040      5,850
Mechanical Fitting                 80         70          64        56           -           -          32         28          -          -          160        140           16         14         352         308
Masonry                           128        112          96        84           64          55         80         70          64         56          80          70          96         84         609         532
Electrical Appl. Repair           160        140         128       112           96          84        160        140          80         70         160        140          144        126         928        812
Carpentry (building)              176        155          64        56          128         112        128        112         128        112         160        149           96         84         880         770
Tile-Laying                       128        112          64        56           48          42         64         56          48         42          80          70          64         56         496        434
Industrial Electronirs             -          -
Industrial Sewing                  16         14          -         -                        -          80         70          -          -           -          -            -          -           96          84
Mechanical Drawing                 -          -           -         -            -                      -          -           -          -           -          -            20         18          20          18
Technical Drawing                  60         54          23        18           20          18        122        108          -          -          230        180                                 420         378
Industrial Electr. Maint.         160        141          80        70           64          56        160        140          48         42         160        140           96         84         784        686
Electrical Installatin-,          256        224         160      149            96          84        160        140          64         56         160        140          112         98       1,024        896
Welding (bldg. construc.)          96         84          48        42           96          85        192        168          48         42         240        210           80         70         784         686
Milling                            64         56          32        28           -           -          -          -           -          -           -          -            16         14         112          98
Foundry                            _          _-                                             -          32         28          -          -           -          -            -          -           32          28
Gas Pipe Fitting                  128        112          48        42           16          14         64         56          32         28          80          70          64         56         448        392
Iron Work                          64         56          -         -            -           -         128        112          -          -           -          -            -          -          192        168
Sewer Installation                 16         14          48       42            48          42         16         14          32         28          -          -           48          42         205        182
Auto Maintenance                  256        226         144       126          112          98        224        196          64         56         160        140          160        140       1,120        980
Clock  Maintenance                 16         14      .  -          -                                   -          -           -          -           -          -           -            -          16         14
Agricultural Mach. 1Taint.         -          -           32        28           32          28        128        112          64         56         240        210           64         56         592        518
Machine Maintenance               112         99         112        98          128         112         96         84          96         84         160        140           96         84         800        700
Le.ather Work                      -          -           _         -            -           -          48         42          -          -           -          -            -           -          48         42
Dye-CastinR                        16         14          -         -            -           -          -          -           -          -           -          -            -           -          16          14
upgrading (CGnstr.)               128        112          9.       84            48          43        123        112          32         28         249        210           96         84         768        672
Plusbing                          224        197         112        98           80          69        144        126          64         56         160        140           96         84         896        784
Radio & T.V. Repair                -          - -        -            -         -                       -          -           -          -           -           -           32         28          32          28
Welding                            80         70          48        42           32          28         32         26          16         14          80          70          64         56         336         294
Lathe Work                         80         70          32        28           -           -          16         14          -          -           80          70          16         14         224         196
SIb-TOTAI.  (ADULTS)            2,444       2,146     1,428    1,250          1,108         970       2,227    1,956          880        770       2,600      2.280        1,476      1,292        12,163    10,684
T01'AL                          5,432       3,391      3,156    1,970         2,548        1,570      4.783    3,021        2,176      1,310       4.760      3,180        3,348      2,072        26,203    16,514
-          -   -   - - - - - - - - -   -   - - - - -   -   - - - - - - - - - - -  c
Os



B. MOBILE UNITS
REGIOINS
SEGIEC.        3 BUENOS AIRES          CENTRAL                 CUYO            LITORAL            NORTHEAST           NORTHWEST               SOUTH              TOTAL
& TRADES    \:                                                                                            _     _ ___  
No. Enroll. Grad. No. Enroll. Grad. No. Enroll. Grad.  No. Enroll. Grad.  No. Enroll. Grad.  No. Enroll. Grad.  No. Enroll. Grad.  No. Enroll. Crad.
Agric./Animal Husbandry          1    144    120    1    144    120                           2    288    240    1    144    120    2    288    240    2    288    240    9  1,296  1,080
Carpentry                                                                                                         1      72     60    1      72      60                         2    144    t20
Food Preservation                                    1    144    120    1    144   120                                                 2    288    240                          4    576    480
Building Construction            1     72      60    1      72     60    1      72    60      2    144    120    2    144    120    3    216    180    3    216    180   13    936    780
Electric Maintenance                                                      1     72    60                                                                                        1      72     60
Agric. Mechanics                 2    144    120    1       72     60    2    144   120                           2    144    120    3    216    180    2    144    120   12    864    720
Auto Mechanics                                                            1     72    60                                               1     72      60    1      72     60    3    216    180
Machine Maintenance                                  1     72      60    1     72    60                                                                    1     72      60    3    216    180
Mining                                                                                                                                1     96      80                         1      96     80
Refrigeration                                                            1    72    60                                                                    1      72     60    2    144    120
TOTAL                  4    360    300    5    504    420    8    648   540         4    432    360    6    504    420   13  1,248   1,040  10    864    720   50  4,560  3,800
o -
O.



- 47 -                     ANNEX 1
Table T-9
ARGENTINA
VOCATIONAL TRAINING AND TECHNICAL EDUCATION PROJECT
Technical Assistance
Man-Months
A. Specialists (Vocational Training)l/                                  120
Planning                                                              18
Mobile Unit Administration                                            24
In-Plant Training                                                     12
Occupational Analysis                                                 12
Curriculum Development                                                12
Instructor Training                                                   12
Cost (Administration)                                                 12
Consultant                                                            18
B. Specialists (Technical Education)l'                                   39
Documentation (Administration)                                        12
Curriculum Development                                                 9
In-Plant Training                                                      9
Institutional Planning                                                 3
Consultant                                                             6
Sub-Total (Specialists)                                              159
Duration           Total
No.    (Man-Months)      Man-Months
C. Fellowships (Vocational Training)-/                                   67
Mobile Units                            12           1                12
In-Plant Training                        2           2                 4
Organization and Administration          1           1                 1
Supervision                             10          1.5               15
Occupational Analysis                    3           2                 6
Documentation (Administration)           1           1                 1
Curriculum Development                   2           2                 4
Instructor Training                      4           3                12
Audiovisual Aids                         1           1                 1
Planning                                 2           2-                4
Evaluation Techniques                    1           2                 2
Vocational Guidance                      1           1                 1
New Vocational Training
Methodologies                        2           2                  4
D. Fellowships (Technical Educati2n 2/                                   58
In-Plant Training                        1           1                 1
Organization and Administration         13           1                13
Supervision                             10           1.5              15
Occupational Analysis                    1           2                 2
Documentation (Administration)           4           1                 4
Teacher Training                         1           2                 2
Audiovisual Aids                         2           1                 2
Planning                                 3           2                 6
Evaluation Techniques                    3           2                 6
Vocational Guidance                      1           1                 1
Curriculum Planning                      3           2                 6
Sub-Total (Fellowships)                                              125
I1 Average cost of US$6,000 per month.
2! Average cost of US$2,500 per month.
July 25, 1980



- 48     -
MAMMA                               ~~~Table T-10
C=2    rtOAot 1     - -                                                   O TSa  IS   T HO U     A.ND.   0 7  U.S.A. DO0LL A R S
56.  by        lion ~~~~~~~~~~~~f.lClS0T0it.    t.15   ofi-       --tUS15ui-
O~hift    A~                                                                              Mos io Tta  05/l~~t~ Ss~1 8bile    hpn.r  Fe1lls,_   T.t.1  Studio.eds      T.
__________     _____    _2___ _6 43,893~                                        151.0         729.0      _   _  _.                                                   lZI
____            ISO_ ___    ___2__5    2,51             1,772.31                 23.3 ____    532.0      ____
3       144~   2,5/4           I27DOl,~s                                 0.6          397       ____ _0__ ___
4         .-     3,22        V                           1                         --5-6__
-________      1~~~44    ,2630                         1  34. J_ _ _ _        127.7         532.0 
3       162    ~3,33       I'573s~  2~-...1,o09.2~                     125.6         439.0'
6       396_     6,230        2 950    44.'     3,3925                   I. ,5.
______ ._I    0      -2,210      1,9   ~14'1,258.20s                                     2.
0      216 1   4,280      j2,0202  .c, ..0  32,3732  _____            161.6         667.0 071i.O____ 6.5 89I
lo      ~ 10)           31415          534_2.  2630    1,76' 2             I122.9          53330
10                      4.514       2,031.~  304,7  2,3360o                   16,            4935
12        08       'i} 81.5       030.7  124.6      9.                    66.4         299.0
S.,b-t.tal      2,322    42,863        30,w10I ¶3,05.1  23115.~                11,607.8      7                          __1________ 
ti -n                                                                                                                                                   _ _ _  __  _ _ _ _ _
13            100       3,408      11,687A, 253301   0           1            135.0         533.0
____________    __________    ______~4   210'  1 ,6 6 1                 1 2   4      482- 
5              2521   4,655         219.       3952267                        175,8         0989
164I"           2,541          25'.   18897  1 465100.6                             3790
17  216  4"007   1,-.9.3;, 283.7  2,175.0151.3                          642.0
10                      4,0            %5,9.3i  383.7  2,190.7         j_  152.4            491.0_________
I19            35"      4,516      S3113    19.7  1, 451.                     170.5         7__________                                   _________
20  216      4,134        1~~,951.2  3292.7  2,24.9136.1                         659.0
[1 J14    3,277             i 56  1 232.0  1.770 7                      123.7        5322  0 
22          __216}    4, 31         2,O.   305,2  2,340                       162.8         681.0
2   ~ ~ 74~1  ________4_3 _   2,034    35.   2, 4.0162.8                              681.0__
________4   216             4,311        2,34.1  3105.2  2,340.0                   162.8        681.0
25              1       34097       13745.0  261.7 12,006.7                   139.6   I     601.0 
26            180O      3,271       1 619.1  242.9  1,862.0                   129.5        332.0
27       180~~   33271         1,6195.1  242.0  1.962.0                  129.5        532.0
20      -        1                       0.0 26'                                 5.           31.0                                        -      - - - -
29            270  I4,606           2,072.7~  310,9  2,383 .6 i16.                         62      F-
2.               252      4,423    I2,087.61 329.1  2,416.0                      167,0        643.5                                       1
(1+2)       6,066   112,721        53,1         W.   1218                  __4_258_2    1__1_1_5
HobOlo               1                   .                                   ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~7,101.o
Eqc.i  .o.                                             t                                                                                                    390.0
-V-. TM                                                                                                                                    3M.0~~~~~~~.  340  4.0 37.
-                  -        L1.b .fd..                      61232                              ,10.00,260
21 -1i  1.657.9 1,705.3      , . :742,   3,431.0 .                               332.3:      158.0        516.0      3.78
=1, ~~~~~~~5,6.7OO               4f6,4   5 32,6501         J 7 '          L1734                                    iO       2760[1855s
I/ Oclce  as of Januar  15, 0980 (Rate of ch1-ge 0011I   1.630 p ..o.).  DCost includ. IOVA.
2/ The studios  -t  eapocted to booef it oq..lly op-ccifo
On thc. vocatio...  traini9  and techncal education- eo



- 49 -
ARGENTINA
ANNEX 1
VOCATIONAL TRAINING AND TECHNICAL EDUCATION PROJECT                      Table T-ll
Annual Recurrent Costs Generated by the Project
(US Dollars, at Jan. 1980 Prices)
Training                Cost/hour/participant by expenditure category           Cost/Participant  Increase in    Total Ahnual
Torainin               Teacher      Mitnne              Ohr           TalParticipants                                 Increase in
Courses                Salaries    Maintenance          Other         Total                       due to Project  Recurrent Costs
(thousand US$)
Vocational Training in Fixed Centers
Adolescents                                                                                           11650             13912
Construction               0.78           0.20           0.05            1.03            1187             2256             2678
Carpentry                  0.78           0.20           0.08            1.06            1221             1495             1825
Agric. Mechanics           0.78           0.20            0.04           1.02            1175             1008             1184
General Mechanics          0.78           0.20            0.07           1.05            1210             1988             2405
Other*                     0.78           0.20           0.05            1.03            1187             4903             5820
Adults                                                                                                 2712              1211
Plumbing                   0.82           0.20           0.17            0.19             275              426              117
Tile Laying                0.82           0.20            0.07           1.09             403               88               35
Carpentry                  0.82           0.20           0.19            1.21             484              485              235
Agr. Mach. Mainten.        0.82           0.20           0.23            1.25             375              592              222
Industr. Mainten.          0.82           0.20           0.19            1.21             363              652              237
Other*                     0.82           0.20           0.18            1.20             420              869              365
Vocational Training in Mobile Units
4560             1766
120 hrs. Duration          1.20           0.71           0.21            2.12             254             1872              475
(Agric., Food Preserv.)
180 hrs. Duration          1.20           0.71           0.16            2.07             372               96               36
(Mining)
240 hrs. Duration          1.20           0.71           0.11            2.02             484             2592             1255
(Carp., Constr., Electr.,
El. Maint., Agr. Mech.,
Aut. Mech., Gen. Mech.,
Mach. Maint., Refrig.)
Total Annual Increase in Recurrent Expenditure                                       16889
* Cost per hour of "Other" courses estimated as weighted average.



A R G E N T I N A
VOC.ALIONAL TRAINING AND TECHNICAL EDUCATION PROJECT
Implementation Schedule
-               Calendarl      1980        _     1981         _       81983                             1984              1985
1 1c t i V i rt i  e   ars    1- 3T11
w,Activities                          T1'77777777T111!7T77T
1. Setting up project, unt    'T         13 0011T601005L
24 Site selection, surveying;   T  3   6
soil -tests, ac.qWd sition1r4F ~7r~7~-7T-  - a---'-l  -X   
3              ;                                             _E  t               !                          1  !  |  _ 4  ~ml I I I I  I TI
'   a) Conet's staff (to       I T w    60 1() II (        i     {I  
design 10 schools)f                                                     - - -- ----
b) Consil ltant firms (to                      T
design 20 schools)        '        |
4F1iniohing architectural                                         T         I 1f)I
lbriefs for design work       j       '        j           1        -V +I--  -                     I t           ---1- -t
1 5.ei  Work (30 proi ectsI   +                                                     Ll II         ii1i  
i   a) Preliminary plans (30)    T               30  6   8  0          1                                             1 1  M1-
ib) Bank's approval              T1         i11051 45  |70                                          -                                        -
i _T _age;E_Eeutd  te                                          at                                      I4 ierLtL
t                                    -
1/ T - Target; E - Executed; targets Dare expressed in accumulated percentages.



A R G E N T I N A
VOCATIONAL TRAINING AND TECIINICAL EDUCATION PROJECT
Implementation Schedule
I,aYenars     1980             1981       T    1982              1983             1984             1985
Years__
Activities        Quarters  12                                                          3 1 4 1 1 1 2 1 3 1 4   1 1 2 1 3 -    4
'c) Final plans and related            1--30    601 80  9          100I
1 | documents                                                                           '''- ' I    I    I   I   I    I   I   I   I    I
6. Prequalification of
contractors                                      - jr-r-i-i-i-.-i-I-I-I-1-I--I1
a) basic criteria and         T                                       i        -   I                       I |
procedures   __ ___ __    I  TEI  I    I10     I                         I4
b) Bank's approval          I      1T   I  1T001  I.
[I      I tf:!---{    !    !   !lT  l     I  I                 I-I   I   I   I   I   I           I   II
17. ,Bids for construction          t                        .  I -                         -                         -  L    -
la) Preparation of standard I T I       1      401100
|    I  bid  documents   ]   ]   |   |   S    ]   |   |   |    |   |   |   |    |   |   ]    |   5   |    |   |   §      1S.,1I_-
fb) Bankts review and                                     -   - |      -            - |   |10                                       -
lb)1T/1001                                                        I   I        I   I                    ~-E T -
I/  T - Target; E - Executed; targets are expressed in accumulated percentages.



ARGENT-INA
VGC.ATICNAL, TRAINING hND TEC'rNICAL EDUCATION PROJECT
Implementation Schedule
ICalendarl      1980
Years        1980 1981                          1982              1983             1984              1985
I Activities          Qats41                                                                   i      i    iI j iii
|    Ac) ivities11Quarters  1   2   3   4  1    2   3   4  1    2   3   4  1    21                  4   1   2   3   4    i  2   3
c) bid no, 1 for 7 schools  _                    I-       I   I        I I   I
d) bid no. 2 for 7 schoolsj T                              100-
e) bid no. 3 for 7 schoolst T |                                                              {-I-1-|-{-f100|[||                    t-
f) bid no. 4 for 6 schools| T                                                                                            -|I-I- |
g) bid no. 5 for 3 schools  T                     T  . |   |TiJ        10  -                   -   -
._ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ .__ _ _ _ _   E                                          .I I                         II
Bank's review of bid  r        T               -I                                        lzlz.   .l          i
results_an awarding ofT1                11T _ -                              II
contractsT                                                                                                                          1
a) for bid no. 1            |1T |_ I |                                                                                            m ]  L.o ||
(+ 7 schools)                            -                  -           1      -i                                                   -
b)for bid no. 2             T                            10
b)(+ 7 schools)                                       II      z z z z____-
T     -   Target;     E    -   Executed;    targets !are    expressed    in     accumu lated    Ipercentages
/ T = Target; E e Executed; targets are expressed in accumulated percentages,



A R G E N T I N A
VCCATIONAL TRAINING AND TECHNICAL EDUCATION PROJECT
Implementation Schedule
I Calendars      1980             1981        1    1982               1983              1984        1    1985         1
i;''l  ctiviies  fuartes  1 |2 | 31 4   1| 2 |3   4   11 2 |3  |4   1    21 |2. 3    4  1 1    2    3    4   1  T2   3 | 4
* _____ I                                                     iTI  ITiTTl   l lII                                                     ITF Tl          -----1  
t,r. ActiviLties       4Quarters17V72T3A4
c) for bid no. 3            f;       IIJI100                                      I   I
1       7 schools)                    j-TI VY
I    _IE-1    1-I    I   I   I   I   I   IIII ---1    --1  I liii                                            I   I   I   I ....j......Ij.....J
d) for bid no. 4              T1   1                                                                             1111ioI
(+ 6 schools)                                I-1
e) for bid no. 5                                                                                                 1ii- 100    I
9  Construction (30 schools) |                                                                                   -iiI
a) Group no. 1              lT   ii           | j          jj    25| 40I  6J  80 o90  100                        I -   -
1    7 schools)                  II II
b) Group no. 2              jT       j                           10  25140  60i0   902100 
:   (+ 7 schools)            I                                   - |               i 2 g i Il-I  I 1-                      t 1-    0 l     iIi 2! 
^  | c) ?Group no. 3        |IT j   |   i   |   |   !   |   |   | 10|25 |460   80  90100                      -       1    I
(+7 schools)           r r r i                    i      1                                      
d) Group no-.4                T 11            1        1 '             1110   i±  90 i11I00 
Id) Group no. 4              jT |                                              1   25 |40| 60| 8o  90|100|                          l
i j 6 schools)           |
T - Target; E   Execut; t              s ae ed in ad pe s -                                           I      i
1/ T - Target; E - Executed; targets are excpressed in accumulated percentages.



A R G E N T I N A
VCCATIONAL TRAINING AND TECHNICAL EDUCATION PROJECT
Implementation Schedule
ICalendar                                                                           198118
1  Years                      1981             1982              1983             1984              1985
*                  * Cal~~~~enars.._,                                                                       
Activities  Quarters 12  34_                                               141  21 3 4 | 1   2 113                       2 1 2 3 4
e) Group no, 5                      | ||                   -2    40  60  80  go  100    j   I
(+ 3 schools)            E  i-__ - I-|-1-T-
'10,  International   bids   for                                i -  i -  i  - -  - i-              i  !     1 i
procurement of furniture, -   -  i  --i-i-r  r                                                    l    t -                  1t1
equipment and mobile                     iiiiiri                       I        J ||
units                                                                                                                                           4
a)Preparation of standard  !   !   I   I        I                                    I_
cedures and criteria to  I Tj          I   I 3001    |   I   I                                          1_
award contracts (include   E
i Bank's review)
b)Preparation & elaboratio4      1111             II       1___             I
of lists & specs (in---                                                     -
cludes Bankls review &   i_
approval for:)                     I       I I                                                       
*i) furniture-1st 40                                                                    z4 T   $ 30100|      
ii)furniture-2nd 607        T r                                I                   I T  30 100
f  L  I E                                                                                      M ' l i   i
iii)equipment-1st 40;/     | T      ; | ;3|1001   |                                                                                     1 
E                                                                                              Go          |_| 1 l |__1 
1/  T - Target; E - Executed; targets are expressed in accumulated percentages.



A R G E N T I N A
VOCATIONAL TRAINING AND TECHNICAL EDUCATION PROJECT
ICaledntationSchedule
Activities        |QuartCrS 1   2 1 3   4           2   3   4   1   2   3 |4 1         2 1      4        2   3 L4 |1              
iv)equipment-2nd 6      -/-| 011||_
E_ jf   hf   111                               JI    ;{lll   lJIl l ''                                          J
v) mob. units-lst 20       1 TIt  1 OC  10  tttS0§1|       
vi) mob. units-2nd          I TI   I   I   I   I                        I            Po   I             -       |
30 units               1 1 Ti1I                                                                        II               IIi                ''
c)International bids, in-j j { j | | | | l-|-|                                                       
eludes Bankts approval 
tf recommended contract
awards, for:
i) furniture-lst 401    T                                       ! 100!
.  1                    ~1T1    1   1   1 1   1   11            }I I I I I     
ii) furniture-2nd 60%        T !   |      !_1ii !__                                              .i1itIL _        _ __Iil_ iI   L
,~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ .
iii) equ±ipment-lst 4+0%     Tr -T           i      100                                                                        CD H%r
iv) equipment-2nd 60%/       T                f          i1| |y|I100                         IId9i    I                                -
I/  T - Target; E - Executed;-tard I I                          jt           I                 I                                         -
1/ T - Target; E - Executed; targets are expressed in accutuluated percentages,



A R G E N T I N A
VOCATIONAL TRAINING AND TECHNICAL EDUCATION PROJECT
Implementation Schedule
iCalendar                               
Years         190189219 83                                                             1984              198
Activit-ies        iUr~f~I~~ ±!Tj                                       TT                                        ±±.            i i
o.l  Activities     lQuarters   1  2| 3 4         1   2   3 |4 |         21    1            2 3      4  1     22   3   4      1  2   3t   4  
I   TI   I   I    I                                                                                               I
30 uniLs       20                                                                                     lii ||1||
I                  _     ~~~~~I E                     -I | I I I III II  -I-I                                .I     ---  -.-1-1--=1-I~
d)llanufacturing, transpor-|          
tation and delivery.        t           I               _       t                 Ir                                                 |
17V717I 1-1-IV     
i) funiiture-IlSt 40%        T                                            0
)I>TnAtUr?St4R    I El          1 1 1 1                 X       1D                +  I   I1-  I   I   I   I
ii) furniture-2nd 60       | T|           1                                                 100       -             -  - ri -  -
I_        _   _         _                      _        _       1-1-I I I-                                  I I
iii) equipment-lst 40,%        T                                           100                        1                          lio
iv) equipment-2nd 60%    1T T                                                                             10 ||               I I         OI
_ _      I ~ ~  ~   ~  ~  ~  ~  ~  ~  ~  ~  ~  ~  ~  ~  ~ ~  ~  ~  ~  ~ ~  ~  ~ ~  ~  ~ ~  ~ ~ ~    
v) mobile units-Ist 20              - Tjj   j   jLjj=  100  =|i
i/  T_                                                          . -ITarget; E -Executedtret reexrssdinacuult _d  _ JIrn  1 111                   I
1/  T -Target; E = Executed; targets are expressed in accumulated percentages,



A R G E N T I N A
VOCATIONAL TRAINING AND TECHNICAL EDUCATION PROJECT
Implementation Schedule
iCalendar       1980              1981        1    1982               1983              1984              1985
YearsI
Activities         Quarters  1 |23    4              2   3   4                  4   1   2 3  4|  1    1   2    | i3 |4    1    |2   3   4
I vi) mobile units-2nd         LT|                           I                    _ I        |   |-4 |   4d i-1-1-
30 units                1---T-t1 1                                   fT T 1 T I1
11t Technical Assistance                     I                                                                     -
a) Experts                  I TI          I   I4 01-                            1--4 --I I I
E~~~~
b) Fellowships                 T                              20l -  1   -50                  8C                    100         I
1 Studios                             T                           40f|'it 8't                    10 
. .                                    1 ~[~T              1IT1                Io letion Date:t December_21 198.__    I   I M
T 1   1   11   1   1   1e1                                                           :  June 30 1j98
T   Target  E Extcuted; targs ae e1 i                                                                  .-acum -l t edp__retgs
1/ T - Target; E -Exelcuted; targets are expressed in accumulated percentages.



- 58 -                       ANNEX I
Table T-13
ARGENTINA
VOCATIONAL TRAINING AND TECHNICAL EDUCATION PROJECT
Disbursement Schedule
(US$ '000)
Accumulated             Undisbursed 1/
IBRD Fiscal Year       bisbursements       Disbursements              Balance
1981    1                   0                   0               58,000
2                 100                100                57,900
3                 200                300                57,700
4                 400                700                57,300
1982    1                 500               1,200               56,800
2                 700              1,900                56,100
3              1,000               2,900                55,100
4               1,300              4,200                53,800
1983    1               1,600               5,800               52,200
2               2,000              7,800                50,200
3               3,000             10,800                47,200
4             .4,000              14,800                43,200
1984    1.              5,500             20,300                37,700
2               7,500             27,800                30,200
3               7,500             35,300                22,700
4               6,100             41,4oo                16,600
1985    1               5,000              46,400               11,600
2               4,500             50,900                 7,100
3               3,800             54,700                 3,300
4               3,300             58,000                     0
1/ at end of eadh quarter.



ARGENTINA
VOCATIONAL TRAINING AND TECHNICAL EDUCATION PROJECT
The Education System of Argentina
Prte -                 II 'Y.             r              (, III idly            I-  ,-.  ... llur
First degree
Academic                    I  I       Architecture/Engineering/Law
l-[{i}LE{il-: 4 I1 -[f-[H3-RO5 i6
1st cycle  2nd cycle                                            (Post-graduate)
Commercial                        .    Agriculture/Vet Studies/Art/Theology
I                . ~~I W- H-Pa  ' 'I )1{3i
3H4h5h6Ii< ICt S1__X                                            Nat Sciences/Pharmacy/Biochernistry/EconofI cs/
_'.I-I l  Philosophy & Letters/Dentistry/tMedicinc (±2
Technical/Industrial        lt Iy
1  .   1lj1±p1±y           'I I                            | (Post-graduate)
Social Services/Education/Journalism/
Agricultural I  I  t              _ X i Languages/Music/lourisnr
1 2 ,  {H}F}-L-}S4 1
Librarianship
.P 2 - -F4 i1 l   (Post-graduate)
Para-Medical/Social Worker
1   2   3   4                          Secondary Teacher Training/Nursing/Nutrition/
I    .I ' Cfij4jj4jH     Physiotherapy
Primary Teacher Training/Special Teacher
II.  l  l __ gkiE      Training/Draria
Vocational
1  121-13H4H s ~5, 6 i 7  -             rI
Artistic                                                                        r 
3   4  6   7 8 9        1       12  1    4 11 1r7               m190  21  2
3   4   5  |6   7   8   9   10  11  12|    13  14  15  16  17  18  19                  20  21  22  23  24  25  26  27              Age



ARGENTINA
VOCATIONAL TRAINING AND TECHNICAL EDUCATION PROJECT
ORGANIZATION OF TE MTINIiSTBY OF C-JT7LRE iANDL EDUCATION
r'ill,n-ster of 
Ctiltulec ant P;dvcation_
Secretary of State for|               S acr3tary of State f                    Sccretary uf Sza   i:'
Culture                               Educati     2                     Scienc(. an.d T
_.___   F_________________
ttncler Secrctu7-      *    UUnder Secretarretar; fr                              Under Scretary for          Under Sccr,!ta:y i'o-
(General                      Culture                   Education             University Affairs        Scicnce and.Tec  olog  I
Departmelnts                Dcrtnents                  Departments                Departments                 De;artments
- Policies ,,rnd Bucdi:t    - Cultural Assistance    - Secondary, Specialised - Private Universities   - Planning of Scie:c.-
Prograr ..... uing  .         . and Stimulus           and Htigher Education - Inter-University               and Tcchnolo.y
- Ediueational              - Cultural Research        - Private Education             Affairs                - Promotion o- Sci-e-ce
Arch'tectuie           - National Institute        - Control of               - University Development        and Tecllriolo-y
- beveloj;;.; .......cnt  .     of rJusicology             Programming
- Ler,al Matters            - National Polyphonic    - Adult Education                      +
- Ai-ii.:listration             Cpoir                  - Agricultural                                                               0
- 2e.scnz;el                                               Education                Office for the
- 'a:waa;e :nt CuXtrol              ..................- Art Education             Coordination of
- Irit.c-n;ltiorna1                                    - Physical-Education,        Secondary and University
£oope ra t i oa                                        Sports ane               Education
Recreation
+                                               - Special Education
- Educationa, Researbh
,aticnal insliLuLc                                       and Training
,or Zducatiot.al                                         (DIEPE)
Credit (INCE)                                                                                   .
National Cotncil for                                       .              rtH
Education (Primary)                                                     :_
National Council for
Teclnical Education
School llealth Service



ARGENTINA
VOCATIONAL TRAINING AND TECHNICAL EDUCATION PROJECT
Organization.of CONET
MINISTRY OF CULTURE
|          AND EDUCATION
National Council
of Technical Education
(CONET)
|General Secretariat
General        General         General                General               General          General
Directorate    Directorate    Directorate             Directorate           Directorate      Directorate                    a
for            for             for             for Vocational               for              for
Control       Planning        Technical              Training              Personnel      Administra-
Education                    .                                  tion
h i    O    v    a m    v  0  0     O
X o    ffi a  v    h    h h        O I 44                                          b  $
H a   H X  H   f @ s  @ m       H                                                n~~H 
u      0 (U      p    p a  a a                                                        .
a) aJ        u    0lv,   H h  4     
a S   ~~~a h  LO    0 p  0  :3 a 
T1   ow         >        oi   ou Q) U
|~~~~~~~~~- Reioa  Inspectorates| 
. ~    ~~~                      ~    ~~ co  .   _._.
^  ----  '          s                  | 'ltrain ing U)  0  i s
REgionalo Insecortes.



ARGENTINA
VOCATIONAL TRAINING AND TECHNICAL EDUCATION PROJECT
Present Organization of CONET's Vocational Training Directorate
|          ~~~GENERAL DIRECTORATE 'FOR VOCATIONAL TRAINING
| General Inspectorate         .                          .      .
for Centers (Supervision)                          ,                ~~~~~~~Support Services & Assistance
Chief Inspector  Technical Secretariat                                                         Chief Inspector
0~~~~0
_4 44 .O                                ', 4,,        -_'C-_O
I  ~                      . _ __              __  
r~~~~~~~~   H                                        4i                               4i =2 0=1   1WH1    ;   1        1010 
I~ ~~~~~0 1ri 1 IoG                                                     4                        P.  COru  I    0l       *W          I |         !| ||
E~~~~~~~. I>                                                 'd rA 4-                         0 |               IS SSAI         1-        01
l    l   ~Supervision    I             I        Planning and Control                   [ 1   Technical and Operational         
I 4 I     0    i             1 CO                                           j  I        I,            concerns 4
m  1J    cdw     d(      2                       4    t    _ -  _ __ H



in  eners.0:
Vocational Training                   0       O
_  _       in Centers            l          S _    '-
m O       |     in Mobile Units              .
0 °       r  Vocational Training          l_               m t
l  a   lin Monotechnic Missions  "T 0o
.   .                      _ _ _ _  ~~~~I  .          H' P
|.              ( Vocational Training                             0
for Handicapped (Rehab.) r 
0
Planning & Programming                                             la
.,_         _  _ _     _  _  _  _  _c
(D
Conti'ol o-                                           H
Training Activities      t                                         H'
l  PP'  I                11.           g                   z       P  B~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~C'  F
Technical Cooperati        t                                       P
H'           1lCooPertiOn'                              H'                  H
I . Q vStatistics and                        |  r     -
O n             Certification          _
0 o0                                                                     H o
*                          H'                  0~~~~~~~~~~~
0                                                                     0I  0
Promotion of Activities    L _          n
l  +    Evaluation          |Oc
-~ _ _ -'                    -  --__                                                H' 1H
Pedagogical Aspects &
Occupational Analysis                                             F-4
i  S  .                |    |              t 391          _      &   S~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~i 
H                        I~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~r   
Curriculum Development                  0 |                        0
n                                                      H.    m     D~1  .   .     f
H     H H 
|  n P    |   Teaching Materials                           M M 00   
.rt     i         Equipment
Norms & Methodology
Research Unit
_ ___              Sta   Training
- _9 _



- 64 -
2U 
ARGISTINA
VOCATIONAL T3ADIDG AND TECUICAL EDUCATIM PUOJCT
Plan of Studies
'Dual' System
Three Years Basic Cycle
Completed
Induction Period
TWO YEARS DUAL SYSTEM
t2 days school--3 days industry
per week for each of the two years)
Potential Auxilliary Technician
Employment-
TWO YEARS SENIOR CYCLE
(Full-Time or Evening)
Potential Technician (Supervisor)
Employment
Variations involving entry to the system after having completed only
two years of the basic cycle or other changes are possible. The
overall scheme is structured as follows over each of two years.
School - 2 days                       Industry - 3 Days
(6 hours per day)                      (8 hours per day)
Subject                 Hrs.*
Technology               2
Calculations             2                   Industrial
Technical Drawing        2                   Practice
Applied Science          2
Applied Language         2
Industrial Relations    2
12  hours                      Z4
* The time includes provision for the necessary laboratory
and workshop support to theoretical instruction.



- 65 -                               ANNEX 3
AR.GENTINA
VOCATIONAL TRAINING AND TECHNICAL EDUCATION PROJECT
Selected Documents Available in the Project File
A. General Reports and Studies on the Sector
Al - Reclutamiento, requerimientos industriales, y perfil profesional del
tecnico medio, CONET, 1977.
A2 - Estimaci'on de oferta y demanda de recursos humanos a corto y mediano
plazo, CONET-FIEL, 1977.
A3 - Contenidos minimos del ciclo basico para el nivel medio, Consejo Federal
de Educaci'on, 1978.
A4 - Financiamiento de la educaci'on tecnica y vocacional en America Latina,
B. Kugler y A. Reyes, 1978.
B. General Reports and Studies Related to the Project
Bl - Proyecto de Educacion Tecnica y Formacion Profesional, Capltulo 1,
CONET, 1979.
B2 - Proyecto de Educacion Tecnica y Formaci'on Profesional, Capltulo 2,
CONET, 1979.
B3 - Proyecto de Educaci'on Tecnica y Formacion Profesional, Ayuda Memoria,
CONET, 1979.
B4 - Estudio Diagnostico Institucional del CONET, CONET, 1979.
B5 - Proyecto de Educacion Tecnica y Formacion Profesional, Capitulo 3 -
Region Cuyo, CONET, 1979.
B6 - Proyecto de Educacion Tecnica y Formacion Profesional, Capftulo 3 -
Regi5n NOA, CONET, 1979.
B7 - Proyecto de Educacion T'ecnica y Formacion Profesional, Capitulo 3 -
Regi6n Litoral, CONET, 1979.
B8 - Proyecto de Educacion Tecnica y Formacion Profesional, Capitulo 3 -
Anexo - Equipamiento, CONET, 1979.
B9 - Proyecto de Educacion Tecnica y Formacion Profesional, Cap'tulo 3 -
Region Noreste, CONET, 1979.
B10 - Proyecto de Educacion Tecnica y Formaci6n Profesional, Capltulo 3 -
Region Centro, CONET, 1979.
Bll - Proyecto de Educacion Tecnica y Formacion Profesional, Capitulo 3 -
Region Buenos Aires, CONET, 1979.
B12 - Proyecto de Educacion Tecnica y Formaci-on Profesional, Capitulo 3 -
Region Sur, CONET, 1979.
C. Selected Working Papers
Cl - Project Working Papers
C2 - Economic Memorandum on Argentina, IBRD, 1978.






IBRD-14933R
B O  L  I V  i A             ,                                               '                   G
SOUTH                                 /    L
AME RICA IC*CoAOns  \
/'-v                                 ( (c>19Xt°< \ujuYiXP A R A G U A Y                                                  7
2  ~ ~ ~  ~    ~ ~ ~             ~~~~~i~uius3
SALTA tt d                               FOR O);ZX              EZ C FR*rS
24  SAN l GUEL DE TUCUMAN                                                  Rsrnesre
RESISTENCA
2   SANTIAGO DE                       OITE               o
}   f   lCaTh2A  C422  h  ST -TER
A          / (AJ 2TAA                                          ()  \  B R                            A Z I
CO  DOBA Roso    20
f ~ ~~~~~ ~~~~~~~~~~~~ .               - ted.
MENDOZA    SALi IAC~I~,                                      URUGUAY
Q0                                                                                            A
(0
a-  5i=7 592   +)  /     t/        ~       ~       ~      ~              PROjECT 
0~~~~~
-40'>                                                                                                                                             40' M  orihwy
A~~~~~~T                                               FIS  VOAIOA  TRINN    AND2ncclBuncre
t.   rJ  ,   \ /                                       ---  I~~~~~~~~~~~~~N'ew Voational BndTraiinCentr
4(V                                                                                  Et          Training=Centers
t   B9>{ 7   <                         4de  s;er9 Yby LlOtted ~~Iternato na  oCdre
-50.  ~~EeoMdohFIRST1,     VOATONL  RANIG   N
ej2                 Fsodoi C.  0d be  VOCoEeonno                                                Trinn  Ceters whfboprrdby
c oShUova _/} O fOO~~~~~~1~   200   3006 400   500  6OOC  700f Ud.SShWO hf 
U     EIsing Tri  CETEr s
705                                     F                                      50'S
~~~~~~~ nC"                               .oo:,dy}   :EKTd,



