Document of
The World Bank                         FILE COPY
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No. P-2880-AR
REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION
OF THE
PRESIDENT OF THE
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
TO THE
EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS
ON A
PROPOSED LOAN
TO
THE ARGENTINE REPUBLIC
FOR A
VOCATIONAL TRAINING AND TECHNICAL EDUCATION PROJECT
September 18, 1980
Thb document has a restrieted distribution and may be used by reciplents only in the performance of
their ofcial duts. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosd withun World  oank authorizatlon.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
. June 30, 1980
Currency Unit   =     Argentine Peso ($a)
US$1            =      $a 1,860
US$1 million    =      $a 1,860 million
$a 1 million    =     US$538
WEIGHTS AND MEASURES
Metric System
GLOSSARY OF ABBREVIATIONS
CONET     -     Consejo Nacional de Educacion  Tecnica
National Council for Technical Education
ENET      -     Escuela Nacional de Educacion Tecnica
National School for Technical Education
VTC       -     Vocational Training Center
FISCAL YEAR
January 1 to December 31



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
ARGENTINA
VOCATIONAL TRAINING AND TECHNICAL EDUCATION PROJECT
Loan and Project Summary
Borrower:           The Argentine Republic.
Beneficiary:        Consejo Nacional de Educacion Tecnica (CONET).
Loan Amount:        US$58 million equivalent.
Terms:              Fifteen years, including three years of grace,
at 9.25% per annum.
Project
Description:      The project supports the Government's industrial restruc-
turing policy. It would help increase supply of skilled
labor, improve labor mobility through retraining, and
strengthen CONET's planning and operating capabilities.
Curricula development, organizational strengthening, and
increased participation of the private sector would
improve effectiveness and relevance of vocational training.
The project would finance construction and equipment of
30, and equipment of 5, vocational training centers, and
purchase of 50 mobile units, thus doubling CONET's voca-
tional training capacity. The project would also support
reforms in technical education through introducing new
curricula elements. A technical assistance component,
including consultant services, training programs for
CONET staff, and studies of CONET's operations and the
Argentine labor market would ensure effective project
implementation. The project faces no special risks
although the success of the attempted improvements in
curricula and CONET's operating efficiency will depend
on the ability of CONET's management to depart from
established practice and adapt the changes proposed
under the project.
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance
of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



- ii -
Estimated Cost:                                      Local   Foreign    Total
------US$ million-------
Construction                    58.8       8.6       67.4
Equipment                         2.1     18.7       20.8
Mobile Units                      0.7      6.4        7.1
Furniture                         1.7      2.5        4.2
Technical Assistance and
Project Administration         2.4       1.5        3.9
Subtotal                      65.7      37.7      103.4
Physical contingencies           6.6       3.8       10.4
Price contingencies             19.0      16.7       35.7
Total                         91.3      58.2      149.5
Financi-Tg Plan:
Government                      90.0       1.5       91.5
Bank                              1.3     56.7       58.0
Total                         91.3      58.2      149.5
Estimated
Disbursements:    Bank FY               81       82      83       84       85
…-------    US$ million-----------
Annual             0.7       3.5    10.6    26.6    16.6
Cumulative         0.7       4.2    14.8    41.4    58.0
Appraisal Report:   Report No. 2978a-AR, dated September 10, 1980.



REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION OF THE PRESIDENT OF THE IBRD TO
THE EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS ON A PROPOSED LOAN TO THE ARGENTINE REPUBLIC
FOR A VOCATIONAL TRAINING AND TECHNICAL EDUCATION PROJECT
1.        I submit the following report and recommendation on a proposed
loan to the Argentine Republic for the equivalent of US$58.0 million to help
finance a vocational training and technical education project. The loan would
have a term of 15 years including 3 years of grace, with interest of 9.25% per
annum.
PART I - THE ECONOMY
Introduction
2.        An economic mission visited Argentina in November 1979 and its
findings are reported in the Economic Memorandum (No. 2988-AR), distributed to
the Executive Directors in August 1980. Country data sheets are attached as
Annex I.
Background
3.        Argentina is a semi-industrialized country with a per capita income
of US$2,280 as of 1979, a sizeable middle class and a fairly even distribution
of income. Postwar GDP growth has averaged 3.5% in an economy which has
been subject to strong cyclical fluctuations. Sharp swings from expansionary
fiscal, monetary and wage policies to restrictive stabilization programs have
occurred five times since 1950. During the early 1970s when Argentina's
external situation was favorable, the Government pursued an ambitious public
investment program. Large increases in public expenditures, nominal wages and
credit resulted in strong growth of domestic output, while maintenance of
fixed exchange rates led to rapidly increasing imports. In mid-1974, poor
weather, falling world grain prices, and an EEC ban on beef imports halted
export growth. Deterioration of the foreign sector coincided with an intensi-
fication of domestic social and political conflict. Acceleration of the
wage-price spiral propelled inflation to over 300% in 1975 and an annual rate
of about 800% in early 1976. A rapidly increasing foreign debt and a drastic
fall in foreign exchange reserves brought the country close to defaulting on
its external obligations.
Stabilization Efforts 1976-1978
4.        The new administration, which took office in March 1976, had as
its initial objectives strengthening the balance of payments, restructuring
the external debt and preventing hyper-inflation. Policies such as lowering of
export taxes and raising interest rates had an immediate positive effect on
the balance of payments. Monetary and fiscal policies, supported by wage
controls, succeeded in bringing down the rate of inflation from 780% during



- 2 -
the year ending in April 1976 to 150% a year later. No further progress was
made, however, in reducing inflation during the remainder of 1977 and 1978.
Output fluctuated greatly. After recovering rapidly from the 1975-1976 reces-
sion, growth came to a halt in late 1977 when credit restrictions and record
high interest rates resulted in a drop in investment.
5.        External sector policies introduced in 1976 immediately produced
favorable export results while imports were held down by two recessions.
As a consequence, the resource balances registered surpluses of US$1.9 billion
and US$2.8 billior. in 1977 and 1978 respectively. Surpluses on current
account were accompanied by substantial net capital inflows. At the begin-
ning, the public sector was the primary borrower, but starting in 1977, high
domestic interest rates induced the private sector to borrow abroad on an
increasing scale. Although the authorities introduced some controls in 1978,
long-term capital continued to flow into Argentina, and by the end of that
year gross foreign exchange reserves stood at US$5.8 billion, equivalent to
14 months of imports. Net reserves amounted to US$5.0 billion. This reserve
growth permitted a new approach to inflation control in the framework of an
open economy.
The 1979 Program
6.        In late December 1978 the Government announced the following
program: predetermined schedules for adjustment of (i) exchange rates;
(ii) prices of fuels and public sector services; (iii) wages; and (iv) the
monetary base of internal origin, combined with a five-year import tariff
reduction schedule and the formal reopening of the capital market to inter-
national transactions. Most of the adjustments were to follow a declining
trend, designed to dampen inflationary expectations and to limit price increases
of domestic producers. Foreign competition was to reduce the rate of price
increase of domestic tradeable goods to the level determined by: (a) the rate
of price increase abroad; and (b) the rate of depreciation of the peso. It was
recognized, however, that possible tariff redundancy and lags in the adjustment
of imports would delay this "convergence" of domestic and foreign inflation
rates.
7.        The new import tariff schedule provided for major reductions in
tariffs on goods produced in Argentina. By the end of 1983 the range of
import tariffs is to be reduced to 10%-40%, compared with 10%-85% at the
beginning of 1979, and the average tariff will have fallen from over 50% to
less than 25%. Shortly after the announcement of the 1979-84 liberalization
schedule, the Government started a supplementary program of temporary tariff
reductions for goods whose domestic price increases substantially exceeded
increases in international prices and the rate of devaluation. In March 1979,
tariffs for capital goods were eliminated temporarily in order to facilitate
the re-equipment and modernization of Argentine industry.
8.        One notable feature of the current stabilization strategy is the
secondary role of monetary policy. The pre-fixing of the peso/dollar rate,
along with the elimination of capital controls, allow the monetary authorities
to influence only the monetary resources originating from domestic sources.



sources. By setting quarterly targets for this variable, the monetary
authorities wanted to limit internal public sector borrowing and ensure an
adequate supply of credit to borrowers who had no access to foreign credit
sources. Fiscal policy is also viewed to be of secondary importance insofar
as short-term stabilization objectives are concerned. To mitigate infla-
tionary expectations, however, and to reach the long-run goal of decreased
state intervention, the authorities planned a further decrease in the
central government's deficit from 2.8% of GDP in 1978 to 1.5% in 1979. The
overall public sector deficit was not expected to change significantly,
however, from its 1978 level, estimated at about 5% of GDP.
Results of the Program
9.        Most of the policies outlined above were implemented during the
course of 1979. The key variable, the exchange rate, was moved according to
plan; the tariff reform was applied; public sector prices and tariffs were
adjusted as envisaged; monetary resources of internal origin expanded only
slightly more than projected. However, total money supply expanded rapidly,
because the elimination of capital controls and the maintenance of the schedule
for exchange rate devaluation, despite high internal inflation, led to heavy
capital inflows amounting to over US$1.5 billion in the first nine months.
With a tight labor market prevailing throughout 1979, nominal wages increased
more rapidly than scheduled. As a consequence, the Government eliminated the
legal limitations on wage increases in September.
10.       Through the first eight months of 1979, the new approach did not
affect wholesale and consumer prices, which rose at the same rates on an
annual basis as in 1977 and 1978. Among the factors explaining the continued
high rate of inflation in the first half of 1979 was the unusually rapid rise
in international prices, particularly of primary products exported by Argentina.
The external price component of the wholesale price index, important for deter-
mining internal prices, increased at about two to three times the average
rate of increase during 1978. Another part of the divergence between actual
and expected price behavior can be explained by lags in private sector recog-
nition of import opportunities, combined with organizational problems and an
initial lack of confidence in the durability of the system. As a result,
possible excess demand was not fully met by imports, at least in the first
three quarters of 1979. Several indicators also point at demand-pull factors.
Unemployment was reduced from 2.8% in 1978 to 1.5% in 1979, with labor scarcity
occurring both for skilled and unskilled workers. Wages were adjusted more
frequently and rose by over 10% in real terms. Similarly, aggregate real
consumption expenditure expanded by 10%.
11.       However, by September 1979, wholesale and consumer price increases began
to decelerate. The general wholesale price index, which had risen at an average
rate of 8.3% per month from January to August, increased by an average of only
3.3% per month from September 1979 to March 1980, the lowest monthly rates
since early 1974. The deceleration in inflation led to a real depreciation



- 4 -
of the exchange rate, higher real wages and positive real interest rates
during the last three months of 1979. While the lowering of domestic price
increases in September and October can be attributed in large part to decreasing
prices rises of primary products, the impact of increasing exposure of manu-
facturers to international competition became discernible in November and
December. As expected, the branches most clearly exposed to foreign competition
are those showing price deceleration most clearly.
1980 Developments and Short-term Prospects
12.       In accordance with the preannounced schedule, the peso was devalued
by 2.8% in January 1980 with a 0.2% decrease in the rate of adjustment in each
of the following months. Effects of the past appreciation of the peso in real
terms and tariff reductions, which are only now being felt in the economy, have
led to a continuous deceleration in inflation as reflected in the wholesale
price index. With prices of traded goods decelerating for the reasons
mentioned above, the wage transmission mechanism should have a decelerating
impact on the prices of non-tradeables as well.
13.       With imports booming by the end of 1979 and exports slowing down, the
current account surplus of recent years turned into a deficit of US$493 million
for the year as a whole. Preliminary projections indicate a deficit on current
account of US$2.2 billion for 1980. Some fears have been expressed that a
growing perception of the peso's being overvalued could trigger expectations
of devaluation resulting in capital outflow. The authorities have reiterated
their determination to make whatever internal adjustments in output and employ-
ment may be necessary to avoid large-scale devaluation and the new round of
inflationary impulses it could start. Moreover, the high level of exchange
reserves (close to US$9 billion) provides a strong support for the continuation
of the government program.
14.       A temporary critical situation arose in April and May 1980 when
Argentines shifted deposits from private domestic banks to public and foreign
banks after the failure of one of the most important private banks in March.
Besides increasing depositors' insurance and providing ample rediscount
facilities, the monetary authorities increased the interest rate of Treasury
bills and raised reserve requirements by one percentage point. Although
the loss of international reserves reached US$1 billion during a period of
less than sixty days, it appears that the crisis was successfully contained.
Medium- and Long-Term Development Prospects
15.       With the import tariff reduction beginning to take effect, industrial
and overall economic growth are expected to be relatively slow in 1980 and
1981. In addition, business failures of weak or overexpanded firms may be-
come more widespread and unemployment could increase--albeit from extremely low
levels. The scope of readjustment could be reduced if the small real deprecia-
tion of the currency continues, reestablishing export and import substitution
incentives. Availability of long-term credit for re-equipment and moderniza-
tion will be a crucial requirement for supporting the restructuring of



industry. Since the private sector is also expected to take on a number
of tasks previously undertaken by the public sector, considerable
flexibility and efficiency will be required of the Argentine financial
system.
16.       While agricultural production is expected to decrease in 1980 and
1981 because of unfavorable weather conditions, growth in agricultural output
subsequently should continue on the expansion path started in 1976/77.
Exports of agricultural products and investment incentives for agriculture
should rise given the expected deceleration in domestic industrial price
increases and favorable prices of Argentine products in international markets.
17.       Exports in current prices have grown over the past three years at
an average rate of 25% per year, a rate which will be difficult to sustain.
Although export prospects have weakened in the short term, they appear to be
excellent over the longer term. Since the outlook for world prices of
Argentina's export products is favorable, total export earnings are projected
to increase by an average of 12% annually during 1982-1987 (5% in real terms).
About 85% of that increase would be generated by agriculture and agro-
industry and about 15% by the manufacturing sector. Although Argentina
is currently supplying 90% of its petroleum domestically and expects to be
self-sufficient by the mid 1980s, the ongoing import liberalization process,
as well as the need for modernization of infrastructure and industry implies
that imports in current prices could increase at about 14% per annum through
1985 (6% in real terms). With the current account balance turning negative
from 1980 onward and reaching a deficit of some US$5.7 billion by 1985,
gross inflows of medium- and long-term capital including direct foreign
investment are projected to increase from US$3.1 billion in 1979 to US$9.4
billion in 1985. The bulk of these capital flows should be available from
bilateral arrangements, export credits, world capital markets, and direct
private investments. Official multilateral sources, however, may play an
important role by providing financial support combined with technical
and organizational assistance and by stimulating capital flows from other
sources.
18.       Argentina's medium- and long-term external public debt amounted to
US$8.3 billion at the end of 1979. Medium- and long-term private external
debt expanded more rapidly to US$6.4 billion. External public and total
debt service ratios were 20% and 26% in 1979. Since the Central Bank earned
interest on its large foreign exchange reserves, the total net debt service
ratio was only 23.7%. The Bank's share of the external public debt was 5% and
its share in debt service was 3%. Given the relatively modest anticipated
external borrowing of the public sector, the public debt service ratio is
expected to remain below 20%, with the Bank's share not expected to rise above
1979 levels. Private indebtedness will probably increase more rapidly, and
the overall net debt service ratio is projected to rise to 30% in the mid-1980s.
In view of these prospects with continuing prudent economic policies, Argentina
is considered creditworthy for loans on conventional terms.



- 6 -
PART II - BANK GROUP OPERATIONS IN ARGENTINA
Bank Operations
19.       Past Bank lending to Argentina has been sporadic because of periodic
macroeconomic difficulties and unsatisfactory sector policies, along with
delays and problems in complying with specific project conditions. After
a hiatus of five years, lending was resumed in September 1976. Since that
date, the Bank has made loans for eight projects amounting to US$818.0 million.
A US$60 million loan for an agricultural credit project was recently cancelled.
Projects financed by the Bank before 1971 are practically completed.
20.       To assist Argentina through the initial stabilization effort, Bank
lending during the past four years focussed on major infrastructure projects
and credit provision to productive sectors. A grain storage project was
designed to enable Argentina to export agricultural products in a more orderly
manner throughout the year and obtain better prices; an industrial credit
project supports modernization and expansion of export oriented industries,
and the projects on energy, highways and railways provide part of the infra-
structure necessary to facilitate agricultural and industrial expansion.
Disbursements of Bank loans have been slower than expected. Persistent high
rates of inflation, the need for fiscal austerity and inertia of the private
sector did not provide a conducive environment for progress of Bank financed
projects. Following improvements in the economic situation of Argentina, as
discussed in paras. 9 to 11, the pace of disbursement has picked up consid-
erably over recent months. The marked slowdown in the rate of price increases
and stricter budget procedures augur well for further progress. Provisions
have been made to ensure satisfactory disbursement of the proposed loan.
Annex II contains a summary statement of Bank loans as of June 30, 1980, and
notes on the execution of ongoing projects.
21.       The Bank's approach to assisting Argentina in recent years was to
participate in a limited number of relatively large loans. Now that the
Government has broadened its policies beyond stabilization to address struc-
tural and institutional constraints, its task has become more complex.
Continued Bank lending would support Government efforts to modernize the
economy, which has been characterized by high cost industrial production,
inefficient public sector enterprises and vintage capital stock. Future bank
assistance would be directed to achieving the following objectives: (i) up-
grade public sector enterprises and rationalize sector policies; (ii) restruc-
ture the industrial sector to increase efficiency and improve export perfor-
mance; (iii) help the Government in its efforts to promote private sector
participation in industrial development; and (iv) transfer responsibilities
from the Central Government to provincial authorities.
22.       Within the framework for proposed assistance, the oil and gas sector
offers promising possibilities for Bank participation. The recently approved
Oil and Gas Engineering loan is a first step that could be followed by opera-
tions for production, processing and transportation of oil and gas. A coal
exploration project to measure coal reserves would complement efforts in the
petroleum sector. Argentina's ample hydropower potential, shared with riparian
neighbors, represents another attractive field for Bank assistance. In the
transport sector, the Bank is helping with the preparation of a ports project
and plans to continue supporting other modes of transport.



23.       To help modernize the industrial sector, the Government is reducing
tariffs to encourage domestic efficiency. Discussions between Bank and Govern-
ment to strengthen human and financial resources in support of industrial
development have led to the formulation of the proposed Vocational Training
and Technical Education project which could be followed by Research and
Development and further Industrial Credit projects.
24.       The present administration has taken long strides toward opening up
areas for the private sector or joint ventures which traditionally have been
the exclusive domain of the public sector. New mining legislation has cleared
the way for the exploration and exploitation of Argentina's substantial mineral
reserves by the private sector. Possible Bank participation would help ratio-
nalize sector policies and attract foreign investors, and promote domestic
private sector participation. The Government has also expressed interest in
Bank support for promoting private sector participation in the exploration and
development of the hydrocarbon sector by providing needed capital through the
National Development Bank as financial intermediary for projects presently
being prepared by private Argentine companies in cooperation with the state
oil company.
25.       The Government has embarked on a major revision of the revenue
sharing system and the distribution of Government responsibilities/expenditures
to reduce bureaucracy, synchronize the supply of services more closely with
demand and provide services more effectively at lower cost. The Bank would
support these policies in the water supply and sewerage sector to help develop
provincial institutions, consolidate sector finances and effectively expand
service coverage. Possibilities for Bank participation in pollution control,
regional water development and flood control are additional possibilities that
are under study.
IFC Operations
26.       As of July 31, 1980, IFC had made 14 loans to borrowers in Argentina
totalling US$99.4 million and two equity investments of US$2.5 million, of
which US$48.4 million have been repaid, cancelled or sold. A summary of IFC's
investments up to July 31, 1980, is shown in Annex II.
PART III: THE EDUCATION SYSTEM
27.       Background.  Overall, Argentina has developed high education
standards compared to other Latin American countries. With 4.4% of GDP, or
11.4% of total public expenditures devoted to public education (1978), literacy
has reached 94%, science and technology are well developed and the labor force
is comparatively well trained. Yet, the outwardly good performance of the
education system masks serious structural deficiencies. Drop-out and repeti-
tion rates are high and point at widespread inefficiency. Curricula are
overly academic and often outdated. Secondary technical education, although
designed to prepare students for direct entry into the labor force, is not



- 8 -
always responsive to demands of industrial enterprises. The skill forming
process is still in an incipient stage and has contributed little to improving
labor force quality. As a result, Argentina's education system is now insuffi-
ciently prepared to supply skilled labor and appropriately trained technicians
for the ongoing industrial restructuring process.
28.       Primary education, comprising seven years, is offered in some 25,000
schools run by the Federal Government (40%), provincial governments and
municipalities (50%) and private institutions (10%). In 1977, the net enroll-
ment rate was about 89%. Efficiency is low, however; only some 50% of the
students complete seven years and graduate.
29.       Secondary education, normally extending over five years, comprises a
wide variety of subjects and courses; it is not compulsory. Of the about 1.3
million students or 53% of the age group, 34% studied in academically oriented
courses leading to the "bachillerato"; another 34% studied in commercial
schools; 27% in technical schools; 2% in agricultural schools and the rest in
other schools. With 30% of all students, private schools play an important
role, especially in academic and commercial education. Retention rates appear
to have declined in the recent past; in 1974, about 71% of the students
finished their "bachillerato"; by 1978, the rate had dropped to about 60%.
30.       Higher education is offered in universities and other post-secondary
schools and colleges. Argentina has 26 public and 23 private universities, of
which about 60% are in the Buenos Aires, Santa Fe and Cordoba areas. Some
465,000 students are enrolled. The enrollment distribution by subject matter
shows that traditional subjects in social sciences (law, economics) and
medicine still enjoy substantially larger student numbers than technical,
engineering and natural sciences. Coordination with secondary schools has
remained weak, resulting in inadequate preparation and high drop-out rates in
earlier study years, sometimes reaching 60%.
31.       Other post-secondary schools mainly offer teacher education courses
for pre-primary, primary and secondary education, including technical and
commercial subjects. In these colleges, teachers receive a four to five year
training; the final qualification is equivalent to a university degree. Some
teacher education institutions are independent, others are attached to the
university system. In 1977, 71,000 students were enrolled in post-secondary
schools.
32.       The education administration is fragmented.  In addition to federal
and provincial governments and municipalities, semi-autonomous public institu-
tions and private agencies are involved. The Federal Government, through the
Ministry of Education, exercises responsibility for secondary, adult and
university education; the National Council for Education, a decentralized
agency, runs the Federal Government's primary schools; and the National
Council for Technical Education (CONET) is responsible for technical education
and vocational training offered by the public sector. Provincial governments
are involved in all educational levels but,acquire increasing importance at
the primary level following the Government's decision to transfer adminis-
trative control of this level to the provinces. Private organizations mainly
run primary and general secondary schools as well as universities, and they
also have strong participation in vocational training activities. Additional
vocational training takes place in private firms.



- 9 -
The National Council of Technical Education
33.       CONET is a semi-autonomous institution under the Ministry of Education
in charge of both formal secondary technical education and vocational training.
It is the most important agency for the preparation of technicians, operating
30% of all technical schools (55% of all students) in this field. In addition,
most vocational training in key economic sectors is carried out by CONET.
34.       In 1978, CONET's overall budget amounted to approximately US$145 mil-
lion, of which 88% represented current expenditures. Most resources (92%)
were spent for technical education, while vocational training received only
token amounts (4%). The remaining 4% of the budget was spent for administra-
tion and teacher training. Most of CONET's expenses are financed by the
Government (85 to 90%); an additional contribution comes from an earmarked 1%
payroll tax on industrial and commercial enterprises. The law that established
this tax, however, is ambiguous as to which firms are obliged to pay; as a
result, the collection rate is low.
35.       CONET by law has a nine-member Board of Directors, comprising a
chairman and representatives from Government, teachers, private employers
and workers. Currently, however, the Board is suspended; a president
has assumed its functions and manages CONET on behalf of the Government.
CONET's organizational structure includes a general secretariat, assisting
the president in daily operations and legal matters, and general directorates
of personnel, control, administration, planning, technical education, and
vocational training.
36.       CONET's institutional capabilities are weak and need strengthening with
regard to planning, programming and evaluation of ongoing training programs.
Adequate studies on manpower and qualification requirements of the industrial
sector and the professional careers of former CONET graduates should be
carried out. Interaction between the planning directorate and the directorates
for vocational training and technical education is insufficient, and new
training programs are only slowly being developed. Also, the internal adminis-
tration, especially the cost accounting system, needs to be improved.
37.       Vocational Training.  Some 20,000 students graduate every year from
Argentina's vocational training system. About 12,000 come from a variety of
private schools that mostly prepare students for employment in the service
sectors; the about 8,000 graduates in the industrial, construction and agri-
cultural sectors have received training in CONET.
38.       CONET entered into vocational training activities in 1965, in part
with technical assistance from the International Labor Organization (ILO). In
1974, vocational training activities were consolidated and placed under a
newly created general directorate. Today, CONET is the main vocational train-
ing source in non-service sectors, offering job-related courses to adolescents
and adults seeking employment in the industrial labor market. It operates 35
vocational training centers (VTC), 8 rehabilitation centers for the handicapped,
70 monotechnic missions (offering training in only one trade) and 20 rural
and domestic culture centers for women. Some 13,000 students are enrolled in



- 10 -
these training facilities. During the day, the VTCs mainly provide two-year
courses for adolescents who are mostly school drop-outs, while during the
evening adults receive skill training that ranges from 180 to 700 hours,
depending on the trades being taught. Additional training takes place in
private firms which have entered into cooperative agreements with CONET.
Under these agreements--more than 200 have been signed--CONET provides
technical assistance, especially instructor training, for industry train-
ing programs. About 2,800 workers were trained under these programs in 1979.
39.       The existing training facilities fall short of the quantitative and
qualitative needs of the changing industrial sector. Most centers are not
well equipped and buildings often are poorly adapted to training needs. The
majority of the workshops is devoted to construction training; on the other
hand, mechanics, auto-mechanics, electricity are not properly served. The
approximately 600 instructors have received only initial teacher training
(about 270 hours), and there is no further in-service training. While ILO
provided some curricula reform assistance in the 70s, substantial improvements
are needed. Curricula would have to be modernized and be made more practice
oriented.
40.       Private sector participation in vocational training is insufficient.
Originally, employers and workers were represented on CONET's Board of
Directors. Today, however, with the Board's suspension, contacts are sporadic,
limited to the local level, and mainly informal. The lack of communication
between CONET and the private sector is in part responsible for the insuffi-
ciently practical orientation of CONET's curricula and has made the transition
of graduates to industrial jobs more difficult.
41.       Technical Education.  At present, CONET operates 318 technical
education schools (ENET) with some 15,000 full-time and 13,000 part-time
teachers. In 1978, about 215,000 students were enrolled in these schools
and about 12,000 graduated. Courses extend over a three-year basic, and a
three-year senior cycle. Subjects cover most technical and a few commercial
fields; a graduate is considered a middle level technician.
42.       Currently used curricula are overly academic and sometimes bear
little resemblance to future job requirements of graduates. Moreover,
industrial progress increasingly requires to extend curricula beyond the 6th
grade. Drop-out rates in technical education schools are strikingly high,
reaching up to 85% of an entrance cohort. To overcome these problems, CONET
has begun to review teaching programs in its six-year courses and is developing,
on an experimental basis, "dual system" courses in which school teaching pro-
grams would be complemented by work and practical training in private firms.
It is also considering the extension of technician education beyond the
sixth grade. Both the dual system and the extended technical education would
be included in a larger number of schools after an experimental phase. The
low quality of the teaching force imposes additional constraints on attempts to
improve training. About 53% of teachers have received only secondary education;
often CONET hires its own graduates. Only 3% of ENET teachers are graduates
from Argentina's Instituto Nacional Superior del Profesorado Tecnico, a well
established higher level institution dependent on CONET. While some in-
service training is offered, it takes place at a slow rate.



- 11 -
Human Resource Requirements and Government Strategy
43.       Based on Argentina's low population growth rate, it has been pro-
jected that the labor force will increase by not more than 10% between 1980
and 1990. The agricultural labor force is likely to decrease slightly.
In manufacturing and utilities, employment increased slowly between 1970 and
1977, a development that is expected to continue in the next decade. Increased
infrastructure requirements are expected to raise employment in construction.
With respect to occupational categories, it is expected that the "Professional,
Technical, and Related Personnel" category will increase faster than average
to cover the needs for modernization and introduction of new technology. On
the other hand, "Farm Workers" and "Administrative and Related Personnel" will
diminish their participation in the total, reflecting the projected decline of
employment in agriculture and the consolidation of many small establishments
into larger productive units. "Service Workers" and "Other Workers" (including
manufacturing and construction workers) will approximately maintain their share
in the labor force.
44.       The Government's economic strategy of opening up the economy is
predicated on increasing labor productivity in the sectors producing tradeable
goods and services. Therefore, the Government is placing increasing emphasis
on expanding and upgrading the vocational training system. Stronger foreign
competition, combined with increased industrial specialization, will require
concentrated training efforts in manufacturing, construction, utilities and
mechanized agriculture. At the same time, the Government is attempting to
improve the formal technical education system through qualitative reforms.
The Government considers that improvements of CONET's institutional capabili-
ties are of particular importance for upgrading the skill formation process.
PART IV: THE PROJECT
45.       The Government of Argentina has requested a Bank loan to help finance
a Vocational Training and Technical Education Project to be carried out by
CONET. The proposed project would be the first project to be financed by the
Bank in Argentina's education sector. A Bank mission appraised the project
in January 1980. A report, entitled "Staff Appraisal Report - Vocational Train-
ing and Technical Education Project," dated September 10, 1980, is being circu-
lated separately to the Executive Directors. A supplementary data sheet is
presented in Annex III. Negotiations took place in Washington from July 25 to
31, 1980. The delegation of the Argentine Government was headed by Mr. Valentin
Jaime, President of CONET.
Background
46.       Since the Government began implementing new industrial policies in
1976, the Bank has, in intensive dialogue with the authorities, identified an
integrated project package designed to increase industrial productivity and
improve export performance. In 1977, the Bank approved an Industrial Credit
project to help finance modernization of industrial equipment. At the same
time, Government and Bank began discussing the backlog in technological
innovations and skill formation that had accumulated during previous years.



- 12 -
As a result, two proposals emerged. First, the Bank would provide assistance
to the present Vocational Training and Technical Education project. The
project would focus on expanding and upgrading vocational training facilities
which had received only limited assistance in the past and which would, in
their present status, not be able to provide the required skills for the
industrial restructuring process. Second, a possible research and development
project would strengthen indigenous research capabilities and finance research
projects in promising production lines; the project is currently under prepara-
tion.
47.       Objectives.  The present project is designed to increase capacity and
to improve the quality of Argentina's vocational training system, responding
to present economic policies and facilitating the expected growth pattern.
The project would focus on skill formation for manufacturing, utilities,
construction, and mechanized agriculture, and on modernizing training facili-
ties commensurate with the technological level achieved in more modern Argentine
firms. As an experiment, the project would introduce new curricula elements
in formal technical education. Finally, the project attempts to strengthen the
planning and operating capabilities of CONET.
Project Description
48.       Vocational Training.  The project would provide for curriculum develop-
ment, including review of existing curricula and teaching materials, and an
occupational analysis to ensure that course contents correspond to present
occupational profiles. Teaching methods, including experimentation and research
on possible new methods, and trade testing and certification, would be reviewed.
The project would replace 18 existing, and construct 12 new, vocational train-
ing centers, provide the necessary furniture and equipment, and re-equip five
existing vocational training centers. Available training places would increase
from 3,000 to about 7,500 throughout the country; it is expected that the annual
graduate output would increase from about 8,000 at present to about 16,000 in
1985. In addition, the project would provide for the purchase of 50 mobile units,
supplying training places for about 4,500 workers, of whom some 3,800 would
graduate per year. About 600 instructors and 100 technical staff, who are presently
employed, and about 550 new instructors, would receive training under the project.
49.       Technical Education.  The project includes assistance for the
qualitative aspects of technical education. The support would aim at designing
curricula for the "dual system", which CONET has started to implement, and at help-
ing CONET to collect the information necessary to decide on a possible extension
of technical education beyond the sixth grade. Also it is expected that the
results of the studies included in the project (see below) would assist in
further improvements of the technical education system.
50.       Technical Assistance.  The project would provide for 120 man-months of
specialist services for the vocational training component and 39 man-months of
specialist services for the technical education component. The specialists
would assist CONET in planning vocational training activities, operating mobile
units, in-plant training, occupational analysis, instructor and teacher training,



- 13 -
institutional planning for technical education, and improving general adminis-
tration and documentation systems. To complement the assistance by these
specialists, the project would also provide for 67 man-months of fellowships
for the vocational training component and 58 man-months of fellowships for
the technical education component.
51.       To improve CONET's institutional capabilities and provide a better
basis for education planning, the project would include studies on:
(a) supply, demand and training needs of skilled manpower and technicians
by industrial sector and region;
(b) job analysis and qualification profiles of skilled labor and
technicians needed by industry;
(c) evaluation of CONET's present activities and performance in
vocational training and technical education;
(d) tracing of CONET graduates including development of appropriate
methods to follow up graduates; and
(e) cost accounting and control in vocational training and
technical education to be implemented during the course of
the project.
Implementation
52.       Project implementation would be the responsibility of CONET.  A
special project unit, consisting of qualified personnel mainly contracted from
outside CONET, has been established within CONET to supervise construction and
procurement and coordinate the implementation of the qualitative project
components and the technical assistance program by CONET's general directorates.
The unit comprises a director, who reports directly to CONET's president, a
technical assistance coordinator, a construction coordinator, a civil engineer
specialized in cost control, an equipment procurement coordinator, an accounting
coordinator, and a legal adviser. The staff is assisted by an adequate number
of administrative personnel.
53.       Architectural designs for the vocational training centers would be
carried out by CONET staff and consultant firms; preliminary designs for ten
schools have been prepared. Also, consultants would be hired to assist CONET
in supervising construction. Building sites would be selected in accordance
with appropriate standards for size, form, location, availability of public
services, and soil and topographic conditions. CONET would acquire all sites
through donations from municipal governments or other donors; to date, 20 sites
have been acquired.
54.       The qualitative aspects of the vocational training component would
be implemented by CONET's General Directorate for Vocational Training. It would
establish a special unit by January 1, 1981, with responsibility for curriculum
development and teaching methods. New curricula and training courses would
be based on a thorough occupational analysis, identifying qualification levels



- 14 -
and job profiles. The unit would carry out experimentation and research in
new teaching and training methods, test the modular course structure and
undertake a pilot experiment for trade testing and certification. A detailed
plan for these activities would be presented to the Bank for comments by
April 1, 1981, and, beginning June 30, 1981, the unit would implement the plan
(Section 2.09 of the draft Project Agreement). An additional unit would be
responsible for preparing and implementing a staff training program for
vocational training; present programs for new instructors would be reviewed
and refresher courses would be offered to existing instructors, directors
and technical staff. CONET would submit to the Bank for approval an outline
of a comprehensive staff training and development plan by October 31, 1980.
Detailed activity plans would be submitted to the Bank each year by
December 31 and implemented during the forthcoming academic year (Section 2.11
of the draft Project Agreement).
55.       The private sector would participate in the vocational training
component through advisory committees to be established in all of CONET's
vocational training centers. The committees would assist each center in deter-
mining courses, course structures, and curricula that correspond to the actual
economic activities and needs of the area of influence for each vocational
training center. In addition, the committees would assist in exchanging
views and making recommendations on technological developments, experimental
needs, quality of training offered by the center, new courses, improvements in
management, programming and budgeting of physical installations, follow up of
graduates and upgrading of instructors. By June 30, 1981, CONET would establish
advisory committees at each operating vocational training center (Section 2.10
of the draft Project Agreement).
56.       The technical education component would be implemented by CONET's
General Directorate for Technical Education. With technical advice from
outside consultants, it would be responsible for developing, curricula and
course structures for the dual system and for studying the need for a possible
extension of the technical education system.
57.       The proposed studies would be the responsibility of CONET's General
Directorate of Planning. Before the initiation of each of the studies
envisaged under the project, the Planning Directorate, together with CONET's
other units relevant to each study would prepare terms of reference, cost
estimates, and an implementation program to be submitted to the Bank for
approval. Based on the cost accounting study, CONET would present to the
Bank by June 30, 1981, a plan for introducing relevant changes in the cost
accounting system, and by June 30, 1982, it would implement these changes
(Section 4.03 of the draft Project Agreement).
58.       Cost Estimates and Financing.  Total project costs (net of taxes)
amount to US$149.5 million, including physical and price contingencies; the
foreign exchange component is estimated at US$58.2 million, or 39% of the
project cost. The cost for consultant services is estimated at US$6,000 per
man-month, and for fellowships, at US$2,500 per man-month. Physical contin-
gencies have been estimated at 10%. Price contingencies for the local
component, estimated at US$19.0 million equivalent, are based on Bank
estimates on Argentine inflation and the devaluation of the peso against
the dollar. Price contingencies for the foreign cost component, estimated



- 15 -
at US$16.8 million equivalent, are based on estimates of international infla-
tion for goods and services to be procured under the project; they are
relatively higher than local price contingencies because it is expected that
the Argentine Peso will be devalued in real terms during the project execution
period. Incremental operating expenditures are estimated at US$17 million
annually, increasing CONET's operating budget by some 7%. The Bank loan would
finance the equivalent of 100% of the foreign exchange component; the Government
would contribute the equivalent of the local cost component.  To allow local
cost financing for project administration (US$1.3 million) out of the loan, the
Bank's financing percentage in the foreign cost categories has been correspond-
ingly reduced. Bank loan proceeds and required government contributions would
be passed on to CONET under a Subsidiary Financing Agreement to be entered into
by the Government and CONET. The execution of such an agreement, satisfactory
to the Bank, would be a condition of effectiveness (Sections 3.01 and 6.01 of
the draft Loan Agreement and Section 2.06 of the draft Project Agreement).
59.       Procurement:  Since construction contracts would not be large enough
or suitable for packaging because of dispersed locations, procurement of civil
works (US$61.2 million net of contingencies) would be done on the basis of local
competitive bidding in accordance with procedures acceptable to the Bank, allowing
interested foreign contractors to participate. Contracts for procurement of equip-
ment (US$27.9 million) and furniture (US$4.2 million) would be awarded on the
basis of international competitive bidding in accordance with Bank guidelines.
However, equipment and furniture that cannot be grouped into packages of at least
US$200,000 would be procured on the basis of local procedures acceptable to the
Bank; procurements under this procedure would not, in aggregate, exceed US$5
million (Schedule to the draft Project Agreement).
60.       Disbursement:  For civil works, disbursements would be made against
100% of foreign expenditures for imported goods and services or 15% of local
expenditures for locally procured goods and services. For equipment, disburse-
ments would be made against 100% of foreign expenditures or 90% of local expendi-
tures, and for furniture, 100% of foreign expenditures and 60% of local expendi-
tures. For consultant services, contracted project unit specialists, fellowships
and studies, the Bank would disburse 100% of total expenditures. To speed up
project implementation and allow an early start of project activities, the loan
would include retroactive financing of up to US$0.7 million for expenditures
incurred after December 31, 1979. The retroactive financing component would
finance pre-implementation planning and preparation activities, consulting
services necessary for construction design, and specialist services for the
project unit. The loan would be committed over a period of two and one-half
years and disbursed over four and one-half years; the Closing Date would be
June 30, 1985.
Benefits and Risks
61.       The project would contribute to significant improvements in skill
formation as required by the industrial transformation process currently
underway in Argentina. The vocational training component would substantially
expand output of skilled labor and improve qualification levels, thereby
raising labor productivity. Through standardized training, graduation
processes and retraining, the project would increase mobility and versatility
of the labor force, thus increasing flexibility. Cooperation with private
firms would be substantially improved; in the future, the private sector would



- 16 -
play an expanded role in determining structure and content of vocational train-
ing courses. The mobile units would increase skill formation in currently
unattended rural areas and small towns, making training arrangements more
equitable and creating additional incentives for industry to produce in areas
outside of Buenos Aires.
62.       The introduction of reform elements in the technical education
schools would open possibilities for improving CONET's technical education
system and making it more efficient and practice oriented. The introduction
of the "dual system" would ensure more relevant qualifications of graduates;
the possible extension of technical education would take into account the need
for advanced technical knowledge in many industrial firms. Once successfully
tested, the reform elements could later be applied in all technical education
schools and thus contribute to modernizing technical education.
63.       The technical assistance component would upgrade CONET's institu-
tional capabilities and, especially, strengthen its planning, programming and
budgeting process. A new cost accounting and control system would contribute
to improved cost efficiency. The proposed studies on manpower requirements,
qualification levels, and employment of graduates, together with the proposed
analysis of CONET's present activities, would allow a more rational design of
course structure, content, and graduation process, and improve allocation of
CONET's resources to its training programs.
64.       The project has been designed so as to avoid any special risk.  The
overall size of the construction program takes into account CONET's adminis-
trative abilities, and technical assistance would, to the extent possible,
ensure smooth and timely project implementation. A potential risk lies in the
ability of the present CONET administration to adapt and implement the institu-
tional changes the project is to bring about. It is expected, however, that
the technical assistance provided by consultants and fellowships will enable
CONET to carry out the proposed reforms.
PART V:  LEGAL INSTRUMENTS AND AUTHORITY
65.       The draft Loan Agreement between the Argentine Republic and the Bank,
the draft Project Agreement between CONET and the Bank, and the Report of the
Committee provided for in Article III, Section 4(iii) of the Bank's Articles
of Agreement are being distributed separately to the Executive Directors.
66.       Special conditions of the loan are listed in Section III of Annex III.
It would be an additional condition of effectiveness that the Government and
CONET enter into a Subsidiary Financing Agreement, satisfactory to the Bank,
regarding project financing and the transfer of Bank loan proceeds (Section 6.01
of the draft Loan Agreement).
67.       I am satisfied that the proposed loan would comply with the Articles
of Agreement of the Bank.
PART VI: RECOMMENDATION
68.       I recommend that the Executive Directors approve the proposed loan.
Robert S. McNamara
President
Attachments
September 18, 1980



- 17 -                                          Annex I
Page 1 of 5
TABLE 3A
ARGENTINA - SOCIAL INDICATORS DATA SHEET
ARGENTINA                      REFERENCE GROUPS (WEIGHTED AVECAGES
LAND AREA (THOUSAND SQ. KM.)                                                           - MOST RECENT ESTIMATE)-
TOTAL            2766.9
AGRICULTURAL    1786.0                                   MOST RECENT             MIDDLE INCOME             MIDDLE INCOME
1960  /b    1970 /b ESTIMATE /b    LATIN AMERICA & CARIBBEAN             EUROPE
GNP PER CAPITA (US$)                   600.0       1050.0    2280/d                    1384.1                    2381.1
ENERGY CONSUMPTION PER CAPITA
(KILOGRAMS OF COAL EQUIVALENT)    1129.0        1703.0    1873.0                    1055.9                     1641.4
POPULATION AND VITAL STATISTICS
POPULATION, HID-YEAR (MILLIONS)       20.6         23.7      26.4
URBAN POPULATION (PERCENT OF TOTAL) 73.6           78.4      81.6                      63.4                      53.9
POPULATION PROJECTIONS
POPULATION IN YEAR 2000 (MILLIONS)                         33.0
STATIONARY POPULATION (MILLIONS)                           41.0
YEAR STATIONARY POPULATION IS REACHED                    2065
POPULATION DENSITY
PER SQ. EM1.                         7.4         9.0        9.5                     28.1                       77.2
PER SQ. KM. AGRICULTURAL LAND       12.0        13.0       15.0                     81.7                      129.5
POPULATION AGE STRUCTURE (PERCENT)
0-14 YRS.                           30.7        29.3       28.9                     41.4                       30.6
15-64 YRS.                          63.7         63.7       62.8                     54.7                       61.1
65 YRS. AND ABOVE                     5.6         7.0        8.3                       3.9                       8.2
POPULATION GROWTH RATE (PERCENT)
TOTAL                                1.8          1.4       1.3                       2.7                       1.6
URBAN                                2.6         2.0        1.9                      4.1                        3.3
CRUDE BIRTH RATE (PER THOUSAND)       24.0         22.0      21.0                      34.8                      22.8
CRUDE DEATH RATE (PER THOUSAND)        9.0          9.0       8.0                       8.9                       8.9
GROSS REPRODUCTION RATE                1.5          1.5       1.4                       2.5                       1.5
FANILY PLANNING
ACCEPTORS. ANNUAL (THOUSANDS)
USERS (PERCENT OF MARRIED WOMEN)    ..            ..
FOOD AND NUTRITION
INDEX OF FOOD PRODUCTION
PER CAPITA (1969-71-100)            96.0       101.0      122.0                    106.9                      113.1
PER CAPITA SUPPLY OF
CALORIES (PERCENT OF
REQUIREhENTS)                    122.0       130.0      126.0                    107.4                      125.3
PROTEINS (GRAMS PER DAY)           104.0       109.0      109.5                     65.6                       91.0
OF WHICH ANIhAL AND PULSE         65.0        69.0       71.2                     33.7                       39.6
CHILD (AGES 1-4) MORTALITY RATE        6.0         4.0        3.0                       8.4                       4.3
HEALTH
LIFE EXPECTANCY AT BIRTH (YEARS)    65.0          67.4       71.0                     63.1                       67.8
INFANT MORTALITY RATE (PER
THOUSAND)                               ..        59.0         ..                     66.5                       55.9
ACCESS TO SAFE WATER (PERCENT OF
POPULATION)
TOTAL                                 ..        56.0       66.0                     65.9
URBAN                                 ..        69.0       76.0                     80.4
RURAL                                 ..        12.0       26.0                     44.0
ACCESS TO EXCRETA DISPOSAL (PERCENT
OF POPULATION)
TOTAL                                 ..        85.0       97.0                     62.3
URBAN                                 *-        87.0      100.0                     79.4
RURAL                                 ..        79.0       83.0                     29.6
POPULATION PER PHYSICIAN             660.0       500.0      530.0                   1849.2                     1030.1
POPULATION PER NURSING PERSON           ..       980.0         ..                   1227.5                      929.4
POPULATION PER HOSPITAL BED
TOTAL                              160.0       179.0         ..                    480.3                      289.7
URBAN                                 *-       144.0
RURAL                                ..        989.0
ADMISSIONS PER HOSPITAL BED             ..          ..         ..                        ..                      17.0
HOUSING
AVERAGE SIZE OF HOUSEHOLD
TOTAL                                3.7          3.8
URBAN                                3.5          ..
RURAL                                4.3           ..
AVERAGE NUMBER OF PERSONS PER ROOM
TOTAL                                1.4          1.4
URBAN                                1.3          1.4        ..
RURAL                                1.7          ..         ..
ACCESS TO ELECTRICITY (PERCENT
OF DWELLINGS)
TOTAL                               69.0        76.0       79.0/c
URBAN                               84.7          ..         ..
RURAL                               9.0           ..         ...



- 18 -
Annex I
TABLE 3A                                            Page  2  of  5
ARGENTINA - SOCIAL INDICATORS DATA SHEET
ARGENTINA                     REFERENCE GROUPS (WEIGHTED AVEPGES
- MOST RECENT ESTIMATE )
MOST RECENT              MIDDLE INCOME            MIDDLE INCOME
1960  /b    1970 /b ESTIMATE lb    LATIN AMERICA & CARIBBEAN             EUROPE
EDUCATION
ADJUSTED EhROLLMENT RATIOS                                    o e
PREiARY:     TOTAL                 98.0        106.0      110.0 -                   99.7                      105.9
MALE                  98.0        106.0     110.0                     101.0                     109.3
FEMALE                99.0        107.0     111.0                      99.4                     103.0
SECONDARY:   TOTAL                 23.0         32.0      4).Q/e                    34.4                       64.0
hALE                  23.0         30.0      38.0                      33.5                      71.1
FEMALE                24.0         35.0      44.0                      34.7                      56.9
VOCATIONAL ENROL. (1 OF SECONDARY) 50.0           59.0       63.0                     38.2                       28.8
PUPIL-TEACHER RATIO
PRI11ARY                           22.0         19.0      18.0 If                   30.5                       29.4
SECONDARY                            7.0         7.0       8.0                      14.5                       26.1
ADULT LITERACY RATE (PERCENT)         91.0        93.0      94.0 /f                    76.3
CONSUNPTION
PASSENGER CARS PER THOUSAND
POPULATION                          24.0        61.0       81.0                     43.0                       84.6
RADIO RECEIVERS PER ThOUSAND
PUPULATION                        170.0        379.0      838.0                    245.3                      192.2
TV RECEIVERS PER THOUSAND
POPULATION                         22.0        147.0      177.0                     84.2                      118.5
NEWSPAPER ("DAILY GENERAL
INTEREST") CIRCULATION PER
ThOUSANiD POPULATION                 155.0       179.0      147.0                     63.3                       93.0
CINEMIA ANNUAL ATTENDANCE PER CAPITA  7.0          2.0        3.2                        ..                       5.7
LABOR FORCE
TOTAL LABOR FORCE (THOUSANDS)       8131.7      9213.2   10140.9
FENALE (PERCENT)                   21.4         24.7       26.0                     22.2                       30.4
ACRICULTURE (PERCENT)               20.0        16.0       14.0                     37.1                       37.0
INDUSTRY (PERCENT)                 36.0         32.0       29.0                     23.5                       29.3
PARTICIPATION RATE (PERCENT)
TOTAL                                 39.5         38.8      38.6                     31.5                       40.9
MALE                                  61.0        58.1       57.3                     48.9                       55.9
FEMiALE                               17.2         19.3      19.8                     14.0                       26.2
ECONOMIC DEPENDENCY RATIO                0.9          0.9       1.0                       1.4                       1.0
INCOME DISTRIBUTION
PERCENT OF PRIVATE INCOME
RECLIVED BY
hIGhEST 5 PERCENT OF HOUSEHOLDS   27.5
HIGHEST 20 PERCENT OF hOUSEHOLDS  50.9          50.3
LOWEST 20 PERCENT OF HOUSEHOLDS    6.9           4.4
LOWEST 40 PERCENT OF HOUSEHOLDS   16.6          14.1
POVERTY TARGET GROUPS
ESTIMATED ABSOLUTE POVERTY INCOME
LEVEL (US$ PER CAPITA)
URBAN                                ..
RURAL                                 ..          ..         ..                    190.8
ESTIMATED RELATIVE POVERTY INCOME
LEVEL (US$ PER CAPITA)
URBAN                                 ..          ..      653.0                    474.0
RURAL                                 ..          ..      577.0                    332.5                      385.8
ESTLIMATED POPULATION BELOW ABSOLUTE
POVERTY INCOME LEVEL (PERCENT)
URBAN                                 ..
RURAL                                 ..
Not available
Not applicable.
NOTES
/a   The group averages for each indicator are population-weighted arithmetic means.  Coverage of countries
among the indicators depends on availability of data and is not uniform.
/b   Unless otherwise noted, data for 1960 refer to any year between 1959 and 1961; for 1970, between 1969
and 1971; and for Most Recent Estimate, between 1974 and 1978.
/c   Percent of population.
/d   1979
I/   Net primary and secondary enrollnent rates in 1978 were 89Z .tnd 3. rtlspcctiv&v.
If   Pu,pil-Tesc!er NRo  .Ict U Adult Lirtracy Rare in 1978 were I'7.0 .,  9j.0 re:pe.-t.velv.



- 19 -                                                                       Annex I
Page 3 of 5
lEFfINyIyTON OF SOCIALT _INDICATORS
N--au   Although the data Ira droun F 5 sorcs  enrLly judged the tos  autboelnt.l- and toliable, it should also ho noted that they may nut be inte-
nach.onily  -oP-reh  hDoete- of the heck of snaodar'di_d defielet-n  and o--teyn  usd by Ally erect cutiesI  co11ecefg the data.  The date are-, nuse-
theles-, un Iu  t  dosoibh  ondet  of mgld,indicate treds, atd che...teri- no                     I oeta mjve dAhfltto-a  hetett-oa...trha
.l.efoeo. rol  are.  (1)  h  sane ....tro gelup of~,   the aubl) o  ounrcad (2)  outcgrecy wIth suseuhat higlee averge moose than the tosetey ge-a
utthe bah-ar  -outrc (eoptfr'.pta.Sphs01                    tooes  tunh.re  "iddle innocu  garth Afrl1-oatd Middle tu-t" isolates. benase of Itntrge
tol.clua   fflulhles) .  IA the  -ef--n   ru  deto hhe    ega    r  rpathn  _eighted  ot ihmtLo  -e-n  tAr tech andilotar  -ud these  ut1y shea at
least bllh1  0t the  onre  ha a gRoup baa data fin  ttet undloatro.  Sinos the o                 oerg   t ..nontles. amg the iadioat..s depends as the aollaillty of
1LAND ARtA (thussad uq.Ipm                                                                    fouco   o    cs    orpuuatiun  oaua -y Sumte  atfac                       -ug Ftc.
Te-1l - T-clsresue~._hning land ure  aod Island waters                                         -liv   iozc           a  a medIca  urh-cl atounv-ts:faal
laniultral- isamas a  agicultura1lare  aced tesporarIhy or.Feruatt.ty               rouurop      prNtas  Pru   - Poyalotion dIvIded hy sache  of paac
for coa,pasttes,meekt ad kinthac gardec.o  t  lie falun   191dt.                    sl   n   eeh    rdatass  pa    ttort,sd .assnat ars.
f.I  -p~~~' P..tpI                          11-        1~~~77 dtI.  .onulatot Fe-darle  sad,.    - -ata   urbn           -.rra  - vptatoe tot
100 PERA 1 T10  (10)) -GNPS pan cayita estimate  at ..r.en  .hat pri-et  al-                    urba,  an-d natal) dinhded by sheha etpsth   ...sha  of bh-pisa1 heds
culutd hr  - see   c  -e-soa cetud us World Bach Atat  119I76-8 Oasis); 1960.                 rlal  In pubic and private generl and speilelh_e  hAssyIItl adr-
1970, and 1919 data.                                                                          hablnalt     oenteea.   Acpica.lt ore asrtblisheetta peersceelyIstaft~d
hy as least sea phytiiola.  Es-bllsbmesta yp-idisg peisnhpelly csatsdia1
ENtilY CONSSI0PTIOI PERCi A0IT0A    Auul.canuption of                -csenaiaegy (oo             ar- r  sa   no e . -tra  haspitals, h-cte, i-aluds health and redlnal
and Itfill,              Itaest   eaa  gas and hFdre-, nularad geothermal alec-             cetre  no  ye-a-tly staffd by a physlola  (hut by a medloa1 asistat,
cnloha,y)-nhlgasfcl sqiatspnaIs;16,1F,ad 19708ure  mdlfft, et.) chaos of fer in-pass,s acsudesIln  sad prnids a
data,                                                                                         lImited range uf -edial  laijiti-s  Foe stetitsical  urpsse  -rha  leapt-
taOs~ Is'Joude IBios Frintpsl g--ar and syacil.leed hosypltas, and ... l
POPULATION Ally tOTAL STATISTICShsuaslcl  rrrlbshal   e   aha   n  moaont .t eter.
feta  Foplasis, Od-Ser (ailias) -As of JulY 1; 0960, 1970, and 1979              Adrhisiocs paen Honspa  Bed - Total seth- uf admissIons to  r discharge
data.                                                                                       fin  bh-Fftols dIvIded hF the nus_e  ofhdc'.
Inhc Poslnla  (pnnat o  tasi)- Rlalic of urban to nate1 porulesiom;
dIfeen  dfnIIos  f  ranarasmy affect cosorbilcty ofHdat                       0 ING1
amonIg cou.stles; 1960, 1970, and 19)9 data.                                              uesale    lloshl   nttspr eshl)-ssl  ra,adte
Population Projentloas                                                ~~~~~~~A h....eosld n le  of a getup of ildtsidasIm  who share lIingi    uarer
2oelso 0I0ya 0FO  - Ciuercs  Popa1asios Ptolo-i..s aer has-d on 19BO               and shale male seals   A hoarder at lodger may hr may ea  he Isnidedin,
total popultian by ag lad sea and shal  orala  an   arityrate,_                           the household farotatsl    puepese.
Prjcionpaamtersle  Illtaity roses npseo   heelvl   sc                               Oeseumr of erfe  ae_oam  tta,  rhs. ndrue--veAg,   sum,:--
hug life enyargunoy at hinsh iacaasle  sigh cstry' yet ..yt,. Incom                     b-he  of perso..as  per eeo   lu allbsha, aed raca1 --npied --reslsa
lesel, aud tamal  life  _up-t-acy asahiliiig at 77.1 yor.The Para-                        doelhisge, resPectIvely.  Doehlls.gsse-1deeapee a   etutoassd
meer  foe f-ltility pure sIIIs hat  sheer lrels  --eueog deo1tue it                        nouidprs
f_teilityac_ondiug  to  onao leve  end pass family piasu ieg Performnce                 Access tio il   -t-ily(enc   fdahas     oa,ahc   s   ua 
I ac .noutry is thasagr           _n of the_ vIecnhntco    tmotlty-artio...  d-oliags sib   Ilatteinity Is living q-a-er  as pe-netage
asd  -tariliry tasds for peojeoti    Ipups,                                               of ntal., urhus, aed  Isa  d-eliegsres-settv-ly.
Sta4t0o_r oooalssion - In a a.ttt...ary ypulasti- thar  is no groath shnos
tha birt'h ear  is equal to h,      at  noe.ndas.heaos              .u t  rI-        ilIe.ylIoN
ma. lo tcoesas.  ThiIsis achied un afIs istity  tanIndenIi- to                           datdtesIasscu
Inthe ypase- FOo. a  the ruse of de dltne o   f            ht-tyni  to replace-             yasbsdjte frdittre faegtb  efpimr-eano;  o
sent p lev l ..                 I,                                                                        f.1.-I              pi
Pee  o. h. -  tid-aoo  opulsiosper  quar  illose-ter i (101     ..i. hetns   lpeides igoheeivenats                   ti- sr lathe    Zriso   t..tenehn  f. or. aIW
fare- he. agrrupuot1ud    impuadasabvefo  anlclt-a lnddvluey
knl..          t-cap1nipP                q.             10  yt~ of'   .tis  srfl ts (p -een  of- seneder -f   Ouce_ ose IIlaslals
Porautle Oa Otrotue  (prcen) -Children  (0-li yeats) ,  -Urin-sgr (10-                 include t-hbsl-1, Indateelal  or h. v       .b ..proram   which sparser indepe-
hi yses, au  reIre   (60yeas ad  -ve) as pso--ssge  of mt-ys  popa-                  dentlyera  depsemets-.o _isessy istitatioss.
letios; 1960, 1900), and 19Ff data.                                                         dus-seenst-piay  e    anattslaaes   noldi
~puativ ioet  Rae (ennst)- ttal- AruaI gltoch eate  of tete1 mid-                    pelanysdaeofrylvl  diid d.by numbers o   tearhta  .IsI the                   I
Year p-alosi... for 1950-60, 1960-70, sea 1970-yg.norssde lvl.
Foelutos  rosh  agsfeeees I- u a-8Ann-1 aru-th  --te  of orban Popo-               uaslncc   asCean-                   Litsrorte eduIt  (able ta read and criss)
Clattsfa  19i -bO   16-Banl9I-P..asapeerensge  m  nofttl sds1l pops.iss- aged 1  Yeses and user.
Crue trnhisl  (pr sausud    A-.A.uI lIve   trths Per theus...d of mid-yea
popala,tou; 1960, 1970, sad 19(08 data..CPONIUIPTION
Inade Deth Ruse (pae thausaad) - Aeo.-I dr-ths Po shau....d oh  ld-Y..,                     Passe Cr  seshsedpsusie                             -  aseg`r  "'os capolo a-tot
popuiesins; 1960, 1970  and 1976 dan.t.Z                                                                                                             1
Ero ~ ~ ~ ~    - Ay-g. .-b.I of d.             11 b. I                  orusetiagIsas than eight p-....s ,...Id.            sases  hessees and
her normal repeada-it-v  Psed Of she eapeeese  prn.          s  aepelitfar                ludi Recever  peeasndpplio)-All types atrof                          sr   oerd
lastly ~   ~     ly PinIaAcoor.fnn  inaud)-fsa   umeof --veysr                           caused esceveo  is  -otsel-s sod In  ess  la  reitatetia  of radis  e
PamIlo  launis-Cears(parcet uf maretad ases)     Pareesege o  maridisusoe  abolished li-eeiug.
ane   fcldbeosse(591yss1b   t  hieh-outoidesee  to                                        ¶5 Rseelv.r. (per sheassd poasltil,m) - TV enlve   fly hm-dn-st tn
all marrIed eases 10 same age group.                                ~~ge...rII  pbhlic Pee thas...d  papultlas; ...1ad-s uslinssd  O  enlc
100D 0A41 NlfIiB11N05                                                                            -neutrieeaod la Year  she.    mgsrlosf TV se- ast                   sefes
Pode 0ffudPounispe   ais  169110)-Tdes ofred apt  soal                                        tent   daily ge...oal isteoset  ecpapr"  deflod a               eioda  peb-
prdnI      toI  alfu   aedils             rdtIosale            se   adtedad                 licatios d..sted peitmaily is oanardteg geser1 sew.  ft ha nsaaideeed
iIntead at sugr)        h are edil  and nonnals ontefentse.gnff   ad                        nbe aily  If It  pper  aslat  lose I           ssIIsaoIaek.
tea arc etclhao   .  ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~~~~~~~~~d'~ d                            Cinema Annual Atrdeepr Cepite Per Yea-ease.d as the number at
_td       ggsgatoproduoti-n of ah aol -stry is lasso  _"teeaslddra   b   ea,io_ig_diaeae   riei   isa
talnlheaaP-duoer Price seight-; 1961-65, 1970, and 197adana.                       enk-..d cahtralns.gt          y.,ildgdm. .t  d -.I _
Per eapana suoply of calurles (rernons of rovaloemeuns) - ~~~Computed from..i.  .i.
Psr day1.  Aetilabie suppplie  vom.Prise domestic peudursoIe, lagonslass                ToalLao             .ote .oIads  - E-onoinally activprsn.  leladieg
i           dnpoocd, and changes  tsob. esupItaeosnlsde esIim   rd   rea                ta farces_ and amlyad ha t  -1nldisg hu..seni-e, stadesa   tn
quniisut            afodtosa e,od_ossI    dlahno.RequIre-                                 trllte.nor.msnutlnaent  -eparbll; 161,  t9190  cad
nests sare ea1'11ttatd b, FARI basd .s pyloiog.....  seed  tfoe norml at-                 1978 desa.
vnanhelh I...sidarios ...ira-otsa  ntaps-enue,body -sigbts, age                  eae(ans)-fml  au                    onespretg    fttllhrfrs
aedseadlseihtio   ofpooslunln,an  shlming 10 per-- itate  t                      trcluefrres,                 eo  fore I  tae-a, leesey t utlgI            a
Otusholdleve; ....-h. 1970, and19F   fus..                                           fihl      sprcaaeo  toa   ao  frs                I90  19F  sad 19Ff dat,
oet scFolc of food peeAsy.  Des supply vi foo  Is defined as above.      and  loesrlp...y. asset sod gases pbosfssge at60 natal  abu Ioe;190
valeosais for  ll osasrsas stahlled hr 110 proide't' foe s -inu             197  ad  97  dne
ulloaroof 6  gras o  totl prssinyee day . an   lid I0grm    ofba.-  acd           tIpis  -ss  (raret f- toal mat   ... imf -luetlo                       Ir.
Fals  Frnei, o  shib (  grms  houl  hraelal   ooseo.    hes  stod    oniic  sa.tesly aretcmputd  as. tosi  male,g and female lar farce as60
nIds ae-  been than those of 75 geams at tonalFotnts and 23 feas  ofpecnagso    toa                                  I aead15m pplsa   folae   epciey
anmapntis as  s  veag  fo  sh t nor-ld, Fo-poIo by FA0 Is she ThIle19019,andP17   as                                    eaueIospartinptiorte   eiss
hohdlod Survy.; 19161-65, 1970and 19FF data.                                           16,17           d195 .         T_-            Io        i  t.It.
ret capIa oru shn cuppy foos niasi an  oulse    Pro tro snppi   mifod d   Ige-sea etutr   f the popalatlu..  sad  u-g tIme treed.  A fec eti-
IIS11-DI  I'P9osusl lesad-ny  ello-7stintf Ipulatlos. Icder 10 ead 65 aed  -oe
Child (gs10  ieeiint   m   huad   - Anu..l deaths pen th-a...ad tO                             toseMealba   ona
age genap 1-4 yeoea, so childI.s is thIs age grop; far mot d-seoplug ctove-                  t.h   tt1I lf-
trIes detu derived true life relie; 1960, 1970 aed 19FF data.                           INCOME DISTRIBnTION
IffALfiH                                                                                       lecosao%rvt  neo(bath Ie cashand bId) - Iseelsed by rinba
Lifoispctaoy  t Brth(yees) -IAvnag  sumbor of years of lIfe  r-melulg                0prsttlht20poespoetDOptngadpset40enet
at birth; 1910, 1970 and 1978 dste.                                                          of hou..h. lis.dI
Inat Mlotaon ltsfrt   tha         d) - Assua1 deaths l ofitfants ander 000 Yaa          0005101fCtL
Access          th no .Sal dWate   perce th ofpplto)-  aa.ubn adv          o-Itimated Abao1sta Pav-rey Isoen t 5 ff10(q  par rseirsf - urhat ed rrl
PYme   fOol   nto,nbo   n   ua)wihraoal   nasto saf                                     autelftiosa.lly edqu-te dtes plsa essetial ne-fod             ursnsi   o
aotersuppy  (cnlude  treaed sofsnsatsr  ur streaad  hu  socvsamlotvd aFfodmha
duc-n-vas  to  see  dhil Ispoonoaap           ar-fth   a  I-eln   hy                       otEsated       tt Pounon ala Aheoluta Poet  nrm   ee    res)-r
ucco.....troret-  oftthta-toecoant of1-1tIludsoi-tdtIl. athan .o1
rural -   ch- b.oFgepettl  unlay, undenrl)..r.d y                            ....~
cusysa 1  r pee entgeoufchai  tea 0001crh..~hl                                       -    ioFhldivosthocoaf don-inonoml  und- Sof   C Dt lintg. ImoII_
poa   aci pud   h  c Plleotius and   -I ds ofol   ati. doc cithsuuctohi r. thsnosslsaadPrjofa  Ieas
ofIt~ hrcaeta and cat-strh  otthrs    yteso  seasof                                    .ArI,18
pf-pius s-s- and srcu   its tall.  .dI ..1)atuont..I..   -



- 20 -                                              ANNEX I
Page 4 of 5
E C 0 N O M I C   D E V E L O P M E N T   D A T A
NATIONAL ACCOUNTS                              Actual                         Projected
1970-    1979-
1976        1977        1979.W/    1980          1985       1976      1985      1976       1979      1985
Annual Growth
Millions of US$ at 1978 Prices and Exchange Rate                 Rates              As Percent of GDY
Gross Domestic Product             53,484      56,240       59,886      60,906      77,004        3.3       4.3      100.7      99.3      98.8
Gains from Terms  of Trade (+)        -385        -293         400          720         923        ..        ..        -.7        .7       1.2
C-ross Domestic Income             53,099      55,947       60,286      61,626       77,927       3.3       4.3      100.0    100.0    100.0
Import Goods and NFS                3,837       4,456        7,922       9,854      13,213       13.1       8.9        7.2      13.1      17.0
Export Goods and NFS               -4.996      -6,841        7,871      -8,209      10,812        9.7       5.4       -9.4    -13.1    -13.9
Resource Gap                       -1,159      -2,385           51       1,645       2,401                   -        -2.2       0.0       3.1
Cons-mption Expenditures           41,157      41,847       46,491      49.24d      bZ,557        3.3      t.1        77.7      77.1      bu.3
Investment Expenditures            10,685      11,720       13,846      14,023      17,770       5.0       4.3        20.2      23.0      22.8
Domestic Savings                   11,844      14,022       13,795      13,378      15,370       4.5        1.8      22.3      22.9       19.7
National Savings                   11,440      13,535       13,300      12,072      14,157       3.6        1.0      21.4      22.1       18.2
MERCTANDISE TRADE                         Annual Data at Current US$                                                    As Percent of Total
lmpor t s
Capital Goods                      500         874       2,241       2,922       6,433          -         -       18        33.6      33.7
Intermediate Goods               1,870       2,402       3,418       4,292       9,159         _         _        61.3      51.2      48.0
Petroleum & Products               560         584         617         868       1,466         -         -        18.4       9.2       7.7
Consumption Goods                   70          98         398       1,103        2,010        -         -         2.3       6,0      10.5
Total Merch. Imports (c.i.f.)       3,050       3,958       6,674       9,186       19,068         -         -       100.0    1OO.0    1O0.0
Exports
Primary products                 2,807       3,842       6,778       7,760      15,560         -         -        74.6      86.8         7.9
Manu,factured goods                956       1,495        1,027      1.158       2,136         -         -        25.4      13.2      12.1
Total Merch.Exports (f.o.b.)        3,763       5,337        7,805       8,918      17,696         -         -       100.0    '00.0      100.0
Merchandise Trade Indices                        Average 1978 - 100
;xport Price Index                      83          91         127        145         213
Import Price Index                     83           97         118        130         192
Terms ,f >,,5, Tlden                    9.                     109        111         111
VALUE-ADDED Bi SECTOR              Annual Data at 1978 'rices and Exchange Rate
Agriculture                         6,365       6,7!9        7,235       7,452       9,512       3.0        4.7       11.9      12.1      12.4
Industry and Mining                20,805      23,621       27,677      28,230      36,363       6.9        4.7       38.9     46.2       47.2
Services ana others                26,314      25,870       24,974     25,224       31,129        .5        3.7      49.2      41,7       40.4
Total                              53,484      56,240       59,886      60,906      77,004       3.4        4.3      100.0    100.0    100.0
PUBLIC FINANCE                     Annual Data at Current Prices                                                         As Percent of GDP
(Central Government)                      billions of $a
Current Receipts                  ,984       3,040      18,319                                            -       12.3      13.1
Current Expenditures               903       2,183      15,089                                           -        11.3      10.8
Budgetary Savings                   81         857       3,230                                                     1.0       2.3
Transfers (net)                   -483        -724      -1,641                                           _         6.1       1.1
Investment                         343         920       3,840                                           _         4.3       2.7
SELECTED INDICATORS                  1965-        1970-       1975-       1980-
(Calculated from 3-yr. av. data)  1970           1975         1980        1985
Average ICOR                          4.4          6. 9        6.8         3.7
Import Elasticity                      1.1         0.9         1.4         1.3
Marginal Domest6aviirgs Rate.(T.)  26.7           10.6        43.7        24.5
Marginal Nat'l Savings Rate (M/,)   23.2          16.2        44.5        24.9
LABOR FORCE AND OUTPUT PER                     LABOR FORCE                                      VALUE-ADDED PER WORKER IN 1975  PRICES
WORYER                                                                                          AND EXCGANGE RATE
In millions  In % of Total   Annual Growth Net             In US$         Percent of Av.    Growth
1970    1975   1970   1975           1970/75               1970   1975    1970   1975         1970/75
Agriculture                      1,474   1,420       16      14          - 0.7              3,357  3,575        81      79         1.2
Industry                         2,948   2,941       32      29            0.0              5,407  6,842       131    150          4.5
Services                         4,790   5,779       52      57            3.8              4,140  3.618       100      80        -2.4
ROTAL                            9,213  10,J40      100    100             1.0              4,133  4,551       100    100          1.9
MONEY AIID PRICES.                   1975         1976        1977        1978
(billions of $a )
Money Supply (Ml)                   330.6    1,259.9    3,o8o.0    7,7-2,9
M1+ time deposits (M2)              4C9.7    1,838,.4    6,254.2   17,169,3
C  as   o of .IDP                    23.3         15.8        14.5        1.b
a. us   of' 3DC.P                    28.9         23.0        29.4        32.8
Ct`  Index (1974=l00)               270.6    1,472.2    .-,o63.7   11,873.8
% change CPT index                  619.6       444         176         192
a/  The Argentine Central Bank has undertaken a major revision of the national accounts.  Data in this table are based on
preliminary estimates and are not fully comparable to those presented in Report 2988-AR, dated July 10, 1980.
b/  The 1977-1979 changes reflect to a large extent the  real appreciation of the exchange rate during 1978/79.



- 21 -                                                                    ANNEX I
Page 5 of 5
BALANCE OF PAYMENTS, EXTERNAL ASSISTANCE AND DEBT
(amounts in millions of U.S. dollars at corrent prices)
Actoal                                               Estimated              Projected
SUIIMARY BALANCE OF PAYMENTS             1972        1973        1974        1975        1976        1977       1978               1979             1980         1985
Etports (incl. NFS)                 2.389       3,799       4,761       3,669       4,668       6,769       7.689             9,279             10 580      20,536
Imports (incl. NS'S)               -2,222      -2,633      -4,218      -4,517      -3,584      -4,892      -4,901            -9,,211          -12,451      -24,071
Resource Balance                          167       1,166       1,543        -848       1,084      1,877       2,788                 68            -1h871       -3,535
.1et Interest Payments               -323       -382         -388        -425        -464        -370        -387              -526              -213       -1,935
Direct Investment Income               -60       -77          -35         -16         -28        -208        -292               -30               -160        -220
Other Factor Service Income             -3          4            7           1           2        -40        -136                -55               -60          -85
7Jo. Factor Service Income               -386       -455         -416        -440        -490       -618        -819               -611              -433        2,240
Current Transfers (net)                    -4         10          -             5          18          31         48                 50                50           68
Balance on Current Account               -223        721          127      -1,283         611      1_290       2,021              -493              -2254       -5,707
"rivate Direct Investment                  10         10          10          -           -           146        290                350               500          805
Official Capital Grants                    10         26          17            9           8         -           -                 -                 -            -
Pablic M&l.T Loans (net)                  205        364         228          -68      1,319         356       1,350                207               241          2S0
Disbursements                          522       832         776          448       1,908       1,064       2,910                340               415          610
Amortization                          -317      -468        -548         -516        -590        -708      -1,560               -133              -174         -350
Other M&LT Loans (net)                     51        -29          28          -3        -159          519        309                951               318        5,688
Disborsements                          101        71         244          405         268       1,059       1,328             2,489              2,071        8,013
A.ortination                           -50      -100        -216         -408        -427        -540      -1,019            -1,538             -1,753      -2,325
Short-term Capital and
Transactions n.e.i.                     82      -444        -339          275       -1,814         31      -1.558             3,282                -            -
Change in Reserves
(- = increase)                       -195       -865          44          854       -1.157    -2,227       -1,998            -4.297             1,195       -1,046
Level of Gross Reserves                   465      1,330       1,286          432        1,589     3,816       5,814             10,111           18,916         8,959
GRANT AND LOAN COMMLTMENTS
Official Grants & Grant-Like           -           -          -           -            -           -           -                -                  -            -
Public MALT Loans
IBRD                               -           -           -           -            115        205         165
Other Muitilateral                  92         57           1          177          165        148         230
Bilateral                           82         42         519           42          146        117          74
Suppliers                          118        116         535          307          196        363         339
Financial Institations             390        156         488          126          970        754       1,445
Bonds                              120         65         290          200          207         93         146
Total Public MALT Loans            802        436       1,_§3          852        1,803      1,680       2,399
DIBT AND DEBT SERVICE
Public Debt Outstanding &
Disbursed                           2,368      2,792       3,046        2,901        4,251      4,836       6,791
Interest on Public Debt                156       199         233          250          258        308         512
Repayments on Public Debt              317       468         548          516          589        708       1,576
Total Public Debt Service              473       667         781          766          847      1,016       2,088
Other Debt Service                     174       244         408          626          659        602       1,369
Total Debt Service                     647       911       1,189        1,392        1,506      1,618       3,457
BURDEN OF EXPORT BARNTNOr (8C)
Public Debt Service                     19.8      17.6        16.4         20.9         18.1       15.0        27.2
Total Debt Service                      27.1      24.0        25.0         37.9         32.3       24.0        38.6
TDS + Dir. Inv. Income                  29.6      26.0        25.7         38.4         32.9       27.0        42.4
AVERAGE TERMS OF PPIS.IC DEFT
Inlt. as % Prior Year DO&D               8.3        8.4         8.3          8.2         8.9       11.6        11.8
Amort. as °/ Prior Year DO&D            16.9       19.8       19.6         16.9         20.3       36.7        19.7
IBRD Debt Outst. & Disb-rsed           256       302         340          341          342        342         352
IBRD as v of Public Debt O&D            10.8      10.8        11.2          11.8         8.0        7.1         5.7
IBRD Debt Service as °1 of
Pu,blic Debt Service                  5.1        4.6         4.5          5.6          5.1        2.2         3.2
EXTERNAL DEBT (Disbursed Only)           Actual Debt Outstanding on Dee. 31. 1978
Disbursed Only                 Percent
IBRD                                        352                         5.2
Other Multilateral                          552                         8.1
Bilateral                                   728                        10.7
Suppliers                                1,575                         23.2
Financial Institutions ce18                                            38.5
Bonds                                       96                           .3
Total Pu,blic M&LT Debt                      b,7cl                      10.0
September 16, 1980



- 22 -
ANNEX II
Page 1 of 4
THE STATUS OF BANK GROUP OPERATIONS IN ARGENTINA
A. STATEMENT OF BANK LOANS
(As of July 31, 1980)
Amount less    Undis-
Loan No.   Year          Borrower            Purpose         Cancellations  bursed
(US$ million)
Fully disbursed loans                                            409.8
505        1968         Argentina           Livestock            15.3          0.8
733        1971         Ferrocarriles      Railways              56.5          0.1
Argentinos S.A.
1330        1977         SEGBA, S.A.        Power                115.0         66.8
1384        1977         Argentina           Highways            105.0         94.3
1463        1978         Banco Nacional    Industrial
de Desarrollo        Credit           100.0          72.4
1521        1978         Argentina           Grain Storage       105.0        104.2
1677        1979         Ferrocarriles       Railways
Argentinos S.A.                        96.0          96.0
1761        1979         Argentina 1/        Yacyreta Power    210.0          210.0
1880        1980         Yacimientos         Oil and Gas
Petroliferos        Engineering
Fiscales 1/                            27.0         27.0
Total                                             1,239.6
Of which has been repaid                            174.6
1,065.0
Amount sold                        12.8
Of which has been repaid            8.1                4.7
Total now held by Bank                            1,060.3
Total undisbursed                                                 671.6
1/   Not yet effective.



- 23 -
ANNEX II
Page 2 of 4
B. STATEMENT OF IFC INVESTMENTS
(As of July 31, 1980)
Fiscal                                                   Amount in US$ million
Year        Obligor               Type of Business       Loans      Equity   Total
(US$ million)
1960    Acindar Industria            Steel Products        3.7         -        3.7
Argentina de Aceros, S.A.
1960    Papelera Rio Parana, S.A. Pulp and Paper           3.0         -        3.0
1961    Fabrica Argentina de        Automotive              1.5        -        1.5
Engranajes, S.A.I.C.        Transmission
1962    PASA, Petroquimica          Petrochemicals          3.0        -        3.0
Argentina, S.A.I.C.
1965/
1972   Celulosa Argentina, S.A.  Pulp and Paper          12.5         -       12.5
1969/
1975   Dalmine Siderca, S.A.        Steel Products       17.0         -       17.0
1969    Editorial Codex, S.A.       Printing and           5.0        2.0       7.0
Publishing
1971/
1973   Calera Avellaneda, S.A.   Cement                   5.5         -        5.5
1977    Alpargatas S.A.I.C.          Textiles & Fibers    7.0           -       7.0
1977    Soyex S.A.                   Soybean Processing   9.0          -        9.0
Plant
1978    Massuh, S.A.                Pulp and paper         8.0         -        8.0
1978    Juan Minetti, S.A.          Cement and
Construction
materials              9.0        -        9.0
1978    Ipako-Industrias            Chemicals and
Petroquimicas               Petrochemicals
Argentinas S.A.                                   10.0         -       10.0
1979    Alpesca S.A.                Fisheries              5.2        0.5       5.7
Total Gross Commitments                           99.4        2.5    101.9
Less Cancellations, Terminations
Repayments and Sales                              46.4        2.0     48.4
Total Commitments Now Held by IFC                 53.0        0.5     53.5
Total Undisbursed                                 21.3          -     21.3



- 24 -
ANNEX II
Page 3 of 4
C. PROJECTS IN EXECUTION
(As of July 31, 1980)
Loan 505-AR    Balcarce Livestock Project, US$15.3 million loan of July 31,
1967; Effective Date: August 31, 1967; Closing Date:
July 31, 1980.
Lending to ranchers was slow from loan effectiveness until 1970,
then accelerated as cattle prices increased and technical services improved.
From 1970 to 1973, project performance was satisfactory and a substantial
amount of the loan was disbursed but slowed down again in 1974. After the
change in Government in 1976, conditions for beef cattle development in
Argentina improved for some time but recently the agricultural investment
climate has deteriorated as a result of the Government's foreign exchange
policies. The Bank loan is expected to be fully disbursed by October 31,
1980.
Loan 1330-AR   Electric Transmission and Distribution Program, US$115.0
million loan of November 1, 1976; Effective Date: January 10,
1977; Closing Date: December 31, 1981.
Mainly because of budgetary constraints on the funding of local cost
requirements during 1978 and 1979, the overall execution of the project has
been delayed by about 15 months. This delay, however, does not significantly
affect the economic viability of the project. The project is proceeding
according to a revised schedule prepared in December 1979.
Loan 1384-AR   Fourth Highway Project; US$105.0 million loan of May 16, 1977;
Effective Date: December 13, 1977; Closing Date: June 30, 1981.
The civil works component has been delayed by about two years
because of the Government's efforts during 1978 and 1979 to reduce public
expenditures. All 48 civil works contracts have been tendered, 47 have
been awarded and work has started in most of them. Other project components
are being implemented satisfactorily.
Loan 1463-AR   Industrial Credit Project; US$100.0 million loan of
September 23, 1977; Effective Date: November 28, 1977;
Closing Date: December 31, 1982.
The credit component of the project is proceeding somewhat behind
schedule because of a lag in overall industrial investment. Commitments
increased recently; so far about US$50.0 million have been committed;
subprojects corresponding to another US$20.0 million are under review.
BANADE's financial condition remains sound and management has begun taking
important steps for further strengthening of its organization and procedures.



- 25 -
ANNEX II
Page 4 of 4
Loan 1521-AR   Grain Storage Project; US$105.0 million loan of June 29, 1978,
Effective Date: November 28, 1978; Closing Date: June 30,
1983.
Consultants for project execution were contracted in October 1978
and preliminary designs for the project silos have been evaluated. In June
1979, the Government requested that the responsibility for project silo
construction and operation be transferred from the public sector (JNG) to the
private sector and also that silo capacity be reduced from 100,000 tons to
about 50,000 tons in order to make silos more attractive to the private
sector. A new project proposal is being prepared by the Government, for Bank
review; project implementation has been suspended in the meantime. Based
additional studies to be undertaken by the Government on effective demand
for construction of the silos by the private sector, a decision would be
taken by December 1980 whether to implement the project as a private sector
credit project, or as originally designed.
Loan 1677-AR   Second Railway Project, US$96.0 million of November 8, 1979;
Effective Date: May 6, 1980; Closing Date: June 30, 1983.
Despite delays in loan effectiveness, project implementation is
proceeding satisfactorily. A detailed procurement schedule has been agreed on
between the Railways and the Bank; it should result in loan disbursement on
schedule. Although financial ratios have deteriorated, the Railways has made
good progress in achieving agreed-upon operating targets.
Loan 1761-AR   Yacyreta H1ydroelectric Project; US$210.0 million loan of
November 6, 1979; not yet effective; Closing Date: June 30,
1987.
Project execution is proceeding as scheduled. Bids for main
civil works, turbines and generators have been opened and are being evaluated.
The loan is not yet effective pending agreement on the implementation of
measures in line with the financial covenants included in the Loan Agreement.



- 26 -
ANNEX III
Page 1 of 2
ARGENTINA
FIRST VOCATIONAL TRAINING AND TECHNICAL EDUCATION PROJECT
Supplementary Project Data Sheet
Section I: Timetable of Key Events
(a)  Time taken to prepare project:            28 months
(b)  Preparation by:                           CONET
(c)  First presentation to the Bank:           October 1977
(d)  First Bank Mission:                      October 1977
(e)  Appraisal Mission Departure:             January 1980
(f)  Negotiations:                             July 1980
(g)  Planned Date of Effectiveness:           December 1980
Section II:   Special Bank Implementation Actions
None.
Section III: Special Conditions of Bank Loan
1.        The Bank has obtained assurances that CONET would:
(a) by January 1, 1981, establish a Research and Experimentation Unit
within the General Directorate of Vocational Training; the Unit would
work on: (a) curriculum development; (b) teaching methods; (c) trade
testing and certification; and (d) occupational analysis. A plan of
activities for the Unit would be presented to the Bank by April 1,
1981, and from June 30, 1981, the Unit would implement its plan of
activities (para. 54);
(b) by October 31, 1980, deliver to the Bank for its approval an outline
of a comprehensive staff training and development program for
vocational training and by December 31 of each year, commencing in
1980 and terminating in 1984, deliver to the Bank for its approval
a detailed plan of action for the forthcoming academic year and
implement the plan as approved by the Bank (para. 54);
(c) by June 30, 1981 establish advisory committees at each operating
Vocational Training Center with the participation of local business
and community representatives and ensure that subsequently
established Centers would have an advisory committee (para. 55);



- 27 -
ANNEX III
Page 2 of 2
(d)  by June 30, 1981, present to the Bank a plan for introducing
relevant changes to the present accounting system, and, by
June 30, 1982 implement these changes (para. 57).
2.        It would be a condition of effectiveness that a subsidiary Financing
Agreement, satisfactory to the Bank, has been executed on behalf of the Govern-
ment and CONET (para. 58).






Pacific                                                         0t                                                                       1m   0
z o
Z              2      .,>
-m z
0-o ~ ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~'
°  '§§ _V                                                             0 0  r
D ^ O v tD4
3E.X§..>E6l!Wtt                        B3                     9>°                     _@° 0                      >                                                             e 
gtjSIt&Ww O Y ; r 



