F FICIAL      LOAN NUMBER 1905 AR
Project Agreement
(Vocational Training and Technical Education Project)
between
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION
AND DEVELOPMENT
and
CONSEJO NACIONAL DE EDUCACION TECNICA
Dated                              , 1981


﻿LOAN NUMBER 1905 AR
PROJECT AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT, dated          e         2-        , 1981, between
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT (hereinafter
called the Bank) and CONSEJO NACIONAL DE EDUCACION TECNICA
(hereinafter called CONET).
WHEREAS (A) by the Loan Agreement of even date herewith
between THE ARGENTINE REPUBLIC (hereinafter called the Borrower)
and the Bank, the Bank has agreed to make available to the
Borrower an amount in various currencies equivalent to fifty-eight
million dollars ($58,000,000), on the terms and conditions set
forth in the Loan Agreement, but only on condition that CONET
agrees to undertake such obligations toward the Bank as are
hereinafter set forth;
(B) by a subsidiary financing agreement to be entered
into between the Borrower and CONET, the proceeds of the loan
provided for under the Loan Agreement will be made available to
CONET on the terms and conditions therein set forth; and
WHEREAS CONET, in consideration of the Bank's entering into
the Loan Agreement with the Borrower, has agreed to undertake the
obligations hereinafter set forth;
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
ARTICLE I
Definitions
Section 1.01. Wherever used in this Agreement, unless the
context shall otherwise require, the several terms defined in
the Loan Agreement, the Preamble to this Agreement and the General
Conditions (as so defined) have the respective meanings therein
set forth.
ARTICLE II
Execution of the Project
Section 2.01. CONET shall carry out the Project described in
Schedule 2 to the Loan Agreement with due diligence and efficiency
and in conformity with appropriate administrative, financial,
engineering and vocational and technical training practices.


﻿-2-
Section 2.02. In order to assist CONET in carrying out the
Project, CONET shall employ consultants whose qualifications,
experience and terms and conditions of employment shall be satis-
factory to the Bank.
Section 2.03. Except as the Bank may otherwise agree,
procurement of the goods and civil works to be financed out of the
proceeds of the Loan shall be governed by the provisions of the
Schedule to this Agreement.
Section 2.04. (a) CONET undertakes to insure, or make ade-
quate provision for the insurance of, the imported goods to be
financed out of the proceeds of the Loan made available to it by
the Borrower against hazards incident to the acquisition, trans-
portation and delivery thereof to the place of use or installa-
tion, and for such insurance any indemnity shall be payable in a
currency freely usable by CONET to replace or repair such goods.
(b) Except as the Bank may otherwise agree, CONET shall
cause all goods and services financed out of the proceeds of the
Loan made available to it by the Borrower to be used exclusively
for the Project.
Section 2.05. (a) CONET shall furnish to the Bank, promptly
upon their preparation, the plans, specifications, reports,
contract documents and construction and procurement schedules for
the Project, and any material modifications thereof or additions
thereto, in such detail as the Bank shall reasonably request.
(b) CONET shall: (i) maintain records and procedures
adequate to record and monitor the progress of the Project
(including its cost and the benefits to be derived from it),
to identify the goods and services financed out of the proceeds
of the Loan, and to disclose their use in the Project; (ii)
enable the Bank's accredited representatives to visit the facili-
ties and construction sites included in the Project and to examine
the goods financed out of the proceeds of the Loan and any rele-
vant records and documents; and (iii) furnish to the Bank at
regular intervals all such information as the Bank shall reason-
ably request concerning the Project, its cost and, where appro-
priate, the benefits to be derived from it, the expenditure
of the proceeds of the Loan and the goods and services financed
out of such proceeds.
(c) Promptly after completion of the Project, but in any
event not later than six months after the Closing Date or such


﻿-3-
later date as may be agreed for this purpose between CONET
and the Bank, CONET shall prepare and furnish to the Bank a
report, of such scope and in such detail as the Bank shall reason-
ably request, on the execution and initial operation of the
Project, its cost and the benefits derived and to be derived
from it, the performance by CONET and the Bank of their respective
obligations under the Project Agreement and the accomplishment of
the purposes of the Loan.
(d) CONET shall enable the Bank's representatives to examine
all plants, installations, sites, works, buildings, property and
equipment of CONET and any relevant records and documents as
required for ,he purposes of this Agreement.
Section 2.06. CONET shall duly perform all its obligations
under the Subsiuiary Financing Agreement. Except as the Bank
may otherwise agree, CONET shall not take or concur in any action
which would have the effect of amending, abrogating, assigning or
waiving the Subsidiary Financing Agreement or any provision
thereof.
Section 2.07. (a) CONET shall, at the request of the Bank,
exchange views with the Bank with regard to the progress of the
Project, the performance of its obligations under this Agreement
and under the Subsidiary Financing Agreement, and other matters
relating to the purposes of the Loan.
(b) CONET shall promptly inform the Bank of any condition
which interferes or threatens to interfere with the progress of
the Project, the accomplishment of the purposes of the Loan, or
the performance by CONET of its obligations under this Agreement
and under the Subsidiary Financing Agreement.
Section 2.08. For the purpose of planning, programming,
coordinating and monitoring the carrying out of the Project,
CONET shall maintain a Project Unit, the staffing of which shall
be in accordance with criteria satisfactory to the Bank.
Section 2.09. (a) By January 1, 1982 or such later date as
may be acceptable to the Bank, CONET shall establish and there-
after maintain a Research and Experimentation Unit within its
General Directorate of Vocational Training responsible for cur-
riculum development, methodology, trade testing and certification,
and occupational analysis.


﻿-4-
(b) By April 1, 1982 or such later date as may be accept-
able to the Bank, CONET shall deliver to the Bank for its review:
(i) terms of reference for the activities of the Unit referred to
in paragraph (a) of this Section; and (ii) a plan of activities
for such Unit covering the period June 30, 1981 to June 30, 1983,
such plan thereafter to be -annually reviewed with the Bank and
extended to December 31, 1985.
(c) As and from June 30, 1982 or such later date as may
be acceptable to the Bank, CONET shall ensure that the Research
and Experimentation Unit implements its plan of activities, as
reviewed by the Bank, referred to in paragraph (b) of this
Section.
Section 2.10. By June 30, 1982 or such later date as may
be acceptable to the Bank, CONET shall, in accordance with
terms and conditions satisfactory to the Bank, establish and
thereafter maintain an advisory committee with the participation
of representatives of the local community and various economic
activities at each of CONET's Vocational Training Centers estab-
lished as of such date. CONET shall ensure that each such sub-
sequently established Center has such a committee.
Section 2.11. (a) By March 31, 1982 or such later date as
may be acceptable to the Bank, CONET shall deliver to the Bank for
its approval an outline of its plan of action for the execution of
Part A.3 of the Project.
(b) By March 31, of each year, commencing in 1982 and
terminating in 1985, CONET shall deliver to the Bank for its
approval a detailed plan of action for the execution of Part A.3
of the Project during the forthcoming academic year (March through
December). CONET shall in each such academic year implement such
detailed plan as approved by the Bank.
Section 2.12. CONET shall select all candidates for fellow-
ships and for the placement of fellows under Parts A.4 and B.4 of
the Project in accordance with criteria acceptable to the Bank.
Section 2.13. By May 31, 1982 or such later date as may be
acceptable to the Bank, CONET shall deliver to the Bank for its
approval CONET's plans for each study under Part C of the Project
(including the cost, terms of reference and implementation program
for each). CONET shall ensure that the initiation of any of such
studies and the employment of consultants therefor occur only
after the Bank's approval of the relevant plan.


﻿-5-
ARTICLE III
Management and Operations of CONET
Section 3.01. (a) CONET shall, at all times, manage its
affairs, plan its future expansion and carry on its operations
in accordance with appropriate administrative, financial,
educational and technological practices and under the supervision
of experienced and competent management assisted by adequate,
experienced and competent staff.
(b) CONET shall: (i) maintain an organization for the
execution of the Project satisfactory to the Bank; and (ii) afford
the Bank a reasonable opportunity to comment on any proposed
reorganization which may affect materially and adversely its
operations or financial condition or the carrying out of the
Project.
Section 3.02. CONET shall: (i) adequately operate, maintain,
review and repair its facilities, equipment, mobile units,
furniture and property included in the Project; and (ii) by
June 30, 1982 or such later date as may be acceptable to the
Bank, prepare and furnish to the Bank maintenance guidelines for
-he better fulfillment of the obligations in (i) hereof.
Section 3.03. CONET shall take out and maintain with respon-
sible insurers, or make other provision satisfactory to the Bank
for, insurance against such risks and in such amounts as shall be
consistent with appropriate practice.
ARTICLE IV
Financial Covenants
Section 4.01. CONET shall maintcin records adequate to
reflect in accordance with consistently maintained appropriate
accounting practices its operations and financial condition.
Section 4.02. CONET shall: (i) have its accounts and finan-
cial statements (balance sheets, statements of income and expenses
and related statements) for each fiscal year audited, in accor-
dance with appropriate auditing principles consistently applied,
by independent auditors acceptable to the Bank; (ii) furnish to
the Bank as soon as available, but in any case not later than
six months after the end of each such year, (A) certified copies


﻿-6-
of its financial statements for such year as so audited and (B)
the report of such audit by said auditors, of such scope and in
such detail as the Bank shall have reasonably requested; and (iii)
furnish to the Bank such other information concerning the accounts
and financial statements of CONET and the audit thereof as the
Bank shall from time to time reasonably request.
Section 4.03. (a) By June 30, 1982 or such later date as
may be acceptable to the Bank, CONET shall deliver to the Bank for
its review a plan for the introduction of changes in CONET's
accounting system so as to permit cost accounting for CONET's
vocational training and technical education activities.
(b) By June 30, 1983 or such later date as may be acceptable
to the Bank, CONET shall introduce in its accounting system the
changes, as reviewed with the Bank, referred to in paragraph (a)
of this Section.
Section 4.04. CONET shall, not later than two months prior
to the commencement of each fiscal year, furnish to the Bank for
its comments CONET's financing plan for such year.
ARTICLE V
Effective Date; Termination;
Cancellation and Suspension
Section 5.01. This Agreement shall come into force and effect
on the date upon which the Loan Agreement becomes effective.
Section 5.02. This Agreement and all obligations of the
Bank and of CONET thereunder shall terminate on the date on which
the Loan Agreement shall terminate in accordance with its terms,
and the Bank shall promptly so notify CONET thereof.
Section 5.03. All the provisions of this Agreement shall
continue in full force and effect notwithstanding any cancellation
or suspension under the General Conditions.
ARTICLE VI
Miscellaneous Provisions
Section 6.01. Any notice or request required or permitted to
be given or made under this Agreement and any agreement between


﻿-7-
the parties contemplated by this Agreement shall be in writing.
Such notice or request shall be deemed to have been duly given or
made when it shall be delivered by hand or by mail, telegram,
cable, telex or radiogram to the party to which it is required or
permitted to be given or made at such party's address hereinafter
specified or at such other address as such party shall have
designated by notice to the party giving such notice or making
such request. The addresses so specified are:
For the Bank:
International Bank for
Reconstruction and Development
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Cable address:                      Telex:
INTBAFRAD                          440098 (ITT)
Washington, D.C.                   248423 (RCA) or
64145 (WUI)
For CONET:
Consejo Nacional de Educaci6n Tecnica
Bolivar 191
Buenos Aires
Argentina
Cable address:
CONET
Bolivar 191
Buenos Aires
Section 6.02. Any action required or permitted to be taken,
and any document required or permitted to be executed, under
this Agreement on behalf of CONET may be taken or executed by
the President of CONET or such other person or persons as such
President shall designate in writing, and CONET shall furnish to
the Bank sufficient evidence of the authority and the authen-
ticated specimen signature of each such person.
Section 6.03. This Agreement may be executed in several
counterparts, each of which shall be an original, and all collec-
tively but one instrument.


﻿-8-
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their
representatives thereunto duly authorized, have caused this
Agreement to be signed in their respective names in the District
of Columbia, United States of America, as of the day and year
first above written.
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR
RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
By
Regional Vice President
Latin America and the Caribbean
CONSEJO NACIONAL DE EDUCACION TECNICA
Byized Rereenatv
Authorized Representative


﻿-9-
SCHEDULE
Procurement
A.   International Competitive Bidding
1.   Except as provided in Part C hereof, goods shall be procured
under contracts awarded in accordance with procedures consistent
with those set forth in the "Guidelines for Procurement under
World Bank Loans and IDA Credits" published by the Bank in March
1977 (hereinafter called the Guidelines), on the basis of interna-
tional competitive bidding as described in Part A of the Guide-
lines.
2.   For goods to be procured on the basis of international
competitive bidding, in addition to the requirements of paragraph
1.2 of the Guidelines, CONET shall prepare and forward to the Bank
as soon as possible, and in any event not later than 60 days prior
to the date of availability to the public of the first tender or
prequalification documents relating thereto, as the case may be, a
general procurement notice, in such form and detail and containing
such information as the Bank shall reasonably request; the Bank
will arrange for the publication of such notice in order to
provide timely notification to prospective bidders of the oppor-
tunity to bid for the goods in question. CONET shall provide the
necessary information to update such notice annually so long as
any goods remain to be procured on the basis of international
competitive bidding.
3. Equipment and furniture shall be grouped so as to permit
such bulk procurement as shall be consistent with appropriate
technical and procurement practices. Insofar as practicable,
contracts for such groups shall be for at least $200,000 equiva-
lent.
4.   For the purpose of evaluation and comparison of bids for the
supply of goods to be procured on the basis of international
competitive bidding: (i) bidders shall be required to state
in their bid the c.i.f. (port of entry) price for the imported
goods, or the ex-factory price or off-the-shelf price of other
goods, offered in such bid; and (ii) customs duties and other
import taxes levied in connection with the importation, or the
sales and similar taxes levied in connection with the sale or
delivery, pursuant to the bid, of the goods shall not be taken
into account in the evaluation of the bids.


﻿- 10 -
B.   Preference for Domestic Manufacturers
In the procurement of goods in accordance with the procedures
described in Part A of this Schedule, goods manufactured in
Argentina may be granted a margin of preference in accordance
with, and subject to, the following provisions:
1.   All bidding documents for the procurement of goods shall
clearly indicate any preference which will be granted, the
information required to establish the eligibility of a bid for
such preference and the following methods and stages that will be
followed in the evaluation and comparison of bids.
2.   After evaluation, responsive bids will be classified in
*one of the following three groups:
(1) Group A: bids offering goods manufactured in
Argentina if the bidder shall have established to
the satisfaction of CONET and the Bank that
the manufacturing cost of such goods includes a
value added in Argentina equal to at least 20%
of the ex-factory bid price of such goods.
(2) Group B: all other domestic bids.
(3) Group C: bids offering any other goods.
3.   In order to determine the lowest evaluated bid of each
group, all evaluated bids in each group shall first be compared
among themselves, without taking into account customs duties and
other import taxes levied in connection with the importation, and
sales and similar taxes levied in connection with the sale or
delivery, pursuant to the bids, of the goods. Such lowest eval-
uated bids shall then be compared with each other, and if, as
a result of this comparison, a bid from group A or group B is the
lowest, it shall be selected for the award.
4.   If, as a result of the comparison under paragraph 3
above, the lowest bid is a bid from group C, all group C bids
shall be further compared with the lowest evaluated bid from
group A after adding to the evaluated bid price of the imported
goods offered in each group C bid, for the purpose of this further
comparison only, an amount equal to: (i) the amount of customs
duties and other import taxes which a non-exempt importer would
have to pay for the importation of the goods offered in such


﻿- 11 -
group C bid; or (ii) 15% of the c.i.f. bid price of such goods
if said customs duties and taxes exceed 15% of such price. If
the group A bid in such further comparison is the lowest, it
shall be selected for the award; if not, the bid from group C
which as a result of the comparison under paragraph 3 is the
lowest evaluated bid shall be selected.
C.   Other Procurement Procedures
1.   Contracts for the purchase of goods which cannot be purchased
in groups costing at least $200,000 equivalent, and contracts for
civil works, shall be awarded on the basis of local competitive
bidding procedures.
2.   Except as the Bank may otherwise agree, the total cost of
goods procured in accordance with paragraph 1 of this Part C shall
not, in the aggregate, exceed the equivalent of $5,000,000.
D.   Review of Procurement Decisions by the Bank
1.   With respect to all contracts for goods estimated to cost the
equivalent of $200,000 or more:
(a) Before bids are invited, CONET shall furnish to the
Bank, for its comments, the text of the invitations to bid
and the specifications and other bidding documents, together
with a description of the advertising procedures to be followed
for the bidding, and shall make such modifications in the said
documents or procedures as the Bank shall reasonably request.
Any further modification to the bidding documents shall require
the Bank's concurrence before it is issued to the prospective
bidders.
(b) After bids have been received and evaluated, CONET
shall, before a final decision on the award is made, inform
the Bank of the name of the bidder to which it intends to award
the contract and shall furnish to the Bank, in sufficient time for
its review, a detailed report on the evaluation and comparison
of the bids received, and such other information as the Bank
shall reasonably request. The Bank shall, if it determines that
the intended award would be inconsistent with the Guidelines
or this Schedule, promptly inform CONET and state the reasons for
such determination.


﻿- 12 -
(c) The terms and conditions of the contract shall not,
without the Bank's concurrence, materially differ from those
on which bids were asked or prequalification invited.
(d) Two conformed copies of the contract shall be furnished
to the Bank promptly after its execution and prior to the delivery
to the Bank of the first application for withdrawal of funds from
the Loan Account in respect of such contract.
2.   With respect to each contract not governed by the preceding
paragraph, CONET shall furnish to the Bank, promptly after
its execution and prior to the delivery to the Bank of the
first application for withdrawal of funds from the Loan Account
in respect of such contract, two conformed copies of such con-
tract, together with the analysis of the respective bids, recom-
mendations for award and such other information as the Bank shall
reasonably request. The Bank shall, if it determines that the
award of the contract was not consistent with the Guidelines or
this Schedule, promptly inform CONET and state the reasons
for such determination.
3.   Before agreeing to any material modification or waiver
of the terms and conditions of a contract, or granting an exten-
sion of the stipulated time for performance of -such contract, or
issuing any change order under such contract (except in cases of
extreme urgency) which would increase the cost of the contract by
more than 15% of the original price, CONET shall inform the Bank
of the proposed modification, waiver, extension or change order
and the reasons therefor. The Bank, if it determines that the
proposal would be inconsistent with the provisions of this Agree-
ment, shall promptly inform CONET and state the reasons for
its determination.


﻿INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
CERTIFICATE
I hereby certify that the foregoing is a true
copy of the original in the archives of the Interna-
tional Bank for Reconstruction and Develop-
ment.
In witness whereof I have signed this Certifi-
cate and affixed the Seal of the Bank thereunto
this          day of    - , 198.
-FoTSECRETARY


