Report No. PIC4217
Project Name              China-Fourth Basic Education Project
Region                    East Asia and Pacific
Sector                    Education
Project ID                CNPA36952
Borrower                  People's Republic of China
Implementing Agency       Foreign Investment and Loan Office (FILO) and
the Finance Department
State Education Commission (SEdC)
35 Damucang Hutong
Xidan 100816, Beijing
Tel: (01) 609-6845/609-6679
FAX: (01) 602-5717/609-7041
Date PID Prepared         June, 1996
Project Appraisal         January, 1997
Projected Board Date      June, 1997
Country/Sector Background
1.   Compared with other developing countries, China's success in
providing a comprehensive schooling system to its population has been
remarkable. Enrolent rates in the first nine years of schooling are
higher than most other lower income countries, with more than 98.4% of
the 6 - 11 age cohort enrolled in primary school and over 78.4% of the
12 - 15 age cohort in lower secondary school.
2.   These impressive summary statistics, however, conceal the
disparity in education attainment among China's 1.2 billion
inhabitants. While the goal of nine-year compulsory education is
already achieved in most large cities and coastal area, many poor and
remote areas have not even reached universal primary education. The
education system in these areas suffer from: insufficient or
dilapidated classrooms and schools; inadequately trained teachers;
inadequate teaching materials; higher than average drop-out and
repetition rates; unsatisfactory management; and difficult access.
3.   Many of the poor and remote areas in China are inhabited by
minority nationalities. Mainly due to economic, geographic, and
cultural reasons, the economic and education levels in many minority
areas are lower than the national average. For example, of the 589
minority nationalities counties, 143 are State-supported poor counties
(1992 data). The average rural annual income per capita in these
counties is below Y300 compared to the national average of Y 784.
According to a sample survey of minority counties carried by the
State Education Commission (SEdC), the gross enrolent rate of school
age minority children is about twenty percentage points lower than the
national mean, with the female enrolent rate being particularly lower.
In addition to the characteristics of education in poor areas noted in
para. 2, education of minority nationalities suffers from shortage in



teaching materials and adequately trained teachers. Bilingual
education, regarded as instrumental in promoting minority
nationalities to advance to upper and post-secondary education, also
suffers from various shortcomings: a shortage of qualified teachers;
unsatisfactory instructional materials and insufficient attention and
research in the pedagogical, linguistic, psychological and curriculum
aspects of bilingual education.
Project Objectives
4.   The proposed project would respond to three fundamental
objectives of: increased access/equity in primary and lower secondary
education in poor and minority areas to achieve universal primary
education and the expansion of junior secondary education, with
particular attention to girls and minority nationalities; enhanced
quality in primary and junior secondary schooling; and improved
efficiency in the delivery of education through improving educational
management at national, provincial, county and project institutional
levels.
Project Description
5.   The project will cover approximately 90 poor counties in the six
provinces of Guizhou, Hainan, Heilongjiang, Hunan, Shanxi, Yunnan.
Each participating province has been closely involved in the project
preparation and has been aided in these efforts by government-
administered PHRD Japan grant funds. The main criteria used in the
selection of the provinces have been number of poor counties (national
and provincial) in the province, level of teacher qualification,
percentage of minority population, primary school completion rate, and
girl's enrolent. The main criteria used in the selection of the
counties was inclusion on the national or provincial list of poor
counties; population and minority concentration; poverty indicators
such as rural income per capita; public expenditure for education as a
percentage of provincial expenditure and books per pupil at primary
level; and teaching and management needs such as percentages of
repetition, primary enrolent, and girls enrolent, transition rate from
primary to secondary and percentage of qualified teachers.
6.   The population in these 90 poor counties is approximately 31.0
million of which 7.3 million are members of minority nationalities.
The counties have about 4.9 million students enrolled in primary and
junior secondary schools, although not all of these schools will
receive project assistance.
7.   The project objectives would be achieved by improving educational
inputs, improving management of schools and educational systems and
facilitating innovative actions in the educational system. The
project would comprise the following components.
8.   Institutional Component.   This component will include facilities
upgrading, instructional equipment, and staff upgrading. Training
under this component relates directly to training classroom teachers,
school principals, trainers and local education managers and
administrators to provide managerial and instructional leadership in
- 2-



institutions at the provincial, county and village levels.
9.   Facilities Upgrading.   The project will finance civil works
including renovation, rehabilitation, and some necessary new
construction of primary and junior secondary schools. The project, as
part of the objective of improving access to schooling, will increase
the number of school places, and improve teaching facilities at
teaching points, at complete and incomplete primary schools and junior
secondary schools in poor and minority areas. Implementation of civil
works will be phased over five years and will be integrated with that
of such essentially related activities as the procurement of
instructional equipment, books, furniture, and training of managers,
principals and teachers.
10. Instructional Equipment, Furniture, and Books. The project will
upgrade the instructional equipment in those schools with incomplete
sets of equipment. The provision of increased numbers of library
books, textbooks and supplementary materials, and more and better
equipment will improve quality through better learning achievements at
both primary and junior secondary levels and completion of a higher
proportion of required practical experiments in the junior secondary
science syllabus. Central primary schools may become the bases for
proposed Teacher Support Networks (TSNs). These Networks will aim,
through continuous post-training support of teachers, to achieve
better quality classroom teaching and more cost-effective use of books
and equipment in order to empower professionally isolated teachers in
poor rural and minority areas. A textbook lending scheme may be
instituted in selected counties on a trial basis. If instituted, its
effectiveness will be reviewed at mid-term, and recommended action
will be taken to extend, modify or terminate the scheme.
11. Staff Upgrading. An extensive program of staff upgrading,
largely through in-country training, will be provided under the
project. It will be carried out through short-term inservice courses
which will develop appropriate models, networks and structures to
reach out to the poorest and most remote schools. The emphasis will
be on program content, focusing on practical skills, knowledge and
expertise needed by teachers, principals and administrators. A
limited number of study tours will be provided in such areas as girls'
education, multigrade teaching and school management. Priority
locations for study tours will be in-country settings where good
practice has been demonstrated. Some international visits may be
considered if better examples exist abroad. In all cases, specific
Terms of Reference are to be reviewed and agreed between SEdC and IDA.
12. Five groups of staff will be upgraded: (a) trainers; (b)
elementary and junior secondary teachers; (c) school principals; (d)
technicians and librarians at schools and colleges; and (e)
administrators at local, provincial and national levels. A pilot
teacher training activity at the primary level will be carried out in
two counties participating in a UNDP project in Yunnan province. This
will be led by UNDP, Beijing, in collaboration with SEdC and IDA. If
found to be effective, decisions could be taken at mid-term to expand
the activity to other counties and provinces. At the junior secondary
level, the project will support an innovative teacher training program
- 3 -



in science teaching, based on a training of trainers mechanism which
is modeled on a similar element in the Bank-supported Effective
Teaching Services Project (Cr. 2471-CHA).
13. Management Improvement Component. This component will develop
management capabilities at the institutional, county, provincial and
national levels through management training, the provision of
equipment and specialist services to improve the overall efficiency in
the management of education. Sub-components will include: (a)
training in educational planning and management; (b) training in
project management in order to develop implementation capacity,
including skills in project monitoring and evaluation, at all levels;
and (c) support for educational management information systems at the
provincial and county levels through training and the provision of
equipment.
14. The Central Component. The center (SEdC) will coordinate the
project implementation tasks executed by the six provincial education
commissions (PEdCs). Additionally the center will: (a) organize
national level management training for provincial personnel; (b)
organize national level training programs for teacher trainers; (c)
organize study visits; (d) in collaboration with PEdCs, UNICEF
(Beijing), and IDA, oversee and supervise dissemination activities
related to best local and international practice in the education of
girls and minorities; (e) collaborate with UNDP and IDA in the teacher
training pilot activity in Yunnan; (f) in partnership with provinces,
carry out a school-based study on innovative approaches to junior
secondary science teaching; (g) institute and monitor Student
Assistance Programs in project counties, based on the guidelines
developed under the Third Basic Education Project; (g) and provide
support to a Chinese Experts Panel which will oversee implementation
and provide professional advice to provinces.
Project Cost and Financing
15. The total cost is estimated at about US$140 million. The
provincial and county governments are expected to provide US$70
million and IDA is being requested to provide the balance, i.e. US$70
million.
Project Preparation and Implementation
16. The Bank is assisting the Government in the preparation of the
project. The Bank's involvement is in quality control, providing
advice as needed, and final appraisal. This level of involvement is
considered appropriate to ensure manageability of the project design
and development process and, more importantly, to build the SEdC's
capacity to carry out such processes, and to facilitate replication in
non-project areas.
17. Since the bulk of project activities will take place in the
provinces, the main preparation and implementation responsibilities
will be assumed by the provinces, with SEdC -- which has extensive
experience with IDA projects -- providing guidance on project
preparation and implementation, coordinating certain TA activities,
-4 -



and arranging for joint procurement where appropriate. At the
provincial level, Foreign Investment and Loan Offices (FILOs) headed
by the Vice Commissioners of the respective Provincial Education
Commissions, and staffed with officials familiar with education
planning and management, financial management and accounting, civil
works and equipment will be formed. A similar structure will be
repeated at the county level. The provincial FILOs will be
responsible for overseeing the activities of the county FILOs and
arranging for the necessary training.
18. At the central level the SEdC will organize three working groups:
(a) The Project Working Group comprises working level staff from the
Finance, FILO, Minority Education, and Basic Education, Equipment and
will be responsible for organizing all project preparatory activities;
(b) a Project Leading Group will be formed, headed by the SEdC Vice
Minister in charge of World Bank projects and comprising the directors
of departments represented in the first group, who will be responsible
for providing guidance and coordination and resolving major
implementation issues that may arise; (c) the Project Expert
Consultative Group comprising 7 - 9 non-SEdC experts specializing in
basic education, minority/bilingual education, teacher training,
curriculum development, civil works, equipment and education
management. It will advise and make suggestions on project
implementation, and (d) once the credit is approved, responsibility
for coordinating implementation at the center will be assumed by the
Foreign Investment and Loan Office (FILO) and the SEdC's Finance
Department. Directors of project implementation units from both
Shanxi and Gansu provinces, both in the earlier Education Development
in Poor Provinces (EDPP) project and Third Basic Education (BEIII)
project, are members of the Project Expert Consultative Group so as to
ensure continuous input into the development programs in the project-
supported provinces as well as training of new project implementation
staff.
Sustainability
19. The project will partially finance school-based activities at the
village, township, county and provincial levels, which support the key
national education policy of achieving universal nine-year education
by the year 2000. The moderate level of IDA financing for the project
(approximately  50t percent) and the annual provincial level of
counterpart funding as a ratio of the 1994 provincial educational
budgets (i.e., a modest 2 percent on average) increase both the
chances for sustainability and affordability of the project
activities. Provincial education budgets are set for 1997 and 1998
and are generally expected to go up after that period, which will
decrease the percentage of counterpart funding (which has been
budgeted at fixed annual levels during the project) as a part of the
provincial budgets. Additionally, the source of provincial
counterpart funding is balanced and sustainable - on average
approximately 80t percent from the county, 10t   percent from the
province (half of which comes from an education surtax) and    10t
percent from the national level.    The poverty reduction focus of the
- 5-



project is central to the Government's recently announced seven-year
plan to eliminate absolute poverty by the year 2000, a plan that
specifically aims at upgrading education and literacy in backward and
poor areas. Built into the project are maintenance costs for schools,
classrooms and equipment procured under the project, equipment
procurement, technical assistance and training to develop an EMIS
system. Project training of approximately 150,000 teachers and
education managers builds and strengthens existing and new human
resource capacity which will remain in place long after the end of the
project.
Environmental Aspects
20. The project involves no environmental issues and therefore will
be a Category C.
Benefits
21. The project is expected to benefit about five million children in
six of China's poorer provinces. Better physical facilities will
provide significantly expanded access to basic education among the
poor, girls and children of minority nationalities.     The
participation of increased numbers of teachers, principals and
education managers will strengthen the provision of educational
services in poverty areas and increase their planning and management
capacity. Equally, specific interventions have been designed to
improve planning and management capacity at the central, provincial
and county governments to prepare and implement similar comprehensive
projects and to replicate them in other parts of the country. Better
trained teaching staff, new science teaching approaches, continuous
post-training support to teachers, and a focus on local curriculum
content and materials will improve quality, thereby helping to provide
the skills necessary for target groups to participate in subsequent
levels of education, in the economic growth of local areas, in
increased mobility of labor, and , in the long-term, in greater social
cohesion.
Contact Point
22.
Contact Point:       Public Information Center
The World Bank
1818 H Street N.W.
Washington D.C. 20433
Telephone No.: (202)458-5454
Fax No.: (202)522-1500
Note: This is information on an evolving project. Certain components
may not necessarily be included in the final project.
Processed by the Public Information Center week ending August 30,
1996.
-6-



