            Document of
          The World Bank




                                    Report No: 28252-CHA

IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
         (IDA-29540 TF-29401)

                ON A

               CREDIT

 IN THE AMOUNT OF SDR 61.5 MILLION

               TO THE

    PEOPLE'S REPUBLIC OF CHINA

               FOR A

 FOURTH BASIC EDUCATION PROJECT




            April 30, 2004

                           CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS

                       (Exchange Rate Effective June 30, 2003)

                             Currency Unit = Chinese Yuan-RMBY
                                RMB 1.00 = US$ 0.12
                                 US$ 1.00 = RMB 8.26

                                   FISCAL YEAR
                             January 1     December 31

                       ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS

BEIV    -     Fourth Basic Education Project
CAS     -     Country Assistance Strategy
CEP     -     Chinese Experts Panel
EDPP    -     Education Development in Poor Provinces Project
EMIS    -     Education Management Information System
FILO    -     Foreign Investment and Loan Office
FMS     -     Financial Management Services
GOC     -     Government of China
IBRD    -     International Bank for Reconstruction
ICB     -     International Competitive Bidding
ICR     -     Implementation Completion Report
IDA     -     International Development Association
MOE     -     Ministry of Education
MOF     -     Ministry of Finance
NCB     -     National Competitive Bidding
NDRC    -     National Development and Reform Commission
NP      -     National Program
NYCE    -     Nine Year Compulsory Education
PSR     -     Project Supervision Report
QAG     -     Quality Assessment Group
QER     -     Quality on Entry
QMPRP   -     Qinba Mountains Poverty Reduction Project
QVPEP   -     Qinba Village Primary Education Program
SAR     -     Staff Appraisal Report
SDR     -     Special Drawing Right
SEDC    -     State Education Commission
TSN     -     Teacher Services Network
TTL     -     Task Team Leader
UBE     -     Universal Basic Education
WBOB    -     World Bank Office Beijing

                            Vice President:   Jemal-ud-din Kassum
                         Country Director     Yukon Huang
                          Sector Manager      Christopher J. Thomas
         Task Team Leader/Task Manager:       Edurado Velez-Bustillo

                                            CHINA
                         FOURTH BASIC EDUCATION PROJECT


                                         CONTENTS




                                                                              Page No.
1. Project Data                                                                    1
2. Principal Performance Ratings                                                   1
3. Assessment of Development Objective and Design, and of Quality at Entry         2
4. Achievement of Objective and Outputs                                            4
5. Major Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcome                            10
6. Sustainability                                                                11
7. Bank and Borrower Performance                                                 11
8. Lessons Learned                                                               13
9. Partner Comments                                                              15
10. Additional Information                                                       15
Annex 1. Key Performance Indicators/Log Frame Matrix                             16
Annex 2. Project Costs and Financing                                             28
Annex 3. Economic Costs and Benefits                                             30
Annex 4. Bank Inputs                                                             31
Annex 5. Ratings for Achievement of Objectives/Outputs of Components             33
Annex 6. Ratings of Bank and Borrower Performance                                34
Annex 7. List of Supporting Documents                                            35

Project ID: P036952                                                  Project Name: CN-BASIC ED. IV
Team Leader: Eduardo Velez Bustillo                                  TL Unit: EASHD
ICR Type: Core ICR                                                   Report Date: May 12, 2004


1. Project Data
                   Name: CN-BASIC ED. IV                                          L/C/TF Number: IDA-29540; TF-29401
   Country/Department: CHINA                                                              Region: East Asia and Pacific
                                                                                                     Region

        Sector/subsector: Primary education (44%); Secondary education (43%); Tertiary
                            education (12%); Central government administration (1%)
                  Theme: Education for all (P); Rural services and infrastructure (P); Access to
                            urban services for the poor (P); Gender (S)


  KEY DATES                                                                  Original               Revised/Actual
           PCD: 07/15/1996                                     Effective: 09/24/1997                09/24/1997
     Appraisal: 01/02/1997                                         MTR: 10/01/2000                  10/01/2000
      Approval: 05/27/1997                                      Closing: 06/30/2003                 09/30/2003



    Borrower/Implementing Agency:          PRC/Ministry of Education
                      Other Partners:

STAFF                           Current                                        At Appraisal
Vice President:                 Jemal-ud-din Kassum                            Jean-Michel Severino
Country Director:               Yukon Huang                                    Nicholas C. Hope
Sector Manager:                 Emmanuel Y. Jimenez                            Joseph Goldberg
Team Leader at ICR:             Eduardo Velez Bustillo                         Hena Mukherjee
ICR Primary Author:             Sandra F. Erb; Halsey L. Beemer


2. Principal Performance Ratings

(HS=Highly Satisfactory, S=Satisfactory, U=Unsatisfactory, HL=Highly Likely, L=Likely, UN=Unlikely, HUN=Highly Unlikely,
HU=Highly Unsatisfactory, H=High, SU=Substantial, M=Modest, N=Negligible)

                           Outcome:        S
                      Sustainability:      L
   Institutional Development Impact:       SU
                 Bank Performance:         S
            Borrower Performance:          S


                                                      QAG (if available)             ICR
                                  Quality at Entry: S                                S
                     Project at Risk at Any Time: No

3. Assessment of Development Objective and Design, and of Quality at Entry

3.1 Original Objective:
Context. In 1995, the Chinese Ministry of Education (MOE) requested support form the World Bank for
the development of a basic education project. Subsequently, the MOE and the World Bank began work on
what was to be the fourth in a program of basic education projects. When the identification and design
work began for the Fourth Basic Education (BEIV) Project, the government's policies continued to place
the highest priority on the achievement of universal basic education (UBE) in poor and remote areas by the
year 2000 or as soon as it was practical. This project was to support China's goal of development,
modernization and elimination of illiteracy. This priority drove both targeting and design. After working
with the Bank project development team, the MOE set the following objectives: (a) to increase
access/equity in primary and junior secondary education for the absolute poor in poor and minority rural
areas to achieve universal primary education and to expand junior secondary education, with particular
attention to girls and minority nationalities; (b) to enhance quality in primary and junior secondary
schooling and the corresponding teacher education and training of trainers' programs; and (c) to improve
efficiency in the delivery of education by improving educational management at the national, provincial,
county and project institutional levels.

These objectives reflected MOE policies to: (a) accelerate the decentralization of education by establishing
principles to guide provincial and local governments in the development of their education services at the
county and village levels; (b) implement the Compulsory Education Law by using available resources, and
(c) pursue national and provincial education targets in their own way. It was also critically important to
improve the targeting of education financing to the poorest populations in a province, to increase the
efficient use of these funds, and to tap available intergovernmental transfer mechanisms to achieve these
objectives. The objectives were consistent with the Bank's Country Assistance Strategy (CAS). This
strategy focused on : (a) efficient use of resources, including teachers and facilities; (b) more equitable
funding mechanisms for basic education in poor rural areas; and (c) support for institution building to
increase the capacity of education authorities at all levels to carry out their responsibilities within the
context of decentralization.

The project consisted of two programs. The National Program (NP) included 91 counties in the provinces
of Guizhou, Hainan, Heilongjiang, Hunan, Shanxi and Yunnan. The Qinba Village Primary Education
Program (QVPEP) included 26 counties in Sichuan, Shaanxi and Ningxia. The National Program grew out
of the GOC's original 1995 request. The QVPEP, originally part of the multi-sectoral Qinba Mountains
Poverty Reduction Project (QMPRP), was, part way through the original preparation process, when it was
included in the BEIV project at the specific request of the GOC. The GOC, particularly the Ministry of
Finance (MOF) and the MOE, pointed out that experience derived from the Bank-supported Southwest
Poverty Reduction Project showed integrated multi-sectoral projects were more efficient when sectoral line
ministries assumed primary responsibility for project design, preparation, counterpart financing, and
implementation of specific sectoral components. Therefore, the MOF agreed that the MOE would have
primary responsibility for the preparation and implementation of the basic education sub-component of the
Qinba Mountains Poverty Reduction Project. Thus, the MOF requested the MOE and the provincial
education bureaus of Sichuan, Ningxia and Shaanxi to take responsibility for the design, preparation and
implementation of the QVPEP.

The QVPEP, implemented in the same counties and townships as the QMPRP, supported the QMPRP's
multi-sectoral approach to poverty reduction. The goals of the QVPEP program were similar to those of
the National Program; all of the financing, implementation, and monitoring were the same. Therefore,
combining the QVPEP with the NP's other six provinces had merit.



                                                       - 2 -

3.2 Revised Objective:
Not Applicable

3.3 Original Components:
The National Program comprised activities in three project components. The components were: (i) access
to nine-year compulsory education; (ii) enhancement of the quality of education; and (iii) improvements in
education management. Because of reduced funding from the QMPRP credit and the more aggressive
poverty targeting, the QVPEP program focused only on primary schools. Investments were at the village
level in Ningxia, Shaanxi and Sichuan Provinces. These poor villages had major problems in achieving
their primary education goals. Therefore, it was agreed that the QVPEP would focus on the first five or six
years of education. (Primary education in some provinces was five years, and six years in others.)
Investments in both the National Program and the QVPEP supported the construction of schools, upgrades
in the quality and reliability of teaching services, and new ways to ensure access to these services by the
absolute poor. The QVPEP had the same components as the NP but a limited number of sub-components.

National Program - Component 1: Access to Nine Year Compulsory Education - The access to nine
year compulsory education component included upgrading physical facilities, improving instructional
equipment at primary and junior secondary schools, expanding scholarship programs to include student
assistance programs, and introducing a pilot textbook rental scheme in Shanxi Province. The goals of the
textbook rental were to reduce the cost of textbooks to parents and remove a barrier to basic education.

National Program - Component 2. Quality Enhancement Component ­ This component focused on key
factors that influence educational quality, instructional materials and teachers. It provided library books
and supplementary materials in minority languages as well as in-service instruction to trainers, principals,
and under-qualified teachers. There was also training in specialty areas, such as multi-grade teaching and
bilingual education. Furthermore, an innovative Teacher Services Network strengthened the capacity of
normal schools to modernize primary level teacher training programs and to support innovative strategies
for the education of girls and minorities.

National Program - Component 3. Education Management Improvement Component - This
component was to develop educational management capabilities at the central, provincial, county and
institutional levels. It addressed staff training, equipment and expert services. Training was available to
local education authorities and local project implementation staff. There was also a provision for the
development of an education management information system (EMIS) and activities of the Chinese Experts
Panel (CEP).

QVPEP ­ Component 1. Access to Nine Year Compulsory Education Component - This component
included upgrading of facilities, improvements in instructional equipment, furniture and library books for
primary schools and student assistance programs for poor students.

QVPEP ­ Education Quality Enhancement Component ­ This component included training to upgrade
the skills of unqualified teachers and minban (non-government supported) teachers and to provide
continuing education for qualified teachers.

QVPEP ­ Education Management Improvement Component ­ This component was to develop
management capabilities at the central, provincial, county and institutional levels through staff training and
access to equipment and expert services. Training was for local education management authorities and
local project implementation staff.



                                                       - 3 -

The credit focused on improvements to facilities for the purpose of access to education in poor and remote
areas. It also addressed training at all levels of the education systems. Moreover, the credit gave local
education authorities the opportunity to disseminate favorable results of educational experiments dealing
with such classroom issues as enrollment, retention and quality improvement.
3.4 Revised Components:
Not applicable

3.5 Quality at Entry:
According to peer reviewers, quality at entry was satisfactory. Their assessment was based on (i)
consistency of objectives with the priorities of the Ministry of Education (MOE); (ii) the experiences and
lessons learned from the first three basic education projects which arose during project design; (iii)
demonstrated capacity of the Foreign Investment and Loan Office (FILO)/MOE to implement previous
projects; and (iv) a project design that fit MOE's decentralization policies and practices. There was no
Quality at Entry (QER) of the proposed project during its preparation.

4. Achievement of Objective and Outputs

4.1 Outcome/achievement of objective:
The achievement of objectives and physical outputs under the Fourth Basic Education project is
satisfactory. The project took place in support of the government's own massive efforts during the 1990's
to accelerate the achievement of national nine-year compulsory education goals. The project objectives
were broad and flexible enough to allow provinces and counties to implement the Compulsory Education
Law and to accelerate completion of the government's Nine Year Compulsory Education (NYCE)
program at the county level. All of this activity was congruent with China's unique minority and regional
characteristics; it occurred as the basic education system was becoming more and more decentralized. In
the end, the MOE reported that the project accelerated -- in some cases by two years -- the achievement of
universal primary education in 115 of the 117 project counties (98.3 percent). The MOE also reported the
achievement of nine-year compulsory education in 86 (98.3 percent) of the counties. The project assisted
five of the seven provinces to achieve, by the end of the project, the "two basics" - Nine Year Compulsory
Education and elimination of illiteracy among the young and middle-aged adults. (The "Two Basics" refer
to the MOE's way of describing the fundamental goals of achieving basic education and eliminating
illiteracy.)

The project's physical output targets for all provinces in primary and junior secondary were met and, in
some cases, exceeded. During the project period, project-supported primary school enrollment rates
reportedly increased from 92 percent to 98 percent; lower secondary enrollment rates reportedly increased
by 75 to 90 percent. Output indicators showed improvements in building safety, its supply of teaching
materials, enrollment of children, and the qualifications of teachers and principals. There has been the
institutionalization of a systematic management system for the delivery of education services at the local
level. The dissemination program also met expectations for spreading provincial-based research results to
project schools; the topics ranged from girls education, to multi-grade teaching and prevocational education
in lower secondary schools. The focus on poverty, combined with success in securing adequate counterpart
funding for student assistance funds, allowed for increases in the numbers of poor children to enroll and
stay in school. The increases, in some cases, were in the range of 20 percent to 30 percent of the original
enrollments. The project helped minority education in seven provinces by the development and distribution
of minority language textbooks and teaching materials. It also provided training for minority teachers and
principals as well as environmentally and culturally appropriate classrooms and teaching spaces.




                                                       - 4 -

Throughout the project, the provinces stressed investment inputs. That emphasis was consistent with the
project design and the Chinese policy for expanding educational opportunities in poor rural areas. This
project was the second to include the learning achievement indicators; these indicators were based on pass
rates of children in grade six and grade nine with disaggregated data for girls. Over the life of the project,
these indicators have shown steady improvement. Mathematics pass rates have reportedly increased from
approximately 82 percent to 93 percent for primary schools and 75 to 89 percent for lower secondary
schools. Chinese pass rates have reportedly gone up from approximately 78 to 88 percent for primary
schools and 68 to 80 percent for lower secondary schools. Samples gathered during the project
implementation report mission indicated that these increases may be attributed to better facilities, namely
books and teaching equipment, and improvements in the percentage of teachers who are qualified (over the
life of the project, the latter went up from 78 percent to 94 percent for primary school and 65 to 88 percent
for lower secondary school).

4.2 Outputs by components:
Access to Nine Year Compulsory Education Component -- (National Program - US$ 93.23 million
SAR, US$124.63 million Actual) (QVPEP - US$ 21.03 million SAR, US$29.42 million Actual). The
overall rating for this component is satisfactory for both the NP and QVPEP. This component supported:
(a) civil works; (b) instructional equipment and furniture; (c) student assistance and (d) the pilot textbook
rental scheme.

Civil Works. The upgrading of facilities was highly successful. The project supported new construction
and replacement of 3,468 schools and the repair of 669 schools at the primary and lower secondary levels.
All project provinces met or slightly exceeded their original targets for new construction, rehabilitation and
elimination of dangerous buildings. Site visits by Bank supervision missions and civil works specialists
from the Chinese Experts Panel showed that, on average, the overall quality of construction was good to
very good. Few funds were spent decorations. Attention was paid to creating indigenous designs which
addressed local climatic, physical and cultural conditions. The new buildings have provided adequate, safe
and hospitable space for village children to attend school. Moreover, the parents, teachers and principals
interviewed indicated that the new buildings have encouraged children to attend and stay in school.
Maintenance plans for a five year period after the project ends are in place for all project provinces; the
documentation appears in each province's project completion report. These plans include an annual
allocation for the maintenance the newly constructed schools. In addition, the central government has
recently initiated the National School Construction Fund; some of these resources will be for building
maintenance. As a result, the investments made by this project will be sustained.

Instructional equipment and furniture. This subcomponent is rated satisfactory. For 10 years prior to
the BEIV project, schools in the project areas had received no funds for teaching equipment. This project
corrected that by providing approximately 13,000 primary and lower secondary schools with equipment
that met MOE's standards. These schools represent 111.34 percent of the Staff Appraisal Report (SAR)
target. Although these schools have achieved great progress in meeting these standards, the usage rate for
equipment needs to increase. Science teachers have been trained, but principals and teachers are reluctant
to use the equipment for fear it will be broken or destroyed. This attitude is likely to prevail because there
are few funds in the budget for county and school officials to replace lost or damaged equipment.
Meanwhile, the counties and provinces have developed five-year plans to ensure the sustainability of this
effort. At the same time, the county education bureaus need to alert teachers and principals that these
resources will be available to replace damaged materials.

Student Assistance. This subcomponent is rated satisfactory. To reduce the private cost of education on
poor families, a pilot student assistance program was in place for all project counties. This program was



                                                      - 5 -

similar to one established for a previous Bank-supported Third Basic Education Project. County and
provincial funds for this subcomponent went into provincial trust funds. The interest from the trust funds
was reportedly used to provide assistance to approximately 287,000 pupils over the five- year project
implementation period. By the end the of the project, the MOE reported that 317,127 primary and lower
secondary students from poor backgrounds in all nine project provinces had received some form of
financial support; these numbers exceeded the target by 10.5 percent. These figures included student
assistance in counties covered by both the National and Qinba programs. However, by design, data were
only collected on pupils who received aid from the Qinba program; that program was singled out because it
had the worst poverty and the families had the greatest need. Students did not receive cash payments.
Rather, aid went toward reducing the cost of textbooks, and miscellaneous school fees.

However, the trust funds were small; furthermore, over the life of the project, interest rates decreased
substantially. That meant fewer students received assistance from interest income than originally
anticipated. Fortunately, counties and provinces used other funding sources, primarily recurrent budgets,
to make up for the revenue shortfall. In that way, the numerical targets were met and the students received
the assistance they needed. Despite the decrease in interest payments, the overall number of students
assisted by the provinces through some form of student assistance actually went up over the life of the
project. In the Qinba program, the data provided during project supervision indicated that 64,500 pupils
received some form of student assistance; this number exceeded the SAR target of 57,000 pupils by 13.2
percent. As reported, the higher figure was because the provinces provided more direct government
support. The successful rating of this sub-component is not entirely based on how well the trust funds
operated. Rather the provinces recognized that education fees represent a financial burden to poor
families; and that the provinces increasingly recognized that the provision of direct assistance is necessary
to keep children in school. Thus, this project helped establish and institutionalize a system of student
assistance, financed in large part by provincial and county recurrent budgets and social donations. These
funds will continue to allow more children from poor households to enroll in and complete primary and
lower secondary education programs.

Since the project began, the GOC has designed its second NYCE program; it is an intergovernmental grant
program. Unlike the first NYCE program, the second has allocated a percentage of its resources to student
assistance. There is a growing recognition in China that student fees are a key factor in low enrollment and
high dropout rates. Governments at all levels have made a commitment to reduce the household burden of
education in the rural areas through student assistance programs and to limiting fees to poor children.

Pilot Textbook Rental Scheme. This NP subcomponent is rated marginally satisfactory. Shanxi Province
implemented a pilot to see if the rental scheme could reduce the cost of education among poor families.
However, at mid-term and completion, Shanxi Province found that the book rental scheme did not work as
originally planned. Young students were not able to take care of the textbooks well enough to reuse them.
One reason is that the paper was of poor quality; with constant use, the books get damaged after a year.
(The practice of using cheap paper for textbooks in the poor rural areas of China follows Bank
recommendations of 15 years ago. At that time, the goal was to decrease the cost of textbooks in poor
rural areas and increase distribution. At the time of production, the life of a textbook is estimated at one
semester. Textbooks are not distributed free to pupils; their families pay for them. The MOE and the
Bank preparation teams were aware of this situation at the start of the pilot.) In addition, the used
workbooks, which accompanied the textbooks, contained answers filled in by the original owners. That
practice was unacceptable to teachers and students. The lessons gained from the pilot, although negative,
were useful to the province and to the project as a whole. The MOE and Shanxi Province decided not to
expand this pilot with government resources.




                                                     - 6 -

Education Quality Enhancement Component (NP - US$ 13.39 million SAR, US$17.32 million Actual)
(QVPEP - US$ 1.35 million SAR, US$1.89 million Actual). The overall rating for this component is
satisfactory. This component supported the following: (a) books and supplementary materials; (b)
upgrading of staff; (c) teacher services network pilot; (d) normal schools and (d) dissemination activities.

Books and Supplementary Materials. The project supported the purchase and distribution of library
books and supplementary materials to project schools. This subcomponent is rated satisfactory. More
than 14 million books and other materials went to primary and lower secondary schools. This total
reportedly represents approximately 125 percent of the targets set at the start of the project; expediters in
this subcomponent reached approximately 150 percent of targets. Staff training of librarians in the
primary and lower secondary schools occurred at the provincial and county levels; the number of staff
trained exceeded expectations.

Staff Upgrading. This subcomponent is rated satisfactory. However, there were weaknesses in the design
and delivery of these services. Teacher and education administrator training goals were exceeded by 140.4
and 139.2 percent, respectively. Project indicators show that all the participating provinces experienced
increases ­ 127.1 percent on average above SAR targets - in the qualification rate of teachers. As a result,
there was a reduction in the number of minban teachers. (Minban teachers are hired and paid by the local
communities, usually the village education committees. Generally, they do not have the same amount of
formal education and training that government teachers do. The Ministry of Education worked closely with
provincial education bureaus to upgrade the quality of the minban teachers with special training. The
MOE has all but eliminated this type of teacher in the provinces supported by this project.)

Whereas numerical targets were met or exceeded, training methods and pedagogy was routine. The
provinces established training programs that mirror the national standards. These programs show little
innovation or the latest theories. School principals have little contact with the normal schools and colleges
that provide the training. Normal schools and 2-3 year teachers' colleges are responsible for teacher
training services. In general, these services are run by prefecture education bureaus and four-year
colleges. At the county or village level, there is no link between the supply and demand for services; in
addition, training is often poorly designed. However, despite these weaknesses, learning, as measured by
test score pass rates for grades six and nine, improved over the course of the project. Therefore, the
teacher training supported by the project fulfilled its purpose. A new national curriculum - with new
training materials and delivery mechanisms ­ is underway. International organizations have assisted in the
development of training materials for teachers in rural areas to give them the skills they need to address the
local environment. As provinces and counties use these new materials, they should have a positive impact
at the local level.

Targets for training principals were also met or exceeded. Training conducted at the national level
reportedly had a substantial impact on broadening the thinking and experience of rural school principals.
Anecdotal evidence and Bank supervision missions indicate that school management improved as a result of
training.

Teacher Services Network Pilot (TSN). This NP subcomponent is satisfactory. The objective of the
TSN was to develop professional consultative services and an environment to support schools at the village
level. The goal was to respond quickly to the problems of rural teachers and give them a variety of
pedagogical techniques they could use in the classroom. All NP project provinces found the TSN was
effective in raising the quality of teachers. However, the degree of effectiveness varied with the activity.



                                                      - 7 -

The most useful was the teaching and research category; it included seminars and sharing sessions. In
addition, group activities tended to be more effective than those the individual did on his or her own.
Telephone inquires also worked when straightforward answers were appropriate. On the whole, TSN
activities addressed both the collective and individual needs of rural teachers. The TSN provided critical
information on new developments in education and offered professional development to rural teachers on a
flexible, ongoing basis. In addition, the interaction between key teachers (trainers) and their clientele
motivated both groups to support each other. One weakness in the TSN network was a link was missing
between the provincial normal schools and the teacher networks at the county level. Attempts to overcome
this weakness met with limited success.

All provinces agreed on the value of TSN. Some provinces plan to extend TSN to other project counties in
their provinces. However, most provinces identified lack of funding as an obstacle to sustainability. As the
provinces expand, educational officers and practitioners should change their mindset from an over reliance
on physical inputs to a greater appreciation of the human and cultural factors that go into improving
schools.

Normal Schools. This NP subcomponent is rated satisfactory. The project supported 45 normal schools
in six provinces. They completed and slightly exceeded the target for training project managers, school
principals and teachers. Equipment acquired through the project has contributed to improved classroom
learning and to a sharing of teaching practices and innovations in the normal schools. However, the normal
school teachers are more willing to innovate than their students who teach in the poor rural areas of China.
For instance, students from remote areas, who are used to traditional teaching, had difficulty adjusting to
student-centered group discussions and other types of discovery. However, as evidenced by the rising pass
rates scores for grades six and nine, innovations in the normal schools, appear to have had a positive
impact on students' learning. New materials and approaches are being introduced to the teacher training
curricula; they focus on teaching methods that are suitable for poor rural areas. For instance, the Ministry
of Education is emphasizing agricultural production methods and distance education; the latter draws on
low-cost information technology.

Dissemination Program. This NP subcomponent is satisfactory. The goal of the dissemination program
was to share knowledge and experience gained from successful pilot programs and research. All provinces
participated. The topics revolved around education in lower secondary schools; they included disabled
children, bilingual, girls, multi-grades and prevocational training.

Education Management Improvement Component (NP - US$ 1.10 million SAR, US$ 1.37 million
actual) - (QVPEP - US$ 0.17 million SAR, US$ 0.19 million Actual). The overall rating of this
component is highly satisfactory. This component was to develop management capabilities for the
education system at the central, provincial and institutional levels through staff training and the
development of Education Management Information Systems (EMIS). Project training gave the local staff
skills to implement the project and a management system to deliver education services at the local level.
During the final ICR mission, the Government of China (GOC) and the provinces considered this one of the
major contributions of this project. Because of the improved capacity of the project staff, the nine
provinces are using implementation staff and their offices to carry out the Chinese government's own Nine
Year Compulsory Education Program ­ Phase Two (NYCE-II). The same staff are also working on other
provincial and county level poverty-alleviation focused activities; some of these deal with education and
others do not. Use of Bank and MOE-trained provincial staff in activities outside the education sector
should be viewed as a major contribution to institutional capacity building at the provincial level. In
addition, due to the training they received during the BEIV Project, several provinces have adopted World




                                                      - 8 -

Bank procurement and disbursement procedures.

Education Management Information Systems (EMIS) were organized in each province, region and
municipality. Equipment was bought and installed and training completed. From the improved statistical
reporting provided to the Bank, it is evident that the equipment, software and training had a strong impact
on project implementation in the provinces. However, analysis and use of data for policy purposes at the
local level could be stronger. Additional work needs to be done. The comprehensive use of statistics for
education purposes depends on administrators' need for it. Without the appropriate incentives and the
demand for proper reporting, little change is expected. For example, county magistrates and party
secretaries receive performance evaluations that are based on a number of factors, including enrollment
figures for pupils in local primary and lower secondary schools. Under the circumstances, there is a
potential to exaggerate enrollments. However, if pupil learning scores were used for evaluation purpose,
the EMIS reporting system could be tailored to outcomes rather than outputs.

Chinese Experts Panel. This subcomponent is rated satisfactory. The Chinese Experts Panel consisted of
five educators who provided ongoing guidance and advice to the MOE and the provinces on project
implementation and relevant policy matters. The CEP played an important role in project implementation
by participating in semi-annual site visits. They also offered advice on teacher education policies and
helped provinces redirect their resources if the local situation warranted. Specifically, the CEP played an
important role in clarifying the role and function of the Teachers Services Network. Initially, the provinces
misunderstood its purpose and how to use it. The CEP was also instrumental in preparing the final
implementation completion report (ICR).

4.3 Net Present Value/Economic rate of return:
Although the project did not commission studies on the economic rate of return for investments financed by
project credits, researchers at the Institute of Economics in Education at Peking University did so. The
Institute estimated the economic rates of return for schooling in rural China during project implementation.
The data set for this study contains income and expenses for more than 6000 rural residents in 1996, the
second implementation year of the Fourth Basic Education Project. Their major conclusions were:
l The marginal impact of education on income is positive and significant. An additional year of school
    can result in about 180 RMB more in annual income;
l The Mincer rate of return is 5.13 percent. Estimates of this variable by other researchers produced
    values of 2 percent in 1988 on a data set of rural resident in 28 provinces and 4.8 percent in 1991 on a
    data set of central and southwest rural areas;
l The internal returns to education at various levels are estimated as follows: 26.49 percent for primary
    schools, 1.33 percent for junior secondary schools; 0.38 percent for senior secondary schools
    (including vocational schools); 1.02 for senior regular secondary schools; and 2.04 percent for
    vocational schools.

4.4 Financial rate of return:
Not Applicable

4.5 Institutional development impact:
The impact was substantial. The MOE used the BEIV project as a reference for the development and
implementation of the Nine-Year Compulsory Education Program (NYCE ­ 1995-2000). It was supported
by the intergovernmental transfer system. NYCE-II continued the work of its predecessor but changed the
distribution percentages for project components. NYCE-II has allocated a much higher percentage for
student assistance, based on the results of a household survey conducted in BEIII and BEIV. There was
also a recognition that the BEIV student assistance activities helped the provinces focus their attention on



                                                      - 9 -

social equity. This project institutionalized an education management system in the project provinces that
will continue to respond to the delivery of education as well as other social services. In addition, 98.3
percent of the project-supported counties have built their primary education systems to meet, and in some
cases exceed, the MOE's minimum service standards for primary education. In many cases, when
compared to pre-project planning and deadlines, counties were able to accelerate by as much as two years
their achievement of the government's goal of universal primary education. Approximately 74 percent of
the counties achieved the government's goal of Nine Year Compulsory Education. The institutional
development impact of the project was substantial. As indicative of the government's overall commitment
to rural Nine Year Compulsory Education, that development is expected to continue.

5. Major Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcome

5.1 Factors outside the control of government or implementing agency:
Currency fluctuations in the Special Drawing Right (SDR) reduced overall funding available from the
Credit. Although this fluctuation did not have a negative impact on project implementation, additional
counterpart funding was necessary. This situation placed an added burden on poor counties. As a result,
these counties had to cover the losses to attain the project's numerical and quality targets. All counterpart
funding targets were met or exceeded. However, this placed a disproportionately heavy burden on county
finances compared to provincial or national finances.

5.2 Factors generally subject to government control:
Project implementation went well with few problems. Project management at all levels was strong and
efficient. At mid-term, disbursements had reached approximately 80 percent of the IDA funds; project
indicators for other deliverables were substantially ahead of schedule. However, the process by which the
Ministry of Finance responded to reimbursement requests from counties could have been improved and the
delivery of this service accelerated. During the life of the project, it was reported that some counties
borrowed from commercial banks to cover expenses due to reimbursement delays. Poor counties have few
resources. Borrowing at short-term commercial rates offsets any potential benefit from an IDA credit.
During implementation, the National Audit Bureau and the individual provincial audit departments gave the
MOE's national implementing unit and the Bank supervision teams additional tools to monitor the financial
flows of the project. These tools reduced the misuse of project funds and periodic shortfalls in counterpart
funding. Strengthening the national and provincial audit system was an important element of the
government's ongoing efforts to improve the quality of the implementation at the provincial and county
levels.

5.3 Factors generally subject to implementing agency control:
Because of MOE/FILO's strong commitment, efficient leadership, and effective problem solving at the
start of the project, SAR targets for human resource development, performance monitoring and project
coordination were continually exceeded during implementation. FILO has a history of effective project
implementation. It worked with provinces and counties to establish strong project management units.
Furthermore, the CEP consistently added value to supervision in such areas as teacher training activities;
the CEP also offered advice on the reallocation of project resources.

5.4 Costs and financing:
By the completion of the project, the project disbursed all of the original 61.5 million SDRs. The
fluctuations of the US Dollar exchange rate with the SDR during the project meant that the total amount of
US Dollars disbursed from the credit was US$82.68 million instead of US$85 million estimated at
appraisal.

The current project cost of US$174.81 million is somewhat higher than the SAR estimate of US$165.20



                                                     - 10 -

million. All the project provinces increased their counterpart contributions to complete the project as
originally designed. These increases were necessary to make up for fluctuations in the SDR:US$ exchange
rate. Counterpart funding for project investments came from the province, prefecture and county; the
amount of funding was based on the financial analysis conducted during project preparation. The BEIV
project did not place an unreasonable counterpart burden on local governments. Nevertheless, the
combination of the government's own NYCE-1 program and the Bank-supported project placed a
considerable burden on these poor counties. These funds were part of the local education surcharge
system. The MOE was aware of the situation. Therefore, the NYCE-II program reduced the counterpart
portion necessary to participate in the project. Likewise, in the preparation of the Fifth Basic Education
Project (Basic Education in Western Areas), the government requested and the Bank agreed to decrease the
counterpart funding ratio of loan: counterpart funding to reduce the burden on county finances.

6. Sustainability

6.1 Rationale for sustainability rating:
From its inception, the provinces have recognized the need for continued support of project schools by
providing a yearly maintenance plan for civil works, equipment and teachers training. Moreover, each
province supplied a future sustainability plan as an annex to the borrower portion of the ICR. The project
has demonstrated the usefulness of the Bank's project development and implementation approach to
support the government's own nine-year compulsory education program. This approach includes setting
and monitoring realistic input, output and outcome targets; budgeting based on proposals that have been
reviewed and agreed upon, least cost procurement based on specifications that have been reviewed and
approved. It also comprises supervision of project activities, such as technical and financial oversight,
independent audits, and managerial capacity building. The last consists of procurement, financial
management and technical skills, and rigorous assessments at the end of a project. With participation of
these provinces in the MOE National Nine-Year Compulsory Education Project - Phase Two (2001-2006)
and the National School Rehabilitation program, there is an expectation that they will continue to support
the project schools in the future. Due to China's low population growth rate, enrollment in the primary and
to a slightly lesser extent lower secondary schools is not expected to increase. Therefore, more attention
may be paid to maintenance of the system instead of its expansion.

Throughout the project implementation, the provinces and counties proved their commitment to it with their
financial and management support of all activities. However, recent changes in the county level revenue
system may have negative consequences on education financing at the local level. These changes
eliminated fees and education surcharges in favor of a comprehensive county-wide tax system. The State
Council, MOF and MOE are monitoring the situation so that appropriate adjustments in intergovernmental
transfers occur to offset some of the negative impact of the new tax system.

6.2 Transition arrangement to regular operations:
All project activities were integrated into the regular operations of the provinces and counties. This project
fit the MOE's overall plans to achieve NYCE. Therefore, there is no need for special transition
arrangements. The Government of China's goals for achieving NYCE are well articulated. Resources, both
human and financial, have been allocated within the GOC to continue and expand their efforts. The GOC
has launched a 10-year program for the development of the "Western Areas." These provinces and their
educational needs fit squarely within the Western Areas Development Program.

7. Bank and Borrower Performance

Bank
7.1 Lending:



                                                     - 11 -

Bank lending in this sector, as well as AAA work, has covered all education sub-sectors and provided the
foundation for ongoing policy dialogue and guidance for the whole sector. The Bank's focus on basic
education, which has been programmatic in its coverage but focused in its delivery, has supported
incremental steps forward in reforming and improving education financing, poverty targeting, and the
design of poverty-focused projects. Working with the borrower has kept the Bank engaged in this
sub-sector, especially when the borrower has said that project financing at the provincial level is less
important than access to new ideas and relevant international experience. Bank lending has also provided
additional incremental funding for the challenges of increasing educational access for poor and minority
children in the poorest parts of China, particularly when the cost of that access is high and the availability
of local funds is problematic.

7.2 Supervision:
Bank supervision has been robust, focused and diligent when it comes to identifying and resolving
educational as well as financial management and procurement problems. Cluster supervision of those
implementing basic education projects and heavy use of WBOB staff brought efficiencies and synergies to
the process. The mission's heavy reliance on county and provincial audit materials and reports
strengthened the local government's responsibility for managing and implementing these projects.

7.3 Overall Bank performance:
The Bank's overall performance was satisfactory. In preparation activities, comprehensive Bank
teams were fielded with many of the same members maintained throughout project
implementation on supervision missions. Supervision missions included the required expertise;
local staff monitored project activities when necessary.

Borrower
7.4 Preparation:
The MOE's Department of Finance coordinated with the Provincial, Municipal and County Education
Bureaus to develop proposals and collect the necessary data for project preparation. They also fielded a
comprehensive team of Chinese experts. The experts included educators and those familiar with prior Bank
project implementation. As members of the Chinese Experts Panel, these individuals provided advice to
MOE during implementation. The Government of China's goals for this project, articulated from the start,
were consistently supported by the Ministry of Education, the Ministry of Finance, the State Planning (and
Development) Commission (now the National Development and Reform Commission - NDRC) and all the
provincial and county units.

7.5 Government implementation performance:
The overall government implementation performance was highly satisfactory. At the national and
provincial levels, the Government of China has more than 20 years of experience with implementation of
Bank-supported education projects. The MOF and MOE understand the intricacies of Bank-supported
projects; that understanding and experience helped facilitate implementation. The borrower also supplied
the necessary counterpart funds, often in excess of SAR targets, to complete all project-supported
activities. Of special note is the proactive way in which the MOE, working in consort with the MOF and
the State Audit Bureau, identified and took corrective action when it became evident that there was a case
of misuse of project funds.

Nevertheless, the flow of reimbursements through the finance bureaus at the provincial and county levels
could have been quicker. If it had been, that would have eliminated the need for poor counties to borrow at
commercial rates to pay for outstanding contractual commitments. Reimbursements to the provinces, and
especially the poor counties, were hindered by the lack of a common accounting system among the



                                                     - 12 -

provinces, their finance and education bureaus and the Ministries of Education and Finance. This lack was
highlighted in virtually every supervision reports. Efforts were made by the responsible units to correct the
problem. However, even at the end of the project, proper accounting for all the reimbursements was
problematic. Its resolution was one reason for extending the project for a short time.

During project implementation, it is noteworthy that the MOE worked with the Ministry of Finance to
develop an intergovernmental transfer system; this system provided central education budget funds directly
to targeted poor counties. In doing so, the MOE and Ministry of Finance (MOF) used the World Bank's
project design, development and implementation as a model and applied it to their own poverty-focused
education fund. They required counties and provinces to prepare project proposals; these proposal included
education and financing targets, monitorable indicators and an annual review of action plans and budgets.
This design is consistent with project development models from the World Bank. Not only is the model still
in place, but also in 2001 it was expanded to an additional central intergovernmental transfer program.

7.6 Implementing Agency:
The overall performance of the implementing agency was highly successful. The implementing agency at
the center ­ the MOE's FILO and their partners at the provincial level ­ the Provincial World Bank Project
Implementation Units ­ offered direction and support during implementation that was consistently good.
With help from the World Bank Office Beijing (WBOB) staff, FILO organized and ran many
provincial-level training programs on procurement and financial management. FILO worked closely with
the WBOB and the Task Team Leader (TTL) to develop and implement a prior review system of
procurement; it was highly successful. Likewise, with assistance from the WBOB staff and the TTL and
the State Audit Bureau, FILO monitored the flows of project financing; furthermore, it ensured that the few
cases of misuse of project funds were dealt with quickly and successfully. In addition, FILO's monitoring
of the counterpart provision was persistent, ongoing, and had good results. Toward the end of the project,
the personal involvement of the FILO Deputy Director was a welcome addition to supervision of the
project. The Deputy Director made sure that the provinces paid attention to the need for and rigors of
implementation through the final days of the project. All in all, the services of the implementing agency
were excellent.

7.7 Overall Borrower performance:
The borrower's overall performance was satisfactory. In line with a good record in designing, preparing
and implementing the IDA assisted education project, the MOE demonstrated satisfactory performance in
preparing and implementing this project.

8. Lessons Learned


l Poverty-focused social service delivery projects should be targeted to townships and villages instead of
    counties. However, because townships lack the administrative capacity to manage these kinds of
    projects, the counties should have primary administrative responsibility for them.

l Especially at the village primary school level, the design, financing, implementation and supervision of
    rural poverty-focused basic education projects, is best handled by designated education line ministries
    and their provincial and county sub units. In comparison, national, multi-sectoral poverty alleviation
    government bodies have substantially less capacity to raise and allocate local counterpart funding for
    education projects or supervise their implementation.

l Policy changes and institutionalization, such as student assistance programs, may be realized when the




                                                    - 13 -

  appropriate survey work is conducted first. There is commitment to change when pilot programs are
  developed and tested based on surveys.

l Caution is advised when provinces and counties have to repay IDA or IBRD credits or loans from their
  education budgets. In designing poverty-focused projects, it's advisable to consider counterpart
  obligations as well as future repayment responsibilities when calculating project sustainability.

l Project management training can contribute to the institutionalization of a management system when
  such training occurs throughout the life of a project. This project provided such training. It gave local
  staff the skills necessary to implement the project, the government's own NYCE-II program and
  county-level poverty alleviation-focused activities. These activities were within and outside the
  education sector.

l Student assistance programs in rural China cannot be funded solely from interest income on modest
  trust funds. They must depend on access to recurrent educational budgets. However, the greater
  challenge is to convince provincial and county officials that enrollment of children from extremely poor
  families depends on new ways to minimize the financial burden education places on the household. In
  most cases, absent a policy of eliminating all school fees, that means a student assistance program.

l The key issue in developing education projects at the provincial, county and township levels is to
  convince the Chinese preparation teams of the importance of focusing on development outcomes
  instead of investment inputs. With this project, that meant emphasizing learning achievements that
  were measurable. For example, it meant pass rates for grades six and nine rather than rates of
  enrollment. It meant increasing the number of poor children in school by establishing student
  assistance programs; increasing the number of teachers trained in dynamic and innovative ways of
  presenting appropriate material in rural classrooms instead of static in-service training programs; etc.
  Capacity at the county and provincial levels has to be built to analyze which inputs are most effective
  in producing desired outcomes. Future projects in compulsory education should continue the work of
  their predecessors in developing good outcome indicators. Furthermore, educators need to learn how to
  use these indicators, how to measure them and how to use the information in making policy at the
  province and county levels.

l Forming panels of experts with a broad range of skills at the start of the targeting exercise is critical to
  achieving a balance that addresses a project's educational, financial and staffing needs. These panels
  are useful in reviewing provincial proposals, supervising implementation, assessing progress at mid
  term and in preparing final completion reports. Responsible to the provincial and/or national education
  authorities, they may carry out studies which can change the direction of projects under
  implementation. They may also give technical advice to educators at the county and school levels.

l Teacher and staff training could have been stronger. These programs generally operate according to a
  provincial formula which imitates the national standards. School principals have little contact with the
  normal schools and colleges which provide the training. Normal schools have few horizontal links with
  the counties and villages where the services come from. To remedy that situation, normal schools
  should systematically survey the needs of rural schools in poor areas before developing their teaching
  practices. This work should systematically engage primary and lower school principals as well as
  county level education officials. In the current administrative structure, normal schools report to
  provincial authorities. Often that means links to the countryside and an understanding of the rural poor
  are weak or nonexistent.




                                                  - 14 -

9. Partner Comments

(a) Borrower/implementing agency:
All project components were accomplished and satisfactory. The implementation of the project has greatly
improved the school conditions and teaching quality in poor and minority areas, and has played an
important role in the acceleration of the universalization of nine-year elementary compulsory education in
poor areas. The project was carried on smoothly during the implementation period and the implementation
quality was generally good. All project output targets were met and some were even exceeded.

The Foreign Investment and Loan Office strengthened the national level management training early in the
project; FILO not only invited the staff from the Basic Education projects, such as Education Development
in Poor Provinces Project (EDPP), to introduce their experiences and lessons on project implementation.
They also invited the experts from the Ministry of Education to give lectures on the theories and practices
of education management and reform. In addition FILO also organized the study tours and offered
guidance to the project provincial dissemination programs and project procurement of civil works and
goods. FILO fulfilled its task in project supervision, offering constructive suggestions and
recommendations to project units. Its coordination with departments was good. On the whole, the Ministry
of Education has fulfilled its duties in project implementation and management.

All World Bank (WB) officials and consultants sent to China possessed high professional and management
ability. They worked harmoniously with the Chinese Counterparts. FILO/MOE cooperated with the Bank
in implementation. From the beginning of the project, the task manager of the World Bank and Bank
consultants paid attention to the quality of the project. They provided many valuable suggestions and
recommendations during the site visits to the project provinces and helped provinces solve problems which
appeared in the implementation period. This guaranteed the smooth implementation of the project.

(b) Cofinanciers:
Not Applicable

(c) Other partners (NGOs/private sector):
Not Applicable

10. Additional Information




                                                      - 15 -

Annex 1. Key Performance Indicators/Log Frame Matrix

Project Performance Indicators ­ Guizhou Province
                                          Indicators              Baseline  Completion   Target
                                                                    1995       2002
Primary Schools
A. Increase Access/Equity Student Enrollment
                          Total Enrollment (`000)               1031.2     1061.4      1041.0
                          Enrollment %                          94.2       98.29       97.27
                          Girls as % of total                   90.2       97.64       94.87
                          Minorities as % of total              90.2       98.02       95.25
                          Student Assistance
                          Total number of students              200        15131       2260
                          Total number of girls                 120        8072        1582

B. Enhance Quality        Teachers
                          Total number of teachers (`000)       46.5       44.5        44.4
                          Qualified teachers as % of total      71.7       91.0        88.6
                          Bilingual Teachers
                          Total number of bilingual teachers    550        856         500
                          Qualified teachers as % of total      74.4       93.7        89.5

C. Increase Efficiency    Overall rate of completion            64.0       89.5        78.7
                          Dropout rate:
                          Overall dropout rate                  5.85       0.78        3.16
                          Dropout rate among girls              6.60       1.64        3.49
                          Achievement in Student Learning
                          Pass Rate in Chinese of graduates     90.60      96.33       96.3
                          Pass Rate in Chinese for girls        89.75      95.45       95.3
                          Pass Rate in Math of graduates        90.40      95.20       95.15
                          Pass Rate in Math for girls           89.50      95.39       95.3

Junior Secondary Schools
A. Increase Access/Equity Student Enrollment
                          Total Enrollment (`000)               206.6      325.1       251.7
                          Enrollment %                          62.5       84.3        71.5
                          Girls as % of total                   57.0       77.23       69.3
                          Minorities as % of total              61.8       79.11       69.0
                          Student Assistance
                          Total number of students              330        14829       2730
                          Total number of girls                 200        6947        1900

B. Enhance Quality        Teachers
                          Total number of teachers              12600      17850       14010
                          Qualified teachers as % of total      65.9       87.28       79.0
                          Bilingual Teachers
                          Total number of bilingual teachers    0.00       0.00        0.00
                          Qualified teachers as % of total      0.00       0.00        0.00

C. Increase Efficiency    Overall rate of completion            36.4       66.42       51.5
                          Transition Rate
                          Overall Transition rate               26.87      68.38       40.0
                          Girls Transition rate                 27.1       56.16       39.5
                          Minorities Transition rate            29.91      56.61       39.5




                                                         - 16 -

                  Dropout rate:
                  Overall dropout rate                   8.8      2.49     3.6
                  Dropout girls                          9.5      3.23     4.0
                  Student Learning Achievement
                  Pass Rate in Chinese of graduates      87.95    91.52    91.4
                  Pass Rate in Chinese for girls         86.55    90.37    89.35
                  Pass Rate in Math of graduates         82.75    87.09    86.95
                  Pass Rate in Math for girls            81.5     86.13    85.9
                  Pass Rate in Physics of graduates      86.65    89.91    89.55
                  Pass Rate in Physics for girls         85.45    88.89    88.15
Normal Schools    Trainers
                  Total number of trainers               1128     1384     1300
                  Qualified trainers as % of total       68.0     90.3     85.0
                  Number of hours per week labs are       12.56   17.95    17.89
                  open




                                                  - 17 -

Project Performance Indicators ­ Hainan Province
                                          Indicators              Baseline  Completion   Target
                                                                    1995       2002
Primary Schools
A. Increase Access/Equity Student Enrollment
                          Total Enrollment                      250.0      266.5       265.1
                          Enrollment %                          98.41      99.63       99.46
                          Girls as % of total                   97.70      99.3        99.2
                          Minorities as % of total              97.78      99.45       98.98
                          Student Assistance
                          Total number of students              948        2685        2600
                          Girls as % of total                   350        960         952

B. Enhance Quality        Teachers
                          Total number of teachers              10260      10923       10110
                          Qualified teachers as % of total      75.8       95.2        94.63
                          Bilingual Teachers
                          Total number of bilingual teachers    0.00       0.00        0.00
                          Qualified teachers as % of total      0.00       0.00        0.00

C. Increase Efficiency    Overall rate of completion            84.98      95.7        92.88
                          Dropout rate:
                          Overall dropout rate                  3.10       0.95        0.98
                          Dropout girls                         3.56       0.87        1.26
                          Student Learning Achievement
                          Pass Rate in Chinese of graduates     90.0       95.2        95.0
                          Pass Rate in Chinese for girls        89.0       93.5        93.0
                          Pass Rate in Math of graduates        89.0       94.4        94.0
                          Pass Rate in Math for girls           88.0       92.7        92.0

Junior Secondary Schools
A. Increase Access/Equity Student Enrollment
                          Total Enrollment                      61720      85739       81340
                          Enrollment %                          75.0       96.3        95.7
                          Girls as % of total                   72.8       95.1        94.9
                          Minorities as % of total              73.2       95.7        95.6
                          Student Assistance
                          Total number of students              911        1120        1050
                          Girls as % of total                   350        450         420

B. Enhance Quality        Teachers
                          Total number of teachers              3660       5120        5040
                          Qualified teachers as % of total      67.7       89.2        86.9
                          Bilingual Teachers
                          Total number of bilingual teachers    0.00       0.00        0.00
                          Qualified teachers as % of total      0.00       0.00        0.00

C. Increase Efficiency    Overall rate of completion            70.32      90.0        82.4
                          Transition Rate
                          Overall Transition rate               35.0       65.2        50.0
                          Girls Transition rate                 33.0       60.4        49.0
                          Minorities Transition rate            32.0       61.2        48.0
                          Dropout rate:




                                                         - 18 -

                  Overall dropout rate                   6.5      1.93    2.10
                  Dropout girls                          7.4      2.08    2.40
                  Student Learning Achievement
                  Pass Rate in Chinese of graduates      52.0     92.1    91.3
                  Pass Rate in Chinese for girls         51.3     91.2    90.0
                  Pass Rate in Math of graduates         58.8     95.4    95.0
                  Pass Rate in Math for girls            53.8     94.2    93.8
                  Pass Rate in Physics of graduates      56.3     92.8    92.5
                  Pass Rate in Physics for girls         55.0     92.2    91.3
Normal Schools    Trainers
                  Total number of trainers               230      270     268
                  Qualified trainers as % of total       73.28    97.0    93.43
                  Laboratory opening hours per week       17.75   22.0    18.5




                                                  - 19 -

Project Performance Indicators ­ Heilongjiang Province
                                          Indicators              Baseline  Completion   Target
                                                                    1995       2002
Primary Schools
A. Increase Access/Equity Student Enrollment
                          Total Enrollment                      378180     370509
                          Enrollment %                          95.32      98.39       98.4
                          Girls as % of total                   95.32      98.42       98.4
                          Minorities as % of total              95.32      98.34       98.3
                          Student Assistance
                          Total number of students              1340       2230        2160
                          Total number of girls                 771        1165

B. Enhance Quality        Teachers
                          Total number of teachers              20185      20452
                          Qualified teachers as % of total      78.55      95.65       95.6
                          Bilingual Teachers
                          Total number of bilingual teachers    1314       1252
                          Qualified teachers as % of total      73.13      95.31       95.3

C. Increase Efficiency    Overall rate of completion            95.12      96.44       96.4
                          Dropout rate:
                          Overall dropout rate                  2.64       1.52        1.53
                          Dropout rate among girls              2.59       1.48        1.49
                          Student Learning Achievement
                          Pass Rate in Chinese of graduates     89.0       97.11       97.0
                          Pass Rate in Chinese for girls        88.50      96.55       96.3
                          Pass Rate in Math of graduates        89.0       97.13       97.0
                          Pass Rate in Math for girls           89.5       97.12       96.5

Junior Secondary Schools
A. Increase Access/Equity Student Enrollment
                          Total Enrollment                      137580     169462
                          Enrollment %                          89.10      95.31
                          Girls as % of total                   88.9       95.36
                          Minorities as % of total              89.0       95.37
                          Student Assistance
                          Total number of students              970        1712        1750
                          Total number of girls                 490        958

B. Enhance Quality        Teachers
                          Total number of teachers              9099       9291
                          Qualified teachers as % of total      63.5       81.55       81.4
                          Bilingual Teachers
                          Total number of bilingual teachers    420        168
                          Qualified teachers as % of total      95.8       88.56       88.5

C. Increase Efficiency    Overall rate of completion            85.40      91.14       91.1
                          Transition Rate
                          Overall Transition rate               89.1       95.36       95.3
                          Girls Transition rate                 88.9       95.34       95.3
                          Minorities Transition rate            89.0       95.41       95.3
                          Dropout rate:




                                                         - 20 -

                  Overall dropout rate                   6.3      3.08     3.1
                  Dropout girls                          6.5      3.10     3.1
                  Student Learning Achievement
                  Pass Rate in Chinese of graduates      70.23    97.63    87.6
                  Pass Rate in Chinese for girls         70.4     87.81    87.7
                  Pass Rate in Math of graduates         71.62    87.84    87.8
                  Pass Rate in Math for girls            71.41    87.68    87.6
                  Pass Rate in Physics of graduates      67.8     85.8     85.8
                  Pass Rate in Physics for girls         68.5     85.5     85.6
Normal Schools    Trainers
                  Total number of trainers               687      803
                  Qualified trainers as % of total       83.44    99.98    99.9
                  Laboratory opening hours per week       15.6    18.9     18.7




                                                  - 21 -

Project Performance Indicators ­ Hunan Province
                                          Indicators              Baseline  Completion   Target
                                                                    1995       2002
Primary Schools
A. Increase Access/Equity Student Enrollment
                          Total Enrollment                      883600     714682      801400
                          Enrollment %                          96.05      99.02       98.98
                          Girls as % of total                   93.77      98.65       98.6
                          Minorities as % of total              91.84      98.42       98.68
                          Student Assistance
                          Total number of students              1639       3215        2189
                          Total number of girls                 762        1675

B. Enhance Quality        Teachers
                          Total number of teachers              34420      31562       30620
                          Qualified teachers as % of total      78.35      93.12       92.45
                          Bilingual Teachers
                          Total number of bilingual teachers    189        203
                          Qualified teachers as % of total      68.0       97.54       95.0

C. Increase Efficiency    Overall rate of completion            92.6       98.22       98.11
                          Dropout rate:
                          Overall dropout rate                  2.55       0.72        0.78
                          Dropout rate among girls              3.1        0.91        0.87
                          Student Learning Achievement
                          Pass Rate in Chinese of graduates     97.1       98.72       98.6
                          Pass Rate in Chinese for girls        97.9       98.91       98.9
                          Pass Rate in Math of graduates        87.3       95.3        95.6
                          Pass Rate in Math for girls           87.6       96.23       96.1

Junior Secondary Schools
A. Increase Access/Equity Student Enrollment
                          Total Enrollment                      241200     367564      258000
                          Enrollment %                          81.1       94.58       93.7
                          Girls as % of total                   76.5       93.32       92.7
                          Minorities as % of total              78.7       94.01       93.4
                          Student Assistance
                          Total number of students              1714       3856        2264
                          Total number of girls                 916        2052

B. Enhance Quality        Teachers
                          Total number of teachers              14730      18246       14510
                          Qualified teachers as % of total      72.6       89.01       88.1
                          Bilingual Teachers
                          Total number of bilingual teachers    40         53
                          Qualified teachers as % of total      70.0       100

C. Increase Efficiency    Overall rate of completion            70.0       86.15       85.3
                          Transition Rate
                          Overall Transition rate               49.7       75.21       93.7
                          Girls Transition rate                 38.7       70.56       92.7
                          Minorities Transition rate            44.3       71.64       93.4
                          Dropout rate:
                          Overall dropout rate                  5.7        1.95        2.0
                          Dropout girls                         5.6        2.48        2.6


                                                         - 22 -

                          Student Learning Achievement
                          Pass Rate in Chinese of graduates      78.0       90.56       86.0
                          Pass Rate in Chinese for girls         81.0       89.37       87.0
                          Pass Rate in Math of graduates         75.0       86.78       80.0
                          Pass Rate in Math for girls            71.0       85.58       78.0
                          Pass Rate in Physics of graduates      75.0       81.94       81.0
                          Pass Rate in Physics for girls         70.0       82.64       76.0
Normal Schools            Trainers
                          Total number of trainers               384        465         477
                          Qualified trainers as % of total       88.0       98.68       97.56
                          Laboratory opening hours per week       14.6      22.5        35.4

Project Performance Indicators ­ Shanxi Province
                                          Indicators               Baseline  Completion   Target
                                                                     1995       2002
Primary Schools
A. Increase Access/Equity Student Enrollment
                          Total Enrollment                       356050     368600      369700
                          Enrollment %                           97.79      99.56       99.33
                          Girls as % of total                    97.3       99.23       99.16
                          Minorities as % of total               0.00       0.00        0.00
                          Student Assistance
                          Total number of students               725        2803        1570
                          Total number of girls

B. Enhance Quality        Teachers
                          Total number of teachers               20990      17710       17690
                          Qualified teachers as % of total       77.89      96.33       89.86
                          Bilingual Teachers
                          Total number of bilingual teachers     0.00       0.00        0.00
                          Qualified teachers as % of total       0.00       0.00        0.00

C. Increase Efficiency    Overall rate of completion             88.56      98.25       95.34
                          Dropout rate:
                          Overall dropout rate                   2.22       0.48        0.77
                          Dropout girls                          2.13       0.67        0.83
                          Student Learning Achievement
                          Pass Rate in Chinese of graduates      93.1       98.16       98.0
                          Pass Rate in Chinese for girls         94.5       98.6        98.45
                          Pass Rate in Math of graduates         95.0       99.12       98.95
                          Pass Rate in Math for girls            93.0       99.13       98.95

Junior Secondary Schools
A. Increase Access/Equity Student Enrollment
                          Total Enrollment                       126400     143300      144600
                          Enrollment %                           81.3       97.83       88.7
                          Girls as % of total                    78.9       97.61       88.1
                          Minorities as % of total               85.0       98.56       89.0
                          Student Assistance
                          Total number of students               320        5959        3432
                          Total number of girls

B. Enhance Quality        Teachers
                          Total number of teachers               9400       8370        8400



                                                          - 23 -

                          Qualified teachers as % of total       61.1       95.88       84.3
                          Bilingual Teachers
                          Total number of bilingual teachers     0.00       0.00        0.00
                          Qualified teachers as % of total       0.00       0.00        0.00

C. Increase Efficiency    Overall rate of completion             68.4       92.59       78.7
                          Transition Rate
                          Overall Transition rate                81.3                   88.7
                          Girls Transition rate                  78.9                   88.1
                          Minorities Transition rate             85.0       91.6        89.0
                          Dropout rate:
                          Overall dropout rate                   7.0        0.68        1.8
                          Dropout girls                          7.6        1.02        2.0
                          Student Learning Achievement
                          Pass Rate in Chinese of graduates      82.30      96.2        95.8
                          Pass Rate in Chinese for girls         81.6       96.3        95.9
                          Pass Rate in Math of graduates         84.0       97.4        96.7
                          Pass Rate in Math for girls            83.3       96.3        96.0
                          Pass Rate in Physics of graduates      81.9       95.6        95.6
                          Pass Rate in Physics for girls         83.1       96.6        96.5
Normal Schools            Trainers
                          Total number of trainers               1019       937         935
                          Qualified trainers as % of total       66.95      94.7        92.0
                          Laboratory opening hours per week       13        22.86       18.64

Project Performance Indicators ­ Yunnan Province
                                          Indicators               Baseline  Completion   Target
                                                                     1995       2002
Primary Schools
A. Increase Access/Equity Student Enrollment
                          Total Enrollment                       819050     811050      861220
                          Enrollment %                           95.90      99.11       98.64
                          Girls as % of total                    95.95      98.85       97.61
                          Minorities as % of total               94.51      98.3        97.99
                          Student Assistance
                          Total number of students               530        55762       6523
                          Total number of girls                  259        27621       3256

B. Enhance Quality        Teachers
                          Total number of teachers               36870      43360       36680
                          Qualified teachers as % of total       79.83      95.75       93.18
                          Bilingual Teachers
                          Total number of bilingual teachers     1080       850         820
                          Qualified teachers as % of total       52.58      89.35       88.00

C. Increase Efficiency    Overall rate of completion             76.39      95.45       89.67
                          Dropout rate:
                          Overall dropout rate                   4.36       1.23        1.55
                          Dropout girls                          4.97       1.36        1.91
                          Student Learning Achievement
                          Pass Rate in Chinese of graduates      72.31      89.13       88.00
                          Pass Rate in Chinese for girls         73.30      88.77       88.50
                          Pass Rate in Math of graduates         59.15      81.01       79.25
                          Pass Rate in Math for girls            59.75      80.76       79.50




                                                          - 24 -

Junior Secondary Schools
A. Increase Access/Equity Student Enrollment
                          Total Enrollment                        165720     307930      287740
                          Enrollment %                            69.71      86.93       80.00
                          Girls as % of total                     64.93      84.42       77.40
                          Minorities as % of total                58.26      83.59       65.01
                          Student Assistance
                          Total number of students                300        27795       1953
                          Girls as % of total                     144        15266       970

B. Enhance Quality        Teachers
                          Total number of teachers                10010      19330       17330
                          Qualified teachers as % of total        71.43      90.45       87.10
                          Bilingual Teachers
                          Total number of bilingual teachers      200        600         900
                          Qualified teachers as % of total        35.0       76.0        95.0

C. Increase Efficiency    Overall rate of completion              48.9       83.08       74.93
                          Transition Rate
                          Overall Transition rate
                          Girls Transition rate
                          Minorities Transition rate
                          Dropout rate:
                          Overall dropout rate                    7.39       3.26        3.40
                          Dropout girls                           7.60       2.96        3.44
                          Student Learning Achievement
                          Pass Rate in Chinese of graduates       54.0       81.92       77.5
                          Pass Rate in Chinese for girls          49.0       80.32       72.0
                          Pass Rate in Math of graduates          22.43      58.28       52.5
                          Pass Rate in Math for girls             22.85      58.81       52.5
                          Pass Rate in Physics of graduates       26.68      61.35       57.2
                                   Pass Rate in Physics for girls 19.52      70.86       52.5
Normal Schools            Trainers
                          Total number of trainers                652        787         834
                          Qualified trainers as % of total        72.64      92.22       91.29
                          Laboratory opening hours per week        43.01     88.31       85.00



Project Performance Indicators ­ Ningxia Province
                                          Indicators                Baseline  Completion   Target
                                                                      1995       2002
Primary Schools
A. Increase Access/Equity Student Enrollment
                          Total Enrollment                        166500     165286      165600
                          Enrollment %                            89.8       96.2        98.0
                          Girls as % of total                     81.3       94.2        96.0
                          Minorities as % of total                84.5       95.5        97.0
                          Student Assistance
                          Total number of students                2480       16542       8434
                          Total number of girls                              9137        5903

B. Enhance Quality        Teachers
                          Total number of teachers                7500       8062        6624
                          Qualified teachers as % of total        88.7       95.8        98.5
                          Bilingual Teachers

                                                          - 25 -

                          Total number of bilingual teachers    0.00       0.00        0.00
                          Qualified teachers as % of total      0.00       0.00        0.00

C. Increase Efficiency    Overall rate of completion            55.8       84.2        86.6
                          Dropout rate:
                          Overall dropout rate                  5.9        1.4         2.1
                          Dropout girls                         5.8        1.8         2.0
                          Student Learning Achievement
                          Pass Rate in Chinese of graduates     74.5       94.4        95.0
                          Pass Rate in Chinese for girls        55.5       92.2        90.0
                          Pass Rate in Math of graduates        58.7       92.3        90.0
                          Pass Rate in Math for girls            48.5      87.4        85.0

Project Performance Indicators ­ Shaanxi Province
                                          Indicators              Baseline  Completion   Target
                                                                    1995       2002
Primary Schools
A. Increase Access/Equity Student Enrollment
                          Total Enrollment                      241145     276035      390000
                          Enrollment %                          95.8       98.65       98.50
                          Girls as % of total                   94.6       98.65       98.50
                          Minorities as % of total
                          Student Assistance
                          Total number of students              6762       26217       18693
                          Total number of girls                 2806       13272

B. Enhance Quality        Teachers
                          Total number of teachers              11057      11978       12173
                          Qualified teachers as % of total      61.9       95.02       90.0
                          Bilingual Teachers
                          Total number of bilingual teachers    0.00       0.00        0.00
                          Qualified teachers as % of total      0.00       0.00        0.00

C. Increase Efficiency    Overall rate of completion            70.3       91.20       96.0
                          Dropout rate:
                          Overall dropout rate                  8.02       2.0         2.0
                          Dropout girls                         8.23       2.1         2.0
                          Student Learning Achievement
                          Pass Rate in Chinese of graduates     74.2       100.0       97.0
                          Pass Rate in Chinese for girls        73.3       100.0       97.0
                          Pass Rate in Math of graduates        70.0       99.0        97.0
                          Pass Rate in Math for girls            68.6      98.0        97.0

Project Performance Indicators ­ Sichuan Province
                                          Indicators              Baseline  Completion   Target
                                                                    1995       2003
Primary Schools
A. Increase Access/Equity Student Enrollment
                          Total Enrollment                      961000     1099000     1099000
                          Enrollment %                          97.2       99.3        99.1
                          Girls as % of total                   97.2       99.2        99.1
                          Minorities as % of total
                          Student Assistance




                                                         - 26 -

                        Total number of students              15000    29762    29700
                        Total number of girls                 7500     16074    14850

B. Enhance Quality      Teachers
                        Total number of teachers              40000    47831    47800
                        Qualified teachers as % of total      88.67    95.11    94.81
                        Bilingual Teachers
                        Total number of bilingual teachers    0.00     0.00     0.00
                        Qualified teachers as % of total      0.00     0.00     0.00

C. Increase Efficiency  Overall rate of completion            90.63    96.8     97.2
                        Dropout rate:
                        Overall dropout rate                  4.42     1.1      1.14
                        Dropout girls                         4.42     1.11     1.14
                        Student Learning Achievement
                        Pass Rate in Chinese of graduates     78.5     90.0     88.5
                        Pass Rate in Chinese for girls        76.3     87.0     86.0
                        Pass Rate in Math of graduates        82.1     90.0     90.0
                         Pass Rate in Math for girls           77.4    89.0     88.0




                                                       - 27 -

Annex 2. Project Costs and Financing

Project Cost by Component (in US$ million equivalent)
                                                          Appraisal     Actual/Latest  Percentage of
                                                          Estimate       Estimate        Appraisal
                     Component                            US$ million   US$ million


NATIONAL PROGRAM PROJECT COSTS
Access to Compulsory Basic Education                        93.23          124.63           133.68
Education Management Improvement                             1.10             1.36          124.27
Education Quality Enhancement                               13.39           17.32           129.35
QINBA VILLAGE PRIMARY ED. PROGRAM
Access to Compulsory Basic Education                        21.03           29.42           139.89
Education Management Improvement                             0.17             0.19          117.06
Education Quality Enhancement                                1.35             1.89          140.44

Total Baseline Cost                                        130.27          174.81
 Physical Contingencies                                     13.02             0.00
 Price Contingencies                                        21.89             0.00
                        Total Project Costs                165.18
                  Total Financing Required                 165.18          174.81


Project Costs by Procurement Arrangements (Appraisal Estimate) (US$ million equivalent)
                                                                    1
                                               Procurement Method
    Expenditure Category           ICB             NCB                2        N.B.F.     Total Cost
                                                               Other
1. Works                          0.00             23.70        77.70          0.00        101.40
                                  (0.00)          (12.80)      (42.70)         (0.00)      (55.50)
2. Goods                          0.00             40.90         5.30          0.00         46.20
                                  (0.00)          (19.70)      (2.70)          (0.00)      (22.40)
3. Services                       0.00              0.00         2.10          0.00         2.10
                                  (0.00)           (0.00)      (1.00)          (0.00)       (1.00)
4. Training                       0.00              0.00        10.00          0.00         10.00
                                  (0.00)           (0.00)      (6.10)          (0.00)       (6.10)
5. Student Financial Aid          0.00              0.00         5.40          0.00         5.40
                                  (0.00)           (0.00)      (0.00)          (0.00)       (0.00)
6. Miscellaneous                  0.00              0.00         0.00          0.00         0.00
                                  (0.00)           (0.00)      (0.00)          (0.00)       (0.00)
   Total                          0.00             64.60       100.50          0.00        165.10
                                  (0.00)          (32.50)      (52.50)         (0.00)      (85.00)


Project Costs by Procurement Arrangements (Actual/Latest Estimate) (US$ million equivalent)
                                                                    1
                                               Procurement Method
    Expenditure Category           ICB             NCB                2      N.B.F.      Total Cost
                                                               Other
1. Works                          0.00             64.50       46.84           0.00        111.34


                                                - 28 -

                                       (0.00)            (30.30)           (23.00)            (0.00)           (53.30)
2. Goods                                0.00              38.88              7.66             0.00             46.54
                                       (0.00)            (18.03)            (4.79)            (0.00)           (22.82)
3. Services                             0.00               0.00              0.54             0.00              0.54
                                       (0.00)             (0.00)            (0.18)            (0.00)           (0.18)
4. Training                             0.00               0.00             10.37             0.00             10.37
                                       (0.00)             (0.00)            (6.38)            (0.00)           (6.38)
5. Student Financial Aid                0.00               0.00              6.02             0.00              6.02
                                       (0.00)             (0.00)            (0.00)            (0.00)           (0.00)
6. Miscellaneous                        0.00               0.00              0.00             0.00              0.00
                                       (0.00)             (0.00)            (0.00)            (0.00)           (0.00)
   Total                                0.00             103.38             71.43             0.00             174.81
                                       (0.00)            (48.33)           (34.35)            (0.00)           (82.68)

 1/Figures in parenthesis are the amounts to be financed by the Bank Loan. All costs include contingencies.

 2/Includes civil works and goods to be procured through national shopping, consulting services, services of contracted staff
   of the project management office, training, technical assistance services, and incremental operating costs related to (i)
   managing the project, and (ii) relending project funds to local government units.



Financing Plan at Appraisal

                                        Local                       Foreign                       Total
Chinese Government                       80.1                          0.0                         80.1
IDA                                      65.8                         19.2                         85.0
Total                                   145.9                         19.2                        165.1

Financing Plan (Actual/Latest Estimate)

                                        Local                       Foreign                       Total
Chinese Government                       92.2                          0.0                         92.2
IDA                                      65.9                         16.7                         82.6
Total                                   158.1                         16.7                        174.8




                                                       - 29 -

Annex 3. Economic Costs and Benefits

Not Applicable.




                                      - 30 -

Annex 4. Bank Inputs

(a) Missions:
Stage of Project Cycle                No. of Persons and Specialty                  Performance Rating
                                     (e.g. 2 Economists, 1 FMS, etc.)          Implementation Development
                   Month/Year  Count           Specialty                         Progress       Objective

 Identification/Preparation
              3/96                      4    General Educator (2); Education        S               S
                                             Specialist (1); Operations Officer
                                             (1)
              5/95                      9    General Educator (2); Operations       S               S
                                             Officer (2); Science Education
                                             Specialist (1); Management
                                             Specialist (1); Architect (1);
                                             Education Economist (1);
                                             Teacher Trainer (1)
              9/96                    10     General Educator (2); Operations       S               S
                                             Officer (2); Management
                                             Specialist (1); Education
                                             Economist (3); Teacher Trainer
                                             (1); Educator (1)

 Appraisal/Negotiation
              1/97                      5    General Educator (2);                  S               S
                                             Operations Officer (2);
                                             Management Specialist (1);
                                             Procurement Specialist (1)
              4/97                      5    General Educator (1); Operations       S               S
                                             Officer (1); Lawyer (1);
                                             Disbursement Specialist (2)

 Supervision
              10/97                     2    (1) Procurement; (1)                   S               S
                                             Disbursement
              12/1997                   4    Educator (1); Operations Analyst       S               S
                                             (1); Operations Officer (1);
                                             Consultant (1)
              10/98                     6    General Educator (1); Education        S               S
                                             Specialists (1); Teacher
                                             Education Specialist (1);
                                             Management Specialist (1);
                                             Procurement Specialist (1); Staff
                                             Training Specialist
              07/1999                   8    General Educator (1); Education        S               S
                                             Specialist (1); Operations
                                             Analyst (1); Staff Training
                                             Specialist (1); Teacher Training
                                             Specialist (1); Management
                                             Specialist (1) Procurement
                                             Specialist (1); Financial
                                             Management Specialist (1)
              10/2000 Mid-Term          5    General Educator (2); Operations       S               S
                                             Officer (1); Procurement



                                              - 31 -

                                                   Specialist (1); Financial
                                                   Management Specialist (1)
               11/16/2001                     4    General Educator (1); Operations      S              S
                                                   Officer (1); Procurement
                                                   Specialist (1); Disbursement
                                                   Specialist (1)

 ICR
               3/2003                         5     Lead Educator (1);                   S              S
                                                    Operations Officer (1);
                                                    Procurement Specialist (1);
                                                    Education Economist (1);
                                                    Educator (1); Teacher
                                                    Trainer (1)

This information is based on project preparation and supervision aide-memoires and PSRs.

(b) Staff:

       Stage of Project Cycle                        Actual/Latest Estimate
                                        No. Staff weeks                    US$ ('000)
  Identification/Preparation                      70                        217,400
  Appraisal/Negotiation                           41                        110,900
  Supervision                                   110                         344,615
  ICR                                              6                          36,000
  Total                                         227                         708,915
These figures are based on the project preparation file information, supervision aide-memoires, 590 forms,
PSRs, and staff salary information available.




                                                   - 32 -

Annex 5. Ratings for Achievement of Objectives/Outputs of Components

(H=High, SU=Substantial, M=Modest, N=Negligible, NA=Not Applicable)
                                          Rating
  Macro policies                        H        SU    M       N    NA
  Sector Policies                       H        SU    M       N    NA
  Physical                              H        SU    M       N    NA
  Financial                             H        SU    M       N    NA
  Institutional Development             H        SU    M       N    NA
  Environmental                         H        SU    M       N    NA

Social
           Poverty Reduction            H        SU    M       N    NA
           Gender                       H        SU    M       N    NA
           Other (Please specify)       H        SU    M       N    NA
  Private sector development            H        SU    M       N    NA
  Public sector management              H        SU    M       N    NA
  Other (Please specify)                H        SU    M       N    NA




                                                    - 33 -

Annex 6. Ratings of Bank and Borrower Performance

(HS=Highly Satisfactory, S=Satisfactory, U=Unsatisfactory, HU=Highly Unsatisfactory)


6.1 Bank performance                           Rating

   Lending                                       HS     S     U       HU
   Supervision                                   HS     S     U       HU
   Overall                                       HS     S     U       HU


6.2 Borrower performance                       Rating

   Preparation                                   HS     S     U       HU
   Government implementation performance         HS     S     U       HU
   Implementation agency performance             HS     S     U       HU
   Overall                                       HS     S     U       HU




                                                    - 34 -

Annex 7. List of Supporting Documents


Guizhou Province - Implementation Completion Report - October 15, 2002
Hainan Province - Implementation Completion Report - October 2002
Heilongjiang Province - Implementation Completion Report - June 2002
Hunan Province - Implementation Completion Report - December 2002
Shanxi Province - Implementation Completion Report - March 2003
Yunnan Province - Implementation Completion Report - March 2003
Ningxia Province - Implementation Completion Report - March 2003
Shaanxi Province - Implementation Completion Report - September 28, 2002
Sichuan Province - Implementation Completion Report - December, 2002




                                               - 35 -

- 36 -

