Page  1
CONFORMED COPY
CREDIT NUMBER 2954 CHA
Development Credit Agreement
(Fourth Basic Education Project)
between
PEOPLE'S REPUBLIC OF CHINA
and
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
Dated June 26, 1997
CREDIT NUMBER 2954 CHA
DEVELOPMENT CREDIT AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT, dated June 26, 1997, between PEOPLE'S REPUBLIC OF CHINA (the 
Borrower) and INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION (the Association).
WHEREAS the Borrower, having satisfied itself as to the feasibility and priority 
of the Project described in Schedule 2 to this Agreement, has requested the 
Association to assist in the financing of the Project; and
WHEREAS the Association has agreed, on the basis, inter alia, of the foregoing, 
to extend the Credit to the Borrower upon the terms and conditions set forth in this 
Agreement;
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
ARTICLE I
General Conditions; Definitions
Section 1.01. The "General Conditions Applicable to Development Credit 
Agreements" of the Association, dated January 1, 1985, with the modifications thereto 
set forth below (the General Conditions) constitute an integral part of this 
Agreement:
(a)
The last sentence of Section 3.02 is deleted.
(b)
The second sentence of Section 5.01 is modified to read:
"Except as the Association and the Borrower shall otherwise 
agree, 
no withdrawals shall 
be made: (a) on account of expenditures 
in the 
territories of any country which is not a member 
of the Bank or for goods produced 
in, or services supplied from, such territories; or (b) for the 
purpose of any 
Page  2
payment to persons or entities, or for any import of goods, if such payment or 
import, to the knowledge of the Association, is prohibited by a decision of the United 
Nations 
Security Council taken under Chapter VII of the Charter of the 
United Nations."
(c)
Section 6.03 is modified to read:
“Section 6.03.  Cancellation by the Association.  If (a) the 
right 
of the Borrower to 
make withdrawals from the Credit Account 
shall have 
been suspended with respect to any amount of 
the Credit for a continuous period of 
thirty days, or (b) at any time, the Association 
determines, after 
consultation with the Borrower, that an amount of the Credit will not be 
required to finance the Project’s costs to be financed out of the proceeds of the 
Credit, or (c) 
at any time, the Association determines, with respect to any 
contract to be financed out of the 
proceeds of the Credit, that corrupt or 
fraudulent practices were engaged in by representatives 
of the Borrower or of a 
beneficiary of the Credit during the procurement or the execution of such 
contract, without the Borrower having taken timely and appropriate action satisfactory 
to the 
Association to remedy the situation, and establishes the amount of 
expenditures in respect of 
such contract which would otherwise have been 
eligible for financing out of the proceeds of the 
Credit, or (d) at any time, the 
Association determines that the procurement of any contract to be  financed out of the 
proceeds of the Credit is inconsistent with the 
procedures set forth or 
referred to in the Development Credit Agreement and establishes the amount of 
expenditures in 
respect of such contract which would otherwise have been 
eligible for financing out of the 
proceeds of the Credit, or (e) after the 
Closing Date, an amount of the Credit shall remain 
unwithdrawn from the 
Credit Account, the Association may, by notice to the Borrower, terminate 
the right of the Borrower to make withdrawals with respect to such amount.  Upon the 
giving of 
such notice, such amount of the Credit shall be canceled.” 
Section 1.02. Unless the context otherwise requires, the several terms defined 
in the General Conditions have the respective meanings therein set forth and the 
following additional terms have the following meanings:
(a)
“Allocated Amount” means, in respect of each Project Province, an amount 
of the Credit allocated by the Borrower to said Project Province and to be utilized by 
said Project Province for purposes of carrying out its respective Education Program.
(b)
“Category” means a category of items set forth in the table in paragraph 
1 of Schedule 1 to this Agreement.
(c)
“CEP” means the Chinese Experts Panel, established by SEdC under Part 
C(2) of the Project, and to be maintained pursuant to the provisions of Part A.2 of 
Schedule 4 to this Agreement.
(d)
“Education Program” means, in respect of each Project Province, the 
activities under Parts A and B of the Project which are to be carried out by said 
Project Province utilizing the proceeds of its respective Allocated Amount.
(e)
“Education Program Implementation Agreement” means, in respect of each 
Education Program, the agreement, referred to in Part D.2 of Schedule 4 to this 
Agreement, to be made between the Borrower and the Project Province which proposes to 
carry out said Education Program, as the same may be amended from time to time.
(f)
“Non-Project Counties” means those counties in a Project Province (other 
than Project Counties) designated as poor counties under the Borrower’s National 8-7 
Poverty Reduction Plan, and selected in accordance with guidelines acceptable to the 
Association.
(g)
“Non-Project Counties Program” means, in respect of a Project Province, 
the program referred to in Part B.10 of the Annex to Schedule 4 to this Agreement, to 
be carried out by said Project Province pursuant to the provisions of said Part.
(h)
“Project Counties” means, in respect of each Project Province, those 
counties in said Project Province in which said Project Province proposes to carry out 
an Education Program; and “Project County” means any of the Project Counties.
Page  3
(i)
“Project Provinces” means, collectively, the Qinba Provinces and 
following additional Provinces of the Borrower: Guizhou, Hainan, Heilongjiang, Hunan, 
Shanxi and Yunnan, and “Project Province” means any of the Project Provinces. 
(j)
“Qinba Provinces” means the following Autonomous Region and Provinces of 
the Borrower:  Ningxia, Shaanxi and Sichuan; and “Qinba Province” means any of the 
Qinba Provinces.
(k)
“RMB” means the currency unit of the Borrower.
(l)
“SEdC” means the Borrower's State Education Commission, and any successor 
thereto.
(m)
“Special Account” means the account referred to in Section 2.02(b) of 
this Agreement.
(n)
“Student Assistance Program” means, in respect of each Project Province, 
the student assistance program, referred to in Part A(3) of the Project, to be 
included in said Project Province’s Education Program and established and operated 
pursuant to the provisions of Part B.2 of the Annex to Schedule 4 to this Agreement.
ARTICLE II
The Credit
Section 2.01. The Association agrees to lend to the Borrower, on the terms and 
conditions set forth or referred to in the Development Credit Agreement, an amount in 
various currencies equivalent to sixty one million five hundred thousand Special 
Drawing Rights (SDR 61,500,000).
Section 2.02. (a) The amount of the Credit may be withdrawn from the Credit 
Account in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1 to this Agreement for 
expenditures made (or, if the Association shall so agree, to be made) in respect of 
the reasonable cost of goods and services required for the Project and to be financed 
out of the proceeds of the Credit.
(b)
The Borrower may, for the purposes of the Project, open and maintain a 
special deposit account in dollars in a commercial bank and on terms and conditions, 
both satisfactory to the Association, including appropriate protection against 
set-off, seizure or attachment. Deposits into, and payments out of, the Special 
Account shall be made in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 5 to this 
Agreement.
Section 2.03. The Closing Date shall be December 31, 2002 or such later date as 
the Association shall establish. The Association shall promptly notify the Borrower of 
such later date.
Section 2.04. (a)  The Borrower shall pay to the Association a commitment charge 
on the principal amount of the Credit not withdrawn from time to time at a rate to be 
set by the Association as of June 30 of each year, but not to exceed the rate of 
one-half of one percent (1/2 of 1%) per annum.
(b)
The commitment charge shall accrue: (i) from the date sixty days after 
the date of this Agreement (the accrual date) to the respective dates on which amounts 
shall be withdrawn by the Borrower from the Credit Account or canceled; and (ii) at 
the rate set as of the June 30 immediately preceding the accrual date or at such other 
rates as may be set from time to time thereafter pursuant to paragraph (a) above.  The 
rate set as of June 30 in each year shall be applied from the next payment date in 
that year specified in Section 2.06 of this Agreement.
(c)
The commitment charge shall be paid: (i) at such places as the 
Association shall reasonably request; (ii) without restrictions of any kind imposed 
by, or in the territory of, the Borrower; and (iii) in the currency specified in this 
Agreement for the purposes of Section 4.02 of the General Conditions or in such other 
eligible currency or currencies as may from time to time be designated or selected 
pursuant to the provisions of that Section.
Page  4
Section 2.05. The Borrower shall pay to the Association a service charge at the 
rate of three\1efourths of one percent (3/4 of 1%) per annum on the principal amount of 
the Credit withdrawn and outstanding from time to time.
Section 2.06. Commitment charges and service charges shall be payable 
semiannually on May 1 and November 1 in each year.
Section 2.07. (a)  Subject to paragraphs (b), (c) and (d) below, the Borrower 
shall repay the principal amount of the Credit in semiannual installments payable on 
each May 1 and November 1 commencing November 1, 2007 and ending May 1, 2032.  Each 
installment to and including the installment payable on May 1, 2017 shall be one and 
one-fourth percent (1-1/4%) of such principal amount, and each installment thereafter 
shall be two and one-half percent (2-1/2%) of such principal amount.
(b)
Whenever: (i) the Borrower's per capita gross national product (GNP), as 
determined by the Association, shall have exceeded for three consecutive years the 
level established annually by the Association for determining eligibility to access 
the Association's resources; and (ii) the Bank shall consider the Borrower 
creditworthy for Bank lending, the Association may, subsequent to the review and 
approval thereof by the Executive Directors of the Association and after due 
consideration by them of the development of the Borrower's economy, modify the 
repayment of installments under paragraph (a) above by: (A)
requiring the Borrower to 
repay twice the amount of each such installment not yet due until the principal amount 
of the Credit shall have been repaid; and (B) requiring the Borrower to commence 
repayment of the principal amount of the Credit as of the first semiannual payment 
date referred to in paragraph (a) above falling six months or more after the date on 
which the Association notifies the Borrower that the events set out in this paragraph 
(b) have occurred, provided, however, that there shall be a grace period of a minimum 
of five years on such repayment of principal.
(c)
If so requested by the Borrower, the Association may revise the 
modification referred to in paragraph (b) above to include, in lieu of some or all of 
the increase in the amounts of such installments, the payment of interest at an annual 
rate agreed with the Association on the principal amount of the Credit withdrawn and 
outstanding from time to time, provided that, in the judgment of the Association, such 
revision shall not change the grant element obtained under the above-mentioned 
repayment modification.
(d)
If, at any time after a modification of terms pursuant to paragraph (b) 
above, the Association determines that the Borrower's economic condition has 
deteriorated significantly, the Association may, if so requested by the Borrower, 
further modify the terms of repayment to conform to the schedule of installments as 
provided in paragraph (a) above.
Section 2.08. The currency of the United States of America is hereby specified 
for the purposes of Section 4.02 of the General Conditions.
ARTICLE III
Execution of the Project
Section 3.01. (a) The Borrower declares its commitment to the objectives of the 
Project as set forth in Schedule 2 to this Agreement, and, to this end, shall carry 
out Part C of the Project through SEdC, and cause the Project Provinces to carry out 
Parts A and B thereof, all with due diligence and efficiency and in conformity with 
appropriate administrative, financial, technical and education practices and shall 
provide, or cause to be provided, promptly as needed, the funds, facilities, services 
and other resources required for the purpose.
(b)
Without limitation upon the provisions of paragraph (a) of this Section, 
and except as the Borrower and the Association shall otherwise agree, the Borrower 
shall carry out the actions set forth in Schedule 4 to this Agreement in order to 
ensure the proper implementation of the Project.
Section 3.02. Except as the Association shall otherwise agree, procurement of 
Page  5
the goods, works and consultants' services required for the Project and to be financed 
out of the proceeds of the Credit shall be governed by the provisions of Schedule 3 to 
this Agreement.
Section 3.03. For the purpose of Section 9.07 of the General Conditions and 
without limitation thereto, the Borrower shall:
(a)
prepare, on the basis of guidelines acceptable to the Association, and 
furnish to the Association not later than six (6) months after the Closing Date or 
such later date as may be agreed for this purpose between the Borrower and the 
Association, a plan designed to ensure the continued achievement of the objectives of 
the Project; and
(b)
afford the Association a reasonable opportunity to exchange views with 
the Borrower on said plan.
ARTICLE IV
Financial Covenants
Section 4.01. (a) The Borrower shall maintain or cause to be maintained records 
and accounts adequate to reflect in accordance with sound accounting practices the 
operations, resources and expenditures in respect of the Project of the departments or 
agencies of the Borrower responsible for carrying out the Project or any part thereof.
(b)
The Borrower shall:
(i)
have the records and accounts referred to in paragraph (a) of this 
Section 
including those for the Special Account for 
each fiscal year audited, in accordance 
with appropriate auditing 
principles consistently applied, by independent auditors 
acceptable to 
the Association;
(ii)
furnish to the Association, as soon as available, but in any case 
not later than 
six months after the end of each such year, 
(A) a certified copy of the report of 
such audit by said 
auditors, of such scope and in such detail as the Association 
shall have reasonably requested and (B) consolidated copies of the audit reports 
furnished to the Borrower by each Project Province pursuant to the 
provisions of 
Part B.9 of the Annex to Schedule 4 to this 
Agreement; and
(iii)
furnish to the Association such other information concerning said 
records, accounts 
and the audit thereof as the Association shall from 
time to time reasonably 
request.
(c)
For all expenditures with respect to which withdrawals from the Credit 
Account were made on the basis of statements of expenditure, the Borrower shall:
(i)
maintain or cause to be maintained, in accordance with paragraph 
(a) of this 
Section, records and accounts reflecting such 
expenditures;
(ii)
retain, until at least one year after the Association has received 
the audit report 
for the fiscal year in which the last withdrawal from 
the Credit Account or payment 
out of the Special Account was made, all 
records (contracts, orders, invoices, 
bills, receipts and other 
documents) evidencing such expenditures;
(iii)
enable the Association's representatives to examine such records; 
and
(iv)
ensure that such records and accounts are included in the annual 
audit referred to 
in paragraph (b) of this Section and that the report 
of such audit contains a 
separate opinion by said auditors as to 
whether the statements of expenditure 
submitted during such 
Page  6
fiscal year, together with the procedures and internal 
controls involved in their preparation, can be relied upon to support the related 
withdrawals.
ARTICLE V
Remedies of the Association
Section 5.01. Pursuant to Section 6.02(h) of the General Conditions, the 
following additional events are specified:
(a)
Any Project Province shall have failed to perform any of its obligations 
under the Education Program Implementation Agreement to which it is a party.
(b)
As a result of events which have occurred after the date of the 
Development Credit Agreement, an extraordinary situation shall have arisen which shall 
make it improbable that any Project Province will be able to perform its obligations 
under the Education Program Implementation Agreement to which it is a party.
Section 5.02. Pursuant to Section 7.01(d) of the General Conditions, the 
following additional event is specified, namely, that any event specified in Section 
5.01(a) of this Agreement shall occur and shall continue for a period of sixty (60) 
days after notice thereof shall have been given by the Association to the Borrower.
ARTICLE VI
Effective Date; Termination
Section 6.01. The following events are specified as additional conditions to the 
effectiveness of the Development Credit Agreement within the meaning of Section 
12.01(b) of the General Conditions:
(a)
Education Program Implementation Agreements have been made between the 
Borrower and each of the Project Provinces; and
(b)
the Student Assistance Program of each of the Qinba Provinces has been 
established in accordance with the provisions of Part B.2 of the Annex to Schedule 4 
to this Agreement and funds in amounts acceptable to the Association have been 
deposited in the student assistance account referred to in said Part.
Section 6.02. The following are specified as additional matters, within the 
meaning of Section 12.02(b) of the General Conditions, to be included in the opinion 
or opinions to be furnished to the Association, namely, that each of the Education 
Program Implementation Agreements with each of the Project Provinces has been duly 
approved by the Borrower and the Project Province which is a party thereto, and is 
legally binding upon the Borrower and said Project Province in accordance with its 
terms.
Section 6.03. The date ninety (90) days after the date of this Agreement is 
hereby specified for the purposes of Section 12.04 of the General Conditions.
ARTICLE VII
Representative of the Borrower; Addresses
Section 7.01. The Minister of Finance of the Borrower is designated as 
representative of the Borrower for the purposes of Section 11.03 of the General 
Conditions.
Section 7.02. The following addresses are specified for the purposes of Section 
11.01 of the General Conditions:
For the Borrower:
Ministry of Finance
Page  7
Sanlihe
Beijing  100820
People's Republic of China
Cable address: 
Telex:
FINANMIN
22486 MFPRC CN
Beijing
For the Association:
International Development Association
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Cable address:
Telex:
INDEVAS
248423 (MCI) or
Washington, D.C.
 64145 (MCI)
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their duly authorized 
representatives, have caused this Agreement to be signed in their respective names in 
the District of Columbia, United States of America, as of the day and year first above 
written.
PEOPLE'S REPUBLIC OF CHINA
By /s/ Zhou Wenzhong
Authorized Representative
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
By /s/ Jean-Michel Severino
Regional Vice President
East Asia and Pacific
SCHEDULE 1
Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the Credit
1.
The table below sets forth the Categories of items to be financed out of the 
proceeds of the Credit, the allocation of the amounts of the Credit to each Category 
and the percentage of expenditures for items so to be financed in each Category:
                    Amount of the
                  Credit Allocated
    % of
                   (Expressed in
       Expenditures
Category
            SDR Equivalent)
to be Financed
(1)
Civil works for
the Education
Program:
(a) of each
               21,490,000
       70%
Page  8
of the Designated
Provinces
(b) of each of
         18,670,000
       60%
the other Project
Provinces
(2)
Goods
                      16,210,000
       100% of foreign
                                  expenditures, 
                                  100% of local 
                                  expenditures 
                                  (ex-factory 
                                  cost) and 75% 
                                  of local expenditures
                                  for other items
                                  procured locally
(3)
Consultants'
                  720,000
 100% 
services 
(4)
Training and
                4,410,000
 100%
study tours
                      __________
TOTAL
                      61,500,000
                      ==========
2. 
For the purposes of this Schedule:
(a)
the term "foreign expenditures" means expenditures in the currency of any 
country other than that of the Borrower for goods or services supplied from the 
territory of any country other than that of the Borrower;
(b)
the term "local expenditures" means expenditures in the currency of the 
Borrower or for goods or services supplied from the territory of the Borrower; and
(c)
the term “Designated Provinces” means, collectively, the following 
Project Provinces:  Guizhou, Ningxia, Sichuan, Shaanxi and Yunnan.
3.
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 above, no withdrawals shall be 
made in respect of payments made for expenditures prior to the date of this Agreement, 
except that withdrawals, in an aggregate amount not to exceed SDR 6,100,000 may be 
made on account of payments made for expenditures before that date but after (a) 
January 1, 1997 in respect of Category (4), and (b) March 15, 1997 in respect of 
Category (1).
4.
The Association may require withdrawals from the Credit Account to be made on 
the basis of statements of expenditure for expenditures for: (a) goods under contracts 
costing less than $200,000 equivalent each (other than those referred to in Section I, 
Part D.2(c) of Schedule 3 to this Agreement); (b) works under contracts costing less 
than $200,000 equivalent each (other than those referred to in Section I, Part D.2(a) 
of Schedule 3 to this Agreement); (c) consulting services under contracts awarded to 
consulting firms costing less than $100,000 equivalent each; (d) consulting services 
under contracts awarded to individual consultants costing less than $50,000 equivalent 
each; and (e) training (including study tours); all under such terms and conditions as 
the Association shall specify by notice to the Borrower.
SCHEDULE 2
Description of the Project
The objectives of the Project are to assist the Borrower in (1) providing 
quality universal primary education to children in poor and minority areas of the 
Project Provinces, with particular attention to girls and children from minority 
communities, (2) expanding the provision of quality junior secondary education in such 
areas, and (3) strengthening institutional capabilities to deliver primary and junior 
secondary education efficiently and effectively in such areas.
Page  9
The Project consists of the following parts, subject to such modifications 
thereof as the Borrower and the Association may agree upon from time to time to 
achieve such objectives:
Part A:
Carrying out, in the Project Provinces, of programs to improve the delivery of 
education at primary and junior secondary schools, consisting of one or more of the 
following activities:
(1)
upgrading, expansion, construction, repair and maintenance of primary and 
junior secondary schools;
(2)
provision and maintenance of instructional equipment and materials 
(including culturally appropriate books and materials in local languages) and 
furniture to such schools, provision of training to staff in instructional equipment 
utilization and establishment, on a pilot basis in one Project Province, of a textbook 
rental scheme to assist in reducing the costs of textbooks for poor children and in 
enhancing the efficient use of educational resources;
(3)
establishment of a student assistance program to assist poor children in 
defraying schooling related costs, including school fees and textbooks;
(4)
development and implementation of in-service training programs to upgrade 
the professional skills of primary and junior secondary school teachers, technical and 
administrative staff and principals of such schools, as well as their trainers, with a 
particular focus on bilingual, science and multigrade teaching skills, and management 
and development of culturally appropriate curricular materials;
(5)
development of a teacher services network to support the professional 
development of village level teachers, through carrying out of village-level needs 
assessments, and, on the basis of these assessments, development of programs to 
address teachers’ needs, and provision of staff, equipment and materials to selected 
schools to serve as hubs of the network;
(6)
development of programs to improve normal school training, such programs 
to focus on upgrading the teaching skills of normal school teachers, provision of 
instructional equipment and materials; and
(7)
dissemination of the results of experimental programs designed to improve 
the efficient and effective delivery of quality education to poor and minority 
communities and to reduce the number of school dropouts among girls and children from 
minority populations resulting from culturally inappropriate curricular material and 
teaching methods.
Part B:
(1)
Development and implementation in the Project Provinces of management 
training programs for school administrators, with a particular focus on programs for 
administrators of schools serving minority populations, and training programs in 
Project implementation for local staff responsible for Project implementation and 
supervision.
(2)
Development and introduction in the Project Provinces of an education 
management information system, including the provision of equipment and training 
required therefor.
Part C:
Strengthening by the Borrower of institutional capabilities in respect of the 
delivery of education, through the:
(1)
development and implementation of education management training programs 
for provincial-level education administrators and of training programs in management 
of the Project for provincial-level staff responsible for Project implementation and 
supervision; and
Page  10
(2)
establishment, staffing and operation of a panel of experts to assist in 
overseeing and assessing the Project and to provide technical advice on Project 
implementation.
*        *      *
The Project is expected to be completed by June 30, 2002.
SCHEDULE 3
Procurement
Section I.
Procurement of Goods and Works
Part A:
General
Goods and works shall be procured in accordance with the provisions of Section I 
of the "Guidelines for Procurement under IBRD Loans and IDA Credits" published by the 
Bank in January 1995 and revised in January and August 1996 (the Guidelines) and the 
following provisions of this Section.
Part B:
International Competitive Bidding
1.
Except as otherwise provided in Part C of this Section, goods shall be procured 
under contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions of Section II of the 
Guidelines and paragraph 5 of Appendix 1 thereto.
2.
The following provisions shall apply to goods to be procured under contracts 
awarded in accordance with the provisions of paragraph 1 of this Part B.
(a)
Grouping of contracts
To the extent practicable, contracts for goods shall be grouped into bid 
packages estimated to cost the equivalent of $200,000 or more each.
(b)
Preference for domestically manufactured goods
The provisions of paragraphs 2.54 and 2.55 of the Guidelines and Appendix 2 
thereto shall apply to goods manufactured in the territory of the Borrower.
Part C:
Other Procurement Procedures
1.
Works
(a)
National Competitive Bidding
Except as provided in Parts C.1(b) and C.1(c) of this Section I, works shall be 
procured under contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions of paragraphs 3.3 
and 3.4 of the Guidelines.
(b)
Procurement of Small Works
Works estimated to cost less than $100,000 equivalent per contract, up to an 
aggregate amount not to exceed $60,000,000 equivalent, may be procured under lump-sum, 
fixed-price contracts awarded on the basis of quotations obtained from three (3) 
qualified domestic contractors in response to a written invitation. The invitation 
shall include a detailed description of the works, including basic specifications, the 
required completion date, a basic form of agreement acceptable to the Association, and 
relevant drawings, where applicable. The award shall be made to the contractor who 
offers the lowest price quotation for the required work, and who has the experience 
and resources to complete the contract successfully.
(c)
Force Account
Minor repairs and works which meet the requirements of paragraph 3.8 of the 
Guidelines, and cost in the aggregate an amount not to exceed $25,500,000 equivalent, 
Page  11
may, with the Association's prior agreement, be carried out by force account in 
accordance with the provisions of said paragraph of the Guidelines.
2.
Goods
(a)
National Competitive Bidding
Except as provided in Part C.2(b) of this Section I, goods (other than books) 
estimated to cost less than $200,000 equivalent per contract, up to an aggregate 
amount not to exceed $32,000,000 equivalent, and books, regardless of the cost 
thereof, may be procured under contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions of 
paragraphs 3.3 and 3.4 of the Guidelines.
(b)
National Shopping
Goods (other than books) estimated to cost less than $30,000 equivalent per 
contract, up to an aggregate amount not to exceed $5,100,000 equivalent or less in the 
aggregate, may be procured under contracts awarded on the basis of national shopping 
procedures in accordance with the provisions of paragraphs 3.5 and 3.6 of the 
Guidelines.
Part D:
Review by the Association of Procurement Decisions
1.
Procurement Planning
Prior to the issuance of any invitations to prequalify for bidding or to bid for 
contracts, the proposed procurement plan for the Project shall be furnished to the 
Association for its review and approval, in accordance with the provisions of 
paragraph 1 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines. Procurement of all goods and works shall 
be undertaken in accordance with such procurement plan as shall have been approved by 
the Association, and with the provisions of said paragraph 1.
2.
Prior Review
With respect to the following contracts, the procedures set forth in paragraphs 
2 and 3 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines shall apply:
(a)
in each calendar year, the first two contracts for works procured by each 
Project Province in accordance with the provisions of Part C.1(a) of this Section I 
for which invitations to bid are issued in that calendar year;
(b)
each contract for works estimated to cost the equivalent of $200,000 or 
more; and
(c)
the first two contracts for goods procured by each Project Province in 
accordance with the provisions of Part C.2(a) of this Section I, and thereafter, each 
contract for goods estimated to cost the equivalent of $200,000 or more.
3.
Post Review
With respect to each contract not governed by paragraph 2 of this Part, the 
procedures set forth in paragraph 4 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines shall apply.
Section II.
Employment of Consultants
Part A:
General
Consultants’ services shall be procured in accordance with the provisions of the 
Introduction and Section IV of the “Guidelines:  Selection and Employment of 
Consultants by World Bank Borrowers” published by the Bank in January 1997 (the 
Consultant Guidelines) and the following provisions of Section II of this Schedule.
Part B:
Quality- and Cost-based Selection
Except as otherwise provided in Part C of this Section, consultants’ services 
shall be procured under contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions of Section 
II of the Consultant Guidelines, paragraph 3 of Appendix 1 thereto, Appendix 2 
Page  12
thereto, and the provisions of paragraphs 3.13 through 3.18 thereof applicable to 
quality- and cost-based selection of consultants.
Part C:
Other Procedures for the Selection of Consultants
Individual Consultants
Services for tasks that meet the requirements set forth in paragraph 5.01 of the 
Consultant Guidelines shall be procured under contracts awarded to individual 
consultants in accordance with the provisions of paragraphs 5.1 through 5.3 of the 
Consultant Guidelines.
Part D:
Review by the Association of the Selection of Consultants
1.
Selection Planning Prior to the issuance to consultants of any requests for 
proposals, the proposed plan for the selection of consultants under the Project shall 
be furnished to the Association for its review and approval, in accordance with the 
provisions of paragraph 1 of Appendix 1 to the Consultant Guidelines.  Selection of 
all consultants’ services shall be undertaken in accordance with such selection plan 
as shall have been approved by the Association, and with the provisions of said 
paragraph 1.
2.
Prior Review
(a)
With respect to each contract for the employment of consulting firms 
estimated to cost the equivalent of $100,000 or more, the procedures set forth in 
paragraphs 1, 2 (other than the third subparagraph of paragraph 2(a)) and 5 of 
Appendix 1 to the Consultant Guidelines shall apply.
(b)
With respect to each contract for the employment of individual 
consultants estimated to cost the equivalent of $50,000 or more, the references for, 
and qualifications and terms of reference of, the consultants and the terms of their 
employment shall be furnished to the Association for its prior review and approval.  
The contract shall be awarded only after said approval shall have been given.
3.
Post Review
With respect to each contract not governed by paragraph 2 of this Part, the 
procedures set forth in paragraph 4 of Appendix 1 to the Consultant Guidelines shall 
apply.
SCHEDULE 4
Implementation Program
The provisions of this Schedule shall apply for the purposes of Section 3.01(b) 
of this Agreement.
A.
Project Management
In order to ensure the proper carrying out of the Project, the Borrower shall 
maintain throughout the period of Project implementation, with terms of reference, 
membership and other resources acceptable to the Association:
1.
a Project office within SEdC, which shall report to a Vice Chairman of SEdC, to 
be responsible for coordination and oversight of the Project at national, provincial 
and local levels, implementation of Part C of the Project, supervision of procurement 
under the Project, and preparation of the reports referred to in Part B of this 
Schedule; and
2.
the CEP with responsibility for (a) providing technical advice to Project 
Provinces on the development and implementation of their Education Programs, and to 
SEdC on the development and implementation of training programs under Part C of the 
Project, and (b) assisting in carrying out the monitoring activities referred to in 
Part B of this Schedule.
B.
Monitoring and Reporting
Page  13
Without limitation upon the provisions of Section 9.06 of the General 
Conditions, the Borrower shall, through SEdC:
1.
maintain operational procedures adequate to enable it to monitor and evaluate, 
in accordance with indicators acceptable to the Association, (a) progress in the 
carrying out of the Project, (b) progress in the carrying out by each Project Province 
of its respective Non-Project Counties Program, and (c) the impact of the Project on 
the educational achievement of primary and junior secondary school students in the 
Project Provinces;
2.
prepare, in accordance with guidelines acceptable to the Association, and 
furnish to the Association:
(a)
an annual report, not later than April 1 in each calendar year, 
summarizing the monitoring and evaluation activities carried out by it pursuant to 
Part B.1 above in respect of the preceding calendar year, consolidating the reports 
furnished to it by each Project Province pursuant to Part B.7(a) of the Annex to this 
Schedule, and setting forth proposed measures, indicated by said monitoring and 
evaluation activities, to further the objectives of the Project; and
(b)
a mid-term report, not later than June 30, 2000, summarizing the 
monitoring and evaluation activities carried out by it pursuant to Part B.1 above from 
the inception of the Project, consolidating the reports furnished to it by each 
Project Province pursuant to Part B.7(b) of the Annex to this Schedule, and setting 
forth any proposed measures, indicated by said monitoring and evaluation activities, 
to further the objectives of the Project and of each Project Province's respective 
Non-Project Counties Program; and
3.
exchange views with the Association on each report furnished by the Borrower 
pursuant to Part B.2 above, and thereafter, take all such measures in relation 
thereto, as shall have been agreed between the Borrower and the Association.
C.
National Management and Teacher Training Programs
The Borrower shall:
(a)
prepare, in accordance with guidelines satisfactory to the Association, 
and furnish to the Association not later than October 31 in each calendar year for 
review and approval, a proposed action plan for the carrying out of Part C of the 
Project during the following calendar year; and 
(b)
thereafter carry out such action plan as shall have been approved by the 
Association.
D.
Education Program Implementation Agreements
1.
Each Project Province shall furnish to the Association for its prior approval, 
the program which it proposes to include in the Project as its Education Program.  
Each such program shall qualify as an Education Program eligible for financing out of 
the proceeds of the Credit only if and to the extent the Association shall have 
notified the Borrower and said Project Province of the Association’s approval of said 
program.
2.
For the purposes of the carrying out by each Project Province of its respective 
Education Program, the Borrower shall allocate to said Project Province an amount of 
the Credit, under an agreement to be entered into by the Borrower and said Project 
Province, in accordance with the provisions set forth in the Annex to this Schedule.
3.
The Borrower shall:
(a)
(i) cause each Project Province to perform, in accordance with the 
provisions of the Education Program Implementation Agreement to which said Project 
Province is a party, all of the obligations of said Project Province therein set 
forth; (ii) take or cause to be taken all action, including the provision of funds, 
facilities, services and other resources, necessary or appropriate to enable said 
Project Province to perform such obligations; and (iii) not take or permit to be taken 
Page  14
any action which would prevent or interfere with such performance; and
(b)
exercise its rights under each of the Education Program Implementation 
Agreements in such manner as to protect the interests of the Borrower and the 
Association and to accomplish the purposes of the Credit, and except as the 
Association shall otherwise agree, not assign, amend, abrogate, or waive any of the 
Education Program Implementation Agreements or any provision thereof.
ANNEX to SCHEDULE 4
For the purposes of Part D.2 of Schedule 4 to this Agreement, the Education 
Program Implementation Agreements shall include the following provisions.
A.
Terms
1.
The principal amount of the Allocated Amount which shall be recovered by the 
Borrower from each Project Province: 
(a)
shall be the equivalent in terms of SDR (determined on the date or 
respective dates of withdrawal from the Credit Account) of the value of the currency 
or currencies so withdrawn or paid out, on account of the cost of goods and services 
for said Project Province's respective Education Program to be financed out of the 
proceeds of the Credit; and
(b)
shall be recovered by the Borrower in dollars in an amount equal to the 
equivalent (determined as of the date or respective dates of repayment) of the amount 
referred to in Part A.1(a) of this Annex.
2.
The amount referred to in Part A.1(b) of this Annex shall be recovered by the 
Borrower over a period of seventeen (17) years, inclusive of a grace period of five 
(5) years. 
3.
Interest shall be charged on the amount referred to in Part A.1(b) of this Annex 
and withdrawn and remaining unrecovered from time to time, at a rate equal to or less 
than one and two-tenths of a percent (1.2%) per annum.
4.
Each Project Province shall undertake to make available to each of its Project 
Counties part of the proceeds of its Allocated Amount either on a grant basis or on 
other terms whereby:
(a)
the amount so made available which shall be recovered by said Project 
Province from said Project County shall be the equivalent in RMB (determined on the 
date or respective dates of withdrawal from the Credit Account) of the value of the 
currency or currencies so withdrawn or paid out, on account of the cost of goods and 
services for the part of said Education Program to be carried out in said Project 
County and to be financed out of the proceeds of the Credit;
(b)
the principal amount so made available shall be recovered by said Project 
Province over a period of not less than the number of years which said Project 
Province shall have in which to repay its Allocated Amount to the Borrower under Part 
A.1 of this Annex, inclusive of a grace period of not less than the number of years of 
grace granted to said Project Province pursuant to Part A.2 of this Annex; and 
(c)
interest, if any, shall be charged on the principal amount so made 
available and withdrawn and remaining unrecovered from time to time, at a rate which 
shall not exceed the rate of interest payable by said Project Province pursuant to 
Part A.3 of this Annex.
B.
Conditions
Implementation
1.
Each Project Province shall undertake to carry out its respective Education 
Program with due diligence and efficiency, and in conformity with appropriate 
economic, financial, administrative, technical and education practices, and provide, 
or cause to be provided, promptly as needed, the funds, facilities, services and other 
resources required therefor.
Page  15
2.
Without limitation upon the foregoing, each Project Province shall establish 
under its Education Program, and thereafter at all times operate, on the basis of 
guidelines acceptable to the Association, the student assistance program referred to 
in Part A(3) of the Project.  Under said program said province shall maintain a 
student assistance account in a commercial bank, into which funds to be utilized in 
providing student assistance shall be deposited.  Each Project Province other than a 
Qinba Province shall furnish said program (including the proposed amount to be 
deposited initially into said account) to the Association not later than August 1, 
1998 for its comments, and establish said program and deposit said initial amount in 
said account, not later than September 1, 1998, taking into account the comments of 
the Association on the matter.
3.
Each Project Province shall undertake to:
(a)
prepare, in accordance with guidelines satisfactory to the Association, 
and furnish to the Borrower and the Association not later than October 31 in each 
calendar year for review and approval, a proposed action plan for the carrying out of 
its Education Program during the following calendar year, said plan to include a 
proposed construction and maintenance program and training program, as well as a 
financing plan therefor, and a program to ensure the participation of village-level 
education committees in the implementation of the Project; and 
(b)
thereafter carry out such Education Program in accordance with such 
action plan as shall have been approved by the Borrower and the Association.
4.
Each Project Province shall undertake to:
(a)
procure the goods, works and services required for its Education Program 
to be financed out of the proceeds of the Credit in accordance with the provisions of 
Schedule 3 to this Agreement; 
(b)
insure said goods against hazards incident to the acquisition, 
transportation and delivery thereof to the place of use or installation, any indemnity 
thereunder to be made payable in a currency freely usable by said Project Province to 
replace or repair such goods; 
(c)
utilize such goods, works and services exclusively for the purposes of 
carrying out its Education Program;
(d)
enable the Association and the Borrower to examine such goods and all 
facilities, sites and works included in its Education Program, the operation thereof 
and any relevant records and documents; and
(e)
at all times operate and maintain any facilities, equipment and other 
property relevant to its Education Program, and promptly, as needed, make all 
necessary repairs and renewals thereof, all in accordance with sound engineering, 
financial, administrative and education practices.
Management
5.
In order to facilitate the implementation of its Education Program, each Project 
Province shall undertake to maintain the following offices throughout the period of 
implementation thereof, with terms of reference, membership, staffing and other 
resources satisfactory to the Association:
(a)
a provincial project office, headed by a director of the Provincial 
Education Commission, which shall report to the Governor of said Project Province and 
to the SEdC, to be responsible for planning and coordinating the implementation of its 
Education Program; and 
(b)
within each of its Project Counties, a project office, headed by a 
director of the Education Bureau, which shall report to the Magistrate of said county, 
to be responsible for supervising the carrying out of those activities under its 
Education Program which are to be carried out in said Project County.
Monitoring
Page  16
6.
Each Project Province shall undertake to maintain operational procedures 
adequate to enable said Project Province to monitor and evaluate, in accordance with 
indicators acceptable to the Association, (a) progress in the carrying out of its 
Education Program, (b) the impact of said Education Program on the educational 
achievement of its primary and junior secondary school students, and (c) progress in 
the carrying out of its Non-Project Counties Program.
Reporting
7.
Each Project Province shall undertake to prepare, in accordance with guidelines 
acceptable to the Association, and furnish to Borrower: 
(a)
an annual report, not later than March 1 of each year, for consolidation 
in each report to be furnished by the Borrower to the Association pursuant to the 
provisions of Part B.2(a) of Schedule 4 to this Agreement, summarizing the monitoring 
and evaluation activities carried out by it pursuant to Part B.6 of this Annex in 
respect of the preceding fiscal year, and setting forth any proposed measures, 
indicated by said monitoring and evaluation activities, to further the objectives of 
its Education Program; and 
(b)
a mid-term report, not later than March 1, 2000 for consolidation in the 
report to be furnished to the Association pursuant to the provisions of Part B.2(b) of 
Schedule 4 to this Agreement, summarizing the monitoring and evaluation activities 
carried out by it pursuant to Part B.6 of this Annex from the inception of the 
Project, and setting forth any proposed measures, indicated by said monitoring and 
evaluation activities, to further the objectives of its Education Program and its 
Non-Project Counties Program.
Consultation
8.
Each Project Province shall undertake to exchange views with the Borrower and 
the Association on each report furnished by it pursuant to Part B.7 of this Annex, and 
thereafter, take all such measures in relation thereto, as shall have been agreed 
among the Borrower, the Association and said Project Province.
Financial Reporting
9.
Each Project Province shall undertake to:
(a)
maintain or cause to be maintained records and accounts adequate to 
reflect in accordance with sound accounting practices the operations, resources and 
expenditures in respect of its Education Program of its departments or agencies 
responsible for carrying out said Education Program or any part thereof; 
(b)
have said records and accounts, for each fiscal year audited, in 
accordance with appropriate auditing principles consistently applied, by independent 
auditors acceptable to the Association; 
(c)
furnish to the Borrower, as soon as available, but in any case not later 
than six (6) months after the end of each such year, for consolidation and forwarding 
to the Association pursuant to the provisions of Section 4.01(b) of this Agreement, a 
certified copy of the report of such audit by said auditors, of such scope and in such 
detail as the Association shall have reasonably requested; and 
(d)
furnish to the Borrower and/or the Association such other information 
concerning said records, accounts and the audit thereof as the Borrower (or the 
Association, as the case may be) shall from time to time reasonably request.
Non-Project Counties Program
10.
Each Project Province, other than a Qinba Province, shall undertake to carry out 
a program, acceptable to the Association, designed to ensure the continued 
achievement, in its Non-Project Counties of educational targets acceptable to the 
Association, throughout the period of Project implementation.
SCHEDULE 5
Page  17
Special Account
1.
For the purposes of this Schedule:
(a)
the term "eligible Categories" means Categories (1), (2) , (3) and (4) 
set forth in the table in paragraph 1 of Schedule 1 to this Agreement;
(b)
the term "eligible expenditures" means expenditures in respect of the 
reasonable cost of goods and services required for the Project and to be financed out 
of the proceeds of the Credit allocated from time to time to the eligible Categories 
in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1 to this Agreement; and
(c)
the term "Authorized Allocation" means an amount equivalent to $6,500,000 
to be withdrawn from the Credit Account and deposited in the Special Account pursuant 
to paragraph 3(a) of this Schedule, provided, however, that unless the Association 
shall otherwise agree, the Authorized Allocation shall be limited to an amount 
equivalent to $4,000,000 until the aggregate amount of withdrawals from the Credit 
Account plus the total amount of all outstanding special commitments entered into by 
the Association pursuant to Section 5.02 of the General Conditions shall be equal to 
or exceed the equivalent of SDR 20,000,000.
2.
Payments out of the Special Account shall be made exclusively for eligible 
expenditures in accordance with the provisions of this Schedule.
3. 
After the Association has received evidence satisfactory to it that the Special 
Account has been duly opened, withdrawals of the Authorized Allocation and subsequent 
withdrawals to replenish the Special Account shall be made as follows:
(a) 
For withdrawals of the Authorized Allocation, the Borrower shall furnish 
to the Association a request or requests for a deposit or deposits which do not exceed 
the aggregate amount of the Authorized Allocation. On the basis of such request or 
requests, the Association shall, on behalf of the Borrower, withdraw from the Credit 
Account and deposit in the Special Account such amount or amounts as the Borrower 
shall have requested.
(b)
(i)
For replenishment of the Special Account, the Borrower shall 
furnish to the 
Association requests for deposits into the 
Special Account at such intervals as the 
Association shall specify.
 
(ii)
Prior to or at the time of each such request, the Borrower shall 
furnish to the 
Association the documents and other evidence 
required pursuant to paragraph 4 of 
this Schedule for the 
payment or payments in respect of which replenishment is 
requested.  On the basis of each such request, the Association shall, on behalf of 
the Borrower, withdraw from the Credit Account and deposit into the 
Special Account 
such amount as the Borrower shall have requested and 
as shall have been shown by 
said documents and other evidence 
to have been paid out of the Special Account for 
eligible 
expenditures.
All such deposits shall be withdrawn by the Association from the Credit Account under 
the respective eligible Categories, and in the respective equivalent amounts, as shall 
have been justified by said documents and other evidence.
4. 
For each payment made by the Borrower out of the Special Account, the Borrower 
shall, at such time as the Association shall reasonably request, furnish to the 
Association such documents and other evidence showing that such payment was made 
exclusively for eligible expenditures.
5. 
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 3 of this Schedule, the Association 
shall not be required to make further deposits into the Special Account:
(a)
if, at any time, the Association shall have determined that all further 
withdrawals should be made by the Borrower directly from the Credit Account in 
accordance with the provisions of Article V of the General Conditions and paragraph 
Page  18
(a) of Section 2.02 of this Agreement;
(b)
if the Borrower shall have failed to furnish to the Association, within 
the period of time specified in Section 4.01(b)(ii) of this Agreement, any of the 
audit reports required to be furnished to the Association pursuant to said Section in 
respect of the audit of the records and accounts for the Special Account;
(c)
if, at any time, the Association shall have notified the Borrower of its 
intention to suspend in whole or in part the right of the Borrower to make withdrawals 
from the Credit Account pursuant to the provisions of Section 6.02 of the General 
Conditions; or
(d)
once the total unwithdrawn amount of the Credit allocated to the eligible 
Categories, less the amount of any outstanding special commitment entered into by the 
Association pursuant to Section 5.02 of the General Conditions with respect to the 
Project, shall equal the equivalent of twice the amount of the Authorized Allocation.
Thereafter, withdrawal from the Credit Account of the remaining unwithdrawn amount of 
the Credit allocated to the eligible Categories shall follow such procedures as the 
Association shall specify by notice to the Borrower.  Such further withdrawals shall 
be made only after and to the extent that the Association shall have been satisfied 
that all such amounts remaining on deposit in the Special Account as of the date of 
such notice will be utilized in making payments for eligible expenditures.
6. 
(a)
If the Association shall have determined at any time that any payment out 
of the Special Account: (i) was made for an expenditure or in an amount not eligible 
pursuant to paragraph 2 of this Schedule; or (ii) was not justified by the evidence 
furnished to the Association, the Borrower shall, promptly upon notice from the 
Association: (A) provide such additional evidence as the Association may request; or 
(B) deposit into the Special Account (or, if the Association shall so request, refund 
to the Association) an amount equal to the amount of such payment or the portion 
thereof not so eligible or justified.  Unless the Association shall otherwise agree, 
no further deposit by the Association into the Special Account shall be made until the 
Borrower has provided such evidence or made such deposit or refund, as the case may 
be.
(b)
If the Association shall have determined at any time that any amount 
outstanding in the Special Account will not be required to cover further payments for 
eligible expenditures, the Borrower shall, promptly upon notice from the Association, 
refund to the Association such outstanding amount.
(c)
The Borrower may, upon notice to the Association, refund to the 
Association all or any portion of the funds on deposit in the Special Account.
(d)
Refunds to the Association made pursuant to paragraphs 6(a), (b) and (c) 
of this Schedule shall be credited to the Credit Account for subsequent withdrawal or 
for cancellation in accordance with the relevant provisions of this Agreement, 
including the General Conditions.
