Documert of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
J7~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~.
Report No. P-4765-TO
REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION
OF THE
PRESIDENT OF THE
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
TO THE
EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS  -
ON A
PROPOS8D CREDIT OF SDR 33 MILLION
TO THE
REPUBLIC OF TOGO
FOR A
THIRD STRUCTURAL ADJUSTMENT PROGRAM
March 7, 1988
IWs document has a restrced distibuton and may be used by  ents only In the perfonnance of
their offical dnie  Its content may not otherwise be disciesed wft  Wodd Bank authorztin



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
The CFA franc (CFAF) is tied to the French franc (FF) in the
ratio of FF 1 to CFAF 50.  The French franc is currently
floating.  The rate of CFAF 275 to the US dollar is used for the
economic projections beginning 1988.
SYSTEM OF WEIGHTS AND MEASURES (METRIC)
1 meter (m)                    =    3.28 feet (ft)
1 kilometer (km)               -    0.62 mile (mi)
1 square kilometer (km2             0.39 square mile (sq mi)
1 metric ton (t)               -    2,205 pounds (lb)
FISCAL YEAR
January 1 -'December 31
GLOSSARY OF ACRONYMS
AfDF      African Development Fund
BCEAO     Banque Centrale des Etats de l'Afrique de l'Ouest
CIR       Comite Interministeriel Restraint
CCCE      Caisse Centrale de Cooperation Economic (France)
CFT       Chemins de Fer du Togo - -
EDF       European Development Fund,
IDA       International Development Association
IMF       International Monetary Fund
NGO       Non-governmental organizations
OPAT      Office des Produits Agricoles Togolais
OTP       Office Togolais du Phosphate
QECF      Overseas Economic Cooperation Fund (Japan)
SAL       Structural Adjustment Lending
SDR       Special Drawing Right
SJF       Special Joint Financing
SONACOM   Societe Nationale de Commerce
SOTOCO    Soci$te Togolaise du Coton
TGA       taxe Generale des Affaires
UMOA      Union Mon6taire Ouest Africaine
UNDP      United Nations Development Program
USAID     United States Agency for International Development



- OR OMFICIAL USE ONLY
REPUBLIC OF TM0.
THIa  STRUCTURAL ADJUSTMENT CREDI-
Table of Contents
Pawe
CrW it Sumary                                                     iii
PART I - THE ECONOMY
Background ..............
Current Issues and the Medium Term Outlook                    3
PART II - THE GOVEMN TS STRUCTURAL ADJUSTMENT PROGRAM
O!Jectives and Strategy        ..................             4
Agriculture .......................                           5
Industry and Commerce...........................   11
Parastatal Sector Management ......... ...................    14
Public Resource ManaSement ............                      17
PART In - ECONOMIC AND FINANCIAL IMPACT OF THE PROGRAM -
AND THE SOCIAL DIMENSION OF ADJUSTM
Projected Nedium Term Growth Prospects ..................    20
Ixteral Financlng Requirements.....,,"........               24
The Social Dimnsion of Adjustment....' '--  26 -- -..=... 2
Benefits and Risks               ... .......   28
PART IV - THE PROPOSED CREDIT
inancing.'i ...                                             29
Monitorable Actions ............                             30
Management and Administration of the SAL Program.....*.....   32
Coordination with the DM   ... .............. .  32
Procurement and Disbursement Conditions ........,........    33
PART V - BANM  GROUP OPERATIONS AND STATEGY    S33
PART VI - RE      COMMENRATION    35
Asnex I:    Social Indicators
Anne: IIt  Medium Term Economic and Financial Projections
Annex III:  Supplementary Loan Data Sheet
Anne: IV:   Status of World Bank Loans and Credits
Annex VI   Government's Statement of Development Policy
Map IBID 20742
Ths document has a esftod ditdbuton and may be usd by repionts ony  th poefomiw e
of thei officW dutLs Its contents may not othrwi be discls whout World Dank authoritlon.
-   -                                     J~~~~~~~"



- ii$i-
REPUBLIC OP TOGO
THIED STRUCTURAL ADJUSTMENT CREDIT
Credit Summary
Borrowers      Republic of Togo
Amounts:       IDA Credits $DR 33 million
Term:          Standard IDA with 40 years' maturity
Co-financings  African Development Funds U/A 15 million (US$ 17.3 million)
Government of Japan SJF:  Yen 1,900 million (US$14.9
million) OECF credit and Yen 750 million (US$ 5.9
million) grant, the latter to be administered by IDA.
Program
Descrintions   The Credit would support the third phase of the
Government's adjustment program for addressing key
macro-economic and sectoral issues facing Togo over the
medium term. The objective of the program is to achieve a
sustained level of growth of close to five percent per annum
by the early 19908. The major elements of the program are
flexible agricultura, producer pricing in response to world
market conditions, a new industrial incentive system
complementing the enterprise privatizatioi effort, a new
legal framework for the parastatal sector and transparency
In public enterprise accounts, reforms in fiscal policy to
replace structurally the agricultural and phosphate taxation
of former years. and a strengthened public investment
program. To achieve these objectives, detailed action
programs for agriculture, industry and commerce, parastatal
sector management and public resource management would be
implemented over the next eighteen months. Further, the
Government will seek debt rescheduling on favorable terms as
a pre-condition for mobilizing non-project concessional aid
to meet its external financing requirements. The foreign
exchange provided under the Credit would be used to finance
essential imports.
Risks:         The main risks associated with the proposed operation are
the uncertainty of world prices for the main export
commodities, a weaker than expected response from the
private sector and the possibility that the Government's
implementftion capacity could be overtaxed by the
comprehensive nature of the reform program.



Estimated
Disbursements: The Credit vould be available for 4isbursement in two
tranches. The first tranche of US$20 million equivalent
would be available upon effectiveness, and the second
tranche of US$25 million equivalent upon satisfactory
progress in implementing the program. A performance review
would be carried out in May 1989.
\'



INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENS ASSOCIATION
REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION OF THE PRESIDENT
TO THE EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS
ON A PROPOSED DEVELOPMENT CREDIT OF SDR 33 MILLION
TO TIE REPUBLIC OF TOGO FOR A
THIRD STRUCTURAL ADJUSTMENT PROGRAM
1.        I submit.the following report and recommendation on a proposed
Development Credit of SDR 33 million (US$45.0 million equivalent) on
standard IDA terms to the Republic of Togso to support the Government's
third structural adjustment program.
PART I - THE ECONOMY
2.        An economic memorandum (Report No. 3416-TO) was distributed to
the Board in February 1982. A new economic memorandum (Report No. 6944-TO)
was discussed with the Government in December 1987 and will be distributed
to the Board in April 1988. The report which follows is based on the
conclusions and recomzendations of the latter economic memorandum as well
as the findings of recqnt economic missions. Updated country data appear
in Annex II.
Backro.und
3.        A small country located on the Gulf of Guinea in Western Africa,
Togo is relatively well endowed in terms of agricultural and mineral
resources and is served by a well-developed highway network linking its
capital and principal port, Lome, with neighboring Benin, Ghana and Burkina
Faso. About 80 percent of Togo's 3 million inhabitants derive their
incomes from a poor though diverse rural sector producing foodcrops as well
as coffee, cocoa and cotton for export. The economy is also sustained by a
robust. small-scale comerci.l sector and a phosphate mining operation.
Its well-managed banking system serves the entire subregion. Togo is
relatively poor, however, with average GNP per capita of only US$240
equivalent in 1986.
4.        With phosphate mining its principal source of growth and
Government revenue, the Togolese economy enjoyed moderately strong growth
and financial stability for a decade and a half up through the early
1970's.  Beginning in late 1974, a series of external 'shocks," coupled
with weak national economic management, profoundly affected the Togolese
economy for a period of nearly ten years. Buoyed by a quadrupling of
phosphate prices in late 1974 and a consequent near doubling of its own
budgetary revenue in 1975, the Government embarked on an ambitious public
investment program and creation of public enterprises in the secondary
sector. Its objectives were heavy industrialization and rapid
modernization of the economy. Togo's phosphate boom was unfortunately



-2-
short-lived, but was followed in 1975-76 by a coffee/cocoa boom. To
support further its new objectives, the Government engaged In heavy
external borrowing, increasingly on comnercial terms. By 1978, the ratio
of investment to GDP had climbed to an extra&rdinary 46 percent of GDP.
International coffee and cocoa prices as well as phosphate prices were by
that time well below 3boom levels, however, and Togo began to incur large
payments arrears on its external debt. Moreover, the incremental phosphate
and coffeelcocoa receipts and the new foreign borrowing having been applied
to a poorly prepared public investment program and public enterprises which
proved unviable, the economy lacked a stimulus for renewed growth in the
early 1980's. Instead it was saddled with heavy external debt and a large
number of financially unviable enterprises.
5.        The Government had initiated stabilization measures in 1979, but
it was only under more rigorous programs adopted with the IMP for 1983-84
and 1984-85, complemented by fourth and fifth round debt reschedulings,
that Togo began to reduce its external and domestic deficits substantially.
Over the three-year period up through 1985, the Government reduced its
personnel outlays through a freeze on salaries and a 17 percent cut in
staff by a policy of attrition which, together with a significant rise in
domestic receipts, brought the fiscal deficit down from 8.8 percent of GDP
in 1982 to 6.6 percent in 1985. Concurrently, the Government launched the
first phases of its structural adjustment program, supported by IDA with
SAL I in June 1983 and SAL II in May 1985.
6.        The Government's major achievement under SALs I and II was a very
substantial improvement in farmer incomes and incentives through the
lifting of agricultural producer prices. From the 1983/84 through the
1986/87 crop years, prices for Togo's three principal export crops --
coffee, cocoa and cotton -- were raised in real terms by 29, 20 and 25
percent, respectively. Supply responses have been favorable, especially in
the coffee and cotton sub-sectors; cotton production has soared and coffee
has gained importantly, while earlier declines in cocoa production have
been arrestes. Stimulated largely by the continuing price increases
complemented by well organized project institutions, incomes of coffee,
cocoa and cotton farmers together are tstimated to have risen by 132
percent in nominal terms in the 1982-86 period, or by 97 percent in real
terms. Significant progress was also made under SALs I and II in
liberalizing foodgrain marketing, in disengaging the State from commercial
and industrial activity, some 19 enterprises having been closed or
privatized, and in reorienting the public investment program in favor of
directly productive undertakings.
7.        The immediate impact of measures taken under SALs I and II was to
reverse a negative trend in real output incurred in the 1980-83 period
largely as a result of the poor economic management of the 1970's.
Stimulated by the enhanced incentives in the agricultural sector, the
privatization of a number of former public enterprises and a rise in
directly productive investment, the economy enjoyed an average rate of
growth of close to 3.0 percent annually in 1985-86, slightly below that of
population growth.



-3-
8.        This modest resumption of economic growth notwithstanding,
financial deterioration rapidly took hold in the second half of 1986.
Principal factors were falling world market prices for the three major
export crops and a sharp fall in phosphate export sales, coupled with
Togo's continuing need to meet exceptionally heavy debt service obligations
and, in late 1986, a spurt of extrabudgetary spending by the Government.
The result was a tripling of the fiscal deficit and a similar re-opening of
the overall balance of payments deficit, these deficits having been met
principally through a rapid accuulation of payments arrears, which by the
end of 1987 had reached an estimated FCFA 33 billion (US$110 million).
9.        As a result of the extrabudgetary spending of late 1986 and the
Government's inability to secure targeted transfers to the Budget from the
agricultural export marketing board (OPAT) and the phosphate enterprise
(OTP), the 22-month IMF stand by program approved in June 1986 became
inoperative as of early 1987. However, a new 13-month program for 1988-89,
to be supported by both a stand by arrangement and SAP resources, was
approved by the IMF Board in March 1988.
Current Issues and the Medium Tenm Outlook
10.       Despite progress in the past few years towards regaining adequate
and sustainable rates of growth, the Togolese economy is yet faced with
major structural imbalances and its growth potential remains to be fully
exploited. For the medium term, this growth potential lies principally in
agriculture and light industry.  In agriculture, despite recent and
forecast declines in world market conditions, there is considerable scope
for further expansion of coffee, cotton and foodcrop production. In
industry, the resumption of activities of several major privatized
industrial units and the supply responses of small- and medium-scale
enterprises to appropriate incentives should lead to relatively rapid
increases in output, notably for export.
11.       This growth potential notwithstanding, the medium term outlook
for the Togolese economy is one of continuing external constraints, given
an exceptionally heavy debt burden (debt outstanding and disbursed
equivalent to 85 percent of GDP at end-1986) and international price
prospects for Togo's principal exports. First, Togo's scheduled external
debt service obligations, being severely 'bunched" over the next 2-3 years,
would constitute an exceptional burden on the balance of payments and the
Treasury in the absence of rescheduling. Having already undertaken five
such exercises since 1979, the Government has requested further
rescheduling on the part of both the Paris Club and its uninsured -
commercial bank creditors in late March of this year.
12.       Secondly, Togo's overall terms of trade, which have already
suffered a decline by nearly 10 percent over the past three years, are
expected to continue their fall through 1989 and to have recovered only
partially by the mid-l990's,. World market prices for coffee, cocoa and
cotton have declined since 1984 by 10, 15 and 26 percent, respectively, and
are expected to recover their 1984 levels in nominal terms only by the



-4-
early to mid-1990's. International prices for phosphate rock are expected
to remain depressed, the o-tlook for Togo being compounded by rising
environmental concerns in its principal export markets in Western Europe
for the relatively high radioactive cadmium content of Togolese rock,
although technical studies are presently underway to find economical means
to resolve this problem.
13.       The real appreciation of the exchange rate indicated by the
recent and projected fall in Togo's terms of trade clearly has major
implications for the future competitiveness of Togolese exports. This is
not only the case with respect to Togo's well-established agricultural
exports, but is a matter of special concern as the Government launches this
year new efforts to promote the export of manufactured goods as an
important source of growth. If export competitiveness is to be maintained,
shifts are required in the relative prices of tradeable and non-tradeable
output. In agriculture, this means intensified efforts to achieve gains in
productivity at the farm level and in the marketing efficiency of OPAT.  In
industry, future growth and the promotion of manufactured exports in
particular will require an overhaul of the complex system of protection
behind which Togo's nascent industrial sector has §o far been emerging.
14.       Finally, the implications of forecast price movements for the
Government's budgetary situation cannot be overemphasized. It is clear
that the Government can no longer rely on direct export taxation of
agricultural and mining sectors, from which it secured as much as 20
percent of its domestic receipts Up through 1986. Prospects for tapping
alternative sources of revenue adequate to compensate for the loss will
inevitably be limited in the near term. Strict expenditure control is
therefore indicated, while at the same time expenditure increases are
needed to ensure the adequacy of public services in agriculture, health and
education and economic infrastructure in support of the growth objective.
In short, the medium term outlook poses a sharp challenge to the
Government's efficiency in the mobilization and allocation of its financial
resources.
PART II - THE GOVERNMNT' S STRUCTURAL ADJUSTMENT PROGRAM
15.        For the third phase of its structural adjustment program, the
Togolese Government has drawn up a strategy which is comprehensive and, at
the same time, closely focused on the growth potential and constraints of
the key sectors -- agriculture and industry. It is a strategy which
recognizes that govermment initiatives taken in the earlier phases of the
process, including those taken to launch the enterprise privatization
program and to improve the financial management of OPAT, now need to be
consolidated and, in the case of the latter, to be intensified in light of
presently forecast world market conditions.
16.       This strategy has been elaborated in the context of a three-year
policy framework for 1988-90 which has been developed in close



collaboration with the staff of the Bank and IMF. 1/ The detailed program
of action to be undertaken is outlined in the Government's Statement of
Development Policy (Annex V). This document has been prepared by an
inter-ministerial committee consisting of representatives of all ministries
concerned and was approved by the Council of Ministers in mid-February,
1988.
17.       In support'of the overall objective of growth with equity, the
major elements of the Government's third structural adjustment program are
flexible agricultural producer pricing in response to world market
conditions, a new industrial incentive system which will inter alia
complement the enterprise privatization effort, a new legal framework for
Government-parastatal relations and transparency in public enterprise
accounts, reforms in fiscal policy to replace structurally the agricultural
and phosphate taxation of former years, and a strengthened public
investment program. The Government is further seeking debt rescheduling on
favorable terms as a pre-condition for mobilizing a large amount of
non-project concessional aid.
18.       With appropriate policies in place and an adequate complement of
external financing, the Government's objective is to reach a sustainable
rate of growth of close to 5 percent per annum in the early 19908, or about
1.6 percent per capita.
19.       The Government's strategy is comprised of a series of measures at
both the macroeconomic and sectoral levels in agriculture, industry and
commerce, parastatal sector management and public resource management.
A. Agriculture
20.       The dominant sector in the Togolese economy, agriculture accounts
for about 30 percent of GDP, 30 percent of export earnings, and about 80
percent of the civilian labor force. Direct taxation of agricultural
exports has until recently contributed up to 10 percent of government
revenue (compared to 15-20 percent derived from phosphate exports). During
the 1980-83 contraction of the economy, agriculture accounted for only
about 30 percent of the decline, whereas during the 1985-86 expansion of
the economy, agriculture accounted for 50 percent of the growth. Thus, the
sector plays a key role i Togo's overall economic performance.
21.       Recent assessments estimate the overall growth potential of the
agricultural sector in Togo at 4-5 percent per annum. In the cotton
sub-sector, production could rise by as much as 60 percent over the next
4-5 years, assuming that systematic increases in productivity and area
under cultivation can be achieved. International prices for cotton lint
1/   The 1988-90 PFP was presented to the Bank's Committee of the Whole on
March 8, 1988 and to Fund Executive Directors on March 16, 1988.



-6
ara forecast to continue their fall, however, and begin to recover only in
1990, resulting in a projected rise by about 8 percent per annum on average
up to the mid-1990s. In the coffee/cocoa sub-sector, growth of up to 6
percent p.a. for coffee and about 4 percent for cocoa could be realized up
through the early 19909 assuming successful results from newly planted
high-performance trees and improvements in fanm management. At forecast
world market prices, this would generate about 9 percent average per annum
growth in f.o.b. value for coffee into the mid-1990s, and 4 percent growth
in f.o.b. value for cocoa, given further expected declines in cocoa prices
until 1991. In foodcrops, which account for three quarters of total value
added in agriculture, conditions are particularly favorable for further
growth. Output through the early 19909 could expand at a rate approaching
6 percent per annum depending on the rate of adaptation of known
technologies. Exports could rise at a similar pace if regional markets can
be expanded.
22.       The Government's strategy up to 1984 focused principally on
investment projects in specific geographic areas and for selected crops,
and on improving services for farmers growing export crops. The policy was
successful, as evidenced by rapid growth in cotton and foodcrop production
and in the rates of replanting and rehabilitating coffee (cocoa to a lesser
degree). In the past four years, Government strategy for promoting growth
in the sector has been redirected in favor of improving services with a
national, sector-wide focus. These include generalized extension services,
adapted agronomic research, input supply including fertilizers,
insecticides and improved seed, and programs in support of the spontaneous
cooperative movement. Such services would have a substantial impact on
foodcrop production, as the approach would engage the largest possible
number of farmers in the growth process and raise the level of
decision-making assumed by farmers in their own development. The
Government's present Statement of Development Policy reconfirms its
commitment to this approach, enunciated first in 1985 as the New Rural
Development Strategy.
23.       The Government'slpolicy has also evolved since 1984-85, as
indicated earlier, to accord greater importance to economic measures
(principally crop pricing) as an integral part of improving production and
income levels. An appropriate pricing policy is now seen as a complement
to measures to increase productivity. However, the recent declines in
dollar-denominated world market prices for Togo's traditional export crops
together with a further reduction in these receipts in CFA terms now
indicate a need for modifications in this policy. Such modifications will
have to be taken in the areas of (a) export crop pricing, where the issue
will be to ensure adequate farm price levels consistent with changing world
market conditions and the need to offer a degree of income security; (b)
the system of export crop marketing, where reforms are needed to reduce
costs; (c) agricultural services, to promote productivity while, at the
same time, controlling costs in order to maintain Togo's export
competitiveness; and (d) food crop marketing, especially as it relates to
private exporting.



-7-
24.       Producer Prices.  The Government's success in raising rural
sector incomes and incentives through producer price increases has been the
most important single measure of adjustment in the structure of national
incomes and social equity achieved to date under its structural adjustment
program. The producer price issue has been made more complex, however, as
the world market outlook for growth in the US dollar prices for Togo's
export crops has dimmed and, secondly, as the value of the US dollar has
declined dramatically in relation to the CFA franc. These factors make it
highly unlikely that further substantial price increase can be accorded to
farmers over the medium term. Under these circumstances, policy
instruments complementary to producer prices will become increasingly
important in achieving the overall incentives and rural income growth
objectives which the Government seeks. These would include measures to,
expand and improve research, extension services and farmers' credit and to
deregulate marketing and input supply, policies which the Government is now
advocating and which IDA is supporting through direct investment credits.
Moreover, these factors clearly indicate that taxation of agricultural
exports as a source of government revenue must be abandoned if rural
incomes are not to be reduced and if gains made in the earlier phases of
structural adjustment are not to be erased.
25.       Under present market conditions, the Government is maintaining
producer prices for cocoa, coffee and cotton for the 1987/88 crop year at
levels paid in 1986/87, i.e., CFAF 360/kg for cocoa; CFAF 400/kg for coffee
and CFAF 105/kg for seed cotton. These prices represent 73 percent of
average f.o.b. prices expected for coffee and cocoa during the course of
the current crop year and 61 percent equivalent of average f.o.b. prices
expected for cotton lint this year. In making this decision, the
Government has reconfirmed its commitment to accord to farmers the maximum
in incomes and incentives permitted under prevailing market conditions. It
is also possible, however, that present nominal prices might not be
sustainable if receipts from Togo's US dollar-denominated crop exports
continue to decline andlir market prospects become less favorable than
those of present Bank fo-acasts. It thus becomes necessary to define a
system for managing future price and income adjustments and to control
processing and marketing costs tightly if de-facto subsidies to farm
producers are to be avoided, and Togo is thus to retain its export
competitiveness. The latter requirement falls in particular on OPAT, whose
activities in the past have been costly (paras. 28-30).
26.       As for producer prices, the Government will adopt the principle
of establishing a system of flexible pricing which ensures maximum prices
to the farmer compatible with world market conditions. It will thus
maintain the principle that the world market price be passed through to
farmers after taking account of processing and marketing costs. Given
present and forecast US$/CFAF parity and the possibility of unexpected
shifts in world market prices, in designing the new pricing system, the
Government will also take account of needs (i) to mitigate the effects of
international price "shocks" on farmers' incomes through the introduction
of a limited price stabilization mechanism, (ii) to avoid artificial
movements of products across borders which could be induced by wide



disparities between prices in Togo and neighboring countries, and (iii) to
promote crop diversification -in line with changing economic and technical
conditions. In the context of this pricing system and in setting producer
prices for the 1989190 crop year, the Government will, in consultation with
IDA, review the competitiveness of Togo's products and, if necessary, take
appropriate competsatory measures.
27.       The price foruiulae for coffee, cocoa and cotton will vary
somewhat according to specifics confronted in each sub-sector, e.g. a
limited outlook for growth in cocoa production due inter alia to the aging
of trees, the incidence of pests and problems of land tenure; and in
cotton, the capacity of local ginneries. However, the Government's basic
policy is that farmers receive a floor price for each crop which provides
maximum return on labor and capital and, as well as idequate incentive to
production and investment in new technology, thereby maintaining the shift
in incentive towards tradeables already achieved. Tais price will be
stabilized with funds blocked for that purpose, subject to periodic review
of the appropriateness of its level in light of changes in socio-economic
conditions. After accounting for costs of processing and placing crops in
export positions, surplus revenue will be shared between farmers (in the
form of supplementary payments), profits for processors and traders, and
finally, tax revenue for the Treasury. The operating details for each of
the crops involved will vary owing to the arrangements currently in effect
for the crops. In order to define the price formulae for the respective
crops, the Government has completed a set of studies of the production and
marketing systems for coffee, cocoa and cotton with the assistance of its
co-financing partners in the context of ongoing and appraised projects in
these sub-sectors. By end-March 1988 the Government will have finalized,
in consultation with IDA, the price formulae for each of the three crops,
and producer prices beginning with those for the crop year 1988189 will be
set in accordance with the new system. For cotton, a floor price of CFAF
95 per kilo of cotton lint is being proposed; the current producer price is
CPA? 105 per kilo of seed cotton. It is expected that for the current
year, producer prices will be maintained at the existing level. Further,
according to the World Bank's world market price projections, it should be
possible to maintain these same producer prices through at least the next
3-5 years, as stated earlier. The ability of the authorities to achieve
this result and avoid subsidizing export crops will depend on world market
price developments, returns in CFAF of sales largely denominated in dollars
and the success of efforts to raise productivity and cut production and
marketing costs.
28.       Fxiort Crop Marketing.  It should be clear from the above
discussion that the issue of establishing adequate producer price levels
for coffee, cocoa and cotton cannot be disassociated from the question of
the cost and efficiency of marketing and processing of these crops. The
Government is currently establishing with IDA and other international
agencies a program of reducing costs and increasing efficiency in the
processing and marketing of cotton, this as part of a new investment
project in the sub-sector. Under this project, the national cotton company
(SOTOCO) would assume a decreasing role in executing general rural



-9-
development activities on behalf of the State, as at present, and would
focus its activity on managing the cotton sub-sector, including the
operation of its ginneries and aspects of cotton marketing overseas.
SOTOCO would be managed as a commercial enterprise, bearing market risks,
paying taxes and fees for state services and enjoying profits when these
were generated. SOTOCO's overall income will thus be determined by its
performance in the world market, providing the incentive to control closely
its marketing costs. In the case of coffee and cocoa, internal ma;keting
is presently conducted by traders, which are licensed by OPAT, as well as
by a growing number of farmer cooperatives which deliver coffee and cocoa
to the tort at Lome for eventual bulk exportation by OPAT. It is expected
that, as results of the on-going study of coffee and cocoa marketing are
made operational, traders and cooperatives will assume greater market risk
and that OPAT will be responsible for fewer direct functions in the
marketing process.
29.       A major element of improved price policy and marketing efficiency
is the future role of OPAT. The improved marketing system being put in
place should permit Togo to obtain optimal prices on world markets which
will further enhance the prospects of the agricultural export sector to
achieve net financial surpluses. In addition to managing the sale and
export of Togo's three major export crops, particularly for cotton, OPAT
has for more than a decade expanded its operations into a number of
non-agricultural areas and undertaken the marketing of various minor crops
(groundnuts, shea nuts, kapok, palmoil kernels, etc.) as well as direct
production activities (irrigated rice, oil palm plantations). A management
audit undertaken under the first Structural Adjustment Program demonstrated
that OPAT had made many poor investments and unrecoverable loans, and that
it had launched unprofitable enterprises. These undertakings had in turn
led to the loss of most of the funds which OPAT had accumulated from export
sales when producer prices were held at exceptionally low levels. The cost
effectiveness of OPAT's support for social infrastructure was also
questioned. Within the context of the Second Structural Adjustment
Program, the financial accounts of OPAT were audited, but were found to be
uncertifiable. Although a new financial management system was installed
and a new financial controller appointed, progress towards improved
financial management has been regrettably slow. Thus despite the fact that
OPAT realizes a modest profit on trade in the three major export crops, its
overall financial position is precarious owing to large overhead charges as
well as to losses on minor crop programs and fertilizer and insecticide
subsidies. OPAT's declared overheads are in fact such that, at present
producer prices, they could drive the overall cost of Togo's export crops
to exceed forecast f.o.b. prices significantly.
30.       For the third phase of its adjustment program, however, the
Government has shown its firm resolve to reform OPAT's operations and
reduce its costs in order to preserve producer prices and incomes as well
as Togo's competitiveness in export crop production. First, it has already
made major cuts in OPAT's costs through reductions in personnel and in its
activities other than export marketing. Secondly, the various functions
for which OPAT is responsible with respect to both major and minor crops



- 10 -
will be evaluated; OPAT's overall costs (including subsidies and marketing
costs) will be analyzed with a view to further cost reductions; and an
appropriate budget for OPAT, starting from the base of the activities it
should perform, will be adopted. Terms of reference have been established
for the analyses of OPAT's functions and costs and for setting out an
appropriate plan of action for further reducing its costs. '.he further
cost reductions would be made both by trimming overheads and by eliminating
subsidies on fertilizers and progressively reducing subsidies on
pesticides. The timing of action on subsidies and the amounts by which
pesticide subsidies will be reduced will be determined in conjunction with
IDA-supported project undertakings. Additionally, the coffee, cocoa and
cotton baremes would be modified by March 1989 in accordance with the
action plan for cost reductions. A new organizational structure and
functions of OPAT and a schedule for further cost reductions will be put
into effect by March 1989. Finally, the Government will renew the series
of financial audits of OPAT, which will lead to recommendations for
improved financial management; accounts for the 1986187 fiscal year are
presently being audited, and 1987188 accounts will be audited and certified
by February 1989.
31.       Agricultural Services.  To realize the growth potential of
Togolese agriculture, Government strategy is to complement pricing and
marketing measures with improvements in research, extension, input supply
and seed production services among others. These services would serve the
needs of farmers for improved productivity-raising technologies and advice
on their application, as well as the inputs necessary to support new
technologies. For many'years, Government attempted to meet this need
through crop specific and area specific projects. However, the new focus
would be more broadly based. This change in approach would transfer far
more responsibility for production decisions and farm-level resource use to
individual farmers. It is in contrast to the approach used to promote
specific crops through crop-specific agencies serving a selected clientele
and demanding adherence to strict production norms (the 'filibre"
approach). The advantage of the new approach would be (i) its lower cost
per farmer served; (ii) flexibility in resource use; (iii) spontaneous
diversification of production in response to market signals that it would
engender; and (iv) the servicing of all farmers on a volunteer and demand
basis without restriction.
32.       The Government has begun to make this strategy operational with
the objective of improving efficiency of government institutions,
controlling their costs and raising the level of daily contact with farmers
in the field. Under the Second Structural Adjustment Program, the
Government increased the non-personal operating budgets of its regional
rural development agencies (DRDR's), which had been systematically
underfunded. Simultaneously it designed, with IDA assistance, a program to
improve the efficiency of agricultural extension services, for which an IDA
credit was granted in May 1987. A further program for improving research,
seed production, input supply is under preparation. The Government has
also obtained a grant to streamline operations of its livestock services
(animal health and production), and another for the support of the



- 11 -
cooperative movement, which would have responsibilities inter alia for
primary foodcrop marketing and storage.
33.       Cereals Marketing.  As Togolese cereals production has grown in
recent years, the Government's longstanding concern for food security in
periods of low or variable production has been coupled by a concern that
markets be liberalized and expanded to absorb what appears now to be a
structural surplus. Foodcrops are generally marketed by a large number of
relatively small-scale traders at prices which are market-determined.
These traders tend to be undercapitalized and rely for their profits on
rapid turnover at small margins. Their activity is therefore relatively
ineffectual in smoothing inter-seasonal price variations. The Government
has adopted the policy of promoting village and cooperative storage by
concerned farmers on their own account to perform inter-seasonal arbitrage
and raise average price levels. It has received assistance from various
external sources to execute programs in this areas as well as to establish
lines of credit for traders.
34.       As a further response to changing foodcrop supply conditions, the
Government lifted in 1986 an earlier ban on private foodcrop exports and
substituted a system of export licensing with a view to expanded marketing
of cereals surpluses. In practice, however, licenses have been issued for
a relatively small share of the apparent marketable surplus. A more
comprehensive program is needed for the promotion of cereals marketing,
exports in particular. An analysis of appropriate options will be made in
the coming months and an action plan to promote exportation of marketable
surpluses will be adopted by September 1988, in time for the marketing of
1988 production.
35.       The Government has also redefined the role of the official
foodgrain security agency, Togograin, as part of the second structural
adjustment program, confining it to the management of about 12,000 tons of
cereals stocks. It will consider further measures, based on a forthcoming
report of consultants, to increase Togograin's operating efficiency, reduce
its costs, and harmonize its stock-holding with management of imports and
exports. To complement these efforts, the Government will establish by
December 1989 a production monitoring system to forecast production
shortfalls and surpluses.
B.   Industry and Commerce
36.       Commerce, especially the role of Togo as one of the regional
centers of transit trade, is an important contributor to overall growth of
the economy (20-25 percent of GDP) whereas the manufacturing sector plays a
relatively marginal role (5-10 percent of GDP). The formal manufacturing
sector consists of about 100 enterprises, is concentrated in the Lome area
and employs about 1 percent of the active population. Within manufacturing,
agro-industry is the most important activity (over 50 percent of sectoral
value-added). Second in importance (16 percent) is the textile subsector,
which is expected to grow substantially following the proposed
privatization of two former state-owned enterprises, ITT and TOGOTEX. Other



- 12 -
important industries in Togo are construction materials, dominated by a
clinker grinding unit, as well as wood products, paper and printing.
37.       At present, manufacturing activity is highly concentrated, 20
companies accounting for some 80 percent of output. Value-added is low, 28
percent on average, and is poorly integrated: for example, about 90
percent of inputs are imported. Exports of manufactured products are
insignificant, some steel and cement being exported at close to marginal
cost to neighboring countries. Public sector involvement in the
manufacturing sector has in the past been substantial, 75 percent of sector
output and 60 percent of employment in mostly large companies, although
this involvement is being sharply reduced under the enterprise
privatization program.
38.       The performance of the manufacturing sector has been
disappointing. During the first two decades after independence its rate of
growth remained below that of GDP, and in the 1980s it has been severely
hit by the general contraction in demand. Constraints to development have
been, firstly, an incentive framework which has favored concentration and
large entities at the expense of a deepening of the industrial structure
and the creation of higher value-added activities. In addition, various
regulations governing business activity such as price controls and
establishment licensing have discouraged entrepreneurs. Secondly, the
internal terms of trade favor commerce, which with lower risks has
attracted investment and entrepreneurial resources. Thirdly, the former
massive government involvement in industry may in turn have crowded out
private sector interests. Fourthly, the incentive framework coupled with
International exchange rate movements have favored import-substitution
activities at the expense of export orientation.
39.       Long-term constraints to industrial development are the small
size of the domestic market and lack of a trained industrial labor force.
However, Togo has various advantages for further development of
manufacturing and expori, including labor costs which are relatively low by
standards of the region, a relatively stable political and social
environment, a tradition in business including transit trade-related
activities, relatively well developed infrastructure and a convertible
currency.
40.       The Government has recently begun to focus attention on issues of
industrial policy and needs for the promotion of small and medium-scale
manufacturing in particular. The establishment of an institutional support
structure for SME development and first steps towards a reform of
industrial incentives are being initiated in conjunction with the
IDA-supported Private Enterprise Development Project (PEDP) approved in
September 1987. The Third Structural Adjustment Program will extend and
deepen these industrial policy reforms in the following four areass the
system of protection, export promotion, investment incentives and
regulatory framework.



- 13 -
41.       Protection System.  The current system of protection is complex.
While the overall level of the tariff is moderate, rates are highly
dispersed. A number of QRs are in place either to restrict market access or
enforce domestic purchases. The State trading agency, SONACOM, maintains
monopolies on a number of key imports: alcohol, tobacco, rice, sugar,
powdered milk and pharmaceuticals. In addition, reference prices for
imported goods (valeurs mercuriales) are in most cases inappropriate, and
numerous exemptions from border duties have been accorded under the
Investment Code and special decrees. A recent Bank study estimated that
the resulting effective rates of protection range from -25 to 250 percent
among various industries.
42.       The Government *s committed to reforming the current system with
the objective of a more neutral and transparent structure of incentives.
To this end, a newly appo .nted Tariff Committee is preparing a reform
package which will be proiressively put in place up through January 1989.
This reform will comprise the following elements and principles:
a)  Harmonized structure of the tariff by reducing dispersion in
rates, with due regard for the maintenance of budgetary revenue
and the interests of the transit trade;
b)   Protection based on the tariff only.  This requires the abolition
of the present system of import licensing and the discontinuation
of domestic purchase requirements and use of quantitative
restrictions on imports. Furthermore, once the proposed new
tariff regime and revised Investment Code (para. 45) are adopted
in early 1989, existing market monopoly contracts will be
re-examined, this by March 1989, with a view to their elimination
for conformity with the new system of industrial incentives.
c)   Reduced duty exemptions, harmonized border and domestic taxation
and revised reference pricing, these in the context of the
overall tariff reform to be implemented by January 1989;
d)   Abolition of all import monopolies of SONACOM by December 1988.
43.       Export Promotion.  The Government will further undertake new
initiatives to promote the export of locally manufactured products. First,
the issue of the real exchange rate and the competitiveness of Togo's
manufactured exports, like its traditional agricultural exports, will
demand continuing examination throughout the third structural adjustment
program. In order to ensure maximum effectiveness of the new industrial
incentives framework, its design and execution will take full account of
recent and forecast changes in the CFAFIdollar parity. By March 1989, the
Government, in consultation with IDA, will formally review such
developments and undertake measures to compensate for any decline in
competitiveness, as appropriate.
44.       Secondly, the Government is committed to correcting disincentives
and deficiencies which have in the past constrained the growth of



- 14 -
manufactured exports. Export licensing of manufactured goods is abolished
as of end-March 1988. Additionally, the Government will examine in the
coming months options for reinforcing existing instruments of export
promotions as well as develop means of wider institutional support for
exporters.
45.       Investment Incentives.  The current Investment Code and the
associated Charter of Togolese Enterprises has been in force since 1985.
This Code was a considerable improvement over that previously in effect in
that it incorporated non-renewable benefits which are limited and decline
in time. However, the need to accelerate employment creation, SME
development and deepening of the industrial structure call attention to the
following issues: a) high access levels to the regimes, b) import 4dityj
exemptions on capital and other inputs, c) the practice of granting of
special, non-specified privileges to large investments, and d) the absence
of performance-based benefits as well as unnecessarily complex admission
requirements.
46.       A revised Investment Code will be adopted by December 1988.
Among the objectives of this reform will be to make application procedures
and eligibility criteria simpler and more automatic, to abolish a wide
number of import duty exemptions, and to base the'benefits accorded under
the Code on enterprise performance.
47.       Regulatory Framework. The current regulatory framework is made
excessively heavy by complex procedures, price controls and required
periodic renewal of business establishment licenses. Promotion of new
investment will require the reduction and simplification of such
regulations. To this end, the Government will re-examine by end-March 1988
of the present system of price controls with a view to its modification,
and will design a simplified monitoring system to replace the renewal
requirement for business licenses.
C.   Parastatal Sector Management
48.       The Government is pursuing a determined program to rationalize
the parastatal sector, an effort which was initiated under the first
structural adjustment program and given important momentum under'the
second. To date, emphasis has been placed on privatizations and
divestitures. Under the third program, the Government will introduce a
reform of the institutional and legal framework of those enterprises which
are either wholly state-owned or in which the State remains a shareholder.
49.       The Divestiture/Privatization ProgSam.  Initially undertaken to
reduce the financial burden of the parastatal sector on budgetary
resources, the divestiturelprivatization process gained momentum in the
second phase of the Government's structural adjustment effort and has been
increasingly perceived as a means of galvanizing entrepreneurial skills and
stimulating private investment. As of end-1987, the Government had closed
and was completing the liquidation of eleven enterprises. It had concluded
privatization agreements with respect to a further eleven enterprises: four



_ 15 -
through lease arrangements, five through sales of assets, and two through
partial opening of share capital to private interests, thus reducing
Government shareholding to a minority position, though retaining the goal
of total privatization when the local business climate permits. Seven
other enterprises have been targeted for privatization, thus bringing to a
total of 29 the number of enterprises encompassed by the
divestiture/privatization program to date. A number of non-strategic
commercial and industrial enterprises figure among the 43 rema-ining as yet
in the State portfolio. Pending their eventual privatization, the
Government will maintain its policy of concluding management contracts and
lease arrangements with private interests to manage their operations, as is
presently the case with the larger State-owned hotels.
50.       Thus, the divestiturelprivatization program has been relatively
successful in terms of its pace. It is also generating an important flow
of private capital from abroad both for the purchase of equity and for
rehabilitating the capital stock of the formerly state-owned companies.
Total investment in the proposed textile operation alone would, if
agreements are successfully concluded at an early date, amount to close to
CFAF 8 billion (US$28 million) in 1988.
51.       Privatizations have been conducted, however, without a clear-cut
and comprehensive government strategy in place to maximize benefits to the
economy as a whole. Some agreements have been concluded under terms which
appear to offer balanced, tangible benefits for both the Government and
investors. The terms of the proposed textile operation agreement,
supported by IFC, is such a case. The terms of other agreements, on the
other hand, appear to have resulted in excessive benefits for the newly
privatized enterprises such as unduly high rates of effective protection.
For the Government itself, proceeds from the sale of assets have in many
cases been sufficient to cover only the severance pay of redundant
employees, while the outstanding debt of the former enterprises, originally
contracted directly on their behalf by the Government or under its
guarantee, remains with the Government.
52.       Entering the third phase of its adjustment program, the
Government has initiated a thorough assessment of its privatization
experience in order to draw up a well-defined strategy for concluding
future agreements. Terms of reference for this assessment were adopted in
early March this year. The modified strategy will moreover accord closely
with the package of industrial sector policies to be adopted by early 1989,
notably the new tariff regime and Investment Code. In conjunction with the
latter, special conventions previously accorded outside the provisions of
the Code will be re-examined by March 1989 (para. 42) and amended by
negotiation, as appropriate, for consistency with the new industrial
incentive system.
53.       Further, the Government will seek debt capitalization swap
arrangements to convert its outstanding indebtedness to foreign suppliers
and commercial banks. This debt, being uninsured by official agencies in
the creditor countries and thus not subject to relief through



- 16 -
inter-governmental negotiation, presently amounts to CFAF 16.3 billion
(US$59 million). It is expected that by June 1988 financial institutions
interested in participating directly such swap arrangements andlor acting
as intermediaries between the Government and private investors would be
identified as a first step in this process.
54.       Finally, the Government aims to broaden the participation of
private Togolese interests in the privatization process. Although its
involvement is as yet modest, the efficiency of the Togolese private sector
in conducting trade and small business is well demonstrated. As a first
step, the Government is examining in the context of the IDA-supported
Private Enterprise Development Project the feasibility of a mutual
investment fund which would subscribe to shares in privatized companies and
in turn issue bonds to local investors.
55.       Reform of the Institutional and Legal Framework of the Parastatal
Sector. While further privatizations are contemplated and a moratorium on
the creation of new state enterprises will be maintained, a relatively
large parastatal sector will remain, comprising both wholly-owned state
enterprises and mixed enterprises in which the State is a shareholder. The
performance of these enterprises has generally been weak due to a lack of
clarity and consistency in their goals and in their relationship with the
Central Government. At present, public enterprises are managed essentially
as departments of the Central Government and are subject to excessive
controls which impede their operating efficiency. The system is moreover
one of uncoordinated Government supervision of the enterprises on the part
of the Ministry of State Enterprises (in charge of administrative
supervision), the sector ministries (in charge of technical supervision),
the Ministry of Finance (financial supervision), and the Ministry of Labor
(for decisions dealing with employment).
56.       In the third phase of its structural adjustment program, the
Government will undertake a comprehensive reform of the existing
institutional and legal framework of the parastatal sector to accord to the
enterprises greater financial and managerial autonomy. First, mixed
enterprises will be clearly distinguished from wholly-owned state
enterprises in terms of their relationship with the Government, contrary to
present practice, by being made subject to the Commercial Code and thus
allowed to operate as fully commercial entities outside the full
supervision of the Government. As for the wholly-owned state enterprises,
their relationship to the Government will be re-defined by a new legal
framework in which the role of the central Government will be limited to
giving final approval to policy and operational decisions taken by their
boards of directors and, secondly, to monitoring the financial and
managerial performance of the enterprises.
57.       The Government has already established the basic principles which
will govern the institutional and legal reform of the parastatal sector as
well as a program of work and timetable for implementing the reform. The
modifications to the present legal framework which are envisaged concern
the supervisory functions of the Government as well as the operating



- 17 -
provisions of the respective enterprises themselves in such matters as the
constitution of their boards of directors, financial management, personnel
policy and procurement. The revision of existing general legislation and
of the statutes of individual enterprises concerned will be carried out
over the next 18 months, the adoption of'all revised legal texts being due
for completion by October, 1989.
58.       The new framework of the parastatal sector will be complemented
by measures to be taken at the, government level to promote greater
financial and managerial efficiency of the state enterprises. The
Government is extending the application of its management information
system to encompass an increasing number of enterprises so as to monitor
their conformity with standards of financial and managerial performance
agreed between the Government and respective enterprises. The Government
will also continue to conduct its annual financial audits of enterprises
throughout the sector, a process initiated in the previous phase of the
adjustment program, and will ensure implementation of the recomendations
of the audits performed in 1988-89. Finally, among its IDA-supported
project undertakings in the transport, water supply and power sub-sectors,
the Government is committed to taking measures to ensure full cost recovery
by key enterprises and to reduce or close the operations of the national
railway company (CFT) so as to curtail the financial losses presently
incurred.
D.  Public Resource Management
59.       Recent develonments.  Despite the successive stabilization
measures since 1979, the financial position of the public sector has
remained difficult, largely due to the persistence of heavy external
indebtedness and, at the same time, declining revenue from export taxation.
Total government revenues amounted to 24.2 percent of GDP in 1987, a
relatively high level, though some 14 percent below that of 1986. The
decline was due principally to a fall in receipts from the export sector.
These receipts have primarily taken the form of transfers to the budget out
of the profits of the OPAT agricultural marketing board and the OTP
phosphate company; in addition, OTP contributes to overall government
resources by financing investment out of phosphate countertrade. Receipts
from OTP and OPAT have declined for three reasons: diminished world market
prices in dollars, the appreciation of the franc vis-a-vis the U.S. dollar,
and the adoption of increased producer prices that reallocate export
revenues to the private sector.   Whereas in 1984 OPAT and OTP together
provided revenue equal to 9.1 percent of GDP, their contribution had been
reduced by 1987 to 3.7 percent of GDP (0.7 and 2.7 percent respectively).
60.       On the expenditure side, the Government's wage bill has remained
relatively compressed in recent years. In 1987, wages and salaries
absorbed 37 percent of revenue and accounted for nearly half of total
recurrent expenditure excluding interest on external debt. As for wage
rates, civil service salaries in Togo have remained low by the standards of
the region, this despite a 13 percent increase in total salary payments
granted in 1987 in order to improve the motivation of civil servants, whose



- 18 _
salary rates had been frozen between 1983 and 1986. Furthermore, the
Government has reduced the size of the civil service from a level of 34,026
in 1983 to 32,158 at end-1986, equivalent to 10.0 civil servants per
thousand inhabitants.
61.       With respect to capital expenditure, whereas a major outcome of
the Government's stabilization programs in the early 19809 had been a
reduction in public investment from its excessive levels of 1976-80 (CFAF
40 billion annual average) to a low of CPAP 24 billion in 1983. From 1984,
government investment rose rapidly, reaching CFAF 50 billion in 1986. Much
of the increase arose with the Nangbeto Dam project, a very major joint
undertaking of Togo and Benin.. The increase was additionally due to heavy
spending (CFAF 8.5 billion in 1986) on a new marketplace, a presidential
aircraft, and the francophone summit meeting in Loma, these projects having
been undertaken outside the budgeted public investment program and financed
largely out of OTP phosphate countertrade.
62.       In 1987, public investment fell by 36 percent to CFAF 32 billion
with the completion of Nangbeto and the absence of an adequate pipeline of
new projects ready for execution, reflecting limitations in the
Government's investment programming capacity. Project implementation was
also impeded by cumbersome procurement procedures adopted in early 1986.
Proposed improvements in investment programming are described in paras. 65
and 70 below.
63.       Government's Fiscal Policy.  Medium-term fiscal policy will be
focussed on measures to increase tax elasticity and to ensure lasting
revenue growth. First, the Government intends to implement a broadly based
program of action over the coming three-year period, as recommended by a
November 1987 technical assistance mission of the 1fK, with the goal of
balancing its objectives of maintaining Togo's role as a transit trade
center, fostering industrialization and producing increased tax revenues.
This program of action will include: (i) measures relating to tariff
harmonization and indirect taxation; (ii) reduction of duty exemptions; and
(iii) improvements in tax administration through the strengthening of
collection and control procedures and the assignment of sufficient
personnel and equipment to assessment and audit tasks. With the
implementation of this action program, the Government expects to increase
tax elasticity as well as to expand the tax base. The Government also
expects that its program of action on the harmonization of tariffs, coupled
with the elimination of import monopolies and improved tax administration,
will make a significant contribution to sound commercial, industrial, and
investment policy.
64.       Exvenditure Policy.  The Government will give new priority to
increasing recurrent expenditure directly supportive of growth and vital
social services in the key areas of: (a) road maintenance and
rehabilitation, in line with targets set under the IDA-supported Transport
Rehabilitation Project; (b) agricultural extension services and agronomic
research; lc) primary education; and (d) rural and public health services.



- 19 -
Guidelines for future budgetary allocations and expenditure levels budgeted
for 1988 are detailed in paras. 68 and 70, respectively.
65.       Finally, the Government will raise the level of public investment
in quality projects by improving project evaluation and implementation
procedures. Thus the Government will reinforce the rolling triennial
public investment program by: (a) applying project evaluation criteria
prepared in 1987 towards ensuring that all project undertakings are subject
to a thorough economic, financial and technical appraisal which
demonstrates the project's viability; (b) incorporating in the public
investment program all projects irrespective of financing source and
specifically, including items financed by phosphate counter-trade; (c)
improving implementation capacity, especially by streamlining Government
conrract award and procurement procedures; and td) agreeing on a forecast
level of investment expenditure for each fiscal year with the Bank and
Fund, with the understanding that the projected level could be exceeded if
the Government can identify and implement suitable projects, viz. projects
with a minimum of 10 percent economic rate of return for productive
projects and a good fit with the country's development strategy and for
which financing on concessional terms is fully available.
66.       The Government's 1988 Program.  As indicated earlier, a December
1987 IMP mission reached agreement on a standby arrangement and first year
SAP program for 1988. The new program, which was the subject of
coordinated discussion between the Fund, Bank and the Government, calls for
cutting the fiscal deficit to 3.6 percent of GDP in 1988, as against an
actual 7 percent of GDP in 1987.
67.       Although prospects for mobilizing significant additional sums
from sources to replace export taxation are limited in the short term,
given its former scale and the negative impact which compensating taxation
of consumption would have on major social groups and Togo's transit trade,
the Government will nonetheless aim at raising some CFAF 8 billion (2
percent of GDP) in new revenues by increasing the statistical tax and the
rate of the turnover tax (TGA) on the first sale of imports (collected by
customs) from 2 to 3 percent. The present 10-14 percent range of TGA rates
applicable to domestic products will be harmonized at 14 percent, a first
step towards a general TGA applicable to both imports and other
transactions. Import duties on rice will be set at 4 percent with no
exemption for SONACOM as was the case up through 1987, and specific taxes
for imported sugar will be doubled. Finally, the contribution of the
petroleum stabilization fund to the Budget will be raised by CFAF 2.5
billion to 6 billion in 1988.
68.       Total expenditure will be reduced by 2 percent from its level in
1987. The overall wage bill will be frozen at its level of 1987.
Similarly, spending on supplies will not increase overall, although road
maintennce outlays will be permitted to rise to CFAP 1.3 billion, versus
0.8 billion in 1987, and allocations for health and education will rise by
CFAF 0.2 billion to provide adequate funding for rural health classes and



- 20 -
primary schools. Spending on supplies for extension services will rise by
50 percent to CFAP 0.6 billion.
69.       The Government reviewed with IDA in February 1988 its recurrent
spending allocations for the key economic and social sectors. It will
review the 1989 allocations by December of this year as well as actual
spending levels achieved under the allocations for 1988. The level of
spending for infrastructure maintenance will be expected to conform to the
norms agreed with the Association for road maintenance and rehabilitation
under the Transport Rehabilitation Project. For agricultural extension
services, a spending norm of CFAF 1400 per cultivated hectare has been set
provisionally, to be confirmed during the agricultural expenditure review
scheduled for mid-1988. The norm for expenditure for health materiel, to
be established in the context of a proposed IDA-supported project in
preparation, is expected to be set at about 35 percent of the overall
budget for the health sector. In primary and lower secondary education,
expenditure norms are similarly being established in the context of an
on-going IDA-supported project.
70.       The 1988-90 public investment program was also reviewed with IDA
in February 1988. The 1988-90 program gives strong priority to agriculture
and basic economic infrastructure. About 35 percent of programmed
expenditure is allocated for projects in agriculture and close to 45
percent for projects in infrastructure -- transport, water supply, power
and telecommunications. Any new spending proposals as well as the status
of program implementation will be reviewed periodically with IDA throughout
the remainder of the year. The level of expenditure in 1988 is estimated
at CPAP 28-30 billion and is expected to rise by about 10 percent per annum
in real terms through 1990. Recognizing that a moderately rising level of
public investment is an important element in its projected growth
objective, the Government will make a major effort to improve project
identification and implementation. The 1989-91 program, including all
public capital spending proposals and State financing guarantees, will be
reviewed with IDA in December 1988 with special attention to progress in
expanding the pipeline of high priority projects.
PART III - ECONOMIC AND FINANCIAL IMPACT OF THE PROGRAM
ANp THE SOCIAL DIMENSION OF ADJUSTMENT
Projected Medium Term Prospects for Growth
71.       For the third phase of its structural adjustment process, the
Government has set an objective of overall growth of the economy of 3-4
percent annually in the latter 1980s and 4-5 percent by the early 1990s.
The Government will further aim at reaching a viable external payments
position which is consistent with this growth objective. The economy's
growth would be led by agriculture, which under conservative assumptions
would expand by a little more than 4 percent annually into the early 19909,
this reflecting gains in productivity through improved agricultural
services and marketing efficiency as well as in response to liberalization



_ 21 -
of food grain tarketing. Among the sub-sectors, foodcrops, coffee and
cotton are expected to show relatively strong performance, while cocoa
production, which has lost momentum in recent years, is expected to achieve
somewhat slower growth, as indicated earlier. The pace of expansion in
light manufacturing, though starting from a far smaller base, could be
relatively rapid, assuming favorable private sector response to the
Government's efforts to promote small- and medium-scale enterprises and to
its continuing privatization of existing public enterprises. Despite
stagnation foreseen in phosphate mining, the secondary sector as a whole
could thus expand by close to 6 percent per annum by the early 1990s.
Similarly, it is expected that the envisaged rationalization of the system
of protection and trade liberalization measures would rekindle growth in
c mrce. Thus, while the growth of government administration would remain
sharply curtailed, the tertiary sector can be expected to realize growth
rates rising from a rate of about 3 percent at present to a rate
approaching 5 percent by the mid-1990s, i.e. paralleling the growth
performance of the economy as a whole.
72.       While the growth of exports would taper off from relatively rapid
rates of the past few years, growth in demand for imports would be
contained roughly in line with overall GDP growth (Table 1). The overall
rate of public and private investment would rise above a level of 20
percent of GDP as against only 17 percent in 1987. Furthermore, the
balance of public and private investment would shift in favor of the
latter, which would account for 50-55 percent of total investment in the
early 19908. Private consumption would show only modest growth through the
remainder of the 19808, below the rate of population growth, but would be
permitted to rise at a faster rate, 5 percent per annum, by the 19908.
73.       The Government's overall growth objective represents rates of
economic expansion needed to stabilize moderate improvement in per capita
incomes through the remainder of the 1980. and to lay the grounduork for
accelerated growth in the early 19909. It is a realistic objective for the
medium term given gestation periods required in raising productivity in
agriculture and the need for a full overhaul of the incentive system in
commerce and manufacturing, the full growth potential of which can be
expected to be realized only over the longer term. It is a realistic
growth objective, moreover, in view of the squeeze on Government resources
mticipated in the immediate years due to the phasing out of agricultural
tsx receipts and, at the same time, the exceptional "bunching" of Togo's
d'bt service obligations which has resulted from numerous conventional
re.chedulings in the past.
74.       While this growth objective would permit a rise in average per
capita incomes over the medium term by less than 2 percent per annum, the
policy reforms envisaged by the Government would enable shifts in the
allocation of resources from the public to the private sector, and from the
urban to the rural. At the same time, employment opportunities in urban
areas would be expanded largely as a result of the Government's
privatization program in the public enterprise sector (the proposed new
textile mill operation, for example, would provide about 5,000 additional



- 22 -
jobs to the economy) and, secondly, to new initiatives to improve the
incentive framework for small- and medium-scale enterprises in commerce and
manufacturing.
75.       Downside Risks.  The Government's growth scenario for the medium
term ic retained as the Base Case presented here (Annex II). It
illustrates the outcome of rigorous and sustained implementation of the
Government's program.  At the same time, there are risks associated with
this scenario which are both within and outside the control of the
Government. A Downside Risk Case illustrates the combined effect of a set
of such adverse factors (Table l)e The principal would be the following:
(i) International prices realized for key export commodities are
lower than those currently indicated by Bank international
forecasts;
(ii) Supply responses in agriculture and industry which are
weaker than expected in the Base Case scenario;
(iii) The level of public investment shows no appreciable rise in
real terms from its presently low level due to failure to
expand the pipeline of high return projects;
(iv) Private investment shows weak growth in the absence of an
Improved policy environment, a comprehensive industrial
incentive system in particular;
(v) Major slippages occur in the implementation of the reform
program.
76.       The confluence of such adverse factors could result in a rate of
economic expansion only approximating the rate of population growth, 3.3
percent per annum, and substantially slower rates of consumption, savings
and investment than in the Base Case scenario, thus providing a weak basis
for satisfactory growth in the remainder of the 1990s.



-23-                                                    074lar-88
Table 1: TW  - Selected Ecnaulc Indicators 1986-1994
Projected bal Growth Rate (X)
Bass Case SearIo         DoV3lds Rls Soen.
1988     1987
Ulits    Asttal   EstIb            1988-90  1991-94         1988-90  1991-94
1986 CfA
GOP (urket prIces)         BIllIan   348.8    35.8                 3.6      4.7             3.5      3.4
UP at Factor cost             '      304.3    310.4          -    3.6       4.7             3.5      3.4
Agriculture                         98.3    102.4                4.1      4.0              4.1      3.2
Insstry                             82.7     62.4               4.7       5.9             4.2      4.5
Services                           143.3    145.6                2.8      4.6              2.8      3.0
Private Cositloin V/                 238.9    250.7                2.7      5.0             4.8       4.3
Gov't Coiwpticn                       68.9     73.8               0.1       2.4             0.1      2.4
Gross l    _wstumnt                   88.3     81.6                7.8      8.0            -0.5      2.9
Evorts of Goods  NFS                 119.5    119.4               5.4       3.8             2.9       1.9
imorts of Gaods & WFS         *      162.7    149.4               3.6      5.2              2.1      3.2
Projected
Ratlos
Base Cse Scenarlo        Domsida Ris Soen.
1988     1987
Units    Act1 I   Estim.             1990     1994             1990     1994
Investment/0P                X        24.7     17.3              19.5     22.1             15.4     15.1
Publlc/Fotal Investnt         I       80.7     54.2               44.9     49.0            44.2     37.0
IS60P                         X       12.4      6.5               10.9     13.1             6.4      5.9
Emort: of GoodB & KFfS/P      2       34.3     33.6              35.3      34.1            33.0     31.2
Imports of Goods & NFUO/P    X        48.6     42.0              42.0     42.7             40.3    40.0
urrant Acount/UP 2V           S       17.6     15.5               10.1      9.0.           10.3      9.0
Grmntsross Loan Dlsburts 3/  I        3321     41.2               44.1     39.3            44.0     39.6
Oft Service/EMorts 6NFS       S       37.2     41.9               23.5     10.4            25.1      11.0
Debt ServloicGov't Relpts  /  2       42.3     47.1               28.2     12.2            28.1      11.2
ILT DCWOOP                    2       88.1     65.4               43.8     44.1            42.4     34.6
V lncludlnf the pIlbIc enterrimses.
2/ Ebludiri transfers.
3/ CaItal grants.
/ RPelpts  ciudlirg forelpi grants.
Sor: Officlal Govrnmnt data and IO  projeoct.



- 24 -
External Financina Reauirements
77.       Togo's balance of payments under the Base Case described earlier
can be expected to show very substantial Improvement over the medium term:
balance of payments equilibrium could be reached by 1991-92 and a modest
surplus achieved in the mid-1990s (Annex II). Over the next 2-3 years,
however, external financing in the form of both project and non-project
resources will remain relatively heavy. In order to support the Base Case
growth scenario outlined above, Togo's overall external financing
requirements over the two-year 1988-89 period are projected at US$494
million (CFAF 136 billion), including US$285 million to cover projected
external current account deficits, US$165 million in debt amortization and
US$49 million in stand by repurchases owed to the IMF. Additionally, an
estimated US$110 million in external payments arrears must be regularized
in 1988. Togo's external financing requirements and the resources which
could fill the financing gaps are shown in Table 2 following.
78.       Of the total two-year financing requirement, grant and loan
disbursements of US$175-180 million would be required to finance the public
Investment program, an amount which is virtually assured. A further US$90
million in long-term private capital inflows is projected. The remaining
US$228 million in financing required over the two-year period would be
sought from bilateral and multilateral donors in the form of fresh balance
of payments support or rescheduling. More than half of this amount, US$113
million, in fresh assistance has already been identified. The Bank will
assist the Government in the coming months of this year to mobilize
additional resources for 1988-89 to meet the residual financing
requirement.
79.       The bulk of these resources is expected to take the form of debt
relief. Complementing its adoption of an IMP program for 1988, the
Government has requested of both the Paris Club and uninsured commercial
bank creditors the rescheduling of payments arrears outstanding as well as
maturities falling due in 1988. Having repeatedly expressed its concerns
as to the cost and conditions of rescheduling, the Government has requested
of the Paris Club terms comparable to those recently accorded other   -
low-income "debt distressed' African countries. After taking account of
identified availability of fresh balance of payments support, the residual
financing requirement for 1988 is equivalent to about 65 percent of all
principal and interest due in 1988 to creditors other than multilateral
institutions.
80.       In 1989, confronting debt service obligations equivalent to 26
percent of projected exports and over 30 percent of its own budgetary
receipts, the Government would seek a more comprehensive restructuring of
the debt on the grounds that the country's heavy debt burden poses a
continuing constraint to growth. Such action would be aimed at freeing up
Government budgetary resources on a wider scale for redeployment to support
the growth objective through increased developmental spending under the
recurrent budget as well as the public investment program. Thus, whereas
the Base Case scenario permits per capita incomes to rise by about 1.6



- 25 _
percent annually through the early 1990s, a broader debt restructuring
could support higher rates of gro*th in the 1990s, enabling a full 2
percent a=nnal rise in incomes on-a per capita basis. Depending on the
availability of fresh external financing in 1989, such a debt restructuring
could constitute a key element of the Government's medium-term financing
strategy.
Tabl 2: 1WO -   ~rMl FiuiI   loaiaos. 107-1004
(In llill f US IDIlts) v
(Otis.~~~~~~~    .  . sc
*rMt 40ssat  flcit                 -15Q.8           -148.1  -118.5  -124.8
Ik   aUrtizt   beire ruig.   -101.1                  48.8    -1?.8   418.7
*u  In aa                           101.1                  0.0 0t       0.0
amp in tm 2/                        2.7               -7.S     4.6    -4.9
1MF nst crelt                      -14.0            -10.8   -2D.1   -15.8
ParduM                            0.0   -v        14.7      8.7      0.0
h_zxduams                       -14.0            -25.0   -28.8   -1U
1. Tal F     irg brl  I           -13.)            -250.8  -20.2  -22.2
2. Prlvto CpitUl                    2-.J              42       417;    40.0
t_OWTerc  pital                  12.0             42.5    41.       40.0
sot-Tom cital                    10.8              0.0      0.0      0.0
8. Cpital, n.o.l.                   17.9               0.0     0.0      0.0
4. ProJect FInuuIng                 77.7             S0.8     S.      118
Capital grats                    2.0              29.1      6.5    39.4
liLT lam                         48.7             51.7    61.8    81.4
Of dleh ID                    (181              (18.5)   (212)   (30.7)
5. Ntcproject iamIcbw IeQrsnts    21.2               127.5   100.1    67.4
MAL it                           17.0
MDA                            0.0
banMR                          17.0
St                                0.8
MAID                              4.0
SA III                                           24.      58.5      8.0O
tMA                                            180      3.0       0.0
Aff                     -J                              111.0     0.0
o                                               9.9-    11.9      5.0
Frove PA                                         21.8      0.0      0.0
Wf tst Ysr SA                                     7.6      2.6      0.0
uAm                              o.0              0.0      8.5      0.0
Lous: kntrest Paymts                -0.6              -1.2    -1.2    -2.2
ESiBWUAL FiNlWII3 EWiRID             0.0              74.4    41.7    64.6
U Ejdww  rates: MS - CF0 O 0 for 1987.
U$ . C0F 27 for 11318.
V EulWliqe nWA credit fm the llf. .



- 26 -
The Social Dimension of Adiustment
81.       Togo's structural adjustment program has the basic objectives of
achieving growth with equity. This has required a strategy of coordinating
macro, sectoral and public resource mobilization and allocation policies.
At the macro level, growth is a primary target so that resources will be
made newly available for distribution.   Between 1985 and 1987 real growth
ranged between 2 and 3.8 percent, roughly in balance with population
growth. As indicated earlier, growth rates are expected to rise to 4
percent by the end of the decade, mainly driven by the agriculture, and is
projected to rise to 5 percent annually in the 1990s. A primary element is
this strategy has been the systematic shift in incentives towards tradables
principally in the agricultural sector, where the bulk of the poor reside.
Further, public investment has been focused on essential supporting
economic and social infrastructure.
82.       At the sectoral level, policies have emphasized shifts in
spending to support essential services and inputs required to raise further
productivity and output through well designed projects, and modifications
in the composition of public expenditures in favor of basic education and
health services; minimum spending norms will be established under SAL III
for these sectors. In the long run, these policies will enable the poor to
participate in the process of growth by increasing their access to income
generating opportunities. Sector policies also aim at reviewing
distortions in markets and taxation which presently prevent the flow of
factors towards higher return activities. Togo has a substantial informal
sector able to take advantage of the opportunities offered by a liberal
economic system.
83.       Concerning revenue mobilization, a major shift is underway from
taxation of agriculture to taxes on consumption and value added, as noted
earlier. The Government has also compressed public spending, thereby
freeing resources for the expansion of private sector investment and
production. After a 17 percent cut in public payrolls between 1982 and
1986, at which time salary rates were frozen, a salary increase was granted
in 1987 to partially compensate civil servants for the earlier loss in real
income and to better motivate those to be retained. As the bulk of the
reductions in the civil service was accomplished by allowing retirements to
exceed new recruitment, the issue of finding alternative employment did not
arise. Social costs of the enterprise privatization program have been
minimal inasmuch as compensation for redundant amployees has been met out
of proceeds from enterprise sales. On the other hand, the expected
employment and income impacts of the proposed reopening of the privatized
textile factories be in the center and north could be significant.
84.       In agriculture, the successful cotton, coffee, and cocoa projects
combined with dramatic rises in producer prices since 1982 has already
substantially raised the real incomes of a significant number of rural
producers. Already 40 percent of Togo's farms produce cotton, which yields
three times more income per manday than is the case with food crops, the
traditional source of income for the majority of the rural population.



- 27 -
Another 10 percent of Togo's farms are producing coffee. Further
substantial gains in productivity and output of both export and food crops
are expected under projects underway and planned. A particular feature of
the new price policy being introduced under SAL III is the flexibility of
the final producer price for export crops above the guaranteed floor price
to ensure that maximum prices are received by farmers which are consistent
with world market conditions.
85.       In the next phases of the adjustment process, some direct
compensation instruments or transitional measures could be called for to
mitigate social costs of the program. These needs will become clearer as
the Government further defines its priorities for the third phase of the
adjustment program with respect to public expenditure policy and further
rationalization of the parastatal sector. With respect to the
divestiture/privatization program, while direct compensation payments made
out of enterprise sales proceeds have been adequate, the remaining issue of
finding alternative employment and income opportunities for former
employees declared redundant is one which will be addressed in the context
of the evaluation of the program to be initiated in March 1988, which will
take into account the Impact of expected rising foreign investment in
privatized enterprises. Remedies to be considered include staff
reconversion and retraining as well as provision for alternative sources of
income and employment such as employeesimanagement repurchase of
enterprises through leverage buyouts or lines of credit to assist the
start-up of small enterprises. The IDA-supported Private Enterprise
Development Project establishes a line of credit for employment-generating
small- and medium-scale enterprises in Lome and secondary urban centers.
Government is also cooperating with the NGO community through an IDA
financed pilot program aimed at village level social and economic
development.
86.       On balance, the Government expects that the social costs of
adjustment will be outweighed over the medium term by the benefits of
adjustment in terms of efficiency, growth and economic diversification.
Additionally, the Government intends to protect the lowest income groups,
indeed to alleviate poverty by (a) improving the efficiency of basic social
services by raising recurrent expenditure in these areas, and (b) expanding
primary health and education services under IDA-supported projects. These
measures, complementing the basic thrust of the adjustment program, will
allow the lowest income groups to participate more fully in the benefits of
growth. Lastly, beginning in 1988 the Government will systematically
monitor the social dimensions of adjustment through a program sponsored by
the World Bank, UNDP and the AfDB that would enhance Government capability
to formulate socio-economic programs and to systematically collect and
analyze social data, which will in turn contribute to developing additional
policy instruments for poverty alleviation. This year, the SDA project
will carry out a poverty profile of Togo with a view to providing an early
basis for action programs to assist the most vulnerable groups pending the
first results of the LSMS household surveys.



- 28 -
Benefits and Risks
87.       A comprehensive adjustment program such as that proposed by the
Togolese Government should enable accelerated growth of the economy and, at
the same time, improved standards of living for the vast majority of the
population. The program should enable important gains in the efficiency of
central Government operations as well as those of the parastatal sector.
Togo's continued export competitiveness should be ensured with the reform
of OPAT envisaged. The proposed liberalization of cereals and manufactured
goods exports should additionally strengthen Togo's export position. The
new industrial incentive system to be put in place under the program should
provide a critically needed improvement in the business environment for
employment-generating small- and medium-scale enterprises and sustained
private investment from abroad. Finally, the proposed renegotiation of
Togo's debt service obligations, coupled with the maintenance of financial
discipline on the part of the Government, would enable a significant
reduction in internal and external imbalances and free up resources to
support the overall growth objective.
S8.       It is clear that a program as comprehensive as that proposed is
also not without risks, of which the principal are the following:
(a) International Prices for Key Exports. The projected medium-term
prospects for the Togolese economy are based inter alia on
assumptions as to the behavior of prices for its principal export
commodities. The stability of these prices could be threatened
by any of a wide variety of factors, including favorable
weather-induced supply conditions or world markets for coffee,
cocoa and cotton; by downturns in demand in industrialized
countries, including the consequences of increased environmental
concerns for the cadmium content of Togo's phosphate if
uncorrected; and adverse movements in the real exchange rate.
The principal consequence of these factors, if persistent, could
be eventual pressure to reduce agricultural producer prices and
thereby reduce incentives to invest in newer technologies for
productivity growth or to expand areas under cultivation. Though
the achievement of growth targets could thus be postponed,
international prices weaker than those projected are unlikely to
jeopardize the overall results of the policy reforms proposed.
It is additionally noted that key employment-generating,
export-oriented industries in Togo such as textiles could be
jeopardized if industrialized importing countries were to impose
non-tariff restrictions on the goods in question.
(b) Private Sector Response. A second risk is the possibility of a
weaker than expected response of the private sector to the
reforms introduced. This could be the case in particular if
farmers fail to respond as expected to measures designed to
promote gains in agricultural productivity, the principal source
of sector growth foreseen for the medium term. Similarly, weak
response from the private sector to the new industrial incentives



- 29 -
package could result in slower than anticipated expansion of
small- and medium-scale enterprises or enterprise privatizations,
and thus in private investment, employment creation and the
mobilization of entrepreneurial and technical skills. Recent
experience, notably that observed in the agricultural sector
under the first and second adjustment programs, suggests however
that private sector response should be adequate to support the
projected rates of growth in these key sectors.
(c)  Imalementation CaDacity.  The third principal risk to the
successful outcome of the Government's program rests with its
capacity to implement the proposed policy reforms fully and in a
timely manner. Although there is an extremely strong commitment
to the program on the part of the present Government, key
elements of the program could pose a major challenge to its
administrative capacity: the reform of OPAT, the establishment
of an adequate industrial incentive system, the redefinition of
enterprise privatization strategy, the new legal framework for
the parastatal sector, the fiscal reform and the strengthening of
the public investment program, particularly the enhanced capacity
to identify priority projects. To alleviate this risk, the role
of the recently appointed inter-ministerial committee (CIR) to
supervise implementation of the program will be critical, as will
be heavy support afforded through the IDA Third Technical
Assistance Project and the special program of technical
assistance to IDA-only countries.
PART IV - THE PROPOSED CREDIT
Financing
89.       It is proposed that the Government's adjustment program be
supported by an IDA Credit of US$45.0 million equivalent to be disbursed in
two tranches. The first tranche of US$20.0 million equivalent would be
available on effectiveness and the second tranche of US$25.0 million would
be released only after the Government had made satisfactory progress in
implementing the program and specifically in meeting the conditions listed
in para. 96 below.
90.       The proposed Credit is expected to be disbursed over an 18-month
period ending in November 1989. It would finance 4 percent of projected
imports of goods and non-factor services and 9 percent of the country's
gross official external capital requirements over the two-year 1988-89
period.
91.       Co-financing by the African Development Fund is proposed in the
amount of UIA 15 million (US$17.3 million) on standard AfDF terms. It
would be disbursed in equal tranches and in accordance with AfDB
procurement and disbursement procedures.



- 30 _
92.       The Government of Japan has also informed the Association of its
intention to provide co-financing under the Special Joint Facility in the
amount of Yen 2,650 million (US$20.8 million), comprising a loan of Yen
1,900 million (US$14.9 million) from the Overseas Economic Cooperation Fund
and a grant of Yen 750 million (US$5.9 million) to be administered by IDA.
The grant would be disbursed entirely with the first tranche of the IDA
credit, while the loan would be disbursed in 1989 and early 1990.
93.       In addition, the IMF is expected to make resources available to
the Government under the Structural Adjustment Facility (SAF) as well as
the previously mentioned 1988-89 Stand by arrangement. First-year SAF
resources in the proposed amount of SDR 7.68 million (US$10.5 million)
would be disbursed beginning in April 1988 and second-year resources
beginning in May 1989. The IDA Credit as well as the AfDF and OECF
co-financing would be further complemented by non-project financing from
bilateral and multilateral donors among which the CCCE of France and the
Governments of F.R. Germany and the United States are already identified as
possible sources. A Bank-sponsored meeting of principal donors to Togo was
held in late March of this year to mobilize and coordinate non-project
financing in support of SAL III.
Monitorable Actions
94.       The specific measures to be supported by the proposed Credit are
set out in the Government's Statement of Development Policy (Annex VI) and
are summarized in a matrix in Annex IV.
95.       The following actions have been taken prior to Board presentation
of the proposed Creditt
(a) Appointment of (1) a high-level Interministerial Committee (CIR)
to supervise implementation of the program, (2) intra-ministerial
committees to monitor execution of respective components of the
program, and (3) a senior official of the Ministry of Planning to
act as Secretary of the CIR;
(b) Adoption of a system for setting flexible annual producer prices
for coffee, cocoa and cotton which are compatible with world
market conditions;
(c) Reduction of overall costs of OPAT, specificallys
(i)  Interim cost cuts pending action under (ii) below;
(ii) Adoption of (1) a terms of reference for an evaluation of
the functions and overall costs of OPAT and (2) a plan of
action for further reducing the costs of OPAT, including
overhead costs and subsidies on fertilizers and pesticides,
the latter in accordance with associated IDA-supported
project undertakings;



- 31 -
ld) Abolition of the issuance of new QRs and the imposition of
domestic purchase requirements; adoption of a timetable for
eliminating such restrictions presently obtaining except with
respect to cement and steel rods;
(e) Reforms in the public enterprise sector, specifically:
ti) Establishment of (1) principles to govern a reform of the
legal and institutional framework of both wholly-owned state
enterprises and mixed enterprises, and (2) adoption of a
timetable and work program for revising existing legislation
and the statutes of enterprises concerned;
Cii) Adoption of a t6rms of reference for a retrospective
assessment of the enterprise privatization program to define
a strategy for future privatizations;
Cf) Review with IDA of tl) the 1988-90 public investment program and
all other proposed public capital expenditure and financing
guarantees by the State, and (2) recurrent budgetary allocations
for 1988 for transport infrastructure and agricultural, health
and education services; and C3) the first of periodic reviews of
said expenditure and guarantees.
96.       It has been agreed with Governent that availability of the
second tranche will be contingent upon satisfactory overall progress in
implementing the SAL program and in particular upon the following actions
being taken in a manner satisfactory to the Associations
Ca) Establishment of a financial program for 1989 to further reduce
internal and external deficits;
(b) Adoption of a new organizational structure and functions of OPAT
and an implementation schedule for further reducing OPAT's
overall costs; revision of OPAT's schedule of marketing costs
(baremes) for coffee, cocoa and cotton; completion of audits of
OPAT's accounts for the 1987/88 fiscal year;
Cc)  Adoption of appropriate action to promote cereals exports;
(d) Abolition of import licensing; enactment of a new tariff regime
to rationalize the system of effective protection, including
harmonization of border and domestic taxes and revision of the
reference pricing system for imports (valeurs mercuriales);
abolition of all remaining import monopolies of SONACOM; and
review with IDA of the export competitiveness of domestically
manufactured goods in light of exchange rate movements, and
adoption of compensatory measures as appropriate;



- 32 -
(e) Enactment of a revised Investment Code and Charter of Togolese
Enterprises;
(f) Adoption of a strategy for future enterprise privatizations;
(g) Substantial progress in implementing the reform of the legal and
institutional framework of the public enterprises in accordance
with the timetable in para. 95 (e) adopted in agreement with IDA;
(h) Review with IDA of the public investment program for 1989-91,
including all proposed public capital expenditure and State
guarantees, which program incorporates an expanded pipeline of
high priority projects; periodic reviews with IDA of said
expenditure and guarantees; review with IDA of recurrent
budgetary allocations for transport infrastructure and for
agricultural, health and education services; adoption of interim
measures to accelerate government procurement.
Manaaement and Administration of the SAL Program
97.       Overall responsibility for the preparation and implementation of
the SAL program rests with the Minister of Planning and Mines. The
Government has also apipointed a high-level Interministerial Committee (CIR)
charged in turn with supervising execution of the program. The CIR, which
vill meet semi-monthly, is composed of representatives of intra-ministerial
committees responsible for monitoring the execution of respective
components of the program and ensuring coordination of all Government
interests concerned. The CIR will be served by a Secretary appointed from
the senior ranks of the Ministry of Planning. Additionally, a special unit
is being created within each of the ministries principally responsible for
respective actions under the program to ensure their timely implementation.
Program implementation will be further supported through the Third
Technical Assistance Project, under which experts are being recruited to
assist the Ministries of Planning, Industry and State Enterprises and Rural
Development in the preparat,ion and execution of specific actions to be
undertaken. Finally, an expert has been seconded to the Ministry of
Finance under the IDA-only TA program to assist the Government in the
preparation of its proposed tariff reform and related measures for
industrial promotion.
Coordination with the IMP
98.       Recognizing that continued stabilization is a pre-requisite for
the success of structural adjustment, the Government has prepared its SAL
III and 1988 Stand by programs concurrently and in close consultation with
both institutions on the overall package. Similarly, the Government has
elaborated jointly with the Bank and Fund its medium term macro-economic
and financial strategy in its Policy Framework Paper for 1988-90 as the
basis for SAP financing beginning 1988. Bank and Fund staff have also
collaborated closely since the inception of SAL I on issues of particular



_ 33 -
joint concern, most recently the financial position of OPAT and Government
tax reform.
Procurement and Disbursement Conditions
99.       The proposed Credit would finance 100 percent of the CI? costs of
eligible imports (excluding luxury consumer goods, defense items and goods
intended for military use). Financing of imports of petroleum products and
foodstuffs would each not exceed US$6.3 million in disbursements under the
Credit. Direct imports by public entities would require international
competitive bidding for contracts above US$1.0 million to be eligible.
Imports by the private sector would be in accordance with normal commercial
practices in Togo, which are acceptable to IDA. To expedite disbursement,
up to US$2.5 million for imports made between April 1, 1988 and Credit
signature would be eligible for financing. Contracts for imports of less
than US$10,000 value would not be eligible for financing.
100.      To facilitate disbursement and procurement, a special account
would be established at the Central Bank on terms and conditions acceptable
to IDA. Upon Credit effectiveness, IDA would make an initial disbursement
of US$4.0 million into the account. The account would be replenished
regularly and up to the limit of the first tranche on the basis of: ti)
fully documented reimbursement applications for import contracts exceeding
US$100,000; and (ii) statements of expenditure for import items between
US$10,000 and US$100,000. Disbursement applications would be aggregated
with a minimum replenishment application of US$500,000. The CPA franc
counterpart funds generated by the proposed Credit would be used by the
Government to support its structural adjustment policies (Section 3.01 of
the Development Credit Agreement).
PART V - BANK GROUP OPERATIONS AND STRATEGY
101.      As of December 31, 1987, Bank Group lending to Togo totaled 31
credits, amounting to US$384.50 million, of which US$246.36 million was
disbursed, as well as a loan of US$3.50 million (Annex IV). In addition to
two structural adjustment programs, IDA lending has financed agriculture
(cocoa, coffee, cotton and food crops), transport, water supply, power,
education and private enterprise development as well as technical
assistance to the Ministries of Planning, Rural Development and State
Enterprises. Togo has also benefitted from Bank Group support to regional
operations, including two credits to the Vest African Development Bank
BOAD), a credit for the feasibility study for the Nangbeto regional
hydroelectric project and a further credit for the construction of that
project, and, finally, a Bank loan of US$49.5 million to CIMAO (a regional
clinker plant now closed) jointly and severally guaranteed by the C6te
d'Ivoire, Ghana and togo, plus a further IDA credit of US$5.7 million for
CIMAO.



- 34 -
102.      The three technical assistance credits extended by IDA have been
designed to help the Government formulate investment and macroeconomic
policies, thus reinforcing the policy dialogue associated with the
structural adjustment programs. Specifically, che credits have financed
assistance in investment programming and nroject evaluation, assessing
state enterprises, rural sector planning and agricultural price analysis
and monitoring. The Bank has also seconded two economic advisors to the
Ministry of Planning. A third advisor, a Bank staff member seconded to the
Ministry of Economics and Finance in October 1987 is assisting the
Government in the areas of customs tariff reform and industrial policy in
preparation for the adoption of the new industrial incentive system under
the third structural adjustment program.
103.      To complement and elaborate on the macroeconomic adjustment
measures taken in the context of the Government's structural adjustment
program. Bank Group strategy incorporates operations at the sector/project
level which are of three types: sector protrams focussing on overall
sector investment and priority recurrent expenses (e.g. transport,
municipal services); institutional development proiects to build up
agricultural services and raise the efficiency of existing parastatal
organizations; and social sector projects which would both improve overall
expenditure patterns in health and education and help in offsetting the
social costs of adjustment. The possibility of further adjustment program
support from the Bank Group will be examined in the light of Togo's
performance under the third phase program.
104.      Complementary to our support of the Government's adjustment
program at the macroeconomic level, sector/project operations are planned
to address in depth a wide number of additional issues in the key sectors.
In agriculture, the key sector of potential growth in the medium term, two
projects are under preparation, both of which will be focussed on
institutional support for raising productivity levels. The first project,
focussed on agricultural services, would follow up and expand on the
recently approved Agricultural Extension project. The second, designed to
strengthen the cotton sub-sector, will address, among others, the issue of
cotton marketing efficiency. In industry, a recently approved project will
consolidate support for private enterprise development of small- and
medium-scale industry and cnmmerce. A transport rehabilitation project
approved by Executive Directors in December 1987 will support the
Government's Transport Rehabilitation Program for the three-year period,
1988-90 with particul    ttention to road maintenance.  In education, a
project under preparatiua which would strengthen technical education to
better align the supply of manpower skills with rising demand, particularly
in light industry and commerce as those sectors begin to expand. Finally,
work is underway on a project designed to promote improved health services
which would be aimed largely at revitalizing Togo's considerable network of
primary health care facilities.
105.      The Bank has frequently taken the lead in mobilizing and
coordinating external support for Togo, notably in co-chairing the mid-1985
Donors' Round Table, which set out the priorities of the public investment



- 35 _
program through 1990. The Bank will further assist the Government in
1988-89 in mobilizing non-project assistance in support of its third
adjustment program as well as project financing to support the public
investment program.
PART VI - RECOMMENDATION
106.      I am satisfied that the proposed IDA Credit would comply with the
Articles of Agreement of the Association.
107.      I recommend that the Executive Directors approve the proposed
Development Credit.
111.      I am satisfied that the proposed Japanese grant would comply with
the provisions of the letters exchanged between Japan and the Association
of November 20, 1985, and recommend that the Executive Directors approve
the administration by the Association of the proposed Japanese grant.
Barber B. Conable
President
Washington, D.C.
March 7, 1988
Attachments



Axmex I
Page I of 4
Definditons of Social Indicators
The definition of a pardcular social indicator may    Totalfertility rate - Average number of children that
vary among countries or within one country over    would be born alive to a woman duting her lifetime,
time. For instance, different countries define -urban    if during her childbearing years she were to bear
area' or 'safe water" in different ways. For more    children at each age in accordance with prevailing
detailed definitions, see the technical notes to the    age-specfic fertility rates.
World Development Indicators.                  Infant (agedO-)) mortalitv rate - Numnber of infants
per thousand live births, in a given year, who die
AREA (thousand sque kilometers)                before reaching one year of age.
Total - Total surface area comprising land area and    Child (aged 1-4) mortality rate - Number of deaths
inland waters                                  of children, aged 14, per thousand children in the
Agrkictural (percentage of total) - Estimate of agri-   same age group, in a given year.
cultural area used for crops, pastures, market and    Family planning - acceptors, (thouads) - Annual
kitchen gardens ot lying fallow, as a percentage of    number of acceptors of birth-control measures re-
total.                                         ceived under the auspices of a national family plan-
ning program.
GNP PER CAPITA (USs) - 1986 GNP per capita    Family planning - users (percehtage of married won-
estimates at current market prices calculated by the    en) - Percentage of married women of child-bearing
conversion method used for the World Bank Atlas.    age who are practicing, or whose husbands are
practicing, any form of contraception. Child-bearing
POPULATION AND VITAL STATISTICS                age is generally 15 to 44, although for some coun-
Total population - mid-year (millions), 1986 data.  tries contraceptive usage is measured for other age
Urban population (percentage of total) - Different    groups.
countries follow different definitions of urban pop-
ulation which may affect comparability of data    FOOD, HEALTH AND NUTRITION
among countries.                               Index offood production per capita (1979-81 = 100)
Population growth rate (percent) - total and urban -    - Index of per capita annual production of all food
Annual growth rates of total and of urban popula-    commodities. Production excludes animal feed and
tions-                                         seed for agrculture. Food commodities include pri-
Life expectancy at birth (years) - Number of years a    mary commodities (for example, sugarcanc instead
newborn infant would live if prevailing patterns of    of sugar) which are edible and which contain nu-
mortality at the time of its birth were to stay the    trients (for exanple, tea and coffee are excluded).
same throughout its life.                      They include nuts, fruits, pulses, cereals, vegetables,
Population projections                         oil seeds, sugarcane and sugar beets, livestock, and
Population In 2000 - Projections of population    livestock products. Aggregate production of each
given total population by age and sex, fertility and    country is based on national average producer price
the demographic parameters of mortality rates and    weights,
migration in the base year 1980.               Per capita sWpply of calories - Computed from energy
Stationary population - Projected population level   equivalent of net food supplies available in a coun-
when zero population growth is achieved: i.e., the    try, per capita, per day. Available supplies comprise
birth rate is constant and is equal to the death rate,    domestic production, imports less exports, and
the age structure is stable, and the growth rate is   changes in stock. Net supplies exclude animal feed,
zero.                                          seeds for use in agriculture, quantities used in food
Population density, agicultural land - Population per    processing, and losses in distribution.
square kilometer (100 hectares) of agrkultural area.    Per capita supply ofproteln (grams per day) - Protein
Population age structure (percent) - Children #-14    content of per capita net supply of food per day. Net
years, working age group 15-64 yea, and people of    supply of food is defined as above. Requirements for
65 years and over as percentages of population.  'all countries, established by United States Depart-
Crude birth rate - Annual live births per thousand    ment of Agriculture, provide for minimum allow-
population.                                    ances of 60 grams of total protein per day and 20
Crde death rate - Annual deaths per thousand    grams of aninal or pulse protein.
population.                                    Population per physician - Population divided by the



Annex I
Page 2 of 4
number of practicing physicians qualified from a    and rural - Conventional dwellings with electricity in
medical school at university level.             living quarters, as a percentage of all dwellings.
Population per nursing person - Population divided by
the number of practicing graduate nurses, assistant    EDUCATION
nurses, practical nurses and nursing auxiliaries.  Enrolbnent rates
Population per hospital bed - Population divided by  Primary sekool enrollment - total. male andfemale
the number of hospital beds available in public and    - Gross enrollment of all ages at primary level as a
private, general and specialized hospitals, and reha-    percentage of school-age children as defined by each
bilitation centers. Hospitals are establishments per-    country, and reported to Unesco. While many coun-
manently staffed by at least one physician.     tries consider primary school age to be 6-11 years,
Access to safe water (percentage of population) -    others use different age groups. For some countries
total, urban, and rural - People (total, urban, and    with universal education, gross enrollment may ex-
rural) with reasonable access to safe water supply    ceed 100 percent since some pupils are younger
(includes treated surface waters or untreated but    or older than the country's own standard primary
uncontaminated water such as that from springs,    school age.
sanitary wells, and protected boreholes). In an urban  Secondary school enrollmnent - total, male andfen-
area this may be a public fountain or standpost    ale - Computed in a similar manner, but including
located not more than 200 meters away. In rural    pupils enrolled in vocational, or teacher training
areas this implies that members of the household do    secondary schools. The age group is usually 12 to 17.
not have to spend a disproportionate part of the day  Pupil-teacher ratio - prinary, and secondary - Total
fetching water.                                 students enrolled in school divided by the total
number of teachers.
LABOR FORCE                                       Percentage pupils reaching grade six - The percent-
Total labor force (millions) - Economically active,    age of children staring primary school, that contin-
including armed forces and unemployed but exclud-    ue until grade six.
ing housewives and students.
Female (percent) - Female labor force as a percent-   INCOME, CONSUMPTION, AND POVERTY
age of total labor force.                       Energy consumption per capita (kilograms of oil
Agricutture (percent) - Labor force in farming,    equivalent) - Annual consumption of commervial
forestry, hunting and fishing as a percentage of total    primary energy (coal, lignite, petroleum, naturwal gas,
labor force.                                    and hydro, nuclear and geothermal electricity).
Industry (percent) - Labor force in mining, construc-    Income distribution - Income (both in cash and kind)
tion, manufacturing and electricity, water and gas as    accruing to percentile groups of households ranked
a percentage of total labor force.              by total household income.
Participation rate (percent) - total, male, andfemale    Pasenger cars (per thousand population) - Includes
- Participation rates are the percentage of population    motor cats seating fewer than eight persons.
of all ages in the labor force. These are based on ILO  Newspaper circulation (per thousand population) -
data on the age-sex structure of the population.  Average circulation of a 'daily, general interest
Age dependency ratio - Ratio of population under 15,    newspaper," defined as a news periodical published
and 65 and over, to the working age population (age    at least four times a week.
15-64).                                         Estinated absolute poverty income level (USS per
capita) - urban and rural - Absolute poverty income
HOUSING                                         level is that below which a minimal nutritionally
Average size of household (persons per household) -    adequate diet plus essential nonfood requirements
total,' urban. and rural - A household consists of a    are not affordable.
group of individuals who share living quarters and    Estimated popudation below absolute poverty income
main meals.                                     level (percent) - Percentage of urban and rural pop-
Percentage of dwellings with electricity - total, urban,    ulations who live in -absolute poverty."



Annex I
Page 3 of 4
1987 SOCIAL INDICATOR DATA SHEET
TOGO
Reference Groups (MRE)
Most
Recent                   Lower mid
1965       1973    Estimate   Low-Income      income
LABOR FORCE
Total Labor Force (thou)          742        962       1.274
Female (%)                       39         39          37         31         29
Agriculture (X)                  78         76          73         72         58
Industry (%)                      9          9          10         13         t6
Participation rate (%)
Total                            46         44          42         41'        35
Male                             57          55         53         54         49
Female                           35         34          31         28         20
Age dependency ratio              0.9         1.0        1.0        0.7        0.8
Average size of household:
Total                                        6
Urban'
Rural
Percentage of dwellings with
electricity:
Total
Urban
Rural       -                                        -
EVUcATrIO
Enrollment rates:
Primary: Total                   58         99          97         97        103
male                    78        130         118        109        110
Female                  32         68         75          84         97
Secondary: Total                  5          19         21         32         40
Male                   8         29         32          41         48
Female                 2          9          10         25         39
Pupil-Teacher ratio:
Primary                          50         60          48         36         32
Secondary                        21         32                     18         20
Pupils reaching grade 6 (X)                   66          68         49         71
-INCOE * CXtMRIDPTION. AND POVERTY
Energy consumption per cap.
(kg of oil equivalent)             27         57          47        310        345
Percentage of private Income
received by:
Highest 10% of households
Highest 20%      -                           **
Lowest 20%
Lowest 40%
Est. absolute poverty Income
level (USS per capita):
Urban                                                  243 a.
Rural                                                 *lia
Est. pop. below absolute
poverty income level (X)
'Urban                                                  42a
Rural
Passenger cars/thou pop.          1.8        5.                     0.3        4.0
Newspaper circulation
(per thousand population)         6.1        6.0        5.1        16.0       14.0
ZECS! August 1987
Not avlable. N Wt Mat _eantat  of gopoletlsa an  Wp parhte ate for IuS canol  owr"a notEd.
Grop aV"a a poplmat wehted. Osnta coea dapend an da aanll and is not Itrm. Usnle Oawlfa notat
I1 elm to an Yea bewen IUi en Nt-S betee 1fsad IS t and mdot resenlmet bw ii ad a"_.
a. tO78.



Annex I
Page 4 of 4
1987 SOCIAL INDICATOR DATA SHEET
TOGO
Reference Groups (MRE)
most
Recent                    Lower mid
1968       1973    Estimate   Low-income        income
AREA
Total land area (thou sq klp)    56.8         56.8        56.8
Agricultural (X of total)          22.7       27.9        28.6
GNP PER CAPITA (current USS)           ..         170        240         260        820
POPULATION AND VITAL STATISTICS
Total population (thou)           1.627      2,173       3,139
Urban pop. (% of total)             1i          15          23          22         36
Population growth rate(%):
Total                                        3.8         2.8        2.i         2.5
Urban                                        7.5         6.5        3.8         4.2
Life expect. at birth (yrs)          42         46          Si         60          S8
Population projections:
Pop. in 2000 (thou)                                    4.872
Stationary pop. (thou)                                13.000
Population density per sq km
of agricultural land                Ii?        137         199         349        284
Pop. age structure (%):
0-14 yes                          45          46          46         37          39
15-64 yes                         52          51          SO         S9          55
l and above                         3          3           3          4           6
Crude birth rate (per thou)          50         s0          49          29         36
Crude death rate (per thou)          22         20          16          10         11
Total fertility rate                6.5        S.5         6.5        3.2         3.6
Infant mort. rate (per thou)        153        1I1          97         72          82
Child death rate (per thou)          36         31          12           9         11
Family planning:
Acceptors,  nnual (thou)           ..         ..
User* (% of married women)
FOOO. HEALTH AND NUlTITION
Inds* of food production per
capita (1979-81 a 100)               ..         99          90         115        108
Per capita supply of:
Calories (per day)            -2.378       2.130       2.221      2.339       2.514
Proteins (grams per day)           51         48          49         se          a6
Pop. per physician (thou)            ..       28.9        18.5         8.9        6.9
Pop. per nurse (thou)              4.7         1.6         1.2        2.4         1.4
Pop. per hospital bed (thou)         .,        0.7         0.7 a       1.1        0.8
Acoess to safe water
(% of population):  Total         ..          16          34
Urban         ..         49          68
Rural        ..          10         26
Population Growth             Infant Mortlitty       Primary School Enrollmont
53w m                                                      S_______
4-         an. ~      ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~ -,.e  
S.~~~~~~~~~~S
J                     0~~~~~~~.
"5Sg-13 iIWS_89      I0  -                         01+0     ia         8
ot. 5%_  "l                        . . 
n. w     noo                                    *rjw'*ji



Annex II
Page 1 of 3
ATrAOUf sA - NATmIL ACCW.HTS - AWAL 96T1 PA826M
1986    1967       16         1W        190        19         192       i8         1994
226 96   OlSCPROUItCTQP)                     2.0       8.2        3.7        8.9        4.8       4.6        4.9       4.0
2US A6IOA.1U1                                4.2        8.8       4.5        4.1        4.0       4.0        4.0       4.0
921 PWSIRY                                  -0.8        4.0       4.5        8.5        5.8       6.0        6.0       8.0
228 SERVim                                   1.6        2.8       2.8        8.1        4.0       4.5        S.0       5.0
289 TTAL CONRWPtI                            6.1        1.0       1.6        a.7        2.7       4.2        5.5       5.5
286 TOTAL D4VE1#                           -28.6       10.7       9.9        8.0       12.4       0.8        5.0       4.9
162 26WRtS 07 0005 M   NFWS                  0.1       6.0        8.2        5.0       4.6        8.5        8.s       S.7
M D196   OPF GOODS A NFS                    -8.1       8.6        8.2        4.0       5.0        5.8        5.0       8.1
ATTAaU4 SA - NATM. ACCTS - AS PEIW OIF CDP
198     1987       1988       198       1990        91       1m         199        1994
92  96l08 DONESIC PR00UCT@4P)     100.0   100.0       100.0,     10.0      100.0    1l0.0       100.0      100.0      100.0
22 A8ILCJUM                       28.2    28.8       29.9       29.2       29.2       20.1      28.9      98.7      92.5
2n1 D)URY                          18.0    17.5        17.7      17.6       18.1       18.8      18.5       18.7       18.9
U2S SEA S                         41.1    40.9        40.6      40.8       40.0       S9.8      89.8       89.8      59.9
2S9 TOTAL CONaWTION                87.6    91.1        89.1      87.8       87.2       85.9      68.5       8.0       86.5
2SI TOTAL DVUENEW                  24.7    17.s        18.6      19.7       19.8       21.0      22.0       2.1      22.1
162 E#IW8 OF GCD 0    NFS          84.      8.S        84.4      84.9       85.8       85.4      85.0       84.5      84.1
185 DIPIIT8 OF OOO0S A NS          46.6    42.0        42.2      41.9       42.0      42.8       42.9       42.6      42.7
272 9ISS PAT SAVIVM  EXCL TTASJ.   10.8      6.4        9.1      11.8       12.5      14.5       14.8       14.4      14.1
ATT.110i 8A - HER IOICATORS 5 WM  ZCOR
1966    1957       1988      1969       1990          t       1992      1998       194
278 ICIIR S-R                       0.0      0.0       0.0        0.0        0.0        5.7       4.8        4.7       4.6
POT1341AL AM ACTUAL VAUJES -  DMO  AND SAVPS
196     1987       1986       1989      1990       1901       1992     1i8         1994
166 POTSAL 11906  - OTH CUM8      97.80    70.S0      76.80     78.00      72.10      71.20     72.80      74.80     78.70
17 VOWS - 0 00ODS SV GAP           0.00     0.80      0.00       0.00       0.00      0.00       0.00       9.00c     0.0
172 DWIMS - MMI    8 00006        97.80    70.S0      76.80     78.00      72.10      71.20     72.S0      74.a0     78.70
244 NAXMMR WMaGL SAVDIS RMTE       0.o0     0.00       O.oo   0.00          0.00      0.00       0.00       0.00      0.00
2U WNAR L SAVIP RATE               0.00     4.82       0.78      0.68       0.86      0.S7       0.27       0.1t      0.1O
ATTA   ,TA - NATU4AL AChh1  5 IAR LAST 8W1 588    RATEM
1966-91  1967-92    1966.48    1989-9    li0.5     199-1
U2 9    DOM OSTIC P110DUCS I)       8.5      4.0       4.8        4.6        4.7        4.0
922 AORL1UE                         4.1      4.1        4.1       4.0        4.0       4.0
221 IIASTRY                         4.0      5.1       S.5        5.8        8.9        6.0
228U EV                             2.8      8.4       8.9        4.4        4.7       4.9
2S9 TOTAL 0N0?JPT1                  2.7      2.7 <   8.8          4.8        4.9       5.5
286 TOTAL DIEITIT                   2.5  -8.7          8.2        7.6        7.1       5.7
182 EXPORTS OF 00C    NFS           4.8      4.9       4.4        4.0        8.7       8.5
185 D8Rs OP O00S 1NFS               2.0      4.2       4.6        5.0        5.4       5..
ATrA4IIT 8A - o-M IOICATM - 8 WAR LOAST SIQWE8   HM Raw ()
1986-1  17-_2    1988-98    1989-94    199045    199M-
246  t08ATnmL                       4.1      4.6       4.?        4.8        4.9       4.0
17 Or PM CAPITA                     0 7      1.8        1.4       1.5        1.8       1.5
120 Ve                             o0a       0.4       0.4        0.8        0.5       0.5



Annex II
P+age zO 
oa - CWHr MM  - NSSUML 9tN4 8.AlE(3)
us.e    1867        18         196        1990       1991       192        1998       1994
8 oxP"  C0lF                                  7.9       14.6       2.S        14.8       12.5        0.0        0.0        0.0
18 9E)R COCOA                               -46.1       14.8        6.5         .9   .t 7            6.2        5.9         5.6
134  EW=  COTTON                              1.8       -1.8        4.6       15.6        7.0        10.0       7.0        7.0
18 03PRW l'MQ3E ROM                           8.9        9.1        0.0        0.0        0.0        0.0        0.0        0.0
1a6 EWI CLIMMR
17  Es   TF OTHt                             -a.0        9.0       10.0       10.0       12.0       12.0        12.0       12.0
a REE-2PTa                                    0.0        0.0        0.0        0.0        0.0        0.0        0.0        0.0
IN D(PU  MAMlAvjCI                           14.0        9.0       10.0       10.0       18.0        15.0      15.0        18.0
10  _0o000000o
161 TOTAL ElS OCF 0                          -1.0        e.2        5.2        8.2        5.0        8.7        3.6        3.9
141 ExPs OPF N      C  SERVIC                 5.8        5.0        -5.0       4.0        S.0        a.0        3.0        a.o
162 E(FTS OF a0s  & W*                       -0.1        6.0        5.2        1.0    *    .e        8.5        3.5        8.7
£TTA 4 So - CSosmIt   OF' amT  AS P00f OF 186
1986     197        1968       1          1990       191        1992       198        1994
161 7IWS OF *09(Ci'stant)          100.0    1D0.0      100.0      100.0       00.0       100.0     100.0       100.0     100.0
270 PRDV62 CSO s                    92.4     91.2       91.0       90.6       90.1       89.2       a8.0       86.7       85.8
1S9 0es OF NAIUNI Ft                 7.0      8.8        9.0        9.4        9.9       10.8       12.0        18.3      14.7
ATTCOQt 831 - 91TWRAL 1RE NO PRIM - M6IAL MmH RATE(S)
s98      1967      9li8        1989       199o       1991       1992       1998      1994
1e1 CAPOF OP       caft"aM)                  -1.0        6.2        8.2        6.2        8.0        8.7        3.s        5.9
270 PRIA3DT 5rw6s                            -2.2        6.0        4.7        4.7        8.9        2.5        2.1        2.2
in9 Ro27Sr Om6WDcItm                         14.0        9.0       10.0       10.0       15.0       1I.0       1l.0       1l.0
184 8wS h op am(Ctao                        -10.7        a.8        8.0        4.0        5.5        5.7        5.1        5.2
16s DMOPS OF FOOD                            -2.1        4.0        O.6        8.5        2.6        4.7        6.4        6.4
1a Dram OP PeFROLM                            0.8        8.2        8.7        8.e        4.8        4.6        4.9        4.9
169 IOTS OP eF CapLAL M0                    -18.6       10.1        9.8        6.9       11.$        8.7        6.0        4.9
27 oT D ws                              !   -2.0        -0.4       -0.8        1.9        2.0        8.s        4.4        4.7
1S 8182r PRICE          I                    -4.2        5.e        4.8    a    .6        A.2        4.1        4.2        4.1
1a9 vowP.reRICE                               6.8        8.6        4.1        1.9        2.9        2.7        2.6        2.7
1to Tom OF Tne IDE                           -9.1        0.8        0.4        1.6        1.3        1.4        1.8        1.4
W1PORSi IN CD  TAWT FRI'
1966     1987       1988       189        10990      1991       1992       1998      1994
16 DwOrs OF Few                     76.8    75.2        78.2       78.?       81.4   e 8.5          87.5       93.0       99.0
172 13sr OHE1t COeRm 00W0          97.8     79.        76.5      7t.0        72.1       71.2       72.8       74.8       76.7
106 I3797 OF PErRMLUN               14.5     145.       17.1       17.7       10.4       19.2       20.1       21.1       22.1
1e6  3POWRM OF INtiI M a00          60.0     89.4       61.6       64.6       66.1       71.9       76.2   4 0.8          8e.6
169 238M9  OF CAPITAL 000          107.6     89.7       96.8      103.8      116.0      129.1      140.4       147.4     154.7
184 IMPORTS OF GO5                  M?.7    820.4      as2.4      842.4      856.0,      74.9      s96.4      416.6      438.1
170 _lS79  OF NOP -PTR  SERVICE    111.1    111.1      114.7      119.0      125.7      129.0      135.0      141.6      148.5
- 800-ThPaTrSbO  I 00$ I 1178(14)   ;.461.a   4,5 -    447.2      An-A       479.7    - S.9 .   S&L4  "."5 t              66.7
16s iw s OF 0006 a NFaS           162    149447       15482       5s9l    16124        17451      184089     1812      201S
DtlS D   LULSO OF wUr US5
19       198w      1it.        1969       1990      1991        1992       1998      194
178 Dram OPF F                      76.8     62.8       72.0       77.1       83.0       87.9       45.0      104.8      114.5
179 1397 016t CenS1E M  000s        97.8     90.4       S8.6       86.6       86.2       90.0       96.7      105.2      114.9
188 DOO4MF OP PIIROLS               16.5     18.8       2Q.S       21.        25.8       25.7       2a.4       51.8       54.8
281 D1Os OF O   RP         ESATE 00US  60.0  67.6       74.2       81.7        86.0      91.8       98.8      105.6      118.8
162 Wns OF CAPITAL 00T0            107.6      2.0      118.       17.8       146.4      164.8      161.4       192.5     204.8
186 D131O9075 W                    a86.7    541.8      878.9      401.0      424.8      460.6      300.0      s89.8      662.8
1i8 D1m OF 36-PcTO  SERVz8         11.1    128.4        87.8 150.$           1.         114.7      174.4      18S.2      19k.S
187 D1W7   OF OP 0 A6WS            469.8    46T.6      511.7      651.9      60.9       6.O        674.4      724.5      776.8
ATTA09ff 8 - CaVO8176 oF VW"  AS a17 OF F006
19tlS   t197        1966l      1949      1990       199         1992       19to      1994
14 D1ra5 OF 0OWS                  100.0    10.0       100.0      100.0      100.0       1.0       100.0       100.0     100.0
16  WONtlF FOOD                     21.4     23.5       2a.8,      2.0        22.0       22.8       22.1       22.3       22.6
ST7 DO87 OFPlEtROLEM                 4.6      5.2        5.1        5.2        5.2        5.1        5.1        S.1        5.0
169 D40  OF CAPITAL 0m5             80.0     28.0       29.?       81.7       62.6       84.4        86.4      85.4       88.8
271 W562 ll77                       44.0     4a.4        41.0    -  40.2      89.4        68.2      ST.5       S7.2       a7.0



Annex II
Page 3 of 3
04oer-8a                                              TM   8MJJ4E OF PAYIETS
OAS mi lI ion  of Current Price)
Actq&al                 Prailll   .               Projected
1982     1988     198       1986     198    19S7      1988      1989    1990    1991    1992
_ ~~~~~~~~~~~~~-    - -    -- - - - - _- _-- - -- - - -- - - - - - - - - - - -
A. Exports of Goods A NFS             337.2    274.8    338.6    298.1    845.1  84.1I   868.0    427.8   460.4   498.4 S34. 
1. M.rchndie (FM)                    845.1    27a.7    290.6    244.4.   274.7  2S8.4    2e6.8    s28.0   885.2   s88.7   419.7
2. Non-Factor Services                ...        1.1     42.7      41.7     70.4   82.7      91.7    101.8   108.2   109.7   114.3
8. Irers of Goods a tFS               448.7    318.0    120.2   8S9.9    469.8  467.8    511.7   S61.6   880.9   625.0   674.4
1. Morchandise (FOB)                S89.8    288.9    268.2    282.0        88.7  841.8    878.9    401.0   424.0   460.8    00W.0
2. Non-Factor Servics                 44.       49.1 47.0    107.9    111.1  126.4    187.8    150.6   156.0   164.7   174.4
c Reoure  blance                      -106.8    -6.2    1t.8    -7S.8   -124.7 -t21.6   -138.7   -124.8   -0.5  -126.6  -140.4
0. Not Factor Incoa                    46.9    -67.5    -4.8    -48.9    -53.2  -70.4    -66.8    -61.4  r44            -46.4   -83.1
1. Factor Receipts                    88.0      87.0     41.6      46.8     54.2   62.0      87.2      62.9    69.2    72.7    76.8'
2. Factor Psyments                    94.9      94.J     87.9      92.4    107.4  122.4    128.7    124.8   124.1   121.0   12-.4
Of which Intersat                 (49.8)   (87.0)   (48.1)   (10.5)   (42.4) (44.0)   (3884)    (1A.1)  (27.4)  (23.7)  (21.1)
E. Net Curren4 Transfers               82.0      16.2     20.4      80.8     82.2   41.2      44.1      47.2    SO.$    U4.1    57.9
A. Current ReceIpts                   82.0      16.2     20.4      30.8     82.2   41.2      44.1      47.2    S0.5    94.1    57.9
a. Iark.re, remittane-s             -1.8     -2.6     -1.8       0.2      0.8 -0.7         0.8       0.8     0.9      1.0     1.1
b. Oth., current Transf.            8.8     18.8     22.2      80.1     81.9   40.8      48.8      46.4    49.6    53.1    46.8
2 Current Payment.                     0.0       0.0      0.0       0.0      0.0    0.0       0.0       0.0     0.0      0.0     0.0
F. Current Account Balanc            -131.4   -104.o    -12.6   -46.4   -145.7  -150.8   -146.1   -1SS.4  -124.8  -120.9  -135.6
0. Long-Ter Capital nfloew             11.0      92.9     12.6      8t.6     62.4   10.4      93.1    112.4    78.1   116.2   155.2
1. Difect investeant                  14.0      -0.8    -18.7      7.3      19.6   12.0      42.5     47.8    40.0    41.8    34.5
2. Official Capital Grant*            14.9      28.4     84.8      84.5     29.5   29.0      29.1      34.5    86.4    43.6    48.0
3. Nt LT Loans (0M  date)            -82.8      -9.9    -20.8S 10.0          8.8-a0.6        21.8      80.8     1.7    80.8    72.6
a. Disbureements  1/               a8.8      69.0     5S.1      86.0     69.1   70.6    106.8    106.4    82.4    91.8   1i3.8
a. Repayments                      101.8     77.9     7.9       78.8     8S.0  101.1      86.0      77.8    60.7    61.0    84.7
4. Other 7 Inflows. (nt) 2/            14.6     79.9     18.6       4.7      0.0    0.0       0.0       0.0     0.0      0.0     0.0
M. Total Other It_a (net)              82.9      17.8     -1.8      16.9     46.6   28.2       0.0      0.0      0.0      0.0     0.0
1. Net Short Tore Capital             49.8      15.2    -10.8      7.1      10.1   10.8       0.0      0.0      0.0     0.0      0.0
2. Capital Flows N.E.I.   8/         -16.7       2.6      6.9       9.6     8.8.   17.9       0.0      0.0      0.0      0.0     0.0
I. Chomp. in Nat Resrves              -8.8    -19.9    -46.0    -18.6        28.1   26.7      -7. 6      .8    -4.9    -6.9    -9.7
1. Net Credlt from the II             ...       2S.1     19.8      6.7      11.8  -14.0    -10.8    -20.1   -15.i   . -8.5   -10.3
11. Grow Resrves Change               48tt.8     S.1    -3.7       -6;9      18.8  89.7        2.7    -26.9   -20.7   -15.4   -20.0
(-indicates increase)
Shares of OP (current US):
1. Reurce iblance                    -18.0      4.8       2.0    -10.5    -12.4  -10.2       -9..     -9.0    -8.4    -8.4    4.9
2. Total Interest Payients           -'40       -7.7     -7.2      -7.2     -4.2   -3.7      -2.9      -2.4    -1.9    -1.6    -1.3
8. Curtent Accunt Balanc             -16.0    -14.2      -1.9    -12.8    -14.   -12.7    -10.9    -10.0    -8.7    -8.0    -8.6
4. LT Capitat Inflos Cline 0)           1.8     t2.6      1.9       8.2      8.2'-  0.9       7.0       8.1     8.4      7.7     9.9
S. Net Credit from thoe 1              0.0       8.1      2.0       1.0      1.1   -1.2      -0.8      -1.5    -1.1    -0.6    -0.7
meaorandua Item:
*DP (*Illions of current US)        920.6    738.1    670.8    780.9   1007.4 1186.1   1836.7   1388.2  1489.8  1801.9  1S71.7
Exchnge Rate CFAbJ                   826.6    161.1      487.0    449.8   384.3  800.0    278.0    278.0   275.0   275.0   276.0
1/ Include alI loan& for 19i2-87; Identifled Prras Loan only for 
and no loan aeauption therafter.
2/ Reida ;l It" for th. period 1902-86 In tho capital account. includes deb%t *eced41 ins.
capital n.o. i .. and *rrore * omissions.
8/ Mainly moetry capital for 1982-85; residUal item In projectIon  includ_  tmenetry
Capital reschdullin", capital n.6.l. and errors A odIsslons.
Source: Fundil Balnce of Payments; nan Staff estimates and projections.



ANNEX III
Page 1 of 2
REPUBLIC OF TOGO
THIRD STRUCTURAL ADJUSTMENT PROGRAM
SUPPLEMENTARY LOAN DATA SHEET
Section Is Timetable of Key Events
(a)  Date of first presentation to the Bank             August 1987
(b)  Appraisal missiou                                  November 1987
tc)  Completion of negotiations                         February 1988
(d)  Planned date of effectiveness                      April 30, 1988
Section 2: Snecial Bank Implementation Actions
None
Section 3: Sgecial Conditions
Disbursement of the second tranche of the proposed credit would be
contingent on satisfactory progress in carrying out the Structural
adjustment Program and in parcicular on the following measures being
taken in a manner satisfacto.'y to the Association:
si) establishment of a financial program for 1989 to further
reduce internal and external imbalances;
(iii) adoption of a new organizational structure and functions of
OPAT and a schedule for further reducing OPAT's overall
costs; revision of OPAT's schedule of processing and
marketing costs (baremes) for coffee, cocoa and cotton;
completion of audits of OPAT's accounts for the 1987188
fiscal year;
(v) adoption of appropriate action to promote cereals exports;
(vi) abolition of import licensing; enactment of a new tariff
regime to rationalize the system of effective protection,
including harmonization of border and domestic taxes and
revision of the reference pricing system for imports
(valeurs niercuriales); abolition of all zeisining import-
monopolies of SONACOM; and review with IDA of the export
competitiveness of domestically manufactured goods in light
of exchange rate movements, and adoption of compensatory
measures as appropriate;
(vii) enactment of a revised Investment Code and the Charter of
Togolese Enterprises;
(viii) adoption of a strategy for future enterprise privatizations;



ANNEX III
Page 2 of 2
(ix) substantial progress in implementing the reform of the legal
and institutional framework of the public enterprises in
accordance with the timetable agreed with IDA and adopted in
March 1988;
(xi) review with IDA of the 1989-91 public investment program,
including all proposed public capital expenditure and State
guarantees, which incorporates an expanded pipeline of high
priority projects; periodic reviews with IDA of said
expenditure and guarantees; review with IDA of recurrent
budgetary allocations for transport infrastructure and for
agricultural, health and education services; adoption of
interim measures to accelerate Government procurement.



04-Mar-68                TOGO: Status of World   * Loam ad Creadts                ANNM   IV
(In M I I[am of U.S. dolars, as of iOe,er 31, 1987)1U           Pap I of I
Orilginal prlnclpal       Dhbursed and Ohtstandirn
IDA    IBRD    TOTAL          IDA    18RD   T7TAL
Total throLWh FY82                     116.70    8.50   120.20       102.78    3.50  108.28
Structural Adjuatuent I               40.00    -       40.00        37.88    -       37.88
Structural AdJutntnt II              37.80    -       37.80        44.14    -       44.14
Second Rural DevelopmUnt              30.40    -       30.40        18.58    -       18.58
Edwatlon louPrwowent    *             12.40    -       12.40         2.48    -        2.48
Lome Water Stply                      12.00    -       12.00         7.07    -        7.07
CIVAO Rsstructurlng  2/                5.70    -        5.70         -       -        -
NawVbeto lbxrostlectric               15       -       15.D          8.38    -        8.38
Tecinloal Assistancs II                 3.5    -        8.50         3.25    -        3.25
TedmIoal Assistance III               8.20    -         8.20         2.50    -        2.50
Coffee&CoooaDovelopDmt IlIl           1790    -        17.90         1.34             1.34
Pfate Eglnhlr. 8 T.A.                  5.70    -      --5.70         2.77    -        27
Hlcmy IV                              20.00    -       20.00        15.21,           15.21
grlalturalt ExtnsIon   3/             9.70    -         9.70         -                -
Prlvate  nterprisses Dwt 8/           11.50    -       11.50         -
;Traaport RhabiIltatlon  8J            40.00     -      40.00
Totel since FY83                      287.80            287.80       143.58    -      143.58
Bran total for all loam                 -        3.50    3.50          -       8.50    3.50
ad  total fr all credits              384.50    -       3S4.50       248.38    -      248.38
Grand total fr alI credits & loans      -        -      388.00         -              249.88
Sources: 180 anM IDA stateunts of loans and dmlopDmnt credits.
1/ Dlerspamsles betum  original and dislarsed amouts are doz to fluctuatlons
In US$t911 ndouns rate in perlad of disaburesunt. Credits dmnamlnated In SORs
are shorn In US$ equivalent based on thI eJsteunl  rates In effect at time of negotlatIons.
2/ Does not Inalude IEBD loan giaumnteed jointly by Top, Ghana and Cote d'lvolre of
US$49.50 aIllIon for a regional ollnlr project (CIMA0) In 1978.
S/ Not yet eoffttive as of 12/31/87.
.,



'''AM     V
TOGOLESE REPUBLIC
Union-Peace-Solidarity
MIN1STRY OF PLANNING AND MINES
General Directorate of Planning sad Development
STATEMENT
OF DEVELOPMENT POLICY,
OF THE GOVERNMENT OF TOGO
February, 1988



-2-
SU4MOARY AND CONCLUSIONS
The principal objective of the Government's economic and
social development program is to restore growth, while the aim of the
sector policies defined herein is to improve economic efficiency in
Togo.
The "green revolution" undert#ken in 1977 enabled Togo to
attain food self-sufficiency. However, gains must be consolidated and
research continued so as to increase agricultural yields and ensure
proper conservation of agricultural products and better water
resources management. Renewed impetus must be given to land reform
while the access of the rural population to credit will be
facilitated.
The Government intends to pursue its policy of price
incentives, and establishing producer prices is one area in which
action must be taken. To this end the Government has undertaken a
study that should lead to the establishment of a flexible system to
determine producer prices that are compatible with world prices.
Measures to strengthen production support structures,
increase and diversify the resulting production and introduce a
rigorous selection policy for rural development projects will help to
increase agricultural productivity.
As regards industrial policy, the complete privatization of
the State corporations and the optimization of the performance of the
enterprises retained in the State's portfolio will improve the
contribution of the parapublic enterprises sector to the economy.
Special emphasis will be placed on promoting exports and exploiting
local resources. Improvements in the regulatory and institutional
framework of the industrial sector, and specifically the establishment
of the Togolese Investment Center, will expand the volume of private
investment.
The introduction of the program to encourage private
initiative and the provision to the banks of financial resources
earmarked for promoting the development of small and medium business
will revive employment. A special program will be introduced to
facilitate the establishment of businesses by young graduates and
still-active retirees.
In the infrastructure sector, the rehabilitation,
strengthening and maintenance of the road system in line with road
safety standards will open up production zones and improve conditions
for the movement of people and of goods. The rehabilitation and
maintenance of water supply infrastructures, rural roads, the
electricity network and communications will be continued.



-3-
Since energy is the motor of economic development, efforts
must be concentrated on seeking the least expensive sources of supply
in order to reduce unit production costs, preserve the purchasing
power of users and limit foreign exchange outflows.
The financial efforts made over the past 10 years have
enabled tourism to rise to third place in the hierarchy of Togo's
economic activities. Improvements in hotel management, an increase in
the hotel occupancy rate as a result of tourism promotion overseas,
diversification of the clientele and the development of new sites will
make the hotel sector profitable and vill increase the receipts
generated by tourism.
Thanks to the peace and stability enjoyed by Togo for more
than 20 years and the infrastructures executed, Lomd  has all the
assets needed to play the role of a leading financial and commercial
center in the subregion.
The financial resources mobilized in order to place man at
the center of the development process will be increased so as to:
-    develop access to education and training for vocational
purposes;
-    ensure the widest possible health coverage for the
population, with special attention being given to primary
health care;
-    develop activities on behalf of youth, sports and culture;
promote social action and the integration of women in all
economic activities.
Economic growth and the resumption of the activities that
this development policy should encourage are imperative necessities
for the Togolese Government, which since 1981 has been committed both
to servicing the external and domestic debt and to ensuring the
nation's economic and social development.
All the development programs based on the sector policies
established by the Government will need to receive financial support
from donors so as to increase investment and generate growth in
employment.
As a reaffirmation of the requirements of development and to
establish the basis for growth, the Togolese Government is adopting
this declaration specifying a range of actions to be taken in order to
restore the country's economy.



-4-
PREAMBLE
The Fourth Statutory Congress of the Rassemblement du Peuple
Togolais held at LomO in December 1986 confirmed Togo's option for
economlc liberalism based on flexible planning and concerted action at
all levels.
The Congress also decided:
-    to pursue the policy of financial stabilization and economic
recovery;
-    to strengthen the supervision and rehabilitation of public
enterprise management;
-    to reaffirm Togo's commitment to promoting regional economic
integration, specifically within ECOMAS.
The policy of development will be continued, but special
emphasis will be placed on economic growth in order to Improve the
living conditions and standards of every Togolese citizen and to
overcome the financial crisis.



INTRODUCTION
During the first half of the 19709 favorable movements in
the international prices of phosphates, coffee and cocoa and the
expansion of trade with neighboring countries enabled Togo to increase
its foreign exchange earnings and its budgetary resources.
Pram 1975 onward, as part of the third economic and social
development plan, the Government undertook a major public investment
program (particularly in the infrastructure sector), increased its
holdings in public organizations and State corporations and
implemented numerous projects in the industry and tourism sectors.
The sharp fall in the prices of Togo's main exports (in 1976
for phosphates and 1978 for coffee and cocoa), the poor results
achieved by the public enterprises, and the decline in food produ:tion
due to drought all aggravated Togo's economic and financial
difficulties during the latter half of the 19709.
In order to finance significant increases in domestic
expenditure Togo was obliged to have recourse to foreign loans, which
generally were made on market conditions.
By the beginning of the 19809 Togo was therefore facing
serious imbalances in the public finances and the balance of payments
on current account, vithin a difficult economic context marked by the
International crisis, the oil price shocks and major fluctuations in
Interest rates, exchange rates and raw material prices.
In 1979 the Togolese Government negotiated a stand-by
arrangement with the IMP as a necessary condition for rescheduling the
debt. A second stand-by arrangement was negotiated in 1981, but was
suspended at the beginning of 1982. In December 1982 the Congress of
the Rassemblement du Peuple Togolais decided to introduce an austerity
program in order to restore financial equilibrium, restructure the
public enterprise sector, fulfill the State's foreign obligations
(debt service), improve the planning of public investments (priority
being given to rural development and to the upkeep and maintenance of
community infrastructures), and to adopt reforms to prepare the ground
for economic recovery.
Togo obtained assistance from the IMF to implement this
policy, which was reflected in the signing of four stand-by
arrangements (in 1983, 1984, 1985 and 1986), and assistance from the
World Bank in the form of the First and Second Structural Adjustment
Loans.
The improvement in Togo's economic and financial situation
from 1984 onward is the result of:
-    the major financial and economic reconstruction efforts made
by the Government (stricter control of public expenditure,
growth of State receipts, improved programming and



-6-
monitoring of public investments, a new rural development
strategy, restructuring of the public enterprises);
-    the mobilization of external resources on concessional
terms, particularly within the context of the various
donors' conferences;
-    an improved debt management capability.
Eight years after the first stand-by arrangement with the
IMF and four years after the introduction of the first adjustment
program negotiated with the World Bank, it would seem appropriate to
review this adjustment policy, analyze Togo's situation and
medium-term economic prospects and define the main lines of the
Government's development policy, within the framewrk of a Third           -
Structural Adjustzent Loan.
EXECUTION OF THE FINANCIAL STABILIZATION PROGRAMS AND THE
STRUCTURAL ADJUSTMENT PROGRAMS
Since 1983 the Togolese Government has been engaged in a
sustained and comprehensive adjustment effort aimed at stabilizing the
financial situation while important structural adjustments are made in
order to establish a sound basis for lasting economic growth. This
effort has been supported by the World Bank under two structural
adjustment programs, by the IMF in the form of four financial
stabilization programs, and by major official and private external
creditors, in the shape of various debt relief measures.
In addition, the organization of a Round Table of Donors,
followed by sectoral conferences of donors, has led to increasing
awareness of Togo's situation among its development partners,
resulting in their assistance for the implementation of the adjustment
policy, the financing of development activities and the preparation of
economic recovery.
THE FINANCIAL STABILIZATION PROGRAMS
Under the three annual programs implemented from 1983 to
1985 and supportea by stand-by arrangements with the IMP, the
financial adjustment effort was focused on the public finances.
On the receipts side, tax administration was strengthened
and the direct taxation-code revised with effect from January 1, 1985.
In addition, the authorities took stern measures to limit personnel
costs and other current expenditure, including a civil service salary
and promotions freeze during the three years in question, a
recruitment freeze in 1983 and 1984 and compulsory retirement after 30
years, which was introduced on April 1, 1985. Only very selective and
very limited recruitment occurred in 1985. Stricter control was also
introduced over State expenditure, the number of civil servants was



- 7 -
initially determined precisely in 1983 and then reduced by 4.8? over
the period to the end of 1985. Actual personnel costs were also
reduced through the 52 national solidarity tax, withheld at the
source, which was introduced in January 1983. As a result, personnel
costs and other current expenditure (excluding interest on the
external debt) were 2.62 lower in nominal terms in 1985 than in 1982,
which implies a 16? fall in real terms. After initially being
reduced, investment expenditure increased again from 1984 onward as
part of our structural adjustment effort. Investment was concentrated
in the agriculture and infrastructure sectors and was financed by
external grants and loans on concessional terms. The major part of
this increase is attributable to the hydroelectric project undertaken
jointly by Togo and Benin at Nangbeto (Togo) and partially financed by
the World Bank.
In addition, to reinforce the restructuring measures taken
in the public enterprise sector and to lighten the burden on the State
budget, electricity and water tariffs and railways fares were
increased on several occasions.
A program covering the years 1986 and 1987 was negotiated
with the IMF iu April 1986.  Under it, the Togolese Government is
committed to limiting the overall deficit in the public finances
(excluding grants) to 7? of GDP in 1986 and 6.5Z in 1987, and to
reducing domestic arrears by CFAF 2.5 billion in 1986 and CPAF 0.4
billion in 1987. It is not planned to request any rescheduling of the
external debt in 1986 and 1987. The other commitments principally
relate to the nonaccumulation of internal or external arrears, the
adoption of a public investment program that is in line with the
financial objectives of the program, the further restructuring of the
parapublic sector, progressive liberalization of imports of certain
products on which there is currently a monopoly, increases in producer
prices for export crops and the liberalization of exports of food
products.
By the end of 1985 there was a clear improvement in the
public finances. The overall budget deficit (on an authorizations
basis), excluding grants, was reduced from 8.7Z of GDP in 1982 to
6.61Z in 1985, the figures if grants are included being 6.9? and 1.7?
respectively. Furthermore, all the external arrears and almost all
the domestic arrears were eliminated. During the same period, Togo's
current account deficit, excluding grants, was reduced from 17.5? of
GDP to 14.92, the figures if grants are included being 9.22 and 6.4Z
respectively, notwithstanding the increase in imports of capital goods
associated with the rise in investment expenditure. These results
were achieved despite unfavorable external conditions which hampered
the growth of our economy, particularly the severe drought in 1983,
the closing of the multinational clinker plant, Ciments de l'Afrique
de l'Ouest (CIMAO), at the beginning of 1984, and the general decline
in regional trade. Following its sharp fall in 1983 real GDP
recovered steadily in 1984-85, principally as a result of good



harvests due to favorable weather conditions. Real growth in 1985 is
estimated at 3.62, a rate not achieved since 1979.
TEE STRUCTURAL ADJUSTMENT PROGRAMS
Two structural adjustment programs were negotiated and
signed with the World Bank, the first in 1983 and the second in 1985.
These programs were supported by two credits from the International
Development Association.
The First Structural Adiustment Program
Under the first structural adjustment program,-the
Government introduced new arrangements for planning public investments
and began to prepare a rural development strategy and reorganize the
public enterprise sector.
Thus the Government adopted a medium-term policy regarding
producer prices for export crops, the priority objective being to
offer producers remunerative prices without prejudice to the State
obtaining significant receipts. Between 1983 and 1985 producer prices
were increased 432 for coffee, 282 for cocoa and 382 for cotton.
Efforts were also made to reduce marketing costs for export crops. As
regards the marketing of food crops, the Government limited the role
of TOGOGRAIN to maintaining a buffer stock of 12,000 tons of grain.
At the end of 1982 the Government began to reduce the
financial burden represented by the public enterprises. It was
decided to close down certain unprofitable State and mixed economy
corporations and to study the rehabilitation requirements of those
companies whose situations could be improved. The enterprises closed
include SALINTO (salt production), TOGOFRUIT (fruit production),
CNPPHE (promotion of small and medium enterprises), the Benin Company
(agro-industries), TOGOPROM (real estate, industrial and commercial
promotion), AGETU (urban site development) and the Municipal Urban
Transport Company. The agricultural machinery owned by SOTEXHA
(agricultural equipment) was transferred to a private company and
negotiations held for the privatization of the National Highway
Transport Company (TOGOROUTE). The installations of the National
Steel Company were leased to a private operator who began production
In December 1984. The oil refinery (Togolese Hydrocarbon Company)
ceased to operate in March 1981, and the Government transferred the
management of the storage tanks to the "Togo and Shell" Company.
In the hotel sector, several measures were taken to reduce
costs, such as the grouping of services and the closing of small
hotels in the low season. To improve the position of the State-owned
hotels, the Government is implementing an action plan designed to
standardize accounting systems, introduce management performance
criteria and strengthen the High Commission for Tourism.



-9-
From 1984 onward the Government adopted three-year
programming of investments. The first three-year program (1984-86)
was examined and approved by the World Bank at the beginning of 1984.
Furthermore, in order to establish the macroeconomic
framework for the public investment program, the Government in 1983
set up a working group (known as the macroeconomic scenario group)
whose task is to prepare medium-term projections (under the aegis of
the National Interministerial Stabilization Commission). In 1984 it
also started on the work of preparing the investment program for the
period 1985-1990. The Government also wishes to improve the
monitoring and execution of public investments; work on the
computerization of public investment expenditure data therefore began
in September 1984.
The new programming, which makes it possible to link
development strategies to the programs and projects selected on the
basis of realistic financial estimates, emphasizes -the priority to be
given to the productive sectors. It has improved the identification,
selection and monitoring of projects and also of macroeconomic
forecasting.
The progress made in applying the Structural Adjustment
Program and implementing its recommendations was satisfactory enough
for the World Bank to release the second tranche of the Structural
Adjustment Credit on July 9, 1984.
The Second Structural Adjustment Program
The second structural adjustment program, negotiated by
Togo and IDA in May 1985, came into effect in September of that year.
This program is supported by a credit of US$37.6 million, of which IDA
is providing US$27.8 million and the Special Facility for Sub-Saharan
Africa $10 million.
The objectives of the second structural adjustment program
were to consolidate the progress made in the first program by
improving the structure of the public finances, enhancing the quality
of investments, reorganizing agriculture, rehabilitating the public
enterprises, promoting small and medium businesses and continuing the
reform of the public administration.
The goal of the second program was to promote sustained
medium-term economic growth while continuing to improve the balance of
payments and the public finances.
In the rural development sector, the Government has
continued the policy of increasing rural incomes. During the 1986-87
crop year, producer prices for coffee and cocoa were raised, the
former from CFAF 365 per kg to CRAP 400, and the latter from CFAF 330
per kg to 360, representing increases of 9.62 and 9.1Z respectively.



- 10 -
As before, the role of TOGOGRAIN was limited to maintaining
buffer stocks for food security purposes.
In the area of macroeconomic management, the Government has
undertaken a reorganization of the principal economic departments
through improvements to existing structures and efforts to enhance
productivity as a result of proper position descriptions and the
periodic recycling of State employees.
The restructuring of the public enterprise sector continues
in' the form of the privatization of certain compAnies and introduction
of a performance monitoring system for State corporations.
In the hotel sector, management contracts have been
renegotiated with the major hotel chains.
The actions in the area of budget policy were designed to
keep the growth of the deficit on the State's consolidated financial
operations at a level compatible with GDP growth. Priority was given
to increasing and diversifying State receipts, to more appropriate
sectoral allocation of public expenditure and to reducing the
financial burden of the public enterprises.
As regards receipts, a new General Tax Code, the effects of
which are already being felt, was promulgated on December 30, 1983.
In addition, the process of computerizing customs statistics was begun
within the framework of the regional SYDONIA Project (Computerized
Customs System) of ECOWAS.
In the area of public expenditure austerity has remained the
watchword. The Government has nonetheless made a special effort to
allow selective recruitment of career personnel and to allocate them
to inadequately staffed departments to offset normal departures
tthroug  retirement.
CONFERENCES OF DONORS
In 1985 and 1986 Togo organized several conferences of
donors in the context of the decisions of the United Nations
conference on the Least Developed Countries (New Action Program for
the Years 1980-1990).
In the case of Togo, classified among the least developed
countries since 1981 (resolution of December 17 of the General
Assembly of the United Nations), the preparation and organization of
these conferences represented an essential means of joint reflection
on strategies and resources to combat the crisis and restore the basis
of economic growth.
Togo organized a first general conference of donors at Lome
in June 1985, followed by sector meetings held at Kara (rural



- 12. -
development, March 1986) and Lome (economic infrastructure and
sociocultural development, October 1986).
These conferences enabled a consensus to be reached on
proposed development strategies and policies and the need for economic
recovery. They also facilitated the establishment of fruitful
contacts with new donors, and led to a commitment by various donors to
finance a major part of the programs submitted to them.
THE EFFECTS OF THE FINANCIAL STABILIZATION AND STRUCTURAL
ADJUSTMENT PROGRAMS
Effects on the Economy and the Public Finances
-    In terms of the overall economy
GDP growth at constant prices resumed from 1984 onwards,
after a decline of 5.4X in 1983 (largely owing to the drought).
The figures are as followss
YEAR       CONSTANT GDP (1978 Prices            PERCENT CHANGE
in CFAP billion)
1983                    178.2                            -5.4
1984                    180.3                            +1.3
1985                    186.4                            +3.4
1986                    193.4                            +3.8
-    In terms of public finance
The effects of the adjustment programs over the period
1983-86 on public finance are clearly positive. The final results at
the end of 1986 indicated:
-    an increase in tax receipts L9.62 in 1984, 12.9Z in 1985 and
3.3X in 1986) reflecting the introduction of the new tax
code.
-    a compression of current expenditure, which increased only -  -
2.5Z a year on average in the period 1983-85, notably
because of the steady level of personnel costs over the
period (CFAF 28.81 billion in 1986 as against CFAF 28.7
billion in 1983).
-    a rise in capital expenditure from CFAF 23 billion in 1983
to CPAF 50.44 billion in 1986, essentially explained by the
extremely low level of State investment in 1983 (it was CFAF
40.4 billion in 1979).



- 12
a reduction in the overall deficit on an authorizations
basis from CFAF 12.9 bSllion in 1983 to CFAP 5.37 billion in
1985, which, as a proportion of GDP, gives the following
changes:
YEAR           RATIO DhW1CIT/GDP
(excluding grants)
1983                7.852
1984                7.272
1985                6.61X
Effects on Economic Agents
The State
The adjustment and stabilization programs have made it
possible tos
-    reduce the deficit in the public finances;
-    lmrove the project selection process;
-    improve macroeconomic forecasting and the planning and
programming of public investments, with a reorientation
toward rural development;
-    restore the accounts of the State-owned hotels sector;
-    reduce the cost of the public enterprises (closures and
privatizations).
However, the 1986 data reveal the fragility of the results
obtained, since implementation of CFAF 5 billion of supplementary
investments made it impossible to observe the upper limit for the
overall deficit/GDP ratio.
Coyaanies
Companies have benefited from the liquidation of the
domestic arrears of the State and the State corporations, the
acceleration of procedures governing procurement contracts, and the
adoption of the investment code and the Togolese company charter.
However, it remains to put in place an institutional system
for the promotion of the private sector (CTI, professional
associations, promotion funds), whose effects will increasingly be
felt in the medium term.



- 13 -
For the banks the liquidation of the State's domestic
arrears is unquestionably a benefit, although this is more relevant to
their profitability (elimination of doubtful debts or reserve
provisions) than to their liquidity position (they were already in an
excess liquidity situation).
The adjustment and stabilization programs have also had
negative effects on companies, particularly as regardst
-    the increase in the tax and customs duty burden, the latter
being particularly significant for the transit trade;
-    the rise in costs resulting from the increase in water and
electricity tariffs;
-    the compression of demand resulting from the freeze on wages
and recruitment and the containment of public investment.
Eouseholds
While the adjustment policy enabled growth in real terms to
resume from 1984 onwards, it also led tot
-    a reduction in purchasing power owing tot
o the solidarity tax
o the wage and promotions freeze in the civil service
e tariff increases (water, electricity, railways)
-    an increase in unemployment, particularly acute among [high
school] graduates, since the modern private sector is doing
little recruiting and the public sector having suspended
recruitment or limited it to replacing those departing (the
measures regarding the retirement age have made it possible
to increase recruitment, but the latter remains much lower
than the number of the products of the education system,
whether holding diplomas or not).
Effects on the External Debt Service
The implementation of the adjustment and stabilization
policy has enabled Togo to benefit from the rescheduling of its
external debt.
The reachedulings represented CRAF 33.7 billion in 1983,
CRAP 23.4 billion in 1984, and CRAP 13.7 billion in 1985.
In 1986 Togo did not request any rescheduling of external
debt service payments, nor does it plan to do so in 1987.



- 14 -
Togo has also benefited as a result of the adjustment policy
from debt relief in the amount of some CPAF 54.8 billion granted by
Canada, Denmark, France and the Federal Republic of Germany.
Finally, the adjustment policy has been supported by various
donors who have provided nonproject assistance enabling Togo to meet
its external commitments remaining after rescheduling, i.e. the
additional amounts required over and above the budgetary provision for
debt service (structural adjustment credits, STABEX, loans from the
Netherlands, Special Facility for Sub-Saharan Africa, etc.).
However, the external debt problem is not solved because:
-    the machinery set up within the framework of the Paris Club
is inadequate: in 1987 only about CFAF 5 billion of the debt
is reschedulable out of a total debt (disbursed and
nondisbursed) of ClAF 342 billion.
-    there is still a gap between what the State can allocate
thtough the budget for debt repayment (CFAP 23.5 billion in
1987) and actual debt service requirements (more than CPAF
50 billion in 1987).
At present the aim is to finance this gap through the
mobilization of special resources from parapublic sector corporations
(OTP and OPAT, naturally, but also a number of others); these measures
risk putting these corporations in difficulty and reducing their
capacity to develop and therefore to participate in economic recovery.
Financing to bridge the gap is also being sought from external donors,
with all the difficulties involved in a system of individual
negotiations.
THE CURRENT SITUATION AND MEDIUM-TERM ECONOIMC PROSPECTS
A. Budget Receipts
The estimations available in December show a decline in the
1987 State budget receipts from FCFA 104.89 billions in 1986 to FCFA
89.46 billions in 1987.
This situation is further explained by the reduction in
contributions from O.T.P., O.P.A.T and other public agencies, a
reduction in custom and non-taxable revenues and by collected payments
below projected revenues from the sale of state enterprises, assets.
Two Tax Reform Commissions were created in November 1987 to
study on the one hand the possibility of broadening the tax base,
particularly through the reduction of tax exemptions and, on the other
hand, budgetary resources problems. These Commissions have to submit
their reports no later than January 31, 1988.



- 15 -
In the meantime, the Government has undertaken a certain
number of measures aiming at increasing state resources. These
measures, which became effective January 1, 1988, concern especially:
-    the increase of statistical taxation rate for
international trade from 2 to 3Z;
-    the increase of the General Tax Rate of Business
(T.G.A.) applicable to the first sale of imported
products, also from 2 to 3Z;
-    the inclusion of T.6.A. to bet. from now on levied under
custom duty umbrella; this will have the effect of
broadening the tax base;
-    in addition, the various T.G.A. rates which were
previously 10, 12 and 14S on internal transactions,
have been unified at the rate of 14S;
-    the entry tax duty on rice for which SONACAM was
exempted till now, has been set at 42 while specific
taxes on imported sugar have increased from FCFA 2 per
kilo to FCFA 4 per kilo for powdered sugar and from
FCFA 2.5 per kilo to FCFA 5 per kilo for lump sugar.
Total 1987 budget receipts are projected at CPAP 89.7
billion, a 2.762 increase over 1986 (CFAP 87.3 billion). However,
this positive change does not take account of the decline in receipts
from OTP and OPAT (ClAF 12 billion in 1987 as against CFAF 19.6
billion in 1986), a consequence of the decline in the prices of Togo's
exports, although this is offset by the contribution from other State
corporations (CPAP 8.2 billion in 1987 as against zero in-1986).
To compensate for the reduction in export receipts, the
Government is undertaking a study of other sources of revenue that
would permit conservation of adequate resources for the public sector.
B. Expenditure
The decision taken on January 13, 1987 to increase civil
service salaries by 52 and to allow promotions will have the effect of
increasing personnel costs, initially projected at ClAP 29.8 billion
in the 1987 budget.
This increase will impact the overall deficit as projected
on an authorizations basis. If it is not possible for Togo to
increase this deficit as a proportion of GDP, State investment
expenditure will be compressed, which will correspondingly reduce the
prospects for GDP growth in 1987.



- 16 -
C. The Public Investment Program
At the end of 1983 the Government adopted the system of
three-year rolling investment planning. The first three-year
Investment program was prepared by the Ministry of Planning for the
period 1984-86, and was followed by the program for 1985-87. The
three-year program for 1987-89, now in preparation, falls within the
framework of medium-term macroeconomic objectives for the period
1985-1990.
The Government will continue to strengthen its monitoring
and control of the execution of the investment program.
The 1988-1990 investment program takes into account
macroeconomic prospects, structural adjustment policies and the
results of the round table meetings of donors. It emphasizes the need
for rehabilitation and maintenance of existing infrastructures and
works. The new public investment projects are targeted at the
priority sectors of agriculture, water resources and infrastructure
maintenance.
In appraising new projects the Government intends to apply
the criteria used earlier. Production projects will be appraised
using cost-benefit methodology, and in principle projects will be
selected where the internal rate of economic return reaches or exceeds
101. Projects of a social nature will be appraised by the least cost
method. The recurrent costs of the ten principal projects in the
1987-89 program have been calculated, as has the impact on the balance
of payments and the public external debt. These calculations will be
taken Into account in the preparation of annual State budgets.
Investments will be oriented toward sectors capable of promoting
ecoamic growth.
To facilitate the negotiations with donors, a new category,
entitled 'financing under negotiation,a has been introduced- in the
three-year program. This category covers all projects for which
financing is being sought and regarding which one or more donors have
expressed at least an interest in principle. The tables annexed show
the status of the projects and list the donors interested in each
project.
During the period of the Third Structural Adjustment
Program, the Government will seek to finance public investment from
grants and loans on concessional terms, in line with the definition of
the Development Assistance Committee (i.e. where the grant element
exceeds 251 of the nominal value). In this connection it confirms the
commitment made to the IMP not to have recourse to commercial loans
with terms shorter than 12 years. In the last seven years the
Government has neither contracted nor guaranteed loans on commercial
conditions. It intends to continue this prudent policy throughout the
period of the Third Structural Adjustment Program, excluding any



- 17 _
rescheduling that may be required of the public debt and loans made by
public development assistance organizations. In the case of
co-financed projects, the grant element will be calculated in relation
to the financing plan as a whole.
D. Improvement in the Use of Public Financial Resources
(Abaorptive Capacity)
The Government is firmly committed to the courageous path of
fulfilling its international commitments and has accepted the
austerity policy that this entails. This choice has enabled Togo to
restaure its creditworthiness vis-&-vis international organizations
and friendly countries who are generous in their financial and
technical support of this policy.
The use of resources will be improved on the one hand
because of a better investments programme, specifically the evaluation
of the macroeconomic impact of the investment programme; and on the
other hand thanks to a recasting of the legislative and regulatory
systems which govern public markets.
One of the causes of our low resource utilization capacity
lies in our legislative and regulatory system, which consists of
outdated and scattered texts, often little known or ignored.
This legislation and these regulations were drawn up at a
time when the small resources available posed no problem of absorptive
capacity. They are unsuited to the present situation in which the
State can mobilize significant resources from both domestic and
external financing, which, however, are not utilized because of the
excessively lengthy procedures and channels that characterize
procurement activities and public contracts.
It is a matter of urgent necessity to update and rationalize
this system, this being central to the economic recovery being
promoted by the State in the face of the present difficulties.
Initiatives have already been taken to enhance our
absorptive capacity generally. In 1987 the Ministry of Planning and
of Mining made available to the technical departments a document
entitled 'Guide to Project Preparation and Appraisal," to help improve
the preparation of the dossiers presented to donors for financing
purposes.
The Ministry of Planning and Mining will assist technical
Ministries in the establishment of planning, programming and
supervisory units and will organize for their benefit training
seminars focussing mainly on the use of the handbook for the
preparation and appraisal of projects.



- 18 -
Since 1986, the investment and capital expenditure budget
has been approved at the beginning of January, rather than in April;
now more widely circulated, it gives greater latitude to the technical
ministries to use the credits allocated to them within the prescribed
periods.
An information and training seminar was organized in 1986
for accountants responsible for development credits.
The introduction and application of the prior authorization
procedure for issuing invitations to bid has led to dossiers being
circulated to those whose signatures are required.
A draft internal regulation has made provision for the
establishment within the Consultative Commission on Contracts of a
committee to study bidding documents and all draft public contracts
and amendments thereto; the decision of this committee will replace
the authorization of the technical and financial departments, which
nonetheless will be represented on it.
The activities of the committee will be supported by the
establishment of another committee responsible for preparing draft
contracts.
A general reworking of procedures in this area is now an
essential element in our growth strategy; it will take the form of a
contracts code that will centralize and coordinate all the texts
governing public contracts.
The purposes of this document will be:
-    to set out the general principles applicable to contracts
(competitive bidding, inclusion of procedures applicable to
contracts financed from external sources, preference for
Togoleserompamies, nature of contracts, etc.);
-    to define the form of contracts and the contract award
procedures applicable in different cases;
-    to establish the composition and powers of a central
contracts committee. whose role would not, as at present, be
limited to the mere awarding of contracts;
-    to specify the procedures for controlling and settling
disputes, and the provisions relating to amending
agreements.
Contracts would then be governed only by the Public Contract
Code, the Manual of General Conditions and Clauses and the Manual of
Special Provisions associated with it. However, the Manual of General



- 19 -
Conditions and Clauses must be updated, since it has remained
unchanged since 1946.
To this end an interministerial decree will set up an
Interministerial Committee responsible for public contracts.
While waiting for the adoption of a new Code on Public
Markets, the Government will take before the end of November 1988,
measures aiming at simplifying t-he procurement and markets approval
procedures and at defining uniform ground rules for the preparation of
required service works and materials markets.
The Government has also requested a study on the management
of the public administration and of the Togolese economy. This study
will reinforce ongoing actions, namely the introduction of the
programming and budgeting system, the computerization of the public
finances, the introduction of planning units in the technical
ministries and the strengthening of the departments in the Ministry of
Planning.
E.   Toao Financina Needs from 1987 to 1990
Assuming slight increases in world prices for export
products, it is estimated that current account deficit, excluding
grants, will fall from 162 of GDP in 1987 to about 1OS in 1990. The
Government will then have a new financing need that will have to be
filled either by increasing grants, obtaining new borrowings at
concessional conditions, or by rescheduling its debt.
In 1988, Togo financing need estimated to be about FCFA 73
billions, will be covered by a combination of exceptional bilateral
aid, contributions from the IMF (Structural Adjustment Facility and
Confirmation Agreement), World Bank Third Structural Adjustment
Credit, AfDB Structural Adjustment Credit and external debt
rescheduling.
External debt rescheduling constitutes a mean for making
resources available to support the development and growth objectives.
Economic recovery through the state as well as through the
development of the private sector , seems therefore urgent; its
achievement assumes obtaining means that enable Togo to face its
internal and external obligations during the adjustment period.



- 20 -
PUBLIC ENTERPRISES REFORM
During the 1988-1990 period, the Government will pursue its
efforts to rationalise the public enterprise sector.
Under the Second Structural Adjtstment Programme, the
Government successfully carried out its privatisation programme. In
addition to the leasing of four public industrial units, the
Government transferred to pri:ate ownership through direct sale of
their industrial assets, six public enterprises and one plastics
production unit through transfer of the majority of the capital. To
achieve these objectives, the Ministry of State Corporations was
reorganized taking into account the new goals set by the Government in
September 1984, namely to rationalise and increase the effectiveness
of the public enterprise sector through a rationalisation and
restructuring program.  The action programme for 1988 includes the
continuation of negotiations and the search for private entrepreneurs
for 7 other public enterprises.
It would therefore be advisable to pause to permit tot
-    assure the follow-up necessary for the satisfactory
achievament of closed privatisations;
-    successfully complete the financial and legal reconciliation
of the 16 liquidations undertaken;
-    intensify ongoing efforts to increase the effectiveness,
improve the operations and management of the enterprises
that will remain in the public sector;
-    assess the experience of privatisation with a view to
drawing lessons for the review of this policy or to defining
a new strategy.
As part of the measures designed to increase the
effectiveness of the public enterprises, the Government in 1986
introduced:
-    a management information system (MIS) which includes the
development of budgetary projections and periodic analysis
of actual results that would permit, on the basis of well
defined criteria, to follow-up on the performance of pubiic
enterprises.
*    an audit programme that will enable the Government and the
managing bodies of the public enterprises to rely on the
financial statements and internal controls of these
enterprises. As a result of this, the accounts of 16 public



- 21 -
enterprises are actually subject to regular external audits
with a view to their certification.
StiXl under these measures, the Government intends to
strengthen the role of the Managing Boards and General Directorate of
these enterprises, in particular those that show substantial profits
earning potential.
Additional actions to follow-up, check and audit the
financial situation of the public enterprises vill also be continued.
As the financial results of these public enterprises
improve, the Government will transfer to them the corresponding
external debt service charges which it is currently incurring.
Concerning the institutional framework that governs public
enterprises in the State portfolio, namely state enterprises and
public establishments, the Government has begun some revisions or
reforms of their status with a view to giving these entreprises the
possibility to operate according to norms that are closer to those of
private enterprises. In addition, the Government estimates that a
critical assessment of the principles governing the operation of the
adwinistrative and managing bodies of these enterprises and their
relationship with the State, is necessary. This assessment could open
the way to the development of regulatory and legislative texts that
vould afford more autonomy to state enterprises and public
establishments as well as mixed public/private enterprises.



- 22 -
TRANSPORT SECTOR
In Togo, the transport sector assumes not only the
satisfaction of internal needs, but it is also an important entrepot
trade with the landlocked countries of the sub-region namely Niger,
Burkina Paso and Mali. The south coastal road is also the main axle
of the transit between Ghana in the Ouest and Benin and Nigeria in the
East.
Togo transportation system comprises all types of
traditional transports at the exception of waterways. It includes:
(i) a road system of about 7,500 km in spread and 0.13 km/km2 in
density; (ii) a railway system of 440 km in length with a branch-line
of 50 km servicing CIMAO (the rail service was suspended in 1984 on
this line following the closing down of the Tabligbo Clinker factory);
(iii) a profitable and efficient port on deap sea water in Lome as
well as a pier for exporting phosphate to Kp6m6; (iv) an international
airport in Lome, a non-commercial airport in Niamtougou and five
secondary airports evenly distributed in the country. No regular
interior link besides chartered airplanes or airplane taxis exists in
the country.
owing to the substantial investments realized during the
1965-75 period, transport infrastructures are in general well
developed and assure sufficient coverage of the country. However,
because of the financial difficulties that Togo had recently known,
these infrastructures suffer from a lack of maintenance.
Togo's transportation system is dominated by road transport,
which assures the movement of the majority of people and goods both
within Togo and to other countries, especially the landlocked Sahel
countries.
The road network, 2,400 km (1.600 km of which is paved and
800 of earth roads), consists of four main routess
1.   National Highway No. 1 (R11), links Lome to the frontier of
Burkina Paso via Atakpame.
2.   National Highway No. 2 (RN2), links Aflao (on Togo's
frontier with Ghana) and Hilla Kondji (on Togo's frontier
with the Republic of Benin.
3.   National Highway N.3 (RN3), links Lome and Kpalime
4.   National Highway No. 4 (RN4), links Natchamba to Kra and
Ketao on the fontier with Benin.



- 23 -
A survey of the road network reveals serious deterioration
in certain roads and poor traffic conditions compounded by difficult
access to certain production zones.
Moreover, the existing structures do not permit efficient
and continuous maintenance of the road network. Management
difficulties, the lack of qualified mecanics and the shortage of spare
parts have led to imobilization rates among vehicles and equipment in
excees of 50X.
It is therefore necessary to correct this situation through
the use of an appropriate programme designed to strengthen and
maintain existing highway infrastructures.
The highway infrastructure development policy which the
Government is committed to introduce has the following objectives:
-    rehabilitation of infrastructures;
-    better access to agricultural production zones;
-    improvement of communications with neighboring countries to
promote trade;
-    introduction of a modern highway network.
In order to increase highway safety and contain recurrent
maintenance costs, the rehabilitation and upgrading of paved highways
must meet certain technical standards. These standards will vary
according to the intensity of traffic, the function of the the road
and the nature of the soils and will be determined in each case
according to the regulations of the financier of the proposed works.
The updating and rehabilitation of the various types of
roads, be they paved, earth roads or feeder roads, will take into
accountt
-    the date of the most recent work carried out and the traffic
situation;
-    structures in place, the nature and condition of soils and
of supports;
-    environmental and drainage conditions.
With the aim to safeguard Togo's road network, the
Government has made plans to establish Road Maintenance Brigades to
maintain both paved and laterite roads.
Implementation of this vast road maintenance programme will
be insured by four light maintenance brigades:



- 24 -
-    one southern brigade
-    one northern brigade
-    two mobile brigades
The most important works, exceeding the rountine operations
and easily measurables and controllable, will however remain the
responsibility of private enterprises.
As regard road safety, changes must be made in the
organization and coordination of road safety operations, technical
control of vehicles and axle charges, and in the collection and
processing of data on accidents and other statistics pertaining to
highway and road traffic.
A National Road Safety Council will be established whose
task will be to prepare road safety strategies and programs.
Togolese preventive safety measures will be intensfied.
Permanent Personnel will be provided for the purpose and a road safety
center will be constructed.
RAIL TRANSPORT
Due to the weak traffic, high tarrifs and excessive costs in the
railroads operations, bad infrastructure and rolling-stock, the
Government has incurred substantial losses and therefore undertaken
the following measuress
-    rehabilitation of two Henschell locomotives, two Gmeider
locotractors; acquisition of twvo worksite gang cars and
track equipment;
-    suspension of the Lom6-An6ho line, except for the temporary
transport of supplies of rock required for coastal
protection works;
-    request for an IDA PPF advance for the diagnostic study of
CFT aiming at examining the current situation and at
establishing an action plan.
In this respect, the Government will seek to:
a)   Balance exploitation expenses and receipts by reducing
costs, setting up appropriate tariff policies, eliminating
non-profit making services, improving the quality of the
remaining tariff services and allocating maintenance
expenditures and renewal of viable economic activities.



- 25 -
b)   and introduce all other possible measures that would improve
CPT productivity.
We have decided not to make any investment before the results of
the study have been received because of the importance we attach to
the diagnostic study.
THE RURAL SECTOR
From 1981 onward the priority given to the rural sector has
been confirmed through the actions Togo has taken to promote its
development.
This priority has been reflected in encouraging and
uninterrupted increases in production, particularly for cotton and
food crops. However, livestock production, despite the efforts made
by the Government, is still insufficient to meet Togo's needs.
In order to extend these positive results to the entire
sector, the Government has since 1986 been implementing a New Rural
Development Strategy, the principal objectives of which are to:
-    improve production support structures;
-    increase and diversify output;
-    liberalize grain exports;
-    give greater responsibility to the main agent in the
development process, namely the small rural producer;
-    select better projects.
The application of this new rural development strategy and
the efforts undertaken in terms of improving storage and marketing
conditions will result ins
-    an increase in quantities marketed, both in Togo, which will
improve the rate of coverage of national needs, and in the
form of exports, which will strengthen the trade balance;
-    larger financial returns to producers, thereby improving
their living conditions, so that they can impact their
environment effectively;
-    the transfer to the rural producers of most storage and
marketing activities, which will enable TOGOGRAIN to devote
its efforts to building up and managing cereal stocks with a
view to food security.



- 26 -
1.   IMPROVING PRODUCTION SUPPORT STRUCTURES
This vill involve the following principal actionss
The skills of extension agents will be enhanced through
training and particular attention will be paid to assisting young
farmers.
Increased use will be made of inputs, especially improved
seeds, their multiplication being entrusted to small farmers.
The State will give special attention to infrastructures
such as roads and farm tracks and the provision of potable water
supplies.
The structuring of the rural sector will be intensified
through the organization of producer groups and, particularly,
marketing operations. This will lead to better use of agricultural
credit and more effective marketing circuits for agricultural
products.
The Government will step up extension activities and will
make agricultural inputs available to producers so as to increase
their yields and their incomes.
Agricultural research will be strengthened. The goal will
be better knowledge of crop systems so that economically viable forms
of production are available to the rural population.
Livestock production will be intensified and adapted to the
different animal species.
Forestry production and the fight against desertification
will be vigorously pursued.
As a whole, the new National Rural Development Strategy is
giving particular attention to activities both upstream from
production, i.e. training, research, supplies of inputs and credit,
and downstream, such as storage and marketing policies.
All these actions should in due course ensure an effective
production process in terms of both quantity and quality.
2. PRODUCTION. MABXETING AND PRICES
The Government intends to speed up the rate of increase in
-coffee and cocoa production recorded over the last few years. Thus
the introduction of new coffee plantations will be accelerated and the
maintenance of existing plantations improved (pruning and use of
fertilizers).



- 27 _
The actions relating to cotton will concentrate principally
on crop intensification in order to achieve an average yield of 1,200
kglha, and to a lesser extent on expanding the cultivated area. The
construction and entry into service of the new cotton ginning plants
at Atakpamd and Notse should make it possible gradually to reduce the
stocks currently carried.
In the case of cocoa, consideration must continue to be
given to ways of increasing output, both in terms of production
techniques (planting under old plantations) and land ownership and
manpower problems.
Peanut production has marked time in recent years, and
actions will be taken to improve results and develop surpluses for
export. Operations will concentrate basically on the distribution of
improved varieties adapted to each region or group of regions.
Also as part of the diversification of our exports,
pineapple-growing, hitherto experimental, must be developed on a more
ambitious scale, especially since pineapples from Togo are much sought
after on world markets. The principal objective is to increase the
cultivated area from 30 ha to 500 ha in the mediumn term, and to 3,000
ha in the long term.
Other new cash crops such as jojoba and soybeans could be
tested or developed in Togo. As regards food crops, the Government is
anxious to develop and improve storage and processing methods at both
the local and national level using appropriate technologies.
Young farmers must henceforth be given a special place in
production strategies in the light of their ability to assimilate and
apply new crop techniques, as shown by the results they have achieved.
Therefore the procedures for installing them on the land must be
continued and intensified.
The State will seek to meet national protein needs from
livestock and fish production. Activities will therefore be
especially directed toward improving animal health and developing
short-cycle species (small ruminants, hogs, poultry, etc.) and cattle,
where the basic objective will be the provision of traction animals
for farming operations. In the particular case of the small
ruminants, activities will be concentrated on disease prevention, feed
supplies and the formation of groups of stockraisers in order to move
from traditional stockraising to semi-intensive operations. The
projects now being executed in the Kara region andl those being
prepared in the savannah region will contribute to the attainment of
this objective.
Fisheries and fishfarming will be strongly encouraged.
Small-scale sea fishing will be supported in the form of equipment



- 28 -
(neti, motorized pirogues), conservation structures (cold storage,
smoke ,nuses) and improvements in marketing circuits.
The emphasis in fishfarming will be on dissemination of the
systems refined by the NGOs, the production of fingerlings and the
utilization of lagoons, reservoirs and other impounded water.
Producer prices for cash crops will be fixed so that
producers receive a satisfactory income, without excessive
repercussions on State receipts from this kind of production. To this
end the Government, in its desire to improve the efficiency of this
sector, has already undertaken a study of incentives. This study will
lead to a definition of an agricultural pricing policy in March 1988.
The study will determine methodologies to guide the Government in its
policy for fixing the prices of cash crops.
The situation that the three main export crops are
undergoing being different, the Government envisages to take into
account the specific circumstances for each of these crops in its
price policy.
-    The price must provide an incentive to production in both
quantitative and qualitative terms.
-    The price must make it possible to reconcile the interests
of various groups and to harmonize short and long-term needs
for the rural population as a whole.
-    The price-fixing process must allow the State to obtain the
resources needed to sustain and develop the rural sector,
meet its external debt service obligations and establish a
stabilization fund.
Given these conditions, the definition of a price policy for
cash crops must take account of the following factorst
-    changes in world prices;
-    prices to producers in neighboring countries;
-    the contribution of OPAT to the public finances;
-    the producers' capacity for work and the division of their
time between cash crops and food crops;
-    the rate of growth of production and the optimum yields
anticipated from coffee and cocoa;
-    a reasonable allocation of income between the nonfarming
owner and the sharecropper who provides the labor and
technical skills. In light of all these considerations, the
fixing of producer prices for export products must be



- 29 -
handled very prudently. This is all the more true since in
Togo there are a number of technical difficulties, as
demonstrated by among other things an analysis of the
relationship between prices and production, particularly for
the perennial crops (coffee and cocoa). The Government will
consult the Bank in the preparation of a price fixing
methodology that incorporates all the relevant factors.
The possibilities of increasing cocoa production appear
limited in the medium term in view of the aging of plantations, the
replanting techniques used by planters, land ownership problems and
cacao tree diseases.
To overcome these difficulties an evaluation will be made,
with IDA assistance, of new replanting techniques now being tested
known as the 'fruit tree hedge' (haie fruitiAre) and of the results of
research into cacao tree diseases. This study will be completed by
the end of November 1989 and in the light of its results the
Government, in conjunction with IDA, will decide on future measures
regarding cocoa, particularly the producer price.
In the case of cotton, the aim is to continue to increase
production while maintaining the current level of producer prices.
Togo's ginning capacity is currently below its cotton output, but this
will no longer be true after the entry into service of the new ginning
plant at Atakpam6.
A study is under way to identify certain components of
cotton growing, such as production, processing and marketing costs.
In the light of the results of the study the Government will begin
discussions with IDA at the end of December 1987 on the policy to be
applied to producer prices from April 1988 onward.
In the case of coffee, the possibilities to increase medium
term production are more favourable. In this view, in agreement with
the World Bank, the Government will establish before March 1988, a
system of price fixation for coffee producers which will be effective
1st June 1988.
Given all these considerations, price fixing for producers
of export products requires the greatest caution. This is even more
true in Togo where it runs into numerous technical difficulties that
can be used among others, as evidence in the analysis of the relation
between production and price, particularly for the long-life crops
(coffee, cocoa).
Concerning producers prices, the fundamental principle
agreed to by the World Bank and the Government, is to distribute the
marginal profit (difference between export revenues on one side,
salaries , trade and insurance and freight costs on the other) among



- 30 -
the principal operators (producers, O.P.A.T., SOTOCO, the
Stabilization Board and the State).
The formula for fixing prices will utilize the system of
floor price" with adjustments being made in the following crop year
(increase in producers prices, decline or stabilization in relation to
the floor price) according to prevailing world prices and the
intervention of the stabilization board. This formula will permit the
avoidance of brutal variations of producers prices during increase or
decline movements. The system will also enable producers and the
other operators to take adjustment measures (at the level of
agricultural exploitation or at that of governmental agriculture
policy in either the short or medium term).
The formula for fixing producers prices will be defined at
the latest at the end of March 1988 and will take into account the
following four constraints:
-    the need to provide revenues to the Public Treasury to
cover investments repayments in the rural sector;
-    the need for a stabilization board that will weather
down the fluctuations in prices from one year to
another in relation to the floor price of producers and
the short-term trends of world prices;
-    the need to avoid the artificial movements of
0.P.A.T.'s export products to cross neighboring
countries borders;
-    the need to diversify production.
Concerning O.P.A.T., the Government has undertaken measures
whose final objective is to improve the profitability of the agency
and reduce its processing costs, marketing and handling expenses in
line with the conclusions of the audit of the accounts recently
carried out. These measures will come into effect from December 1988
onward.
From now on, the Government has made the financial
controller of OPAT responsible for management supervision and has
appointed an external auditor to advise on the preparation of a
management control system.
As regards food products, where prices are determined by
supply and demand, action will be taken to keep production costs as
low as possible so as to make these products more competitive on
subregional markets and improve small farmer incomes.
For this reason, and to ensure attractive returns for
producers while safeguarding competitiveness, the Government is



- 31 -
focusing on improving productivity by upgrading the performance of the
extension services, using the training and visit system.
Yields will also be increased through the regular supply of
inputs, distribution of seeds and the promotion of agricultural
research. In addition, the Goveroment will by the end of March 1988
prepare a schedule for the elimination of fertilizer subsidies.
TOGOGRAIN
In June 1986 the Government established the rules for buffer
stocks management by TOGOGRAIN. These will not exceed 12,000 tons,
one third of which can be renewed each year. This will need an
appropriate export and import policy, and sound and efficient
management of the agency to enable it to establish financial
equilibrium.
The Government has therefore introduced a program of actions
essential to achieving the above objectives. Among these actions are
the following in particulars
- -the introduction of a dynamic and appropriate marketing
policy, namely purchases at market prices at times of
surplus to build the buffer stock, and sales on the domestic
market at times of scarcity, and abroad during times of
plenty. If the harvest fails, the-stock must be
supplemented by imports;
-    the introduction in December 1989 of a system for
forecasting harvests, prices and possible shortages;
-    efforts to reduce costs through permanent technical
supervision of the quality of stocks, reorganization of the
accounts, consolidation of debts, and efficient management
so that financial charges are no longer being borne by
December 1989.
To support these different actions, which certainly should
have positive effects on the agency's financial situation, the
Government has also introduced a program to liberalize exports of food
products and to develop traditional storage systems.
EXPORT LIBERALIZATION POLICY FOR GRAIN
The Togolese Government has made considerable headway in its
efforts to promote agriculture and boost production.  Current
production levels meet the country's food needs and even generate
surpluses that can be marketed. Marketing is an important element of
the production network. If organized well it can guarantee attractive
prices for producers.



_ 32 -
Under the structural adjustment programs the Goverrment has
already adopted measures to liberalize the export of food products.
The purpose of liberalizing the export market is to raise
the level of demand for food products, in general, and for grain, in
particular, and to raise the incomes of small farmers by introducing
the possibility of exporting surplus production.
The program for liberalizing grain exports consisting of
three main components:.
-    an export licensing system offering marketing and export
opportunities to private traders and entrepreneurs;
-    an improved data collection and analysis process which makes
it
possible to estimate surpluses for export while guaranteeing
food security;
-    the introduction of a line of credit for groups of small
farmers and exporters aimed at alleviating the immediate
constraints facing them in the area of export marketing, and
the cofinancing of an improved grain transportation system.
To encourage farmers the Government has undertaken since
November 1986 measures to regulate cereals export and other food
products. Starting in 1988, the Government intends to set up a system
of license that would allow export of surpluses of tradable cere4kls
determined after domestic grain supply has been takea into account.
RlECOVERY OF CROP CREDITS
Crop credits enable small farmers in financial difficulty to
buy the inputs they need to grow and protect their crops. The process
of recovering these credits is still a weak link which the Government
plans to correct, primarily by enlisting the help of production and
marketing groups.
The establishment of a guarantee and subsidized credit fund
in December 1989 will enhance the security of both the borrower and
the lender. Its success will inevitably depend on the organization,
training and monitoring of the groups in question.
DIRECTIONS REGIONALES DU DEVELOPPENENT RURAL - DRDR (Regional Rural
Development Directorates)
Under the second Structural Adjustment Program the
Government is comitted to increasing the budgetary fiancing of
recurrent costs in the rural sector. The DRDRs are consequently
experiencing a gradual improvement in their operational fundings the



-33 -
funds allocated have increased from CFAF 200 million in 1986 to CFAP
250 million this year. In the short term the improved funding,
together with the establishment of a program to reorganize
agricultural services, will make the DRDRs better able to perform the
responsibilities ascigned to them.
BSTER PROJECT SELECTION
Project selection will be tightened to ensuxe that onlv
productive and profitable activities are adopted. Togolese
agriculture is thus to be viewed as an enterprise whose primary
purpose is to maximize profit both for village communities and for the
State.
This rigorous project selection policy must be backed by the
strengthening at the community level and expansion of the local and
participatory development policy just launched, which will guard
against the State getting involved in large-scale projects where
recurrent costs are often high.



- 34 -
THE TOURISM SECTOR
Thanks to the Government's intensive investment efforts over
the last 10 years to develop hotel infrastructure&, this sector
currently ranks third in terms of foreign exchange earnings.
While these results are generally encouraging, certain
problems in the areas of management, building and equipment
maintenance and tourism marketing have nevertheless prompted the
Togolese authorities, with the assistance of the World Zank and the
World Tourism Organization, to look into ways of revitalizing the
hotel sector.
The Government will continue its efforts to restructure the
agency in charge of tourism by better organizing and identifying its
responsibilities.
Actions to be undertaken in the area of hotel management
will focus on rehabilitating hotels in the interior and linking them
to the major hotels in the capital that are run by hotel chains.
In the area of marketing, the Government is anxious to
develop a proper marketing policy that involves creating a distinctive
image for Togolese tourism in order to make existing hotels profitable
effective and to maximize income deriving from tourism.
Further efforts will be needed in the years to come to
diversify the country's hotel infrastructure in order to satisfy the
different categories of tourism with Togo and to ensure rational
coverage of the country as a whole.
In addition to strengthening existing hotel infrastructure,
the Government will place special emphasis on developing natural and
cultural tourist attractions, since many of these places are currently
too inaccessible for inclusion in sightseeing tours.
INDUSTRIAL AND COMMERCIAL SECTOR
In the area of industrial policy the Government had given
priority to import substitution, the aim being to meet existing demand
for manufactured products.
But manufacturing companies have limited themselves to the
final processing of imported raw materials, with minimal generation of
value added. Their contribution to the national economy in 1985
accounted for 7Z of GDP, a high proportion of this deriving from
agro-food industries. These enterprises remain poorly integrated into
the national economy and the production of intermediate goods is low.
Exports of manufactured goods are also very small.



- 35 -
The Togolese trade comwercial is very developed and Togo
plays an important role at the sub-regional level of West Africa.
Nevertheless, the growth of the sector is hindered by:
-    the existence of monopolies in the import of some products
by SONACOM;
-    the inadequacy of the incentive system to foster economic
units.
In order to guarantee the sustained growtul of tkis tector
and taking ilto account the results of large-scale public industrial
projects, the Government has decided to:
-    continue its policy of selective State withdrawal from the
industrial sector;
-    step up promotion of the private industrial sector;
-    promote exports;
-    take steps to develop local resources.
1.   SELECTIVE STATE WITHDRAWAL
A program to Wpivatize certain enterprises in the public
sector has been in effect since 1982. This program, which Uas so far
affected some 20 enterprises that neither play a strategic tole nor
perform a public service, will, in certain cases, be carried,out with
the technical and financial assistance of foreign partners when4ver
-warranted by the complexity and financial scale of the operation.
Anxious to promote Togolese shareholding, the Government
plar.s to establish the framework needed to permit increasing Togolese
participation in the capital of these companies. It therefore plans
to encourage the establishment of.a finance company that will
specialize in this field, making equity investments in major
enterprises and also issuing bonds, stocks, shares and securities
which the bearers will be able to buy and sell at any time. A study
leading to the establishment of such a company will be undertaken some
time in 1987.
To accelerate growth in the commercial sector (as well as
widen the base of fiscal receipts), the Government intends to
gradually liberalise imports presently under SONACOM's monopoly. As a
result, by the end of May l9U8 all the monopolies of SONACOM will be
abolished.



- 36 -
2.        DEVELOPMENT OF LOCAL RESOURCES
Togolese industry is extremely dependent on imported raw
materials. The Government will encourage all efforts leading, first,
to the preparation of an exhaustive inventory of potential mining and
agricultural resources in Togo and, subsequently, to their development
on remunerative terms and to industrial processing, using appropriate
technology. With this in mind, the Government has just produced
geological maps for five economic regions.
The establishment of the Conseil Sup4rieur de Normalisation
(Standards Council) to promote produet quality control and the setting
up in the near future of the Centre National de Technologie Appliqude
(National Center for Applied Technology) to train promoters in
technology transfer are two of the new facilities to be provided.
3.        PROMOTION OF PRIVATE INVESTMENT
As part of its efforts to promote the private sector, the
Government plans to adopt measures designed to increase the volume of
private investment in the manufacturing sector in particular. In
addition to the new Investment Code and the Charter of Togolese
Enterprises, which spell out the guarantees given to investors, a
detailed study has been undertaken on industrial policy tools, leading
to recommendations aimed at making these instruments more effective.
3.1 Establishment of new advisory agencies
As a result of this the Centre Togolais des Investissements
(CTI - Togolese Investment Center) was set up by Togolese banks, the
Chambre de Coumerce, d'Agriculture et d'Industrie du Togo (CCAIT -
Togolese Chamber of Commerce, Agriculture and Industry) and OTP, OPAT
and SONACOM. As a private investment assistance agency in Togo it
will serve as a forum for the discussion of problems and major
difficulties facing firms. The State will help to establish CTI but
will only participate in the work of the Board as an observer.
CTI will be responsible for helping promoters put together
their development projects and with their contacts with the
Government, financial establishments and consulting firms. It will be
financially autonomous and will administer a fund for the provision of
its services, which will be financed by the Government during the
first three years of its operation.
The CCAIT will also play an increasingly important role in
helping to solve the management problems encountered by entrepreneurs.
The Government therefore plans to strengthen its business
assistance division so that it will be able to supplement at the
manufacturing unit level the range of actions conducted within the
framework of CTI.



- 37 -
Thls support for the promotion of institutions will be
supplemented by an incentive program for local service companies
(accounting firms, accountants, consulting firms) to the extent that
project studies are entrusted to them and that the above-mentioned
fund provides investors with access to services, which in many cases
they could otherwise not afford.
3.2 Improvement of the incentive system
To foster the development of manufacturing companies, the
Government issued a new Investment Code and a Charter of Togolese
Cimpan.es Ir 19S5. -TXi import tx s7stemvas alto portially revLsed.
The new Investment Code introduces improvements over the old
one, including benefits that decrease over time, a reduction in the
number of systems, a more concise list of eligibility criteria (local
value added, percentage of the total wage bill paid to Togolese,
etc.).
The tax system for imports has been simplified by combining
the local tax and the TPRTT into a single sales tax. As for customs
duty, the import duty payable by manufacturers has been cut 75? in the
case of unmanufactured products or semifinished products and 502 in
the case of finished products. Manufacturers are also charged a 3Z
sales tax instead of 262 on inputs.
The investment incentive program could be further improved,
however, and the Government plans to take measures by May 1989 at the
latest to improve the Investment Code and the Charter of Togolese
Companies and to reactivate certain existing provisions which have had
disappointing results.
3.3 Improvement of financing facilities
Despite the recommendations of the national credit
committee, the banking sector does not play as large a role as it
should in the financing of the industrial sector, particularly where
SM89 are concerned. The Government, with the assistance of the World
Bank, therefore plans to make funds available to investors through
Togolese banks on terms that are compatible with their specific needs
and their ability to repay. The Government will also study plans to
merge the Guarantee and Subsidized Credit Fund into a Single
Assistance and Guarantee Fund for Loans to Togolese Enterprises, which
will be run by the National Investment Company. Its purpose is to
promote private initiative in Togo by providing Togolece companies
with access to the credit necessary for their development, through the
guarantees and interest subsidies it grants.
In addition, the Government wants to encourage the formation
of mutual guarantee companies with a view to minimizing the fears of



- 38 -
the banking sector regarding the risks involved in financing small
enterprises. They are expected to be in place by the end of 1988.
3.4 Reform of the System of Protection to Favor the Creation
of a Viable and Effective Industrial Sector
Import taxation has always had a double functiont provide
budgetary receipts to the State and protect domestic industry.
The current structure of Government import taxation and the
existence of internal taxation on production (T.G.A.) did not in the
past give sufficient protection to some local industries. This
situation has pushed the authorities to take fiscal relief measures
(86104 ordonnance of April 1986, special conventions, ad hoc
exonerations) or administrative protection (import licenses,
reservation of market share). The results have been in some cases,
losses of receipts by the State and distortions in the pricing system
and no medium-term gain for the national economy (non viablility of
enterprises after expiration of fiscal exonerations).
The development of private investment necessitate the
formulation of clear rules of the game that would guide decisions by
Investors. To this end, the protection of local industry should be
integrated in the custom tariff structure. The entrepreneur would
then a priori evaluate the profitability of his investment in a clear
context and will no longer be allowed to call upon the authorities for
exoneration rules or supplemental protection.
In the context of the adoption of a harmonized custom
system, the Government will proceed to recast custom tariffs that will
favour through tariff protection a viable industrial body while
integrating the objectives of upholding budgetary receipts and
promoting regional trade.
This reform, which will bring about liberalisation of the
protection system and accesorily a simplification of the tariff
structure, will be effective at the latest in February 1989.
The Government will abolish the quotas, except those on
products that are the object of special regulations (concrete iron,
cement, corrugated iron, reinforced iron, P.V.C. tubes, toilet paper,
flour, chickens) and will submit by the end of March 1988 an agenda of
a progressive elimination of restrictions on all products other than
cement and concrete irons.
An agenda to eliminate import restrictions on cement and
concrete irons will be prepared before the end of March 1989.



- 39 _
3.5 Alleviation of the price control and installation
authorization system
In the context of a promotion of the private sector, an
alleviation of the control and authorization systems is necessary,
especially as far as price control and installation authorisation are
concerned.
3.6 Authorization to set up a business
The present system of requiring authorization to set up a
busine,s, which applies to all enterprises in Togo, needs to be
reviewed. The current procedure, which provides for authorization to
be granted on a provisional two-year basis and to be renewed
subsequently every two, three or five years, can be a source of
uncertainty for the potential entrepreneur. The Government has
therefore decided to re-examine this authorization system by December
31, 1987, with a view to abolishing the renewal requirement, thereby
eliminating any uncertainties involved. Given that the renewal system
provides the Government with an important means of checking that
enterprises are in good standing with the tax authorities, this study
will identify other reliable systems that could be introduced to
enable the Government to make these checks. A decision based on the
findings will be reached by March'31,'1988 at the latest.  The
Government will then study ways of replacing this prior authorization
requirement.
4.        EXPORT PROMOTION MEASURES
4.1 Promotion of export companies
In order to make the national economy more dynamic and in
light of the restricted nature of the domestic market, the Government
has undertaken to promote the development of export companies. The
establishment of the Loue Free Port Zone is part of this effort.
The Government is also studying the possibility of
establishing other free trade zones which would encourage the setting
up in Togo of industries aiming at large-scale exports.
In addition, the export tax on industrial products
manufactured in Togo has been abolished (1986) and Order No. 87-02 of
February 17, 1987 grants higher benefits to companies approved under
System B of the Investment Code that export more than twvo thirds of
their production. The customs code also provides for exemption from
duty on materials incorporated in products intended for export.
In general, the Government will study the possibility of
taking a set of measures concurrent with the promotion of exports and
aiming specifically at simplifying procedures, improving
infrastructures, fiscal and financial incentives to favor entreprises



- 40 -
that export as well as measures to promote training of staff in
international trade techniques.
4.2 Abolition of export licenses
As the price etructure continues to favor production for the
domestic market, new initiatives are needed to promote exports.
Export licenses for industrial products will therefore be abolished by
March 31, 1988 at the latest. A system for collecting export
statistics and declaring and recording exports will be studied and
developed by December 31, 1987 in order to meet the statistical
requirements satisfied by the current export licensing system. The
system thus developed will be implemented by March 31, 1988.
5.        TRADE POLICY
In order to broaden the tax revenue base and accelerate the
growth of the trade sector, the Government plans to gradually
liberalize the imports hitherto covered by the SONACOM monopoly. All
SONACOM monopolies will thus be abolished by the end of May 1989 and
all taxes payable by private importers of goods not part of the
monopoly will be lifted.
TRAINING AND EMPLOYMENT
Togo's vocational training needs basically center on the
agricultural sector, which employs 70.5Z of the country's total active
population.
Apprentice training in the informal sector is essentially
provided by individual business owners. The advantage of this type of
training is that it is tailored to the job and does not cost the
Government anything. However, the individual owners responsible for
the training do not always have the necessary technical and teaching
skills, which has prompted the Government to introduce a program to
reorganize apprentice training and to provide assistance to the
Informal sector.
Training needs for jobs in the modern sector are estimated
as follows for the period 1985-87:
Managerial personnel:      891
Supervisory personnel:     964
Skilled workers:    1,509
and for the period 1988-90 (i.e. during the economic recovery) at:
Managerial personnels    1,129
Supervisory personnels   1,222
Skilled workerst   1,927



- 41 -
A comparison of projected total employment openings and the
output of graduates from the training system reveals a mismatch
throughout the education system in relation to the actual employment
situation.
The training system as a whole is geared to producing
skilled and managerial personnel for the modern sector, with emphasis
on administrative-type jobs, whereas only 7.3? of the active
population is employed in that sector.
Since employment is primarily agricultural in Togo, and to a
lesser degree informal, sehools should therefore focus above all on
encouraging students to seek employment in these sectors. It is
therefore up to the Government to establish other training facilities
to follow on from each phase of the education system to prepare young
people to play an active role in these sectors (rural and informal).
TECHNICAL EDUCATION POLICY
Since mastery of the modern economy hinges on the
acquisition of increasingly advanced technological know-how in the
various sectors and in the agriculture and industrial sectors in
particular, it is essential to develop a supply not only of
increasingly skilled labor but also, and more importantly, of highly
qualified technicians, i.e. the "enlightened producers' required by
the 1975 reform.
A revised system of basic and advanced vocational training
would, of course, suffice in order to provide the skilled labor needed
at the operational level. But the higher-level personnel needed to
lead and promote SMEs and SMIs will require a broader training,
ranging from general education to technical expertise, which can be
provided by technical training, itself also reformed to ensure better
training-employment matching.
BASIC ACTIONS TO BE TAKEN BY THE GOVERNMENT
1.   aProfessionalization' of Technical Education
Action is needed to match employment as closely as possible
to the needs of an economy that is becoming increasingly geared to
private enterprise, with all that this implies in terms of skills,
competitiveness, creativity and initiative. This
'professionalization* will call for:
(a)  the tailoring of training programs to the country's economic
situation and to the needs expressed by the professionals
who are themselves now engaged in this task within the
Conseil Superieur de la Formation Professionnelle - CSFP
(Vocational Training Council), which has been set up by the
Ministry of Technical Education and Vocational Training



- 42 -
(METFP), and the Comite de Professionalisation
(Professionalisation" Committee), which is a consultative
body of the Direction de l'Enseignement Technique (Technical
Education Directorate).
(b) the revision of training methods, by:
-    stepping up practical workshop activities to provide
students with the type of technical education that will
enable them to play a more effective role in the workplace;
-    instituting compulsory internships in comp-mies to ensure
that graduating students are sufficiently familiar with the
realities of the workplace;
-    including practical exercises in business management (of
SMEs and SMIs, in particular) in all the study programs in
order to prepare students to take initiatives;
-    Including actual production activities in each teaching
establishment. These activities are basically intended to
ensure that the training reproduces as closely as possible
the actual environment of a production unit. The idea is
for each establishment to be like a 'training-production'
complex so that the training it provides is more active and
more stimulating in terms of creativity;
-    emphasizing maintenance activities in each establishment
(buildings, furniture and technical equipment) in order to
cut the cost of maintenance, ensure the survival of
equipment and develop professional awareness;
supplementing the training of traditional teachers by visits
from professionals direct from the workplace.
2. Teacher training
Examination of the current situation reveals a serious
shortage of teacher trainers in both quantitative and qualitative
terms.
From the qualitative point of view and given the innovations
in programs and methods, action must be taken to improve the
qualification levels of all teachers currently in service, speed up
the training and hiring of new teachers and train supervisory and
advisory staff specializing in education. Sixty-eight teachers will
be trained by 1991.



- 43 -
3.   Rehabilitation and strengthening of institutions,
infrastructure and equipment
(a) Institutions. Several projects have already been carried
out in this field with a view to upgrading technical
education, to provide it with more functional structures and
to enable it to interact continuously with employment
circles and the business world:
-    setting up of METFP and identification of its
responsibilities;
-    setting up of the Direction de l'Enseignement Technique -
DET (Directorate of Technical Education) and identification
of its responsibilities;
-    setting up of the Direction de l'Apprentissage - DA
(Directorate of Basic Training) and identification of its
responsibilities;
-    setting up of support departments:
-    Direction de la Recherche et Prospectives (Directorate of
Research and Exploration);
-    Direction des Affaires Communes (Directorate of Commune
Affairs);
- foration'and establishment of the Conseil Supirieur de la
Formation Professionnelle - CSFP (Higher Vocational Training
Council).
Other rehabilitatiof projects are still pending:
-    reorganizing private technical education and regulating the
opening of schools in that sector;
-    reorganizing examinations and competitive entrance
examinations for technical education (under way);
-    establishment of school location map.
(b) Infrastructure. The short-term goal is to rehabilitate
infrastructures with a view to adapting them to the new
activities to be developed under the professionalization
program and expanding their capacity with a view to making
technical education more democratic.
(c) Technical equipment. Hajor efforts are still needed in this
area and must be continued.
4.   Expansion and new construction of schools
Action in this area has been intentionally postponed for
several reasons:



. 44 -
-    existing facilities must first be strengthened and made more
cost-effective before further projects are undertaken;
_    all expansion and new construction work will have to be
consistent with the findings of the research on manpower
requirements currently under way or about to be undertaken
by the Directorate of Research and Exploration.
In conclusion, given the widespread mismatches which cannot
be overcome in the short term, the Government will take steps to avoid
the following, as far as technical education, vocational training and
higher education are concerneds
-    premature speciaiization among students, giving emphasis
instead to the learning of multiple skills in a given family
of jobs;
-    delayed career selection, which is socially and financially
costly.
The Government also plans to:
-    correct Imbalances among the different sub-branches;
-    develop multi-level vocational development programs
(workers, artisans, office employees, higher-level staff in
the public and private sectors, teaching staff).
In so doing, however, the Government will keep. the following
in minds
-    better matching of the education system to the actual
employment situation will inevitably call for an overall
reorientation of the system, whose primary purpose will be
to place young people in the agricultural and informal
sectors. The current emphasis, in keeping with the new
rural development strategy, on the training of extension
workers is already a start in the right direction;
-    the imbalance between technical training (industrial and
nonindustrial), of which there is too little, and
administrative and commercial training, of which there is
too much, needs to be corrected;
-    at the job market level, manpower services must be
strengthened by providing them with the resoarces needed for
the regular monitoring of job supply and demand trends;
the volume and types of jobs to be created must be a key
criterion in the selection of investment projects;



- 45 -
-    the need to develop projections in the area of human
resources (economic forecasts and employment projections,
projections of numbers leaving the education system and
graduatAng from training programs etc.);
_    finally, institutional-building measures will be adopted to
strengthen agencies engaged in the planming of education,
training and employment.
HEALTH POLICY
Health policy must be approached in terms of a comprehensive
effort to improve the health status of the To3olese people as a whole.
The aim is to provide as wide a coverage of the country as possible,
bringing health care facilities closer to the people.
Primary health care, which is the backbone of the Togolese
health care system, will be better formulated and organized so that
communities are better able to handle their problems, as follows:
-    those relating to various diseases prevalent in rural
commnities affecting the young in particular (under 15
years of age);
-    those relating to health care facilities, equipment and
staff and which stem from the marked imbalance in the
geographical distribution of facilities, making
accessibility difficult, equipment scarce and trained staff
unevenly distributed;
-    those relating to budgetary concerns:  insufficient funds
have been allocated and the sector's share of the total
national budget has shown a downward trend;
-    those relating to management.  As part of its primary health
care strategy, as defined in the national health program,
the Togolese Government, with assistance from the World
Bank, plans to carry out the following four programs:
(1) strengthening of health care services;
(2) institution building;
(3) health information and education;
(4) development of a national population policy.
STRENGTHENING OF HEALTH CARE SERVICES
This program will comprise:
-    the rehabilitation of health care facilitiess  the funds
will be used for the necessary repairs and re-equipment of
existing health centers, clinics and MCH facilities and --



- 46 _
on a selective basis -- of prefectural and regional
hospitals;
continuing training and educations  the aim of this
subcomponent vill be to produce human resources capable of
setting up the primary health care system;
the strengthening of the essential drug supply system.  The
shortage of drugs and medical/surgical supplies is a major
constraint to the delivery of efficient health care
services. The reorganization of the pharmaceutical sector
is cruci?l in order to improve the drug supply system in
general and that of the rural areas in particular.
a study on the financing of recurrent costs.  The limited
amount of funds allocated to the sector necessitates medium
to long-term solutions with a view to reducing the national
burden where the health sector's recurrent costs are
concerned.
INSTITUTION BUILDING
This is based on twin components:
-    Support for the reorganization planned for the Ministry of
Health, viz. the establishment of a new planning unit within
the Ministry and the setting up of Regional Directorates to
embody decentralized decision-making in the national system.
-    the program for the collection and production of sociohealth
data. The Health Statistics Division collects basic data in
order to produce an epidemiological table. The program will
be completely revised to make it more efficient and, as
such, a key management instrument for the implementation of
the primary health care policy.
THE HEALTH INFORMATION AND EDUCATION PROGRAM
This will be a support activity for the other programs. The
Government plans to purchase equipment and hardware and to provide the
necessary training for hospital managers and staff in order to improve
this program.
RECOVERY OF RECURRENT COSTS
With regard to the problem of efficiency and recovery of
recurrent costs in the health sector, a detailed study will have to be
conducted by region at the level of the various preventive health care
facilities in order to devise ways in which the people who use these
health facilities can contribute. The conclusions of this study will
enable decisions tco be taken on the manner in which users may be
called on to share certain recurrent costs in proportion to their



- 47 -
Income. At the village level the national health policy is based on
the identification of the basic needs of communities via their active
participation and on decisions taken by these communities as to the
local and external resources required to meet the needs identified.
As time goes by and as health information and education
becomes more widespread, the people will increasingly realize that
they themselves must take primary responsibility for studying and
tackllng the problems they are facing. Concepts such as
village/community health workers and village pharmacies run by a
village committee are catching on well and will be accepted by
coumunities in a spirit of conscious self-reliance and
self-sufficiency. But the Government will continue to provide
technical assistance for training and retraining to encourage these
primary health care activities.
DEVELOPMENT OF A NATIONAL POPULATION POLICY
The Government will make every effort to incorporate
demographic variables increasingly in its planning with a view to
avoiding the economic and social problems encountered in the
Implementation of development strategies.
Toward this end a population planning unit will be
established within the Ministry of Planning, whose primary
responsibility will be to study the relationship between demographic
variables and other aspects of economic and social development.
In the interests of protecting maternal and infant health,
the Government will continue its family planning and family welfare
policy.
FAMILY WELFARE PROGRAM
Despite the progress made by the Togolese Government in
terms of health care, maternal and infant mortality rates (although
recently beginning to decline) are still high. There are various
causes of mortalitys complications during pregnancy and childbirth,
infectious diseases, malnutrition etc. Various factors are
responsible for this, including the followingt the lack of
information and education, low literacy level, family size.
Aware of this situation, the Togolese Government has made
correcting it one of its top priorities. Among the goals it has set
are actions to improve maternal and infant heal'Jh and family planning,
which is an essential component of -- and an important stepping stone
toward -- economic development.
The rural and urban population must be made aware of the
advantages of careful family planning through health information and
education. This will call for a serious study of traditional



- 48 _
constraints in evey social group where family planning is concerned.
The aim is to get families to make conscious and responsible use of
family planning and to pass these ideas on to their children.
In other words, the adoption of a national family welfare
policy is based on maternal and infant preventive care and health
promotion, with birth spacing the underlying theme.
It should be stressed that family welfare in the sense of
birth spacing is considered to be a strategy that the Ministry of
Public Health can use to reduce maternal and infant mortality and
morbidity, while ensuring harmonious development.
Birth spacing can increase the infant's chances of survival
and can consequently improve the emotional and physical state of the
whole family.
Efforts must be made to make people understand that some of
their financial difficulties can be solved by family planning and
acknowledge their need to start putting effective family planning into
practice, first individually and then as a community, since this is
the only way to make a significant impact on the fertility rate and
the population growth rate.
The adoption of family planning could prove a turning point
for the development of the Togolese people and could provide a
framework for the Government's development plans.
TOGO'S POLICY FOR THE CONTROL OF AIDS
A multi-disciplinary national comittee for the control of
AIDS has been set up to prepare and implement a national program to
fight this curse.
The Government has also allocated CPAP 45 million to the
Ministry of Public Health for the purchase of equipment and reagents
for the early diagnosis of the virus.
Testing of target groups is currently under way and the
population is being made aware of the causes and consequences of the
disease. The Government has already equipped two of the country's
four Regional Hospital Centers for this purpose.
Under the auspices of the Global Strategy for the Prevention
and Control of AIDS, WHO will help to implement a national AIDS
control program and assess Togo's needs in terms of establishing a
national AIDS control policy.
Other donors, such as UNDP, EEC and FAC, are prepared to
help the Government carry out the program in both the short and the
medium term.



- 49 -
The Government also plans to ask IDA to help with the
national LXDS control program within the framework of its population
and health project.
THE ENERGY SECTOR
TRADITIONAL ENERGY
Traditional biomass bnergy (wood, charcoal), used by almost
the entire population, is, in terms of calorific value, the main form
of energy used in Togo, accounting for almost 0B of the national
energy balance.
This high demand for fuelwood, combined with the expansion
of agriculture, brush fires and an increasingly arid climate, is
resulting in the gradual erosion of Togo's forestry resources,
particularly in high population density areas.
The Government therefore plans to pursue and step up its
reforestation policy, based on fast-growing species and the
involvement of comimnities and private individuals.
Measures to reduce brush fires and abusive tree-felling and
to protect vulnerable areas' will also be stepped up.
About 40? of Togo's surface area is covered by forests or
wooded savanna. The existing forest could produce about 8 million m3
of wood per year.
ELECTRICITY
The public electricity supply in Togo is produced by
Compagnie d'Energie Electrique du Togo (CUET), which supplies the
principal cities (prefecture capitals) but serves less than 302 of the
urban population. The power network in the south of the country
accounts for 95? of energy consumed.
National policy for the development of electric energy
comprises s
-    the rehabilitation of existing infrastructure;
-    the interconnection of the coastal area with Nangbeto,
Atakpam6 and the interconnection around Kara;
-    the study of mini hydro-electric power plants to supply
secondary centers.
This program consists of developing interconnected networks
with a view to replacing the small thermal power plants, whose per-KWH



- 50 -
cost is considerably higher than the selling price, with centralized
production.
The organization of CEET is lacking in the area of
standardization, network maintenance, stock management, statistics
collection, debt recovery and the computerization of accounting.
To ensure efficient execution of the energy sector
development program, the Government plans to approach the
rehabilitation of the sector in the spirit of current legislations
CETE's problems will be reviewed in the context of relations between
the Government and the parapublic sector and steps will be taken to
revise CEET's statutes.
The Government will examine the measures recommended with a
view to cutting nontechnical energy losses. For this purpose it will
set up a permanent unit to monitor losses, composed of qualified
staff, make certain changes in operating procedures and computerize
the invoicing system in order to provide the customer with more
efficient service and to ensure more effective monitoring.
All the measures will be geared to making the sector more
viable and increasing the coverage of CEE;ts operating costs.
The Government is also committed to studying IDA's
recommendations with regard to:
-    the formulation of a plan for the rehabilitation and.
expansion of the existing distribution network;
-    the development of the network for primary distribution in
nonelectrified areas in keeping with CEB (Communaut6
Electrique du Benin) transmission projects.
Electric energy production from the Nangbeto dam will cover
only 25Z of the two countries' requirements and the Government will
therefore investigate, in conjunction with donors, including IDA, the
advisability of a second hydrodevelopment at Adjarala.
OTHER ENERGY SOURCES
Thanks to its latitude and climate, Togo has plentiful solar
energy. Annual hours of sun ranges from an average of 2,100 hours on
the coast to 2,700 hours in the north. The average ray intensity is
put at 4,200 wh/m2lday.
Experiments to exploit and distribute this and other forms
of energy are being undertaken by various institutions, such as the
solar energy laboratory of the University of Benin and the Direction
de l'Hydraulique et de l'Energie (Directorate of Hydraulics and
Energy) (solar water-heaters, improved stoves, etc.)



- 51 -
Outreach activities will be stepped up in 'rder to spread
the use of new energy sources among the population a-; 'arge and
thereby limit the consumption of fuelwood and importeI C4srgy.
THE URBAN DEVELOPMENT AND HOUSING SECTOR
All 21 prefecture capitals have their own urban development
plans to ensure their rational growth. Urban development studies of
other towns with populations in excess of 5,000 are scheduled,
together with the aerial surveys and topographical work that are
essential for all urban planning, land registration and regional
development activities.
Meanwhile, however, for want of the physical and financial
resources needed to implement these master plans and to conduct
studies and surveys, Togo's cities, particularly Lome, the economic
and political capital, with a population now in excess of 500,000, are
falling victim to anarchic development.
Given the prospect of Lome's population doubling by the year
2000, the Government, with the help of the World Bank, has embarked on
a study with a view to an Urban,Development Project for the city of
Lom6. This study comprisess
(a) Technical studies aimed at upgrading the standard of Lome's
roads and traffic conditions through the rehabilitation of
roads, intersections, one-way systems and walkways and lanes
for pedestrians and two-wheeled vehicles.
(b) Urban management studies focusing on technical agencies,
their sphere of activity and responsibility, coordination,
resources and legal and institutional problems.
(c) Detailed studies on the municipal management agencies that
report to the mayor's office.
(d) Detailed studies on the restructuring of the BE district,
land) the Atakpame intervention area.
The execution of these various project components is
expected to generate a large number of jobs.
The urban development and housing policy relies on other
sectoral policies, such as roads, water, electricity, sewerage,
transportation etc.
The rehabilitation of new urban infrastructure and of
existing facilities must be organized in coordination with the
technical agencies, which are anxious to see a more integrated
approach to urban management.



- 52 -
In the field of housing, the situation in Lo=6 and, to a-
lesser eztent, in the other cities, is essentially characterized by:
-    a lack of organization regarding the siting of housing both
Inside and outside the urban perimeters;
-    the shortage of low-cost housing;
-    the lack of services (water, electricity, sewerage) in most
private housss.
The distinguishing feature of this subsector is its
self-help housing scheme, which is particularly dynamic in Togo
because of the people's tendency to own their own homes.
Aware of this situation, the Government introduced a
national housing policy, which has resulted in the establishment of
certain agencies, as followss
-    the Direction G4nerale de l'Urbanisme et de l'labitat
(GEUH), whose role is to prepare urban planning programs,
supervise their implementation, ensure compliance with urban
development regulations and formulatelimplement national
housing policyt
- - the Agence d'Equipement des "errains Urbains (AGETU), whose
role was to purchase land, subdivide it and to develop It
for reselling to private individuals and to low-income
housing construction companies.
In the city of Lomd vast areas have been obtained in
Atakpam6 (110 ha) and Adidogomd (321 ha) for subdivision and
development into serviced lots.
The Ponds National de l'Habitat (PNH), which was to have
been established to support our housing policy, has not yet
materialized.
AGETU was disbanded in 1983 for want of sufficient resources
to carry out its program and its capital was transferred to Soc idtd
Immobiliere Togolaise (SITO).
The purpose of SITO, which was set up in 1970 and
rehabilitated in 1977, is to promote the construction of low-income
housing on the basis of a leasing contract with obligation to buy.  If
it is to perfonm its role it needs to be reorganized.
A feasibility study that focused on this sector indicated a
fairly significant demand for serviced lots and housing construction
and that if SITO were reorganized it would be able to serve a large
population able to afford such lots and housing.



5 53 -
By establishing PUB and offering SITO's capital stock to
Togolese and foreign shareholders it would be possible to provide SITO
with the funds it needs to carry out its program.
A joint program has been prepared by SITO and its technical
and financial partner, SCET INTRNATIONAL, to build different types of
housing on 230 ha of land, 160 ha of which would be in Lod and the
remainder in key towns in the interior.
As part of the organisation of an operational urban backbone
for the country, attention must also be paid to providing the
secondary urban centers with the necessary infrastructure and physical
development they need to enable them to serve as growth centers
through the integration of their agricultural areas with a view to
improving the spatial distribution of the population. The
municipalities are the political, administrative and financial agents
responsible for implementing urban development and improvement plans.



THIRD SmUCTURAL ADJUSTMENT PROAM, 19S8-89
CALENDAR OF ACTIONS
Agencios
Sector                               Measuros to be Token                     Rssoneiblo        Deadline                 Co_mnt
I. PWUC RESOUCE MANAGEMN
A. Public Investmnt Program      (a) Consolldaton of the Orolline' programming        W1                1119SO
end budgetlng 4ystem for pubic investments.
(b) Steerlng iwnvstmente toweid zsectors
capable of promoting eoicelc growth.
(c) Colculation of recurret costs of all                              MIach 1981
projects Included In the program.
d) Prtodte reistion of the three-year
pregras.                o'
(e) Sollelt IDA  nd ADB cemwnts on                                     looe r 1896
the new projoets.
S. Improvemnt of Absorptive        (a) Establishment of the Interminstrlol cor-        WM                Decembr 1968
Capecity                           *ittee In charge of th  roeorm of the
loglolotion end regalelion of public
procuremwnt.
(b) Eetoblisihmnt of an Internnl regulation
systm a *Ilng at setting uo a commltte
to study Iues within the consultative
com_isslon of markets.
so (c) Simplification of procuremont and contracts                       November 198S
required servlce works for th procurement
of goods. and services, and the adoption of,
uniftorm rule of operation for the preprn-
tion of thes  contracts.
(d) Preparation of S New Cod for Public                               June 1S99
procuremnt.
Co Condition of Second Tranche Releas



Sector                               Measres to hi Taken                      Reepo neli        Do>dlino                 COmnt
tI. PUBUC ENTERPRISES                                                               -;
2.1 Orpnization of the              Adoptihn of e nw oranzazton chart for tho            mSm yS,¢h 1988
Ministry                       Mlinistr of Indutry and Stat.e-nterpriest
2.2 SsnibiIlxation/Trtining          (a) Preparation o  * progrm of sensbiliza-          miSn              .uly 198
tion sm_nars. for _imbers of the ExecuiNe
Comittee-and general directions.
(b) Preparation of ltrtlnilg prorm for MISMISSSseten2er 198
manageril staff according to the nw
orpgntlon chart.
2. Prvatizaton/foorniza-             (a) Assesment of c urrent expelrec  a    til-       MlSE
tlon/Lquidation Progra_             -aton of loesens drwn from this exerience
to deftne a nW strate    for privettlzonelo
reorpnlation/liquidetlon ot public enter-
prisear.
o      . properaton of term  of  rfen   (icud                             March 1988
Ing the detemination of conul4Ilv*
assessmet of the experience Om       I                          March  l989
tie. of a    nea  str.te. 
(b) Folow-up and coWlotion of operatiof                               Deemb r 1938
aIreay underway.
. concrstisation of eppVd   rm
. cscpletion of n.gotevtOt,a  for the
privttization of TOUITS, SOTOTO, 
01101
. search ftor partr for  FAB and CN
-            (c) Setot*emet for th  16 liquidations alredy        MISSE               ecmber 100.
itrted.
o Condition of Board Preostation
o Condition of Second Trnacbe Reloess



Sector                               Measures to be Taken                     Responsiblo       Deadilo                 comments
(d) Reorganization of the thro c mpnless                              Juno 1989
SItO. SOTED, oTM                                                 _
( ) DOinItion 'of   roeree for the fai                                996/1996
privatization of compe_nte In which the
Stat  Is  iready pertiolly diengaged:
SOTEXU, SNS, IP, SIPROLP AT.
(f) Implemontation of the am   strtegw for                            from April 1969
prlvatizstion/reorganl tion/l iquidation
of public enterprises.
2.4 Ub mge.snt optimialtion         2.4.1 Manamesnt tnformation Sytet  (MIS).           MIS
of enterprises. remaining
In the perastatol setor         (a) Establishment of publie enterprieo                                 December 1987/
December 1969'"
(b) Analysis of the results obtained and                              l9
identification of lproovemnts to be
made In term  of perforencoe ond follow-
2.4.2 OperationaL and fn anctal aIuito              UlSu
(a) Continuation of auditing program for the                          1988
196 accounts of public enterprises
Including public hotels.
(b) Implementation of recoomendatTon* and                             t988/tS^
recurrent audits.
2.4.  Lo4 al and institutional reform     public
fr                  enterprises
a  (a) Initiation of the rWform oshi   r* uirs         MhISE               March lse
for the management of tho stn*t enterpriuss,
a* woll as foe their supervhsion by the
Govornment,   critical et sessont of tho
oxisting legat *nd ;nstl6tional framework
a Condition of Soard Preosntation



A9on tos
Sector                                Measures to be Taken                       Aeponciblo        &e -.                  7'_t
*nd tho introduction of nw texts which givo
*nt.rprin s  the necesary autonomy to operate
as private entitios would with full responsi-
btlity and accoattability. 
The uhied publlc/private e*terprieee will be
goveowrned by the provision Dof tho Comercial
Code.
(b) lsboratito  (termu of referenco) of the  ction  MIS£                Jur/y 198
to be taken:
. obJective
. work to be do*e/agenda                         /
*nceseary men  (needr under discurslon)
* *stablishmsnt of wrk *chedutoe and
discueionr 
(c) bnpl _etotlon of  _nrs, required.                                   Septembr 1908
(d) Analysis of  uieting texto.              -                          Dcember i9X.
(e) N"tmly adopted provisions.                                          March 198i
(f) Elabotrtion of texts.                                               May 198
(g) Adoption an4 enactnt                                                October 1989
(h) Implementation.                             '                       1080/1998
2.5 OPAT                             (a) Review of OPAT$s  enoral policy of resource    MdISE/d/MAI/
investmnt, granting of oubsidlos and the         MPg
stabiliaxeion of agricultural product s
- anAlysis of stabilization activitito                              March 19O
(minor preoducto)



*  Seetor                             Meauros to be Taken                     Responsible       DOdline                  Cements
- analysis of stabilization activities
(main products)
(b) Reduction of exploitation costs
(1) Audit - 1985/Se *xercits (underway)      WAT               January 1988    Underway
(11) Audit - 1998/87 exorclso (*waiting       OPAT              April 1988       Oraft audit to be sent to
contract)                                                                   th Sank In June  988
(;I1) Completion of MIS tudy                   mISn              February 1988  Underway
(Iv) Start of tetting up MIS                  WISE              Jun  L988       Retferenc  2.4.1
(v) 198?-48 budogt (analys o*tter its        OPAT              January 1988
approval by the supervisory bodies)
(vi) Functions1 cost. (including subsidies                      Nove mbr 197I
*       ad  enra  costs                                            March 1988
ummary of the analysis,                                Aprl l908
rec nd6tions and eation
program
(vti) Admistratios of (vt) and adopbion                          Noember/
of the 1988J89 budgt                                        Deceombr 1988
..     (vIII) "dit - 1987/8 exercise (contract                            J_ury 10t
re",rem)
e  C(e) Reorganiastion of OPT structure.                                  December 1988
III. TRANSPORTATION
J.1 R"od Maintenance                (a) Implementation of a road maintenonce             NP?               1988            Actions to be included ti
program with the *etabl shet of                                                       the tranport Sector
maintenance brigade                                                                    ProJect
* Condition of Board Presentation
cc Condition of Seeond Tranche Release



Agencies
Sector                                Measuros to be Taken                    Responsible       DOdlnI                   CoI  onto
(b) Studies on                                      MEPT/MCT                               3         S
- cbeation of a road safety conter
- building ansew vohielo inspection center
(c) Setting up a road safety planning council       MEPT/ACT           1988-1989           *
J.2 Rail Tronsportation             (n) Study and introduction of a comprehensiv         MCT                1988.           In the Trenport Sector
plan to rehabilitte t"T                                                            Project.
(b) Reorganization o  CFT                                              1988-198
IV. TOURISM
(a) Continuation of efforts to reorganizo the       MET/MISE           logS            Roview of texts undorway.
agency reMponsiblo for touriss:
- organization and terms of reference of
the ministry of Env;rnr4ennt nd Tourism.
(b) Overall reiew of the results of contract        MET/MISE                           Annual tevision. Review
alreo4y in effect.                                                                     of contra  te  tarting
October 19SP-
Study undsrpry with
Gera as  s tais
- study of Hotel Tropicann situation                               March 19iS
- remodoling of otel to B6nin                                     October 198
- negtiations for taking over the                                 P.M.
managemnt of hotels In tho Interior
Cc) Formation of tourism marketing policy-,                           Moch 1888        Definition of Togolee
tourim product end
promotion in foreign
markets.
/



AgeAcies        
Sector                                _ asures to be Taken                  Responsible      Doadlin                 Coonte
Id) dlversifnlttion of hotel infractructur  ln                      P.M.            Proposal for the
th  Interior based on private Initiative,                                            construction of
iotermditat-caetgory,
lover-Oost tourein
reorts In the Interior
based on private
Initiative.
(e) D.velop._ t of toursat attractlon.                              P.M.
(zoological perk St Bay".*, waterfalls, aves,'
o  (a) Flxing of producer prices for export crop      bR                March 1986     Fln,l report incorporat-
In agremcenet wth IDA *nd AMS.                                                   in World asek com_at.
complet;o of the studies nd O estabsh- '-
nset of a systm for eetting flexible                                         i
annual pxod4cr prioe   competible with
world market conditlon .
- *gromnt with IDA nd MPS on the system
defin"d In (a) above.
- implementation of the system.                                Jun  1986       For 1666/19 (including
p riculn loel for the
threo product, at the
find of Jun).
(b) Evaluation wit IDA of n  methods of                             November        Reterenc SRCC III with
planting cocoa *nd of tro eang Coco di eas                       199             CCCE FAC.
(c) General review and draieg up with IDA of                        M reh/April    R  ference OPAT (5.b)
* tim  table for elimlnation of subsidies
on fertilixers and progr esIv, reduction of
subsidieo on peetieldes.
a Condition of Board Pre "ntatlon



Agencies
Sector                               Meaur s to be Taken                      Responsible       Deadline                 Cowmwnts
- exmination of cotton Insecticides                                    March 1988
- oxmination of ;offeo Inputs                                          June 1989
- examination of cocoa input.                                          ,ovjoy   1989
(d) Introduction of a guarantee and interest        MDR/MEF
subaIdy fund.
- document/conception                                              Decomber 1988
- discussion and Implementation                                    December 1989
(e) Examination of the trade pollelos for                                              Reference OPAT (2.S
three product (coffee, cocoa, cotton)  nd W                                        b *nd c)
reviow of OPAT eff etiveness In this rospect.
(f),                                          *                                                                    -
1. Adoption In agreement with the Ministry                        September
of Rural Development, the Ministry of                          1988
Commerce and Trad, IDA end AfD8 of
appropriate measures to promote export
of morketable e reals surpluses.
2. Improvement of statistics and forecasts
harvest, pries and volume of marketable
corels  urplses
TOGO4RAIN                                           MDR                December 1989  USAID Progrm
- Serch for ways to reuce costs through a
perman nt technical follow-up of the quality
etocks, the reorganization of the accounting
system, 'the refinncing of debts and an
efficient m&nagerent In order to avoid cost
oe rruns.
so Conditio. of Second Tranneh Releas



u                                   ~~~~~~~~~~~Agenctes
Sector                                Measures to be Taken                      Responsible        Deadlino                 Co-onts
-Analysis of the efficioncy of the system of                             December 1989
harvesting forecasts, prXces and possible
shortogps siroedy started end an sction for
the management of the soeurity stock.
VI. TRADE AND INDUSTRIAL
POLICY
s (a) Liboralization of imports:                         MTC
abolition of SONACOI's monopoly on                                   December 1988
rice, suagr, milk, tobacco *Wd alcoholtc
borages.
*  (b) Abolition of quontitative ristrictione            4CT                March 1988
on imports (except cent and steel rods)
and domestie purchase requiremnts. 
as (c) Abolition 6f import lictnsaing                    MCT                December 1988
s (d) Revision of tax system ti order to:                UCT/MEF
- simplify the custom tariff structure
- rationalize tho protection system               MEF/PM/MISSE/     December
MCT                19 0
(e) Creation of a tariff cosmitteo                                       Morch 1988
as (f) Implementation of the concl*It   'o,4fthlis"',                       February 1989
reform.
VII. PROMOTION OF PRIVATE
ENTERPRISE
(a) Review of prie;  control system.                 MWEfCT             March 1988       Agr _ment in the promo-
tion of the private
enterprise project with
IDA financial support.
* Condition of Board Presentation
as Condition of Second Tranche Release



Agencies
Sector                               Measures to be Taken                     Responsible       Deadlino                 Comments
(b) Revision of the system of authorizing           VISE/MPM/MCT       March I988
business establishments.
(c) Study of a system for collecting statistical    MEF/MCI           MNrch 198S
dots from export declaratlon and records.
c (cd) Elimination of export lIcenses for loeal                           March a8             ' 
industrial products                                                 198
(a) Implementation of th  export registration                         March 81,
sYsa.                                 '                            1988                 .
(f) Reorganization of the Chamber of Comere         WPi/MISE           1988                         6
Enterprise Assistance Olvision.
(9) Study tor the cretion of a mutual invest-       MPM               Decmber 1988
mont fund
cc (h) Export promotion through Institutional          MCT/UISE           December 1988
support and examination of  ppropHiato
esours to ensure export compoettiveness
of domestIcaliy manufactured goods.
(;) Initiation of the Implementation of the          MIt/MISE/IEF      May 1989        SME Project
program of the two pilot companles for
lnsuranec guarantee.
(j) Assssme_t of the roeulation governing           iPi                June 1988
the erotion of onterpritss
cc (k) Revision of tho Investment Codes and            MPM/UISE/MET       December 1988
Togolom  Enterprise Charter.
VIU                                                                                                                    .  ,RAINI   
(a) Reorm of technical oducation to provide          METFP            1988-1991        Request for a PPF has
provide bettor linkag bets training and                                            ben made to IDA
employment through                                                                 for the forthcoming
cc Condition of Second Tranche Rolease



Agencies
Sector                              M_asre to be Taken                      Reponsibl-        DOedlino                comente
- profesionalliatmon  of tOchnical ducation                                          Restructuring Tebolical
- teacher training                                                                  Education Sector
- redqployment nd tralning of *mployees                                             Project.
- reabilitatlon ond strengthening of facili-
ties and equipment
(b) Training of technical education teachers.
IX. POPULTION AND HEALTH
(a) Rehabilitetion of health care establishments.  UOP               1908-1091      In the Health and Popu-
lotion project. A mP
has a re dy bee
approved.
(b) Troining and retraining of hbelth care                           198-1991 ,         *
personnel.
(c) Investigation Into ne  system for the                           Novembr 1988        '
financing of recurrent cots.
(d) Reorganization and dcenCtreliastion of the                      November 1968       *        *
DirecUrate of Oublic Halth
(e) Upgrading of oclo-heith Information                             1981-1969           *        *
system (data colloction, genration and
uti I Ization).
(f) hbelth tnformation  nd education prorm.                          188-1990      Populatton and Hialth
Project
(g) Devlopment of national popujation policy.                        198-1990       H"lth Project with
assistance fre UNFPA/
(h) Formulation and Implementation of AIDS                           198-1S0        VW  miTance.
control program.



Sector                               Measurea to be Token                    Respotalble       DeadlIne                Co_eente
/
(a) Reorganization of CUT withn vioo to            MEPT/CEST/MISE              -     ESW  ety   (recoemeded
making the enrgy sector dorn cost-*ffoctive                                       for assistane In the
with AtOB and IR s*letaneo bys                                                          to project) .
- dt recovery                                                     1089               ,         S
- evaluating CEET' manpopr requirnte and                          1969 9                       0
developing training program
- revising CEET's stAtute                                         1989
reduing non-technical lose"ennd organizing                       1989                *
ce_*rc)nl opertions
- stock.s mement                                          /       1989            ESW  study  trecommeded
for asiatance in the
Mangbeto project)
- mintenanc of diesel plants soldprocurement                      1989 *
of quipment
- str engtheng of teocsmunic.to  facilitie                        19s0                *
- Improving road asintennnce                                      1900
- collecting sttistical, dala                                     199
-omr advanced com_toreiztion of ccounting                         19908
XI. BANN  SECTOR
Sttilng up of technical *istance for BT1 and                          December 1986
CNCA with *"istance froe AtO8/AfDF.
P                                              .                                                    7



-               ~MAP SECTION
. =~
.o~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
. 



IBRD 20742
!0*
<t j ~~~~BURKIA                  M  s^cAUR .....ITAI
0~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~0
z.
10.~                '. ..;
:CD
,  C  E              LeR o  L P E
T ~    *0 G 0      O
;          \        rchmbo 
TRANSPORTATION AND                           s
POPULATION DENSITY       *       t j..>s
YRANSPORT ET DB'4$II         3                ;us    
DE POPULA77ON         /V     o''. X'
_:rRVVR OlO Of'4 UDA R
= \-60i.5E-  ^fN
_. .,100a'\ .  'X'\''\'''
AMI'L,';"''N..t
3<, V es .A. . A ES 
KILOMETERS                     /NE¢t  fie;
t-~~~~~~~~~~~~~AC I0



