Page  1
                                                    CONFORMED COPY
                                             CREDIT NUMBER 1892 TO
               (Third Structural Adjustment Credit)
                              between
                         REPUBLIC OF TOGO
                                and
               INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
                       Dated April 22, 1988
                                             CREDIT NUMBER 1892 TO
                   DEVELOPMENT CREDIT AGREEMENT
     AGREEMENT, dated April 22, 1988 between REPUBLIC OF TOGO (the
Borrower)   and   INTERNATIONAL   DEVELOPMENT   ASSOCIATION   (the
Association).
     WHEREAS (A)  the  Association  has  received  a  letter dated
February 18,  1988  from  the  Borrower  describing  a  program of
actions, objectives and  policies  designed  to achieve structural
adjustment of the Borrower's  economy (the Program), declaring the
Borrower's  commitment  to  the  execution  of  the  Program,  and
requesting assistance from  the  Association  in  the financing of
urgently needed imports required during such execution;
     (B)  pursuant to Section  F  of  Resolution  No. IDA 85-1, of
May 21, 1985 (the Resolution)  the Government of Japan (Japan) has
agreed to provide Japanese funds  in  the  form of grants (the SJF
Grants) in support of programs of structural change, policy reform
and institutional improvement in  countries which are eligible for
financing from the  resources  of  the  Special  Facility for Sub-
Saharan Africa (the African Facility);
     (C)  by the notes exchanged  between  Japan and IDA on Novem-
Page  2
ber 20, 1985, (the Notes) concerning  the SJF Grant, Japan and IDA
agreed that IDA will  act  as administrator (the Administrator) of
the Japanese funds in accordance with the provisions of the Notes;
     (D)  the  Borrower  has  requested  Japanese  funds  from the
Administrator for the  financing  of  part  of  the Program, in an
amount equivalent to seven hundred  and fifty million Japanese Yen
(Î 750,000,000) and the  Administrator  has determined that provi-
sion of such funds (the  Japanese  Grant)  on the terms and condi-
tions set forth in an  agreement (the Japanese Grant Agreement) of
even date  herewith  between  the  Borrower  and the Administrator
would be in accordance with  the  provisions of the Resolution and
the Notes;
     (E)  under the  Notes  concerning  the  provision of Japanese
funds in the form of loans  as  a part of Japan's cooperation with
the African Facility,  the  Borrower  intends  to  obtain from the
Japan Overseas Economic Cooperation  Fund  (OECF) a loan (the OECF
Loan) in  an  amount  of  one  billion  and  nine  hundred million
Japanese Yen (Î 1,900,000,000) to assist  in the financing of the
Program under the terms and  conditions  set forth in an agreement
(the OECF Loan Agreement) to  be entered into between the Borrower
and OECF;
     (F)  the Borrower intends to contract from the African Devel-
opment Fund (ADF) a loan (the ADF Loan) in an amount equivalent to
fifteen million Fund Units of  Account (FUA 15,000,000) to provide
additional assistance in support of  the Program, on the terms and
conditions set forth in an  agreement  (the ADF Loan Agreement) to
be entered into between the Borrower and ADF; and
     (G)  on the basis, inter  alia,  of  the foregoing, the Asso-
ciation has decided  in  support  of  the  Program to provide such
assistance to the Borrower by making the Credit in two tranches as
hereinafter provided;
     NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
                             ARTICLE I
                  General Conditions; Definitions
     Section 1.01. The "General  Conditions Applicable to Develop-
ment Credit Agreements" of the Association, dated January 1, 1985,
with the modifications thereof set forth below (the General Condi-
tions) constitute an integral part of this Agreement:
     (a)  Section 2.01, paragraph 9, shall be modified to read:
          "'Project' means the  imports  and other activities that
     may be financed out of the proceeds of the Credit pursuant to
     the  provisions  of  Schedule  1  to  the  Development Credit
     Agreement.";
     (b)  Section 9.06 (c) shall be modified to read:
          "(c) Not later than six months after the Closing Date or
     such later date as may be agreed for this purpose between the
     Borrower and the Association,  the Borrower shall prepare and
     furnish to the Association  a  report,  of  such scope and in
     such detail as the  Association  shall reasonably request, on
     the execution of the Program  referred  to in the Preamble to
     the Development  Credit  Agreement,  the  performance  by the
     Borrower and the Association  of their respective obligations
     under the Development Credit Agreement and the accomplishment
     of the purposes of the Credit."; and
     (c)  the last sentence of Section 3.02 is deleted.
     Section 1.02.  Unless  the  context  otherwise  requires, the
several  terms  defined  in  the  General  Conditions  and  in the
Preamble to this  Agreement  have  the respective meanings therein
Page  3
set forth and the  following  additional  terms have the following
meanings:
     (a)  "SITC" means  the  Standard  International Trade Classi-
fication, Revision  3  (SITC,  Rev.  3),  published  by the United
Nations in Statistical Papers, Series M, No. 34/Rev. 3 (1986);
     (b)  "CFAF" means the currency of the Borrower;
     (c)  "Special  Account"  means  the  account  referred  to in
Section 2.02 (b) of this Agreement;
     (d)  "BCEAO" means Banque Centrale  des Etats de l'Afrique de
l'Ouest;
     (e)  "OPAT" means the Office  des  Produits Agricoles du Togo
of the Borrower;
     (f)  "CIR" means the Comitå Interministåriel Restreint estab-
lished by Arr§tå  No.  005  MPM/CAB  dated  February  22, 1988 and
responsible for monitoring the implementation of the Program; and
     (g)  "SONACOM" means the Sociåtå Nationale de Commerce of the
Borrower.
                            ARTICLE II
                            The Credit
     Section 2.01. The Association agrees to lend to the Borrower,
on the terms  and  conditions  set  forth  or  referred  to in the
Development Credit  Agreement,  an  amount  in  various currencies
equivalent  to  thirty   three   million  Special  Drawing  Rights
(SDR 33,000,000).
     Section 2.02. (a) The amount  of  the Credit may be withdrawn
from the  Credit  Account  in  accordance  with  the provisions of
Schedule 1 to this Agreement.
     (b)  The Borrower shall,  for  the  purposes  of the Program,
open and maintain in CFAF a special account in its Central Bank on
terms and  conditions  satisfactory  to  the Association. Deposits
into, and payments out of,  the  Special  Account shall be made in
accordance with the provisions of Schedule 4 to this Agreement.
     Section 2.03. The Closing Date shall  be May 31, 1990 or such
later date as  the  Association  shall  establish. The Association
shall promptly notify the Borrower of such later date.
     Section 2.04. (a) The Borrower shall pay to the Association a
commitment charge at the rate  of  one-half of one percent (1/2 of
1%) per annum on the principal  amount of the Credit not withdrawn
from time to time.  The commitment charge shall accrue from a date
sixty days after the date  of  the Development Credit Agreement to
the respective dates on  which  amounts  shall be withdrawn by the
Borrower from the Credit Account or shall be cancelled.
     (b)  The commitment charge shall be  paid: (i) at such places
as the Association shall reasonably request; (ii) without restric-
tions of any kind imposed  by,  or  in  the territory of, the Bor-
rower; and (iii) in the  currency  specified in this Agreement for
the purposes of Section 4.02 of  the General Conditions or in such
other eligible currency or currencies as  may from time to time be
designated or selected pursuant to the provisions of that Section.
     Section 2.O5. The  Borrower  shall  pay  to the Association a
service charge at the rate of three-fourths of one percent (3/4 of
1%) per annum on the principal  amount of the Credit withdrawn and
outstanding from time to time.
     Section 2.06. Commitment and service charges shall be payable
semiannually on May 1 and November 1 in each year.
Page  4
     Section 2.07. (a) Subject  to  paragraphs  (b) and (c) below,
the Borrower shall repay  the  principal  amount  of the Credit in
semiannual installments  payable  on  each  May  1  and November 1
commencing May 1, 1998 and  ending November 1, 2027. Each install-
ment to and including the  installment payable on November 1, 2007
shall be one  percent  (1%)  of  such  principal  amount, and each
installment thereafter shall be two percent (2%) of such principal
amount.
     (b)  Whenever: (i) the Borrower's  gross national product per
capita, as determined by the Association, shall have exceeded $790
in constant 1985 dollars for  five consecutive years; and (ii) the
Bank shall consider  the  Borrower  creditworthy for Bank lending,
the Association may, subsequent to the review and approval thereof
by the  Executive  Directors  of  the  Association  and  after due
consideration  by  them  of  the  development  of  the  Borrower's
economy, modify the terms of repayment of installments under para-
graph (a) above  by  requiring  the  Borrower  to  repay twice the
amount of each such  installment  not  yet due until the principal
amount of the Credit shall  have  been  repaid. If so requested by
the Borrower,  the  Association  may  revise  such modification to
include, in lieu of some or all  of the increase in the amounts of
such installments,  the  payment  of  interest  at  an annual rate
agreed with the Association on  the principal amount of the Credit
withdrawn and outstanding from time to time, provided that, in the
judgment of the Association,  such  revision  shall not change the
grant element obtained under the above-mentioned repayment modifi-
cation.
     (c)  If, at any time  after  a modification of terms pursuant
to paragraph (b) above,  the  Association determines that the Bor-
rower's economic  condition  has  deteriorated  significantly, the
Association may, if so  requested  by the Borrower, further modify
the terms of repayment to  conform to the schedule of installments
as provided in paragraph (a) above.
     Section 2.O8. The currency  of  the French Republic is hereby
specified for the purposes of  Section  4.O2 of the General Condi-
tions.
    Section 2.09. (a) BCEAO is designated as representative of the
Borrower for the purposes of taking any action required or permit-
ted to be  taken  under  the  provisions  of  Section 2.02 of this
Agreement and Article V of the General Conditions.
     (b)  Without limitation or restriction  to the foregoing, the
Borrower hereby entrusts BCEAO  with  responsibility for the prep-
aration of withdrawal applications  under  the  Credit and for the
collection of the documents and  other evidence to be furnished to
the Association in support  of  such applications; such withdrawal
applications shall to the extent practicable be consolidated so as
to apply for withdrawal of aggregate amounts of not less than five
hundred thousand dollars ($500,000) equivalent.
                            ARTICLE III
                       Particular Covenants
     Section 3.01. (a) The Borrower and the Association shall from
time to time, at the  request  of  either party, exchange views on
the progress achieved in carrying  out the Program and the actions
specified in Schedule 3 to this Agreement.
     (b)  Prior to each such exchange of views, the Borrower shall
furnish to the Association for its  review and comment a report on
the progress achieved in carrying  out the Program, in such detail
as the Association shall reasonably request.
     Section  3.02.  Except  as  the  Association  shall otherwise
agree, procurement of the goods to be financed out of the proceeds
of the Credit shall be governed by the provisions of Schedule 2 to
Page  5
this Agreement.
     Section 3.03. (a) The Borrower  shall maintain or cause to be
maintained records and accounts  adequate to reflect in accordance
with  consistently  maintained   sound  accounting  practices  the
expenditures financed out of the proceeds of the Credit.
     (b)  The Borrower shall:
          (i)  have the records and  accounts referred to in para-
               graph (a) of this  Section  including those for the
               Special Account for  each  fiscal  year audited, in
               accordance  with  appropriate  auditing  principles
               consistently  applied,   by   independent  auditors
               acceptable to the Association;
         (ii)  furnish to the  Association  as  soon as available,
               but in any case not later than six months after the
               end of each  such  year,  a  certified  copy of the
               report of  such  audit  by  said  auditors, of such
               scope and in such  detail  as the Association shall
               have reasonably requested; and
        (iii)  furnish to the  Association  such other information
               concerning said records and  accounts and the audit
               thereof as the Association  shall from time to time
               reasonably request.
     (c)  For all expenditures  with  respect to which withdrawals
from the Credit Account were  made  on  the basis of statements of
expenditure, the Borrower shall:
          (i)  maintain or cause  to  be maintained, in accordance
               with paragraph  (a)  of  this  Section, records and
               accounts reflecting such expenditures;
         (ii)  retain, until at least  one year after the Associa-
               tion has received the  audit  report for the fiscal
               year in which the  last  withdrawal from the Credit
               Account was made,  all  records (contracts, orders,
               invoices,  bills,  receipts  and  other  documents)
               evidencing such expenditures;
        (iii)  enable the Association's representatives to examine
               such records; and
         (iv)  ensure that such records  and accounts are included
               in the annual audits  referred  to in paragraph (b)
               of this Section and  that  the report of such audit
               contains a separate opinion  by said auditors as to
               whether  the  statements  of  expenditure submitted
               during such fiscal  year,  together with the proce-
               dures and internal controls involved in their prep-
               aration, can be relied  upon to support the related
               withdrawals.
                            ARTICLE IV
                  Additional Event of Suspension
     Section 4.01. Pursuant  to  Section  6.02  (h) of the General
Conditions, the following additional events are specified:
     (a)  a situation has  arisen  which  shall make it improbable
that the Program, or a  significant  part thereof, will be carried
out;
     (b)  CIR shall have been abolished; and
     (c)  (i)  Subject to subparagraph (ii) of this paragraph:
               (A)  The right  of  the  Borrower  to  withdraw the
Page  6
                    proceeds of the Japanese  Grant, the OECF Loan
                    or the ADF Loan  made  to the Borrower for the
                    financing  of  the  Program  shall  have  been
                    suspended, cancelled or terminated in whole or
                    in part, pursuant to  the  terms of the agree-
                    ment providing therefor; or
               (B)  the OECF  Loan  or  the  ADF  Loan  shall have
                    become due  and  payable  prior  to the agreed
                    maturity thereof.
         (ii)  Subparagraph (i) of this  paragraph shall not apply
               if the Borrower establishes  to the satisfaction of
               the Association that:
               (A)  such suspension,  cancellation, termination or
                    prematuring is not  caused  by  the failure of
                    the Borrower to perform any of its obligations
                    under such agreement; and
               (B)  adequate funds for  the  Program are available
                    to the Borrower  from  other  sources on terms
                    and conditions consistent with the obligations
                    of the Borrower under this Agreement.
    Section 4.02. Pursuant  to  Section  7.01  (d)  of the General
Conditions, the following  additional  event is specified, namely,
that the event specified in paragraph  (c) (i) (B) of Section 4.01
of this Agreement shall occur, subject to the proviso of paragraph
(c) (ii) of that Section.
                             ARTICLE V
                            Termination
     Section 5.01. The date  ninety  (90)  days  after the date of
this Agreement is  hereby  specified  for  the purposes of Section
12.04 of the General Conditions.
                            ARTICLE VI
             Representative of the Borrower; Addresses
     Section 6.01. Except as provided  in Section 2.09 (a) of this
Agreement, the Minister  of  the  Borrower responsible for economy
and finance is designated  as  representative  of the Borrower for
the purposes of Section 11.03 of the General Conditions.
     Section 6.02. The following  addresses  are specified for the
purposes of Section 11.01 of the General Conditions:
     For the Borrower:
          Minist®re de l'Economie et des Finances
          B.P. 387
          Lomå
          Republic of Togo
          Cable address:                      Telex:
                MINFIE                           5286
                Lomå, Togo
     For the Association:
          International Development Association
          1818 H Street, N.W.
          Washington, D.C. 20433
          United States of America
          Cable address:                      Telex:
Page  7
                INDEVAS                          440098 (ITT)
                Washington, D.C.                 248423 (RCA) or
                                                  64145 (WUI)
     IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the  parties hereto, acting through their
duly authorized representatives, have  caused this Agreement to be
signed in their  respective  names  in  the  District of Columbia,
United States of  America,  as  of  the  day  and year first above
written.
                   REPUBLIC OF TOGO
                   By /s/ Ellom-Kodjo Schuppius
                                         Authorized Representative
                   INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
                   By /s/ Ismail Serageldin
                                    Acting Regional Vice President
                                                            Africa
                            SCHEDULE 1
             Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the Credit
1.   Subject to the provisions  set  forth  or referred to in this
Schedule, the proceeds of  the  Credit  may  be withdrawn from the
Credit Account for expenditures made (or, if the Association shall
so agree, to be made) in  respect  of the reasonable cost of goods
required during the execution  of  the  Program and to be financed
out of such proceeds.
2.   Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 above, no with-
drawals shall be made in respect of:
     (a)  expenditures for goods  included  in  the following SITC
groups or sub-groups, or any  successor groups or sub-groups under
future revisions to the SITC,  as designated by the Association by
notice to the Borrower:
     Group    Sub-group                 Description of Items
      112         -                     Alcoholic beverages
      121         -                     Tobacco,   unmanufactured,
                                        tobacco refuse
      122         -                     Tobacco,      manufactured
                                        (whether or not containing
                                        tobacco substitutes)
      525         -                     Radioactive and associated
                                        materials
      667         -                     Pearls, precious and semi-
                                        precious  stones, unworked
                                        or worked
Page  8
     Group    Sub-group                 Description of Items
      718        718.7                  Nuclear    reactors,   and
                                        parts  thereof,  fuel ele-
                                        ments  (cartridges),  non-
                                        irradiated   for   nuclear
                                        reactors
      897        897.3                  Jewelry of gold, silver or
                                        platinum    group   metals
                                        (except watches  and watch
                                        cases) and  goldsmiths' or
                                        silversmiths'        wares
                                        (including set gems)
      971           -                   Gold,   non-monetary  (ex-
                                        cluding   gold   ores  and
                                        concentrates)
     (b)  expenditures in  the  currency  of  the  Borrower or for
goods supplied from the  territory  of the Borrower, excluding, if
the currency of  the  Borrower  is  also  that of another country,
expenditures in such currency  for  goods supplied from the terri-
tory of such other country;
     (c)  payments made for expenditures prior to the date of this
Agreement, except  that  withdrawals  in  an  aggregate amount not
exceeding the equivalent of SDR  1,800,000  may be made on account
of payments made for such  expenditures before that date but after
April 1, 1988;
     (d)  expenditures for goods  procured under contracts costing
less than $10,000 equivalent;
     (e)  expenditures for goods  supplied  under a contract which
any national  or  international  financing  institution  or agency
other than  the  Association  shall  have  financed  or  agreed to
finance;
     (f)  expenditures for goods intended  for a military or para-
military purpose or for luxury consumption; and
     (g)  expenditures in excess of an aggregate amount equivalent
to SDR 4,600,000  under  the  Credit  and  the  Japanese Grant for
petroleum products and foodstuffs, respectively.
3.   No withdrawal  shall  be  made  and  no  commitment  shall be
entered into to pay amounts to or  on the order of the Borrower in
respect of expenditures to be financed  out of the proceeds of the
Credit after the aggregate of  the  proceeds  of the Credit and of
the Japanese  Grant  withdrawn  from  the  Credit  Account and the
Japanese Grant Account and  the  total  amount of such commitments
shall have reached the  equivalent  of  SDR 19,000,000, unless the
Association shall be  satisfied,  after  an  exchange  of views as
described in Section  3.01  of  this  Agreement  based on evidence
satisfactory to the Association: (a) with the progress achieved by
the Borrower in the carrying out  of the Program, and (b) that the
actions described in Schedule 3 to this Agreement have been taken.
4.   If, after the  exchange  of  views  described  in paragraph 3
above, the Association  shall  have  given  notice to the Borrower
that the progress achieved and  actions taken are not satisfactory
and, within 90 days after such notice, the Borrower shall not have
achieved progress and taken  actions  satisfactory to the Associa-
tion, then the Association may,  by notice to the Borrower, cancel
the unwithdrawn amount of the Credit or any part thereof.
                            SCHEDULE 2
                            Procurement
Page  9
1.   Contracts for the  procurement  of  goods  to be purchased by
public entities and estimated to cost the equivalent of $1,000,000
or more each  shall  be  awarded through international competitive
bidding in accordance  with  procedures  consistent with those set
forth in Sections  I  and  II  of  the "Guidelines for Procurement
under IBRD Loans and  IDA  Credits"  published  by the Bank in May
1985 (the Guidelines), subject to the following modifications:
     (a)  Paragraph 2.8  of  the  Guidelines  is  deleted  and the
following is substituted therefor:
     "2.8 Notification and Advertising
          The international  community  should  be  notified  in a
     timely manner of the opportunity to bid. This will be done by
     advertising invitations to apply  for inclusion in a bidder's
     invitation list, to  apply  for  prequalification, or to bid;
     such advertisements should be  placed  in  at least one news-
     paper of general circulation  in  the Borrower's country and,
     in addition, in at least one of the following forms:
          (i)  a notice in the  United Nations publication, Devel-
               opment Forum, Business Edition; or
         (ii)  an  advertisement  in  a  newspaper,  periodical or
               technical journal  of  wide  international circula-
               tion; or
        (iii)  a notice to local  representatives of countries and
               territories referred to in the Guidelines, that are
               potential suppliers of the goods required."
     (b)  The following is added at  the  end of paragraph 2.21 of
the Guidelines:
          "As a further alternative, bidding documents may require
     the bidder to state the bid price in a single currency widely
     used in  international  trade  and  specified  in the bidding
     documents."
     (c)  Paragraphs 2.55 and 2.56  of the Guidelines are deleted.
2.   Contracts for goods estimated to  cost the equivalent of less
than $1,000,000 each shall be  awarded  on the basis of the normal
procurement procedures of the purchaser of such goods.
3.   With respect to each contract  referred  to in paragraph 1 of
this Schedule,  the  Borrower  shall  furnish  to the Association,
prior to the submission to  the  Association of the first applica-
tion for withdrawal of funds from the Credit Account in respect of
such contract, two  conformed  copies  of  such contract, together
with the analysis of  the  respective bids and recommendations for
award, a description of  the  advertising and tendering procedures
followed, and  such  other  information  as  the Association shall
reasonably request.
4.   With respect to each contract  referred  to in paragraph 2 of
this Schedule,  the  Borrower  shall  furnish  to the Association,
prior to the submission to  the  Association of the first applica-
tion for withdrawal of  funds  from  the Credit Account in respect
thereof, such documentation and information as the Association may
reasonably request to  support  withdrawal applications in respect
of such contract.
5.   Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraphs  3 and 4 of this
Schedule, where payments under a  contract  are  to be made out of
the proceeds of the Special  Account,  the copies of such contract
or the documentation and  the  information  to be furnished to the
Association pursuant to the provisions of paragraph 3 or paragraph
4 of this Schedule, as the case  may be, shall be furnished to the
Association as part of the  evidence required under paragraph 4 of
Schedule 4 to this Agreement.
Page  10
6.   The provisions of the preceding  paragraphs  3, 4 and 5 shall
not apply to contracts  on  account  of  which the Association has
authorized withdrawals from  the  Credit  Account  on the basis of
statements of expenditure.
                            SCHEDULE 3
              Actions Referred to in Paragraph 3 (b)
                  of Schedule 1 to this Agreement
     The following actions have been taken, all in a manner satis-
factory to the Association:
1.   A financial program for 1989,  to further reduce internal and
external imbalances, has been established.
2.   (a)  A new organizational  structure  and redefined functions
of OPAT have been adopted  and an implementation schedule has been
agreed upon with  the  Association  for  reducing OPAT's operating
costs;  (b)  the  schedules  of  processing  and  marketing  costs
(bar®mes) of OPAT for coffee,  cocoa and cotton have been revised;
and (c) OPAT's  accounts  for  the  1987/88  fiscal year have been
audited.
3.   Appropriate actions have been taken  to promote the export of
marketable cereals surpluses.
4.   (a)  Import licensing has  been  abolished;  (b) a new tariff
regime (including harmonization of  border  and domestic taxes and
revision of the import reference pricing system) has been enacted;
(c)  all  remaining  import   monopolies   of  SONACOM  have  been
abolished; and (d) the  export competitiveness of locally manufac-
tured goods in light of  exchange rate movements has been reviewed
with the Association  and  appropriate  compensatory measures have
been taken as and when needed.
5.   The Investment Code and  the  Charter of Togolese Enterprises
have been revised.
6.   A strategy  for  future  enterprise  privatizations  has been
adopted.
7.   Agreement has been reached with  the Association on: (a) bud-
getary allocations for maintenance of transport infrastructure and
for services in  the  agricultural,  health and education sectors;
and (b) a public investment program for 1989-1991 (PIP) (including
all public capital expenditure  and state guarantees) and periodic
reviews of said PIP with the Association have been carried out.
8.   Appropriate interim measures have  been enacted to accelerate
government procurement.
9.   Substantial progress has  been  achieved  in carrying out the
reform of the institutional  and  legal framework of public enter-
prises.
                            SCHEDULE 4
                          Special Account
1.   For the purposes of this Schedule:
     (a)  the term "eligible  expenditures"  means expenditures in
respect of the reasonable cost of goods required during the execu-
tion of the Program and to be  financed out of the proceeds of the
Credit in accordance with  the  provisions  of  Schedule 1 to this
Agreement; and
     (b)  the  term  "Authorized  Allocation"    means  an  amount
Page  11
equivalent to  SDR  2,900,000  to  be  withdrawn  from  the Credit
Account and deposited in the Special Account pursuant to paragraph
3 (a) of this Schedule.
2.   Except as the Association shall otherwise agree, payments out
of the Special  Account  shall  be  made  exclusively for eligible
expenditures in accordance with the provisions of this Schedule.
3.   After the Association  has  received evidence satisfactory to
it that the Special Account  has  been duly opened, withdrawals of
the Authorized Allocation and  subsequent withdrawals to replenish
the Special Account may be made as follows:
     (a)  On the basis of  a  request  or requests by the Borrower
for a deposit or deposits which  add up to the aggregate amount of
the Authorized Allocation, the Association shall, on behalf of the
Borrower, withdraw from  the  Credit  Account  and  deposit in the
Special Account such amount or  amounts as the Borrower shall have
requested.
     (b)  The Borrower shall  furnish  to the Association requests
for replenishment of the Special  Account at such intervals as the
Association shall specify.  On  the  basis  of  such requests, the
Association shall withdraw  from  the  Credit  Account and deposit
into the Special  Account  such  amounts  as  shall be required to
replenish the  Special  Account  with  amounts  not  exceeding the
amount of payments made  out  of  the Special Account for eligible
expenditures. Each such deposit shall be withdrawn by the Associa-
tion from the Credit Account  in the respective equivalent amounts
as shall  have  been  justified  by  the  evidence  supporting the
request for such deposit furnished pursuant to paragraph 4 of this
Schedule.
4.   For each payment  made  by  the  Borrower  out of the Special
Account for which the  Borrower requests replenishment pursuant to
paragraph 3 (b) of  this  Schedule,  the Borrower shall furnish to
the Association, prior to  or  at  the  time of such request, such
documents and other evidence  as  the Association shall reasonably
request,  showing  that  such   payment   was  made  for  eligible
expenditures.
5.   (a)  Notwithstanding the provisions  of  paragraph  3 of this
Schedule, no further  deposit  into  the  Special Account shall be
made by the Association  when  either  of the following situations
first arises:
          (i)  the  Association  shall  have  determined  that all
               further withdrawals  can  be  made  by the Borrower
               directly from the Credit Account in accordance with
               the provisions of Article  V  of the General Condi-
               tions and paragraph  (a)  of  Section  2.02 of this
               Agreement; or
         (ii)  the total unwithdrawn  amount  of the Credit, minus
               the amount  of  any  outstanding special commitment
               entered into by the Association pursuant to Section
               5.02 of the General  Conditions with respect to the
               Program, shall be equal  to the equivalent of twice
               the amount of the Authorized Allocation.
     (b)  Thereafter, withdrawal from  the  Credit  Account of the
remaining unwithdrawn amount of the  Credit shall follow such pro-
cedures as the Association  shall  specify  by  notice to the Bor-
rower. Such further withdrawals  shall  be  made only after and to
the extent that the Association shall have been satisfied that all
such amounts remaining on deposit in the Special Account as of the
date of such notice will be utilized in making payments for eligi-
ble expenditures.
6.   (a)  If the Association  shall  have  determined  at any time
that any payment out of the  Special Account: (i) was made for any
expenditure or in any amount  not eligible pursuant to paragraph 2
Page  12
of this Schedule, or (ii)  was  not justified by the evidence fur-
nished pursuant to  paragraph  4  of  this  Schedule, the Borrower
shall, promptly upon notice from the Association, deposit into the
Special Account (or, if  the  Association shall so request, refund
to the Association) an amount equal  to the amount of such payment
or the portion thereof  not  so  eligible or justified. No further
deposit by the Association into  the Special Account shall be made
until the Borrower has made such deposit or refund.
     (b)  If the Association  shall  have  determined  at any time
that any amount outstanding  in  the  Special  Account will not be
required to cover further  payments for eligible expenditures, the
Borrower shall, promptly upon  notice from the Association, refund
to the Association such  outstanding  amount  for crediting to the
Credit Account.
