Page  1
                                                    CONFORMED COPY
                                             CREDIT NUMBER 1892 TO
                                             (Second Amendment)
               (Third Structural Adjustment Credit)
                              between
                         REPUBLIC OF TOGO
                                and
               INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
                      Dated October 30, 1989
                                             CREDIT NUMBER 1892 TO
                                                (Second Amendment)
                     SECOND AGREEMENT AMENDING
                   DEVELOPMENT CREDIT AGREEMENT
     AGREEMENT, dated October  30,  1989,  between the REPUBLIC OF
TOGO (the Borrower) and  the INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
(the Association).
     WHEREAS (A) the  Borrower  and  the  Association have entered
into a Development  Credit  Agreement (Third Structural Adjustment
Credit), dated April 22,  1988, (the Development Credit Agreement)
for the purpose  of  assisting  in  the  financing  of the program
referred to in  Recital  (A)  of  the  Preamble to the Development
Credit Agreement (the Program);
     (B)  the Borrower and  the  Association  have entered into an
agreement dated  June  29,  1989  (the  First  Amending Agreement)
amending the  Development  Credit  Agreement  for  the  purpose of
providing the Borrower with additional assistance in the financing
of the Program;
Page  2
     (C)  the Borrower has  requested  the  Association to provide
further additional assistance towards the financing of the Program
by increasing  the  amount  made  available  under the Development
Credit Agreement by an amount  in various currencies equivalent to
two hundred thousand Special Drawing Rights (SDR 200,000); and
     WHEREAS the Association has agreed, on the basis, inter alia,
of the foregoing, to provide such further additional assistance to
the Borrower upon  the  terms  and  conditions  set  forth in this
Agreement;
     NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
                             ARTICLE I
                   Amendments to the Development
                         Credit Agreement
     Section 1.01. Section 1.02  of  the Development Credit Agree-
ment is amended by the deletion  of  the  word "and" at the end of
Subsection  (f)  thereof  and   the  replacement  of  the  ensuing
subsection by the following:
          "(g) "SONACOM" means  Sociåtå  Nationale  de Commerce of
     the Borrower; and
          (h)  "Second  Amending  Agreement"  means  the Agreement
     Amending the Development  Credit  Agreement (Third Structural
     Adjustment Credit) between  the  Borrower and the Association
     dated October 30, 1989."
     Section 1.02. Section 2.01  of  the Development Credit Agree-
ment is amended to read in its entirety as follows:
          "Section 2.01. The  Association  agrees  to  lend to the
     Borrower, on the terms  and  conditions set forth or referred
     to in the Development Credit  Agreement, an amount in various
     currencies equivalent to  thirty-three  million three hundred
     thousand  Special  Drawing   Rights   (SDR  33,300,000)  (the
     Credit),  which  includes  an   original  amount  in  various
     currencies equivalent to thirty-three million Special Drawing
     Rights (SDR  33,000,000)  and  additional  amounts in various
     currencies equivalent, respectively,  to one hundred thousand
     Special Drawing Rights  (SDR  100,000)  (the First Additional
     Financing) and two  hundred  thousand  Special Drawing Rights
     (SDR 200,000) (the Second Additional Financing)."
     Section  1.03.  Section   2.03   of  the  Development  Credit
Agreement  is  amended  by  the  deletion  therefrom  of  the date
"May 31, 1990" and the  substitution therefor of the date "October
30, 1990".
     Section  1.04.  A  proviso  is  added  at  the  end  of  Sec-
tion 2.04  (a)  of  the  Development  Credit  Agreement reading as
follows:
          "; provided, however, that  any commitment charge on the
     First Additional Financing shall  accrue from August 28, 1989
     and that  any  commitment  charge  on  the  Second Additional
     Financing shall accrue from a  date sixty days after the date
     of the Second Amending Agreement."
     Section 1.05. The following paragraph  is added at the end of
Schedule 1 to the Development Credit Agreement:
          "5. After June 28,  1990,  no  withdrawals shall be made
     and no commitment shall be entered  into to pay amounts to or
     on the order of, the  Borrower  in respect of expenditures to
     be financed  out  of  the  proceeds  of  the First Additional
     Financing. At any time after  such date, the Association may,
     by notice to the  Borrower,  cancel the unwithdrawn amount of
     the First Additional Financing from the Credit Account or any
Page  3
     part thereof."
                            ARTICLE II
                    Effective Date; Termination
     Section  2.01.  This  Agreement  shall  not  become effective
until:
     (a)  evidence satisfactory to the Association shall have been
furnished to the Association  that  the  execution and delivery of
this Agreement on behalf of the Borrower have been duly authorized
or ratified by all necessary governmental action; and
     (b)  the First Amending  Agreement  has  come  into force and
effect as provided for in Section 2.03 thereof.
     Section 2.02. As part  of  the  evidence to be furnished pur-
suant to Section 2.01 of  this Agreement, there shall be furnished
to the Association  an  opinion  or  opinions  satisfactory to the
Association of counsel acceptable  to  the Association showing, on
behalf  of  the  Borrower,  that  this  Agreement  has  been  duly
authorized or ratified by,  and  executed  and delivered on behalf
of, the Borrower  and  is  legally  binding  upon  the Borrower in
accordance with its terms.
     Section 2.03. This Agreement shall come into force and effect
on the date  upon  which  the  Association  shall  dispatch to the
Borrower notice of  its  acceptance  of  the  evidence required by
Section 2.01 of this Agreement.
     Section 2.04. If  this  Agreement  shall  not  have come into
force and effect by a date ninety (90) days after the date of this
Agreement, this  Agreement  and  all  obligations  of  the parties
hereunder shall terminate,  unless  the  Association establishes a
later date for the  purposes  of  this  Section. If this Agreement
shall  terminate  under  the   provisions  of  this  Section,  the
Development Credit  Agreement  shall  continue  in  full force and
effect, as if this Agreement had not been executed.
     IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the  parties hereto, acting through their
duly authorized representatives, have  caused this Agreement to be
signed in their  respective  names  in  the  District of Columbia,
United States of  America,  as  of  the  day  and year first above
written.
                   REPUBLIC OF TOGO
                   By /s/ Ellom-Kodjo Schuppius
                                         Authorized Representative
                   INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
                   By /s/ Edward V. K. Jaycox
                                           Regional Vice-President
                                                            Africa
