Page  1
CONFORMED COPY
CREDIT NUMBER 1845 CHA
LOAN NUMBER 2877 CHA
Project Agreement
(Huangpu Port Project)
among
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
and
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION
AND DEVELOPMENT
and
GUANGZHOU HARBOR BUREAU
Dated June 22, 1988
CREDIT NUMBER 1845 CHA
LOAN NUMBER 2877 CHA
PROJECT AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT, dated June 22, 1988, among INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION (the 
Association), INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT (the Bank) and 
GUANGZHOU HARBOR BUREAU (the Harbor Bureau).
WHEREAS: (A) by the Development Credit Agreement of even date herewith between 
the People's Republic of China (the Borrower) and the Association, the Association has 
agreed to lend to the Borrower an amount in various currencies equivalent to nineteen 
million eight hundred thousand Special Drawing Rights (SDR 19,800,000), on the terms 
and conditions set forth in the Development Credit Agreement, but only on condition 
that the Harbor Bureau agree to undertake such obligations toward the Association as 
are set forth in this Agreement;
(B)
by the Loan Agreement of even date herewith between the Borrower and the 
Bank, the Bank has agreed to make available to the Borrower an amount in various 
currencies equivalent to sixty-three million dollars ($63,000,000), on the terms and 
conditions set forth in the Loan Agreement, but only on condition that the Harbor 
Bureau agree to undertake such obligations toward the Bank as are set forth
in this Agreement;
Page  2
(C)
by a subsidiary loan agreement to be entered into between the Borrower 
and the Harbor Bureau, the proceeds of the Credit and the Loan provided for under the 
Development Credit Agreement and the Loan Agreement, respectively, will be made 
available to the Harbor Bureau on the terms and  conditions set forth in said 
Subsidiary Loan Agreement; and
WHEREAS the Harbor Bureau, in consideration of the Association's entering into 
the Development Credit Agreement with the Borrower, and the Bank's entering into the 
Loan Agreement with the Borrower, has agreed to undertake the obligations set forth in 
this Agreement;
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
ARTICLE I
Definitions
Section 1.01. Unless the context otherwise requires, the several terms defined 
in the Development Credit Agreement and in the General Conditions (as so defined) and 
in the Loan Agreement and the General Conditions (as so defined) have the respective 
meanings therein set forth.
ARTICLE II
Execution of the Project
Section 2.01. (a) The Harbor Bureau declares its commitment to the objectives of 
the Project as set forth in Schedule 2 to the Development Credit Agreement, and, to 
this end, the Harbor Bureau shall carry out the Project with due diligence and 
efficiency and in conformity with appropriate administrative, financial, engineering 
and port practices, and shall provide, or cause to be provided, promptly as needed, 
the funds, facilities, services and other resources required for the Project.
(b)
Without limitation upon the provisions of paragraph (a) of this Section, 
and except as the Association, the Bank and the Harbor Bureau shall otherwise agree, 
the Harbor Bureau shall carry out Part B of the Project in accordance with the 
Implementation Program set forth in the Schedule to this Agreement.
Section 2.02. Except as the Association and the Bank shall otherwise agree, 
procurement of the goods, works and consultants' services required for the Project and 
to be financed out of the proceeds of the Credit and of the Loan shall be governed by 
the provisions of Schedule 3 to the Development Credit Agreement.
Section 2.03. The Harbor Bureau shall carry out the obligations set forth in 
Sections 9.03, 9.04, 9.05, 9.06, 9.07 and 9.08 of the General Conditions applicable to 
the Development Credit Agreement and in Sections 9.04, 9.05, 9.06, 9.07, 9.08 and 9.09 
of the General Conditions applicable to the Loan Agreement (relating to insurance, use 
of goods and services, plans and schedules, records and reports, maintenance and land 
acquisition, respectively) in respect of the Project Agreement.
Section 2.04. The Harbor Bureau shall duly perform all its obligations under the 
Subsidiary Loan Agreement. Except as the Association and the Bank shall otherwise 
agree, the Harbor Bureau shall not take or concur in any action which would have the 
effect of amending, abrogating, assigning or waiving the Subsidiary Loan Agreement or 
any provision thereof.
Section 2.05. (a) The Harbor Bureau shall, at the request of the Association or 
the Bank, exchange views with the Association or the Bank with regard to progress of 
the Project, the performance  of its obligations under this Agreement and under the 
Subsidiary Loan Agreement, and other matters relating to the purposes of the Credit 
and the Loan.
(b)
The Harbor Bureau shall promptly inform the Association and the Bank of 
any condition which interferes or threatens to interfere with the progress of the 
Project, the accomplishment of the purposes of the Credit and the Loan, or the 
performance by the Harbor Bureau of its obligations under this Agreement and under the 
Subsidiary Loan Agreement.
Page  3
ARTICLE III
Management and operations of
the Harbor Bureau
Section 3.01. The Harbor Bureau shall carry on its operations and conduct its 
affairs in accordance with sound administrative, financial and port practices under 
the supervision of qualified  and experienced management, assisted by competent staff 
in adequate numbers.
Section 3.02. The Harbor Bureau shall at all times operate and maintain its 
plant, machinery, equipment and other property, including the facilities constructed 
under the Project, and from time to time, promptly as needed, make all necessary 
repairs and renewals thereof, all in accordance with sound engineering, financial and 
port practices.
Section 3.03. The Harbor Bureau shall take out and maintain with responsible 
insurers, or make other provision satisfactory to the Association and the Bank for, 
insurance against such risks and in such amounts as shall be consistent with 
appropriate practice. 
Section 3.04. Except as the Association and the Bank shall otherwise agree, the 
term "Harbor bureau" shall include  all enterprises and units which are under the 
control of the Harbor Bureau.
ARTICLE IV
Financial Covenants
Section 4.01. (a) The Harbor Bureau shall maintain, or cause to be maintained, 
records and accounts adequate to reflect in accordance with sound accounting 
practices: (i) its operations and financial condition; and (ii) the operations, 
resources and expenditures in respect of the Project.
(b)
The Harbor Bureau shall:
 
(i)
have said records, accounts and financial statements (balance 
sheets, statements of 
income and of sources and application of 
funds), for each fiscal year audited, in 
accordance with 
appropriate auditing principles consistently applied, by 
independent auditors acceptable to the Association and the Bank;
(ii)
furnish to the Association and the Bank as soon as available, but 
in any case not 
later than six months after the end of each 
such year, (A) certified copies of its 
financial statements for such 
year as so audited and (B) the report of such audit 
by said 
auditors of such scope and in such detail as the Association and the Bank 
shall have reasonably requested; and
(iii)
furnish to the Association and the Bank such other information 
concerning said 
records, accounts and financial statements as 
well as the audit thereof and said 
records, as the 
Association and the Bank shall from time to time reasonably 
request.
Section 4.02. (a) Except as the Association and the Bank shall otherwise agree, 
the Harbor Bureau shall from time to time take, or cause to be taken, all such 
measures (including, without limitation, adjustments of the levels of its tariffs as 
determined by the Borrower) as shall be required to produce, for each of its fiscal 
years after its fiscal year ending on December 31, 1987, total revenues equivalent to 
not less than the sum of (i) its total operating expenses, and (ii) the amount by 
which its financial obligations exceed the provision for depreciation and any other 
non-cash operating expenses.
(b)
For the purposes of this Section:
 
Page  4
(i)
The term "total revenues" means the sum of revenues from all 
sources related to 
port operations and net non-operating income.
 
(ii)
The term "total operating expenses" means the sum of all expenses 
related to port 
operations, including maintenance, 
administration, and depreciation.
(iii)
The term financial obligations' means interest and other charges 
on debt, repayment 
of loans (including sinking fund payments, if any), 
all taxes or payments in lieu 
of taxes, allocations to special 
funds and other cash distributions of surplus, and 
any other cash 
outflows (other than capital expenditures) related to port 
operations.
ARTICLE V
Effective Date; Termination;
Cancellation and Suspension
Section 5.01. This Agreement shall come into force and effect on the date upon 
which both the Development Credit Agreement and the Loan Agreement become effective.
Section 5.02. (a) This Agreement and all obligations of the Association, the 
Bank and the Harbor Bureau thereunder shall terminate on the earlier of the following 
dates:
(i)
the date on which both the Development Credit Agreement and the 
Loan Agreement 
shall have terminated; or
 
(ii)
the date twenty years after the date of this Agreement.
 
(b)
If the Development Credit Agreement or the loan Agreement or both of said 
Agreements terminate in accordance with their respective terms before the date 
specified in paragraph (a) (ii) of this Section, the Association or the Bank or both, 
as the case may be, shall promptly notify the Harbor Bureau of this event.
Section 5.03. All the provisions of this Agreement shall continue in full force 
and effect notwithstanding any cancellation or suspension under the General Conditions 
applicable to the Development Credit Agreement or the Loan Agreement.
ARTICLE VI
Miscellaneous Provisions
Section 6.01. Any notice or request required or permitted to he given or made 
under this Agreement and any agreement between the parties contemplated by this 
Agreement shall be in writing. Such notice or request shall be deemed to have been 
duly given or made when it shall be delivered by hand or by mail, telegram, cable, 
telex or radiogram to the party to which it is required or permitted to be given or 
made at such party's address hereinafter specified or at such other address as such 
party shall have designated by notice to the party giving such notice or making such 
request. The addresses so specified are:
For the Association:
International Development Association
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Cable address:
Telex:
 
INDEVAS
440098 (ITT)
Washington, D.C.
248423 (RCA) or
 64145 (WUI)
For the Bank:
Page  5
International Bank for
   Reconstruction and Development
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Cable address:
Telex:
 
INTBAFRAD
440098 (ITT)
Washington, D.C.
248423 (RCA) or
 64145 (WUI)
For the Harbor Bureau:
Guangzhou Harbor Bureau
39 Gang Qian Lu
Port of Huangpu
Guangzhou
People's Republic of China
Cable:
5300 Guangzhou
Section 6.02. Any action required or permitted to be taken, and any document 
required or permitted to be executed, under this Agreement on behalf of the Harbor 
Bureau, or by the Harbor Bureau on behalf of the Borrower under the Development Credit 
Agreement or the Loan Agreement, may be taken or executed by its Director or such 
other person or persons as its Director shall designate in writing, and the Harbor 
Bureau shall furnish to the Association and the Bank sufficient evidence of the 
authority and the authenticated specimen signature of each such person.
Section 6.03. As long as the Bank has not given notice to the contrary to the 
Harbor Bureau and so long as the Development Credit Agreement shall not have 
terminated prior to the termination of the
Loan Agreement:
(a)
the obligations of the Harbor Bureau to consult with, and to furnish 
information, documents, plans, reports, records and statements to, the Bank shall be 
satisfied to the extent performance in respect of such obligations is rendered to the 
Association;
(b)
the obligations of the Bank to consult with, and to furnish information 
to the Harbor Bureau shall be satisfied to the extent such obligations are fulfilled 
by the Association; and
(c)
all actions taken (including the giving of approvals or the granting of 
waivers) by the Association pursuant to the Development Credit Agreement shall be 
deemed to be taken pursuant to both the Development Credit Agreement and the Loan 
Agreement, and in the name and on behalf of both the Association and the Bank.
Section 6.04. This Agreement may be executed in several counterparts, each of 
which shall be an original, and all collectively but one instrument.
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their duly authorized 
representatives, have caused this Agreement to be signed in their respective names in 
the District of Columbia, United
States of America, as of the day and year first above written.
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR
Page  6
   RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
By /s/ Shahid Javed Burki
Acting Regional Vice President
Asia
GUANGZHOU HARBOR BUREAU
By /s/ Qian Yongnian
Authorized Representative
SCHEDULE
Implementation Program
1.
The Harbor Bureau shall carry out the training under Part B.2 of the Project in 
accordance with a program agreed with the Association and the Bank.
2.
The Harbor Bureau shall:
 
(a)
carry out the studies under Part B.3 of the Project in accordance with 
terms of reference and timing agreed with the Association and the Bank;
(b)
upon completion, furnish the results of such studies to the Association 
and the Bank and exchange views thereon; and
(c)
implement the recommendations of such studies, taking into consideration 
the views of the Association and the Bank.
