Document of
The World Bank
Report No. 15125-TA
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
TANZANIA
URBAN SECTOR REHABILITATION PROJECT
April 12, 1996
Energy and Infrastructure Operations Division
Eastern Africa Department



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
Currency Unit     =     Tanzania Shilling (T Sh)
US$ 1.00          =     T Sh 560 (as of February 1996)
WEIGHTS AND MEASURES
Metric System
GOVERNMENT FISCAL YEAR
July 1 - June 30
GLOSSARY OF ABBREVIATIONS
CAS             Country Assistance Strategy
ERR             Economic Rate of Return
GDP             Gross Domestic Product
GOT             Government of Tanzania
IDA             International Development Association
IMF             International Monetary Fund
LAAM            Local Authorities Accounting Manual
LGSC            Local Government Service Commission
LSP             Letter of Sector Policy
MCT             Ministry of Communication and Transport
MIP             Management Improvement Plan
MW              Ministry of Works
MOW             Ministry of Water
NPV             Net Present Value
NUWA            National Urban Water Authority
O&M             Operations and Maintenance
PIP             Project Implementation Plan
PMO             Prime Minister's Office
PMU             Project Management Unit
PPF             Project Preparation Facility
PSU             Project Support Unit
SOEs            Statements of Expenditure
UNCHS           United Nations Centre for Human Settlements (Habitat)
USEP            Urban Sector Engineering Project
USRP            Urban Sector Rehabilitation Project
UWSB            Urban Water and Sewerage Board
UWSD            Urban Water and Sewerage Department
VOC             Vehicle Operating Costs



UNITED REPUBLIC OF TANZANIA
URBAN SECTOR REHABILITATION PROJECT
TABLE OF CONTENTS
PageNo.
CREDIT AND PROJECT SUMMARY ........................................... ill
1.  URBAN SECTOR
A.  Country Background .......................................1
B.   Urban Sector Overview ......................................lI
C.   Sector Policy Framework ......................................8
D.  Previous IDA Involvement and Lessons Learned ......................................9
2.  THE PROJECT
A. Project Origin .10
B. Rationale for IDA Involvement .1
C. Project Objectives .12
D. Project Description .12
E. Project Costs and Financing .16
3.  PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION
A. Institutional Arrangements .18
B. Procurement .21
C. Disbursement .24
D. Accounting, Auditing, and Reporting .24
E. Monitoring and Supervision .26
4.  PROJECT BENEFITS AND RISKS
A.  Financial Analysis and Management Improvement Plans ............................ 28
B.  Economic Analysis ...........................................             37
C.  Risk and Sensitivity Analysis ...........................................  41
D.  Environmental Impact ...........................................          44
5.  AGREEMENTS REACHED AND RECOMMENDATION
A.  Agreements Reached ...........................                            46
B.   Conditions of Credit Effectiveness ...........................           47
C.   Conditions of Disbursement ...........................                   48
D. Recommendation .48



ii
ANNEXES
A.    Letter of Sector Policy
B.    Rural and Urban Sector Investments
C.    Project Costs
D.    Environmental Assessment Summary
E.    Cost-Benefit Analysis Tables
F.    Consultants' Services and Technical Assistance
G.    Estimated Schedule of Disbursements
H.    IDA Supervision Plan and Staff Input
I.     Key Performance Indicators
J.    Project File Documents
MAP - IBRD NO. 26878
This report is based on the findings of a mission which visited Tanzania in May 1995. The
mission was led by Mr. Gerhard Tschannerl (Sr. Municipal Engineer), and included Mr. Iraj
Talai (Financial Analyst), Ms. Keta Ruiz (Economist), Ms. Rowena Martinez (Operations
Analyst), Mr. Chris Banes (Municipal Infrastructure Specialist), Mr. Solomon Alemu (Civil
Engineer), and Mr. Joseph Gadek (Sr. Sanitary Engineer). The peer reviewers were Ms. Letitia
Obeng (AFTES), Mrs. Sandra Cointreau-Levine (Consultant), Mr. Robert Tillman (AFTES), Mr.
Patrick Bultynck (AFTES) and Ms. Rita Hilton (ESDVP). Mmes. Janine Littleford and Nina
Jones provided secretarial support. Messrs. Stephen Weissman and James Adams are the
Division Chief and Director, respectively, for the operation.



iii
UNITED REPUBLIC OF TANZANIA
URBAN SECTOR REHABILITATION PROJECT
CREDIT AND PROJECT SUMMARY
Borrower:                United Republic of Tanzania
Implementing Agencies:    Prime Minister's Office, Ministry of Water, and
National Urban Water Authority (NUWA)
Beneficiaries:           Nine Local Authorities and Urban Water and Sewerage
Departments, and Dar es Salaam City Council
Poverty Category:        Not applicable
Amount:                  SDR 72.3 million (US$105.0 million equivalent)
Terms:                   Standard IDA terms with a 40-year maturity
Commitment Fee:          0.5% on undisbursed credit balance, beginning 60 days
after signing, less any waiver
Onlending Terms:         SDR 4.13 million (US$6.0 million equivalent) would be
passed on to NUWA as a grant
Financing Plan:          See Section II.E
Economic Rate of Return:  ERR for the urban roads and storm drainage component
(27% of total project cost) is estimated at 23.9% and
for the urban water supply and sewerage component
(35 % of total project cost) at 12.4 %
Staff Appraisal Report:    Report No. 15125-TA dated April 12, 1996
Map:                     IBRD No. 26878
Project ID:              TZ-PA-2758






-1 -
1. URBAN SECTOR
A.    COUNTRY BACKGROUND
1.1   Tanzania's GDP per capita is amongst the lowest in the world' with about 50% of
the population (mid-1993 estimate of 28 million) living in poverty. Although life
expectancy is only 51 years and infant mortality is 92 per 1,000 live births, population
growth is high at 3 percent. Agriculture constitutes the largest activity in the country,
contributing to 61 percent of GDP, followed by services (26 percent) and industry (12
percent). GDP growth during 1980-1992 averaged 4 percent. The exports to GDP ratio
is 1 to 6 with coffee, cotton, tobacco and tea being the main export commodities. Both
imports and exports declined by 1.2 percent per year on average during the last decade
due to Government controls and a sharp deterioration of the terms of trade. Machinery
and transport equipment constitute the largest share of merchandise imports (43 percent),
followed by other manufactured goods (33 percent), fuels (13 percent) and food (6
percent). Tanzania's external debt amounts to 250 percent of its GDP, resulting in a
correspondingly high debt service burden.
1.2   Tanzania became independent in 1961. With the Arusha Declaration in 1967, the
public sector took on the leading role in the economy. Social progress was achieved in
the 1970s, but the structural imbalance of the economy continued. By the mid-1980s the
economy was characterized by prolonged stagnation and a worsening macroeconomic
performance. Since 1986 Tanzania has undertaken a prograrn to reduce economic
controls and encourage the private sector, but the reforms have not sufficiently
restructured traditional exports, parastatals, and the financial sector. GDP and export
growth averaged 4 percent per year during the period of 1986-1993.
1.3   The Government's medium-term economic development objective is to raise the
annual rate of economic growth to 6 percent and to reduce poverty through the provision
of social and physical infrastructure. IDA's role has been to support the Government in
achieving its goal of poverty reduction through the provision of financial resources in the
form of credits and through policy advice and technical assistance.
B.    URBAN SECTOR OVERVIEW
1.4   Tanzania's approximately 6 million urban dwellers represent 21 percent of the
total population. The urban population was growing at a rate of 6.6 percent annually
from 1980 to 1992, more than twice the national rate of population growth during the
The estimate given in the 1995 World Bank Development Report of $90 per capita is based on official
statistics and is likely to be an underestimate. A recent survey of household expenditure in Tanzania
estimates per capita yearly expenditure at US$ 280. The same report gives a population estimate of 28
million.



-2-
same period. In spite of an emphasis on improving living conditions in rural areas, the
Government has not been able to prevent rapid urbanization, exacerbated by economic
stagnation and the dissolution of the local government system in 1972. As a result,
investment in the public and private sector and economic growth have not kept pace with
population growth in urban areas.
1.5   The development of the urban sector in Tanzania since 1975 has also been
hampered by low levels of urban management capacity and inappropriate institutional
arrangements. Demand for infrastructure and other urban services has not been met,
worsening the nature and incidence of urban poverty and constraining national economic
growth and productivity.
Urban Growth
1.6   As in other agricultural economies, Tanzania's rural-to-urban migration has
resulted from economic push and pull effects. The decline of international primary
commodity prices (mainly for coffee and sisal) in the 1970s and 1980s and other
disincentives to national farmers helped push rural producers to the towns in search of
employment. Similarly, the potential income streams, education and other subsidized or
free public goods and services led many rural dwellers to Tanzania's largest city, Dar es
Salaam, and secondary cities. Dar es Salaam, with approximately 3 million inhabitants,
is seven times the size of the next largest city, Mwanza, and continues to attract the
majority of migrants. It appears that the incomes in the three largest towns of Dar es
Salaam, Mwanza and Arusha has grown at rates higher than the national average (3%)
since 1975, though this would not have kept pace with population growth in these towns.
While there have been Government and donor urban investment schemes, little or no
private sector investments in urban infrastructure or services have taken place.
Local Government Decline and Restoration
1.7   During the period of 1967-1982, social welfare policies were pursued by the
Government in an attempt to provide social services for all citizens. In 1972
infrastructure and service delivery responsibilities in Tanzania were centralized and
deconcentrated through a regionalization program which disbanded existing local
governments. A comprehensive regional tier of government usurped the powers of the
urban local authorities, a system which the Government inherited at independence. This
resulted in a decade of little or no investment in the management capacity of urban local
authorities. Their ability to generate, rationally expend, and account for revenue and
provide services was eroded. In 1982 Government passed the Local Government Urban
Councils Act and related legislation, effectively restoring the institutions of local
government. This and subsequent legislation has officially restored local government
service provision responsibilities, though the functions of the regional tier of government
remain.



-3-
1.8    Urban local authorities fall under the responsibility of the Department of Local
Government in the Prime Minister's Office (PMO). Nearly all of the authorities' capital
development expenditure and recurrent health and education expenditures are financed
through Central Government grants. The urban local authorities' annual budgets are
approved by PMO after being vetted by the Regional Development Director. They are
run by three different levels of locally elected councils: urban, municipal, and city,
representing small, medium and large cities, respectively; Dar es Salaam has the only city
council.
1.9    Urban local authorities have responsibility for the provision of all infrastructure
services within urban boundaries and are the legal owners of these assets. The major
exceptions to this arrangement are water and national roads. The Ministry of Water owns
and operates the urban water intake, treatment, and distribution infrastructure. The
Ministry of Works develops and maintains the national road system. Other civil works
have been financed and directly implemented by Government, though the ownership of
the resulting assets remains local.
Institutional Constraints
1.10   The urban institutional environment is currently undergoing renewed capacity
building to restore incentives for improving sustainable urban development. Implicit in
this effort is a recognition that some national sector policies, procedures, and the local
regulatory framework have been obstacles to public and private sector development. The
urban local authorities and regional authorities are generally monopoly producers of
public goods and services, although this is in the process of changing. Urban service
pricing requires a comprehensive review as reflected in the Letter of Sector Policy (Annex
A) for urban development. The laws and practices of local revenue collection severely
limit the ability of the authorities to recover the costs of the services they produce, which
has resulted in a severe shortfall in the supply and quality of these goods and services.
1.11  The policies placing the regional governments in the leading decision making role
in relation to urban infrastructure and services from 1972 to 1982 have rendered the urban
authorities organizationally weak. While since 1982 there has been an effort to
decentralize administratively, a corresponding fiscal decentralization of power has been
lacking. The average revenue generated per employee in urban councils is less than one-
half of the recurrent expenditure per employee, perpetuating the high degree of reliance
on Central Government subsidies to provide infrastructure services. While the lower-
level positions in the urban local authorities are generally overstaffed, at the professional
and technical skills level there are many vacancies which are difficult to fill with properly
qualified personnel, further constraining efforts to provide improved services for the
urban populace.
1.12   While many institutional constraints still exist and require attention to meet the
objectives of any future investments in the urban sector, much has been accomplished in
the last few years. Continuing reforms of the civil service have lead to a sizable



-4-
reduction in the lower level positions, the functions of which have been absorbed by the
private sector through contracting arrangements. The large degree of dependence on
force account work has been significantly reduced. Road maintenance under the
Regional Roads Engineer has been almost entirely contracted out through the Integrated
Roads I Project (IDA Credit No. 2149-TA). Urban Water and Sewerage Departments and
Urban Water and Sewerage Boards have been newly established on a pilot basis in three
urban centers in 1994 and proven to be successful in bringing about improved efficiency
in the sector. Efforts in Dar es Salaam and in eight project towns to reassess the property
valuation policies and procedures through the Urban Sector Engineering Project (IDA
Credit No. 2291-TA) have led to significant improvements in revenue generation for the
municipalities through renewed efforts in property tax billing and collection.
Urban Service Coverage
1.13   Relatively high rates of urban population growth, low levels of urban
management capacity, and low revenue collection have resulted in low levels of service
coverage, affecting the poor more than the middle and upper income groups. According
to recent findings of a Social Sector Survey, 60% of national expenditures for water
supply benefited the 20% in the highest income group. Table 1.1 lists some indicative
figures for urban services.
Table 1.1: Urban Service Coverage
SERVICE PROVISION                        COVERAGE
Roads                           70% - 85% in poor condition
Stormnwater Drainage            0% - 50% coverage
Solid Waste Collection          10% - 42% by councils
Water Supply                    6% - 28% of population has no coverage
14% - 52% of population has basic coverage
Sanitation                      2% - 5% of population has no facilities2
3% - 6% use public facilities
Source: COWIConsult, 1992
1.14   The poor quality and quantity of infrastructure services increases the unit costs of
production and accelerates the depreciation of assets for the urban-based manufacturing
sector. Over the past two decades the routine diversion of operations and maintenance
(O&M) funds to finance small capital works has led to severe deficiencies in
infrastructure services. The limited amount of historical budget data available indicates
2  While these figures indicate that only 2% - 5% of urban residents have no sanitation facilities, a very
high percentage of those counted as having service is served with on-site latrines that are in very poor
condition and would be classified as unhygienic service. These estimates are confirmed by the April
1995 World Bank Social Sector Review.



-5-
that for this period less than US$ 2 per year per capita was allocated to the capital budget
for urban service and infrastructure provision (excluding water supply) for the major
municipalities. The local authorities have not employed sound market pricing principles
in the development of their tariff schedules for various services. They have historically
recovered less than 30% of the O&M costs, and nothing for amortization and depreciation
of the investment costs. The Urban Sector Rehabilitation Project would significantly
increase revenue collection (see Chapter 4).
1.15  The lack of adequate infrastructure services in urban areas has not resulted from
budgetary constraints alone. The abolition of municipal councils in 1972 had a negative
impact on the provision of new infrastructure, the rehabilitation of existing infrastructure,
and the routine O&M of existing facilities. Until the recent civil service reforms were put
in place, the salaries of those in municipal government responsible for these services were
so low that it was difficult to recruit and retain trained and skilled personnel. The policies
in the urban sector have not clearly defined the roles of local, regional, and national
agencies in relation to each other.
Urban Roads and Transport
1.16  Urban population growth has provided an increasing demand for urban roads and
transport. Urban local authorities have not had the financial and managerial resources to
meet their road development and maintenance responsibilities. Routine maintenance has
been limited to the filling of potholes and cleaning, compounded by a lack of traffic
management, inappropriate road junction designs, uncontrolled on-street-parking, and
undisciplined driving habits, resulting in traffic congestion and accidents, inefficient or
nonexistent traffic regulation and on-street loading and unloading of passengers. The
Ministry of Works (MW) is responsible for the maintenance and occasionally the
rehabilitation of the national highway system, which includes long-distance roads leading
through the towns. The regional engineers of MW also assist the municipalities on
occasion with the maintenance of other urban roads, mainly through the provision of
equipment and repair services.
1.17  Public transport in the towns is provided by the private sector, operating
minibuses and taxis under a license granted by the Regional Office of the Transport
Licensing Authority of the Ministry of Communication and Transport (MCT) and by
medium and large buses operating on regional and district routes. Only Dar es Salaam
has an operating public urban bus company. The poor quality of the urban road surface
results in high maintenance costs and subsequently low maintenance standards. Walking
remains the predominant mode of transport in Tanzania, where 63 - 79 percent of the
urban population does not have access to motorized transport, private vehicles or public
transport services. Both motorized and non-motorized traffic are competing for the same
roads, contributing to traffic congestion, reduced speeds, and traffic accidents.
1.18  MCT set up the Committee on Urban Transport Management in November 1994,
the main objective of which is to advise MCT in the preparation, implementation and



-6-
monitoring of an Urban Transport Policy Action Plan for enhancing urban mobility in the
major urban centers of Tanzania. The Action Plan will address: (i) institutional
strengthening at the national and municipal level, (ii) urban roads rehabilitation, (iii) the
urban transport regulatory framework, (iv) promotion of safe public transport services, (v)
integration and development of non-motorized transport, and (vi) establishment of
performance criteria to monitor and evaluate the evolution of urban mobility in the major
urban centers of Tanzania. Through the Action Plan, the urban local authorities will be
involved in the process of urban transport policy reform and the development of non-
motorized transport. A draft report of the Action Plan has been issued in November 1995
and was reviewed at a national policy seminar on February 26, 1996.
1.19 A Road Fund was established by the Government through a Parliamentary
Resolution of August 8, 1991, the revenue for which is generated from a portion of the
tax placed on fuel. A portion of the Fund is made available to local authorities, although
the allocation of these funds has been uneven and sporadic. A new system became
effective on February 1, 1995, whereby 20% of the Road Fund is transferred by the
Ministry of Finance to PMO, which in turn determines the fund allocation to each local
authority according to its relative population density, road density and underlying
revenue base. Based on these criteria, most towns are expected to receive annually an
average of 1.8% of the portion of the Road Fund allocated to PMO. Agreement was
reached during credit negotiations that the Government will ensure that, at least until the
completion of the project, the agreed portion of the Road Fund will be paid to the urban
local authorities on a quarterly basis.
Solid Waste Management
1.20  For all 19 major towns in Tanzania, it is estimated that only 25 percent of the
solid waste being produced is collected and disposed of by the urban authorities. Poor
accessibility and road conditions have posed difficulties in collection, exacerbated by a
lack of user participation in kind or cash payments for the services and an overall history
of unsustainable service delivery. Prior investments by IDA and bilateral donors in solid
waste management have generally resulted in fleets of vehicles with average useful lives
of four years or less, after which the service deteriorates significantly until another set of
vehicles is acquired, often with donor assistance. Private sector involvement in solid
waste management is now being introduced on a limited scale in Dar es Salaam through a
bilateral assistance program.
Sewerage and Sanitation
1.21  Less than 10% of Tanzania's urban population have connections to a sewerage
system. Most middle and upper-income areas depend on individual septic tanks for
excreta disposal, and most lower income areas (70% of the urban population) use latrines.
Only 8% of the average daily production of 6 million liters of liquid waste is removed in
Dar es Salaam. Publicly run septic tank emptying services are cheap due to heavy
subsidization, but are very scarce and unreliable. Private emptying services cost an order



-7-
of magnitude more to the end-user than publicly run services, but are much more reliable.
At present, most latrines are emptied using labor-intensive techniques with serious health
risks for those employed, transferring the waste problem to the surrounding community in
the process as the contents of the latrines are typically not disposed of in a safe and
hygienic manner. Even though the National Urban Sewerage and Sanitation policy has
been agreed on in May 1987 (contained in the Project Implementation Plan), the
implementation of the policy has started very slowly due to inadequate financial
resources and because of a need to amend some laws and regulations in line with the
recommended policy.
Water Supply
1.22  At the end of 1993, about 50% of the population of Tanzania had access to clean
and potable water supply. In the urban areas only 68% of the 6 million urban population
was served with piped water. The coverage does not take into account the quality of
water supplied, as quite often water is delivered either partially treated or untreated due to
non-functioning of treatment plants and lack of chemicals for treatment.
1.23  The water supplies in almost all urban areas are inadequate in both the quantities
produced and the coverage of the distribution network. The status and level of service is
far too low due to many reasons including shortage of funds, transport, equipment,
excessive leakages coupled with illegal connections, insufficient water metering, and
inefficient management. In addition to the ever-increasing demand for additional
domestic supply, the economy of many urban centers is heavily dependent on the
mushrooming industries and commercial enterprises, the operation of which need a
reliable water supply.
1.24  Urban water supplies have typically been managed at three levels - national,
regional, and district. All regional water supplies, with the exception of Dar es Salaam
and Dodoma, come under the responsibility of the Regional Water Engineer. At present,
the Dodoma water supply is directly under MOW, while the National Urban Water
Authority (NUWA) is a public corporation responsible for Dar es Salaam water supply.
For the districts, water supplies are under the District Water Engineer who is technically
answerable to his respective Regional Water Engineer. Most regional and district towns
receive budget allocations from the Central Government for the O&M of water supplies,
which are always far below requirements. Revenue accrued from the sale of water has
been directly deposited in the Treasury and has not been available for O&M or direct
investments in that region. Management problems range from increasing operating costs
(especially electricity and chemicals); poor billing and revenue collection; low tariffs,
inadequate funding of O&M; deteriorating and outdated plant and equipment; poor
infrastructure and working facilities; and unplanned rapid urbanization and
industrialization.
1.25  The unsatisfactory situation of urban water supplies prompted the Government to
formn semi-autonomous Urban Water and Sewerage Departments (UWSDs) to operate



-8-
and maintain water supplies in large urban centers. The decision was based on the
recommendations contained in a 1993 study by MOW on Financing of Operation and
Maintenance of Urban Water Supply in Tanzania. Their semi-autonomy is based on: (i)
Treasury authorization to establish "special accounts" for each UWSD as provided for in
the Exchequer and Audit Ordinance Act of 1961, which allows for the establishment of a
special fund in each town from which moneys may be expended for the purposes for
which the fund is established; (ii) establishment of UWSDs; and (iii) establishment of
Urban Water and Sewerage Boards (UWSBs) responsible for deciding on key
management issues, including tariff levels (also contained in the Act). In order to ensure
adequate participation of stakeholders in the management of the water supplies, the
UWSBs are composed of representatives of consumers, local and national government,
and the private sector. Key MOW staff are appointed to the Board to ensure coordination
on technical matters and oversight over government subsidies in the transition period to
full autonomy of the UWSDs. The UWSBs periodically evaluate the level of tariffs and
revise them as necessary so that all O&M costs, and eventually also amortization, can be
financed from the revenues generated (para. 4.1 1).
1.26  UWSDs have been established in three "pilot" towns (Arusha, Moshi and Tanga)
since July 1, 1994, and UWSBs have been appointed in all three towns and have become
operational. The water supply tariffs were increased, and even though this management
system has only been in operation for over a year, the water supply in these towns has
substantially improved. Another reform measure that has been initiated is the merger
between water supply and sewerage services under UWSDs to facilitate joint billing of
water and sewerage and better joint operation and maintenance of the systems. MOW has
prepared a draft Cabinet Paper recommending the transfer of sewerage management from
the municipal councils to UWSDs. A review of the relevant legislation and municipal
by-laws has been carried out, agreements reached with the municipal councils about the
changes, and a Cabinet decision is expected soon. Agreement was reached with the
Government during negotiations that it will present draft legislation to Parliament by the
time of the Mid-Term Review (para. 3.26), amending the Water Works Ordinance to
grant management and financial autonomy to the UWSDs.
C.   SECTOR POLICY FRAMEWORK
1.27  The Government's urban sector policy reform is designed to create an institutional
environment more conducive to the sustainable development and delivery of urban
infrastructure services. PMO has facilitated urban sector reform since 1991. Through the
Urban Sector Engineering Project (Credit 2291-TA), PMO has developed the
Government Policy Frameworkfor Urban Management, Service Delivery and
Infrastructure Investment and an implementation strategy for that framework. The
Government submitted to IDA a satisfactory Letter of Sector Policy (LSP) before Board
presentation, including a timed action plan for the implementation of the key actions to be
taken (Annex A).



-9-
1.28  The policy contained in the LSP addresses sub-sector specific (e.g. urban roads
maintenance) as well as sector-wide (e.g. ownership of urban infrastructure and assets)
issues. In response to urban sector constraints, the Government has initiated the
formulation of an urban policy directed at: (i) strengthening the financial management,
autonomy, and viability of the urban local authorities; (ii) devolving responsibility and
accountability to urban local authorities for supply, operation, and maintenance of
infrastructure services; (iii) determnining establishment structures for the urban local
authorities that enhance efficiency; (iv) creating effective cost recovery capabilities; and
(v) involving the private sector and community groups in the provision of urban services.
Key policy issues addressed in the LSP are : (i) intergovernmental roles; (ii) capacity
building; (iii) local government finance; (iv) land management and human settlement
development issues; and (v) role of the private sector and community participation.
Agreement was reached during negotiations that by the time of the Mid-Term Review
(para. 3.26) the Government would, as stipulated in the LSP, present draft legislation to
the National Assembly, amending, if necessary, (i) the Local Government Service Act
No. 10 of 1982, and (ii) the Local Government Act No. 23 of 1991, to strengthen the
financial management, autonomy, and viability of urban local authorities.
1.29 The Government's National Civil Service Reform program has also assisted the
urban local authorities with the retrenchment of thousands of staff through compensation
packages and personnel planning. New establishments have been set for each of the
authorities, and the national civil service salary scales have been revised upwards,
approximately doubling the wage compensation of most service grades since July 1994.
D.   PREvious IDA INVOLVEMENT AND LESSONS LEARNED
1.30  There have been no prior IDA-assisted urban sector investment projects in
Tanzania. The Urban Sector Engineering Project (Cr. 2291-TA), which is nearing
completion, served to identify sector needs, necessary policy reform, and strengthen the
financial management skills of the eight towns chosen for inclusion in the Urban Sector
Rehabilitation Project. IDA's urban project experience in Tanzania includes the National
Sites and Services Project (Cr. 495-TA, FY75), Second National Sites and Services
Project (Cr. 732-TA, FY78), Water Supply I Project (Cr. 1271-TA, FY77), and Dar
Sewerage Project (Cr. 1312-TA, FY83).
1.31  The problems associated with these previous urban related projects and the salient
lessons learned from their implementation were: (i) implementation delays resulted in all
projects due to inadequate counterpart funding at the time it was needed; (ii) some policy
provisions essential for successful project implementation were not in place, particularly
in relation to the generation of revenues to sustain the services provided; (iii) financial
management capacity for operations and maintenance was inadequate, and insufficient
provision was made in the design of the project to address this need; (iv) donor assistance
was not well coordinated by the responsible Government agencies, which lead to
fragmentation in the sector; and (v) the private sector was not adequately involved in the
operations and maintenance component of project design, contributing to the inability to
sustain the infrastructure and other services provided under the credits.



- 10-
2. THE PROJECT
A.   PROJECT ORUGIN
2.1   Recognizing the large unfulfilled demand for urban infrastructure services, the
Government initiated the preparation of the Urban Sector Rehabilitation Project (the project) in
1990 through the IDA-assisted Urban Sector Engineering Project (USEP, IDA Credit No. 229 1-
TA). Institutional strengthening was one of the primary objectives of USEP to better enable the
municipalities to absorb and manage investments in infrastructure and services and sustain them
through coherent operations and maintenance (O&M) programs. The overriding principle that
has guided the preparation of the project is that investments in infrastructure should be made
only when the users and municipalities can afford to pay for the O&M costs of the proposed
investment. While the enactment of the Local Government (Urban Councils) Act 1982 provided
the legal framework for the reemergence of local authorities, much remains to be done to create
the financial strength in the municipalities for self-sufficiency, at least for O&M functions (see
paras. 1.27 and 1.28 and Section 4.A).
2.2   Three working groups were established under USEP to assist in project preparation work
for institutional, financial, and technical matters. A substantial amount of training in municipal
financial management was conducted through the project preparation activities. An urban sector
policy workshop was held by the Government in June 1994 in which urban sector policy issues
were discussed and a draft policy framework for urban sector services established. This
framework was the culmination of much of the activities financed through USEP, intended to
define the policies and guidelines for project design and implementation. Financial Performance
Improvement Plans were prepared for each of eight project towns3 and Dar es Salaam as
mechanisms towards improved municipal financial management. These plans were initiated by
PMO with the assistance of consultants working in close collaboration with the respective
municipal officials. Financial indicators have been monitored over the past two years in the eight
project towns, the results of which are described in Section 4.A.
2.3   By the end of 1994, USEP funds were nearly committed in full with considerable project
preparation work remaining. Government obtained additional funds through a Policy and
Human Resources Development grant (Japanese Government) and a Project Preparation Facility
(PPF No. 902-TA), allowing the preparation work to continue. Through these resources, new
financial accounting systems are currently being put in place in the eight project towns and Dar
es Salaam, improved audit functions established, and municipal institutional reform initiated.
Engineering consultancies have been completed with the following outputs: feasibility studies,
preliminary engineering designs (with a 5 year horizon), and detailed engineering designs and
tender documents (with a 2 year horizon). Capacity building efforts are continuing in an attempt
to improve the ability at the municipal level to operate and maintain the infrastructure and
services proposed under the project.
3 The eight project towns are Arusha, Iringa, Mbeya, Morogoro, Moshi, Mwanza, Tabora, and Tanga.



B.   RATIONALE FOR IDA INVOLVEMENT
2.4   Through the project, IDA would support the Government's development objectives and
policies directed towards economic growth and poverty reduction. The project is in line with the
IDA Country Assistance Strategy (CAS) discussed by the Executive Directors in March 1994,
and the Progress Report to be presented to the Board together with this proposed operation, in
terms of (i) poverty alleviation through policy reform and economic growth; (ii) targeted
interventions to improve urban services for the poor; and (iii) upgrading and expansion of basic
infrastructure and urban services. IDA financial support for the project would be in agreement
with the three primary thematic objectives contained in the CAS of (i) capacity building and
improved public sector management, (ii) private sector development, and (iii) environmentally
sustainable investments.
2.5   The rehabilitation of urban infrastructure through the project would be accompanied by
specific interventions to improve the management of the assets, particularly by the urban local
authorities. This includes policy reforms to provide greater autonomy to the municipalities and
urban water and sewerage entities, appointment and training of key municipal staff, improving
revenue collection through property valuation and revision of rates, better financial management
and accountability, and greater involvement of the private sector (see Section 4.A). The
Management Improvement Plan for each municipality would contain targets for the reforms, and
the eligibility of each town for the investments depends on the extent to which it has been able to
meet the agreed targets (paras. 4.1 to 4.5).
2.6   These reforms would build on previous experience with policy changes and management
improvements on IDA-assisted projects, particularly the Urban Sector Engineering Project,
which was intended to prepare for investments under the Urban Sector Rehabilitation Project
(the project), and under which the following main achievements have been made: (i) the property
valuation rolls have been updated, the rates adjusted, and substantially more revenue collected by
the municipalities (para. 4.10); (ii) self-accounting Urban Water and Sewerage Departments have
been created in three towns, water tariffs substantially increased, considerably more revenue
collected, and the delivery of water markedly improved (para. 4.11); (iii) all key posts in the
eight project towns (see para. 3.3) have been filled with long-term qualified staff; and (iv)
accounting and auditing in the municipalities has markedly improved, and management plans are
being formulated for further improvements. Regarding the shift of civil works construction from
public to private entities, important reforms have been introduced under the Integrated Roads
Project I (Credit No. 2149-TA), where O&M services are carried out mostly by private
contractors rather than by force account, which was the past practice. These provisions for
private sector participation would also form part of the project. The implementation of measures
stipulated in the National Civil Service Reform would continue in the municipalities under the
project with the aim of achieving a substantially improved performance from a small, competent
and motivated group of key staff in the municipalities.



- 12 -
C.   PROJECT OBJECTIVES
2.7   The project objectives are sustainable economic development and urban poverty
alleviation through: (i) rehabilitation of basic infrastructure and expansion into high priority,
under-served areas and (ii) improvement of urban local government management and financing
capacity by (a) strengthening the financial, technical, and overall operations of the urban local
authorities through training and technical assistance; and (b) encouraging private sector and
community involvement in urban service delivery and O&M. The private sector would be
involved to a large extent in project implementation and later through maintenance contracts for
roads and drainage and delivery of services in sanitation and solid waste management. The
choice of investments was made according to the following criteria: (i) high demand; (ii)
adequate municipal, PMO, and MOW implementation capacity; (iii) assessed institutional and
financial sustainability; and (iv) availability of counterpart funds.
2.8   The stimulation of the private sector's capacity to efficiently produce and deliver goods
and services is fundamental to achieving sustainable growth with equity. Under the project the
public sector role would change to achieve a better municipal financial performance in order to
provide more social and physical infrastructure, while continuing to maintain a policy, legal, and
administrative framework conducive to development and regulation of the sector. Recent
Government policy and institutional reforms were designed to reverse the past trends of
deteriorating infrastructure through: (i) planning and budgetary reforms; (ii) civil service reform;
(iii) private sector partnership; (iv) human resource development; (v) infrastructure
rehabilitation; and (vi) environmental sustainability. Further policy reforms are contained in the
Letter of Sector Policy (para. 1.28).
D.   PROJECT DESCRIPTION
2.9   The project would consist of four components in eight project towns, plus Dodoma, and
Dar es Salaam. These are:
A. Rehabilitation and select expansion of infrastructure services in the eight project towns
and Dodoma;
B. Dar es Salaam community-based infrastructure upgrading and water supply;
C. Institutional strengthening consisting of technical assistance, training, and equipment for
the municipal councils' and UWSDs' organizational and financial management capacity
improvements in the eight project towns, Dar es Salaam and Dodoma; and
D. Future project preparation in the urban sector.
2.10  The institutional arrangements for water supply and sewerage are different from the rest
of the infrastructure services. All municipal infrastructure services are the responsibility of the
respective municipal councils with the exception of water supply and sewerage which come
under the responsibility of the MOW and UWSDs. A brief description of the various



- 13 -
components of the project is given below, while detailed descriptions are provided in the Project
Implementation Plan.
A. Rehabilitation and Select Expansion of Infrastructure Services (US$ 100.8 million)
i)    Municipal Infrastructure Services (US$ 50.0 million) - The project would
support rehabilitation and expansion of priority infrastructure (roads, stormwater
drainage) and improvements of essential municipal services (basic workshop
upgrading, solid waste collection and disposal, and sanitation improvements) in
the eight project towns, as follows:
(a) Roads and Storm Water Drainage (US$ 39.9 million) - The investments
would strengthen the urban transportation sector by (i) supporting spot
improvements, (ii) strengthening key arterial and collector roads, (iii)
resealing roads through surface dressing, (iv) improving bus stands; (v)
incorporating facilities for non-motorized transport, and (vi) facilitating
improvements to workshops. Both road drainage and priority primary storm
water drainage improvements would be included. The magnitude of the
investments in each town was determined by the ability of the town to
sustain the O&M costs through self-generated revenue. Very limited basic
improvements to deteriorated municipal workshops where vehicles of the
various municipal service sectors are secured and minor maintenance
carried out would be supported.
(b)  Sanitation (US$ 4.3 million) - This sub-component includes: (i) the
establishment of an improved pit latrine program through the promotion of
private sector interventions to facilitate the supply of latrine components to
the residents of the respective municipalities; (ii) school latrine construction,
and (iii) the provision of vehicles and equipment to improve the councils'
capability to provide an adequate and sustainable latrine and septic tank
emptying service through leasing to private operators.
(c)  Solid Waste Management (US$ 5.8 million) - The solid waste
management component includes: (i) establishment of improved refuse
collection arrangements through the provision of appropriate vehicles and
equipment for the operation of a communal collection and transportation
system, generally from markets and low and mixed income areas; (ii)
improvement of existing dumpsites and access roads, and construction of
concrete skip pads in the eight project towns; (iii) siting, design and
construction of new sanitary landfills in those towns where existing sites are
either unsuitable or are of very limited capacity for future use; and (iv)
establishment or improvement of commercial collection from industries,
business establishments, institutions, hospitals, street sweeping, and door-to-
door collection arrangements from high income areas. Lease arrangements



- 14 -
would be entered into between the municipality and selected private
operators.
ii)    Water Supply and Sewerage (US$ 50.8 million) - The designs for
rehabilitation and select expansion of water supply and sewerage services, as with
the municipally managed infrastructure services, are based on (i) priority demand;
(ii) implementation capacity - both at central and local levels; and (iii) improved
revenue generation efforts of the UWSDs of the respective towns in order to
sustain all required O&M expenditures. The two sub-components are described
below:
(a)  Water Supply (US$ 33.8 million) - The project would provide the towns
of Arusha, Dodoma, Morogoro, Moshi, Tabora, and Tanga with improved
water supply through: (i) rehabilitation and selected expansion of the water
supply systems, and (ii) institutional strengthening, technical assistance, and
training for the newly established semi-autonomous UWSDs in these towns
and Mbeya, Iringa and Mwanza. Emphasis would be placed on
rehabilitation of existing infrastructure to its design capacity with a limited
expansion of the distribution system to high priority under-served areas;
reduction in water losses through a leak detection and maintenance program;
and improvement of the O&M capacity through training, provision of
essential tools and equipment, and technical assistance. Civil works for
emergency rehabilitation of the water supply in Dodoma and studies for
future rehabilitation and expansion of the system would be carried out in
conjunction with a Government supported initiative of establishing a UWSD
there.
(b) Sewerage (US$ 17.0 million) - Sewerage rehabilitation is proposed for
Arusha, Morogoro, Moshi, Mwanza, Tabora, and Tanga, while new
construction is proposed for Iringa, and construction of sludge treatment
ponds would be undertaken in the eight project towns. At the national level,
the 1987 Urban Sewerage and Sanitation Policy established the
fundamental principles in relation to financing and cost recovery
mechanisms. The UWSBs in the towns are establishing tariffs that are
transforming the sewerage services into a user fee based sustainable
operation. Rehabilitation of the existing systems would be the first priority,
followed by some extensions utilizing simplified sewerage designs that feed
into existing trunk sewers with excess capacity. A sewerage management
plan, including a coherent connection policy, for each of the seven towns
would be prepared as part of the project. Site preparation works would be
carried out in Mwanza for the resettlement of people to be displaced by the
construction of sludge disposal ponds, including road and drainage
construction, and water and electricity supply.



- 15 -
B. Dar es Salaam (US$ 12.2 million) - Activities to meet the specific needs of Dar es
Salaam would consist of the following:
(i)  Community-Based Infrastructure Upgrading Program (US$ 6.2 million) - The
project would support a "demand-drivent' community infrastructure upgrading
program in selected infrastructure deficient settlements in Dar es Salaam. The
components would consist primarily of local distributor roads, access roads, storm
water drainage, sewer laterals and connections, and tertiary distribution of water
supply. Training and technical assistance would be provided. The main criteria for
the selection for the sub-components to be financed are: existence of a community-
based organization; community willing and able to make the agreed-upon capital
contribution (usually 20%) and sustain the full 0 & M costs; deficiencies in basic
infrastructure and municipal services; location close to functioning trunk
infrastructure; and land free of major environmental hazards.
(ii) Dar es Salaam Water Supply (US$ 6.0 million) - To prevent the Dar es Salaam
water supply from deteriorating further and from a possible collapse in the near
future, the project would (i) provide urgently-needed equipment, spare parts, pipes
and fittings; (ii) procurement and installation of water meters, leak detection, and
repair; mapping, repairs and replacement of parts of the water mains and the
distribution system to keep the system operational; (iii) support to improved
management of NUWA; and (iv) studies to develop a future water supply and
environmental management program.
C. Institutional Strengthening (US$ 25.2 million) - The proposed institutional
strengthening consists of local and foreign training, technical assistance, study tours and
local workshops, information technology, and the provision of basic equipment. Both
municipal/city and Central Government organizations as well as UWSDs would receive
capacity-building assistance in reviewing and reforming their operations, the
management of these operations, and their role in the larger urban institutional
environment. The project's sub-components would include : (i) senior management
training and organizational development; (ii) building local government training capacity
through development of the proposed Local Government Training Unit; (iii) technical
training including management training for senior technical managers and on-the-job
training for technical personnel of the municipal councils and the UWSDs; (iv) rating
and valuation training - a training program for valuers to upgrade specific skills; (v) skill
upgrading for municipal economists in the development of service management plans
and use of information technology; (vi) strengthening of the Department of Local
Government in PMO through training of key staff and provision of essential equipment;
(vii) information technology to cater for the management improvement, financial
management and system development needs of the various central and local government
departments and for implementation support; (viii) property tax mobilization support to
Dar es Salaam and the eight project towns; (ix) beneficiary information dissemination,
education, participation, community mobilization, and hygiene education; (x)



- 16-
implementation support for the project through technical assistance, information
technology, vehicles, and office equipment to: (a) PMO, (b) the Project Support Units
(PSUs) in the project towns, (c) MOW, and (d) the UWSDs; and (xi) design and
installation of a Maintenance Management System for roads in the project towns.
D. Future Project Preparation (US$ 3.1 million) - Studies would be carried out for the
preparation of future projects in the urban sector, in support of which community-based
pilot interventions in other towns would be carried out.
E.    PROJECT COSTS AND FINANCING
2.11   Project Costs - The total cost of the project is estimated at US$ 141.3 million
equivalent, out of which about US$ 89.8 million (64%) would be in foreign exchange and the
equivalent of US$ 51.5 in local currency4. The cost estimates include about US$ 7.8 million in
physical contingencies (6% of total base cost) and US $13.4 million in price contingencies (11%
of total base cost). The price contingencies have been calculated on the basis of an estimated
international inflation of 2.6% from FY96 onwards. This inflation rate has been used for both
foreign and domestic costs as it has been assumed that any differences between domestic and
international price inflation will be offset by equivalent adjustments in Tanzania's foreign
exchange rate. A summary of the cost estimates is provided in Table 2.1. Expenditures per year
by project component are shown in Annex C.
2.12   Project Financing - The total project cost of US$ 141.3 million equivalent would be
financed as shown in Table 2.2. An IDA credit of US$ 105.0 million would finance about 74%
of the total project costs. The Government would contribute about US$ 14.6 million or about
10% of total project cost5, including about US$ 2.8 million equivalent in taxes and duties. Other
funding for the project is expected to be contributed by Germany, Ireland, and the Netherlands.
The project components by financiers are shown in Annex C. The investments would be passed
on by the Government to the municipal councils of the project towns and Dodoma, to the Dar es
Salaam City Council, and to NUWA on a grant basis. Very little revenue can be collected from
the existing infrastructure services because they are hardly functioning at present. The
rehabilitation envisaged under the project is intended to improve the services to a level where
they can begin to generate, in a phased manner, adequate funds to cover the operations and
maintenance costs, and eventually capital expansion.
The cost estimates are based on an exchange rate of 550 TSh to one US$ at the time of appraisal in May 1995.
The exchange rate climbed to 620 by October 1996 and fell after that (probably connected to the national
elections), so that by the time of negotiations in February 1996 it stood at 560.
5 The direct Government net contribution to the project would be US$14.6 million - US$2.8 million = US$11.8
million, or 10% of the combined IDA-GOT funding, net of taxes, of US$116.8 million. The Goverment
contribution includes approximately US$80,000 equivalent which would be contributed by NUWA as
counterpart funds for the Dar es Salaam Water Supply component.



- 17-
Table 2.1: Estimated Project Costs
_      _-      T Sh    -        -         -       US         -   s        || -   
Thousand                          Thousand
Cowponent                     Local       Foreign        Total      Local  Foreign    TotAl   F         F    Total
A. REHABILITATION AND EXPANSION OF INFRASTRUCTURE SERVICES
1. Municipal Council Infrastructure
Roads and Drainage                      9,716,786.8  10,442,442.2  20,159,229.0 15,761.9   16,939.0  32,701.0       52       27
Sanitation                                734,840.2  1,515,400.4    2,250,240.6  1,192.0    2,458.2   3,650.2       67        3
Solid Waste                               306,300.8  2,862,848.1    3,169,148.9   496.9    4,643.9   5,140.8        90        4
Subtotal Municipal Infrastructur,        10,757,927.8  14,820,690.7   25,578,618.5 17,450.8   24,041.2  41,492.0       58      35
2. Water Supply and Sewerage
Water Supply                            3,442,012.3  13,829,811.7   17,271,824.0  5,583.4   22,433.8  28,017.2      80       22
Sewerage                                1,924,303.3   6,637,958.5    8,562,261.7  3,121.5   10,767.7  13,889.1      78       12
Subtotal Water Supply and Sewerage        5,366,315.6  20,467,770.1   25,834,085.7  8,704.9   33,201.5 41,906.03      79       34
Subtotal Rehabilitation and Expansion of  16,124,243.3  35,288,846.8   51,412,704.3 26,155.7   57,242.7  83,398.3     6S       68
Infrastructure Services
B. DAR ES SALAAM
Community Infrastructure Upgrading      1,603,858.5   1,591,623.0   3,195,481.5  2,601.7    2,581.8   5,183.5       50        4
Water Supply                               -         3,453,450.0    3,453,450.0    -      5,602.0   5,602.0        100       5
Subtotal Dares Salaami                    1,603,858.5  5,045,073.0    6,648,931.5  2,601.7    8,183.8  10,785.5        76       9
C. INSTITUTIONAL STRENGTHENING            9,371,099.9  4,877,852.7   14,248,952.6 15,201.2    7,912.5  23,113.7       34       19
D. FUTURE PROJECT PREPARATION                 -        1,739,375.0    1,739,375.0    -       2,821.5   2,821.5       100        2
TOTAL BASE COST                          27,099,201.8  46,9S0,761.5  74,q49,963A 43,958.6   76,160.4  120 119.0        63.    100
Physical Contingencies                  1,512,788.2  3,286,278.4    4,799,066.6  2,453.9    5,330.8   7,784.7       68        6
Price Contingencies                    14,887,666.9  24,305,042.2   39,192,709.1  5,102.0    8,306.6  13,408.6      62       11
TOTiAL- P40JECT COST                     43,656,9  74,M4,082.1  t1,041,739.0.51,5145    a9,T77.  :141,3IX24.   -              .1t8
Table 2.2: Financing Plan
(US$ Million)
Financing-Source                   Local             Foreign             Total
IDA                                   30.8               74.2             105.0
Government                            14.6                   -             14.6
Germany, Ireland, and                  6.1               15.6              21.7
the Netherlands
TOTAL                                 51.5                98              141.3



-18-
3. PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION
A. INSTITUTIONAL ARRANGEMENTS
3.1   The Prime Minister's Office (PMO) would have overall responsibility for the
implementation of the project with the exception of the water supply and sewerage
investments, which would be implemented by the Ministry of Water (MOW) and the
National Urban Water Authority (NUWA). A Project Steering Committee would be
established and maintained until completion of the Project to provide overall guidance
through addressing intersectoral policy issues affecting the project, reviewing major
reports and taking staffing decisions. It shall meet quarterly, will be chaired by the
Principal Secretary of PMO, and will include the Principal Secretaries of MOW, the
Ministries of Finance, Works, Land, Housing and Urban Development, Natural
Resources and Tourism, Health, Justice and Constitutional Affairs and the Planning
Commission. The responsibility of project implementation in the PMO rests with the
Project Management Unit (PMU), an office responsible for all national level project
management and established some years ago for the implementation of the Urban Sector
Engineering Project (Credit 2291-TA). The PMU is headed by a Project Manager, who
reports to the Principal Secretary. PMO would provide technical assistance to the urban
6
local authorities in the eight project towns , Dar es Salaam and Dodoma through Project
Support Units (PSUs, para. 3.5), which would also monitor project implementation and
liaise with the city/municipal councils and the UWSDs in the eight project towns and
Dodoma. MOW would manage project implementation through a Project
Implementation Unit headed by a Project Manager who reports directly to the Principal
Secretary, MOW. The Dar es Salaam Water Supply component would be implemented
by the NUWA through their Program, Planning, and Implementation Department.
3.2   The role of each agency involved in project implementation is described below,
with further details given in the Project Implementation Plan (PIP), including the
implementation schedule, organizational responsibilities, job descriptions for the key
staff, implementation support, technical assistance, and details of the capacity building
component (para. 3.23). The Government confirmed prior to Board presentation that it
will follow the final PIP in the implementation of the project. PMO will enter into a
separate Memorandum of Understanding with the urban local authority of each of the
eight project towns, Dar es Salaam, and Dodoma specifying the respective role of each
organization in project implementation (para. 3.9). The signing of such Memoranda with
at least five of the eight project towns would be a condition of credit effectiveness.
3.3   PMO: PMO is the ministry responsible for local government, that is, the
Regional and District administrations and the City/Municipal Councils. In relation to the
urban sector, PMO provides development grants, technical and project planning, and
6  The eight project towns are Arusha, Iringa, Mbeya, Morogoro, Moshi, Mwanza, Tanga and Tabora.



-19-
implementation support. The Local Government Service Commission (LGSC) is
affiliated with PMO as a quasi-independent decision-making body for all matters
concerning the civil services, particularly the terms of employment and appointments.
Assurances were received from the Government during negotiations that the key
positions in each of the eight project towns will be filled with regular staff, whose
qualifications are satisfactory to IDA, consisting of: Municipal Director, Treasurer,
Municipal Engineer, and Head of Manpower Development, and that they will remain
filled with such staff at least until the completion of the project.
3.4   PMO would have overall coordinating responsibility for the project, including the
consolidation of accounts for reporting purposes and progress reporting, supporting
functions to the Steering Committee, ensuring the availability of Government counterpart
funds, opening of the Special Accounts, coordination of auditing of all project accounts,
and monitoring of compliance with the Development Credit Agreement. It would also be
responsible for all aspects of implementing the Municipal Services component of the
project, including the procurement above the agreed threshold (see Procurement);
accounting, financial management and control, monitoring of implementation and of the
fmancial and management performance of the municipalities. Another area of
responsibility of PMO would be the implementation of the Institutional Strengthening
component of the project, including capacity building in PMO for urban policy
formulation and implementation, support and oversight to the municipalities, and donor
coordination. The senior full-time staff of the PMU would consist of a Project Manager,
Project Accountant, Senior Engineer, Financial Specialist, and Senior Procurement
Specialist. Each would head a section of the PMU of appropriate size as specified in the
PIP. All but a qualified Project Accountant and Senior Procurement Specialist had been
appointed by the time of negotiations. The selection of a full-time Project Accountant
and a Senior Procurement Specialist for the PMU, whose qualifications are acceptable to
IDA, would be a condition of effectiveness.
3.5   Project Support Units (PSUs) would be established in each of the eight project
towns, forming an integral part of the PMU to assist the Municipal Director with project
implementation in their respective town. The PSUs' primary functions in the towns
would be to: (i) provide technical assistance to the municipalities in the procurement and
supervision of minor civil works contracts; (ii) process the procurement and supervise the
construction of major civil works for Municipal Services (mostly for roads); (iii) provide
technical assistance to improve municipal operations and financial management; (iv)
account for project expenditures; and (v) monitor and report on progress with project
implementation to PMO. It is envisaged that each PSU would consist of 2 - 3 national
consultants, one of whom would be the team leader (para. 3.10 and Annex F). Each town
would second 2-3 municipal staff members to their respective PSU. The establishment of
a PSU in a project town, consisting of at least two professional staff, would be a
condition of disbursement for civil works for Municipal Services in that town.
3.6   MOW: As the ministry responsible for the water sector, MOW would implement
the Water Supply and Sewerage component in the eight project towns and Dodoma. A



-20-
Project Implementation Unit would manage all civil works under the component,
utilizing the respective UWSDs (para. 3.9) for town specific support where required.
MOW would also provide, through construction supervision consultancy, monitoring of
contractors performance and progress and the preparation of supervision progress reports.
It would be a condition of disbursement for civil works for Water Supply and Sewerage
for each of the towns of Arusha, Dodoma, Iringa, Morogoro, Moshi, Mwanza, Tabora,
and Tanga that MOW has signed a Memorandum of Understanding with the UWSD of
the respective town, specifying, among others, the organizational responsibility of MOW,
UWSD, UWSB, and PMO (including the PSU for the town) for the implementation of
the water supply and sewerage component as well as responsibility for O&M; criteria and
timing for tariff reviews and adjustments; and technical, managerial, and financial
performance targets for the UWSD. A standard format for such a Memorandum was
agreed on during the "technical discussions" at the time of negotiations and is included in
the PIP. It would likewise be a condition of disbursement for civil works for Water
Supply and Sewerage for each town of Arusha, Dodoma, Iringa, Morogoro, Moshi,
Mwanza, Tabora and Tanga that the Government would have (a) opened an urban water
and sewerage recurrent expenditure account for this town; (b) appointed an Urban Water
and Sewerage Engineer in charge of the UWSD; and (c) established an Urban Water and
Sewerage Board and appointed the members of the Board (see paras. 1.25 and 1.26).
3.7   Dar es Salaam City Council: The Council would implement the community-
based infrastructure upgrading program, including identifying the participating
communities and collecting baseline demographic and spatial data; engaging consultants
to undertake studies and prepare designs; procuring civil works and goods within the
established threshold (see Procurement); accounting, financial management and control
for the component; and submitting progress reports to PMO. The Council would be
assisted by the project office of the UNDP/UNCHS (Habitat) Sustainable Dar es Salaam
Project. The procedures developed under the Sustainable Dar es Salaam Project would
be used for the community-based infrastructure upgrading program. The eligibility
criteria for the subcomponents to be financed are given in para. 2.10 B(i). Agreements
would be made between the Council and each community-based organization for the
division of responsibilities, the works to be undertaken, and the respective financial
contribution and accountability. A Memorandum of Understanding would be signed
between the PMO and the Dar es Salaam City Council clearly specifying the roles and
responsibilities of each for this component.
3.8   NUWA: The Dar es Salaam Water Supply component would be implemented by
NUWA with technical assistance from MOW. NUWA would procure the equipment,
engage and supervise the consultants, and submit progress reports to PMO, with a copy to
MOW (paras. 4.25 and 4.26).
3.9   The Eight Project Towns and Dodoma: The urban local authorities and the
UWSDs in the eight project towns would award and manage civil works and goods
contracts below a specified value for each contract (see Procurement). They would liaise
with the public concerning the project and monitor project implementation in their



-21-
respective town, undertake the operations and maintenance of the completed works, and
cooperate with their respective PSU as specified in the Memorandum of Understanding
(para. 3.2). It would be a condition of disbursement for civil works for Municipal
Services for each of the eight project towns for (a) PMO to have signed a Memorandum
of Understanding with the urban local authority of the town in question on project
implementation and O&M arrangements, specifying (i) the organizational and financial
responsibilities for project implementation and O&M, and (ii) the urban local government
management performance targets to be reached by a specified date (Annex I); (b) to have
introduced in the town the procedures contained in the Local Authorities Accounting
Manual (LAAM; para 4.17); and (c) the urban local authority of the town to have
submitted an acceptable Management Improvement Plan (paras. 4.1, 4.4, and 4.12).
3.10  Technical Assistance: Implementation support for engineering, financial
management, urban management, and valuation consulting services would be provided to
PMO, MOW and NUWA by individual national and foreign consultants, and by firms.
Individual foreign consultants would be used when no qualified national consultants can
be found, and then normally on a short-term basis. The nature of the services to be
provided and the kinds of consultants to be engaged are shown in Annex F. The
consultants would be responsible for training local counterparts (according to the Skills
Transfer Guidelines established for the Second Integrated Roads Project, Credit 2598-
TA) and would be phased out over the life of the project. A detailed staffing and staff
development plan is included in the PIP.
3.11  PMO would employ engineering and accounting consultants for the PSUs (para.
3.5) to provide implementation support to the project towns and Dar es Salaam. PMO
and MOW will engage firms to provide overall construction supervision to facilitate
monitoring and progress reporting and other technical management support to enable the
Government to provide for the smooth flow of funds. Technical assistance would
constitute an important element of the project's private sector development support. The
technical management specialists would work with the engineering departments to advise
them on how to procure and supervise private contractors for municipal services
according to sound procurement practice, including the formulation of standard tender
documents for routine and periodic maintenance and other municipal services.
B. PROCUREMENT
3.12  PMO would be responsible for the procurement of consultants (except for water
supply and sewerage components), goods (except for Dar es Salaam water supply), works
for municipal infrastructure components in excess of US$50,000, and for studies and
training-related contracts. Most procurement-related work in PMO would be carried out
by PMU. MOW would be responsible for the procurement of consultants and civil works
for the water supply and sewerage components in the project towns and Dodoma.
NUWA would be responsible for the procurement of consultants, goods and works for the
Dar es Salaamn water supply component. Procurement is subject to approval by either the
Central Tender Board or the Regional Tender Board; the latter is to clear contracts below



-22-
US$1 million for works and below US$500,000 for goods. The procurement of works up
to a ceiling of US$50,000 would be done by the urban local governments of the project
towns, Dar es Salaam and Dodoma with the assistance of the PSUs (which will also be
responsible for other project related functions; see para. 3.5).
3.13   Table 3.1 summarizes the estimated costs and procurement methods of the works,
goods and services to be financed under the project. Both International Competitive
Bidding (ICB) and National Competitive Bidding (NCB) would be used for the
procurement of civil works, while ICB, NCB, National Shopping would be used for
goods. Agreement was reached with the Government during negotiations that adequate
organizational capacity for procurement, satisfactory to IDA, will be established in the
PMU and the PSUs for the duration of the project. Adequate procurement arrangements
would consist of a full-time Procurement Specialist as head of the procurement unit,
responsible for all procurement in PMU, and a sufficient number of full-time
procurement officers to undertake the substantial procurement work load. The detailed
organizational arrangement for procurement, the flow of documentation for decision
Table 3.1: Summary of Procurement Arrangements
(US$ Million Equivalent)
t:Descriptiong: i;;L; :;g :g; ICB    NCB         Other        Non-Bank          Total
EFinanced
Civil Works               29.6       34.8                        14.4            78.8
(23.1)     (33.1)                                     (56.2)
Goods                     8.40       6.80         1.4            2.5             19.1
(8.40)     (6.80)       (1.4)                         (16.6)
Consulting Services                               13.6           4.9             18.5
(13.6)                        (13.6)
Training                                          1.5            0.3             1.8
(1.5)                         (1.5)
Studies                                           6.9                            6.9
(6.9)                         (6.9)
O&M Costs 1                                       8.6                            8.6
(3.8)                         (3.8)
Incremental Operating                             5.7                            5.7
Costs 2                                          (4.5)                          (4.5)
Refunding of PPF                                  1.9                            1.9
(1.9)                         (1.9)
TOTAL::                   38         41.6         39.6           22.1           141.3
.. .   ...    .    .t  .tt;   . ttt  t(31..)  (39.9):  :(33.6)                  (1050)
Note: Figures in parentheses are the anounts to befinanced by IDA..
1/   Expenditures incurred for operation and maintenance of the assets to be created or rehabilitated under the
project (see para. 4.20 and Chart 1) through civil works and goods contracts procured through NCB.
2/   Expenditures incurred for fuel, maintenance and insurance of vehicles, office supplies and minor office
equipment, utilities and travel and field allowances for project staff approved by IDA. Only the portion of
operating costs that would be financed by IDA is shown as a project cost.



-23-
making, and a time-table for procurement would be as specified in the PIP (para. 3.2).
The appointment of a Senior Procurement Specialist in the PMU would be a condition of
effectiveness of the project (para. 3.4). Procurement would be done in accordance with
the Bank's guidelines, including the use of the Bank's standard bidding documents.
3.14 Civil Works - Civil works contracts for water supply and sewerage, expected to
cost more than US$500,000 each and valued at a total of US$23.1 million, would be
procured through ICB. Civil works contracts estimated to cost US$500,000 or less and
valued at a total of US$33.1 million would be procured through NCB. The NCB
contracts include roads and drainage workshop rehabilitation, solid waste dump site
improvements, and school latrine construction. National construction capacity has been
assessed to be adequate to undertake these works. Contracts between US$50,000 and
500,000, being the threshold levels approved by the Ministry of Finance, would be
procured by PMO subject to approval of the regional tender board. Minor works (less
than US$50,000) will be procured by the municipal councils through competitive bidding
with adequate competition acceptable to IDA, including public posting or advertising of
the invitation to bid, public availability of standard forms of contract, public bid opening,
evaluation subject to verification by a procurement committee. The range of civil works
contracts envisage road works, sanitation, solid wastes, water and sewerage. A detailed
list including "packages" is included in the PIP that has been submitted to IDA before
Board presentation.
3.15  Goods - Vehicles, tools and equipment costing more than US$200,000 per
contract would be procured through ICB, up to an aggregate value of US$8.4 million.
Other vehicles, motor cycles, vacuum tankers, skip loaders, skip buckets, water meters,
tools and spare parts, road maintenance equipment, water maintenance equipment,
sewerage maintenance equipment, and leak detection equipment contract packages each
costing between US$50,000 and US$200,000, up to an aggregate value of $6.8 million,
would be procured through NCB. Minor goods with individual contracts not to exceed
US$50,000 each, up to an aggregate value of US$1.4 million, would be procured through
national shopping. The list of contents of each procurement package is included in the
PIP.
3.16  Consulting Services and Training - Consulting Services, training and future
project preparation studies are estimated to cost a total of US$22.0 million. Of these,
consulting services for construction supervision, technical assistance for project
implementation support are estimated to cost US$13.6 million, training is estimated to
cost US$1.5 million, and studies US$6.9 million. A list of assignments for consulting
work and technical assistance, giving the type of assignment and the project towns, Dar
es Salaam and Dodoma, is shown in Annex F. Consultants would be recruited in
accordance with the Bank's Guidelines for the Use of Consultants. For training outside
Tanzania financed under the project, the qualification of candidates along with their
courses of study and proposed training institutions and costs would be reviewed by IDA.
Local training courses and workshops proposed along with their estimated costs are
subject to prior review by IDA.



-24-
3.17  Contract Reviews - Procurement documentation for IDA financed works
contracts above a threshold of US$300,000 would be subject to prior review by IDA, as
well as all consulting (including training) contracts in excess of US$100,000 for firms
and US$50,000 for individuals. For goods contracts above US$100,000 prior review by
IDA will be required. Post review of awarded contracts (1 in 5) below the above
threshold levels would be carried out selectively by IDA during supervision missions.
NCB would involve advertising and public bid opening, and would specify clearly stated
evaluation criteria for awarding the contract to the lowest evaluated bidder. Foreign firms
would not be precluded from participation. In all cases the borrower is obliged to send
signed contracts to IDA.
3.18 Processing Times and Procurement Plans - Agreement was reached with the
Government during negotiations on the standard procurement processing times for key
procurement activities and stages. This has formed the basis of finalization of the
Procurement Plans for all major packages included in the PIP (para. 3.2). The
preparation of project-specific standard documentation for the procurement of goods,
works and consulting services has been completed. A General Procurement Notice was
agreed on during negotiation for publication in Development Business.
C.   DISBURSEMENT
3.19  Disbursement Categories - The IDA Credit would be disbursed against the
categories shown in Table 3.2. The estimated disbursement profile for the duration of the
project is given in Annex G. To facilitate payments from the Credit, three Special
Accounts (A, B and C) would be established in a commercial bank and would be operated
and maintained on terms and conditions satisfactory to IDA. Special Account A would
be operated by PMO and would have an initial authorized allocation of US$1,000,000,
Special Account B would be operated by MOW with an allocation of US$600,000, and
Special Account C by NUWA with an allocation of US$400,000, the total being
approximately equal to 3 months of expenditure under the project. The Credit closing
date would be June 30, 2004, with physical completion of works expected by December
31, 2003.
3.20  Statements of Expenditure (SOEs) - Disbursements for contracts of goods and
works estimated to cost less than US$ 100,000 and consulting contracts with firms costing
less than US$ 100,000 equivalent and with individuals less than US$ 50,000 equivalent
would be made against statements of expenditure (SOEs). Other disbursements would be
made against standard documentation.



-25-
Table 3.2: Disbursement Categories
(US$ Million Equivalent)
Disburseoieit Category            IDA Amount            Percent of Expewditiresto be:
(US$ Million)                  Financed
Civil Works:
Dar es Salaarn Water Supply                1.0            100% of foreign expenditures and 60%
Municipal Services                        22.8            of local expenditures
Water Supply and Sewerage, 8 towns        17.6
Dar es Salaam Community-Based
Infrastructure                        4.6
Goods:                                                      100% of foreign expenditures.
Dar es Salaam Water Supply                 1.3            100% of local expenditures (ex-factory
All others                                 12.5           cost) and 80% of local expenditures for
other items procured locally
Consulting Services and Training:
Dar es Salaam Water Supply                 1.0            100%
All others                                12.4
Studies:
Dar es Salaam Water Supply                 2.7            100%
All others                                 3.5
O&M Costs (see Table 3.1,                    3.0            90% for FY97 & 98; 60% for
Footnote 1)                                           FY99&00; and 30% thereafter
Incremental Operating Costs (see Table       4.0            100%
3. 1, Footnote 2)
Refunding of PPF                              1.9           Amount due
Unallocated                                 16.7
TOTAL                                       105.0
D.  ACCOUNTING, AUDITING, AND REPORTING
3.21 Assurances were obtained during negotiations that (a) PMO, MOW and NUWA
will each maintain appropriate records and accounts for expenditures under their
respective project component, including SOEs, as well as the Special Accounts A, B and
C, respectively, in accordance with internationally acceptable accounting standards; that
the Government will have such records and accounts audited by independent auditors
acceptable to IDA7; and that a certified copy of the audit reports, including a separate
report on the SOEs, as well as the Special Accounts, will be provided to IDA within six
months of the end of each fiscal year; (b) the institutional accounts (balance sheets,
statements of income and expenses, and related statements) of the eight project towns and
nine UWSDs, and their operations will be audited by independent auditors acceptable to
IDA; a certified copy of the audit reports will be provided to the PMO within six weeks
of the end of each fiscal year together with financial projections for three years in formats
satisfactory to IDA, and PMO would send a summary of the audited accounts to IDA
The independent auditors would either be the Controller and Auditor General or a private audit firn
under contract to, and supervised by, the Controller and Auditor General and acceptable to IDA.



-26-
within ten months of the end of each fiscal year; and (c) NUWA will similarly have its
institutional accounts (balance sheets, statements of income and expenses, and related
statements) audited annually and will send a certified copy of the audit report to IDA
within nine months of the end of each fiscal year.
E.    MONITORING AND SUPERVISION
3.22 The Supervision Plan of the Project is shown in Annex H, and the Key
Performance Indicators which would be used in monitoring the project by PMO are listed
in Annex I PMO would monitor the municipalities and UWSDs and report their progress
according to the schedule agreed upon as shown in the Supervision Plan. Each project
town's performance would also be assessed during the Mid-Term Review (para. 3.26).
Towns which have been unable to meet the performance targets would be required to
prepare and implement an acceptable Management Improvement Plan to meet the targets.
Signature of new contracts for civil works and equipment for those towns would be
subject to successful implementation of the agreed plan.
3.23  The Project Implementation Plan is the key instrument in monitoring. It will be
updated by PMO, as needed and includes: detailed description of the roles of the PMO,
MOW, local authorities, UWSDs and NUWA in project implementation and operation
and maintenance; a statement of responsibilities and procedures for local authorities and
UWSDs; and standard forms of agreement between PMO and local authorities and
UWSDs (para. 3.2).
3.24  Reporting as an integral part of monitoring would be undertaken by the agencies
involved in project implementation: local authorities would prepare and submit to PMO
quarterly reports on components being implemented by them, and assurances were
obtained during negotiations that PMO would consolidate these reports with their own
reporting for submission to IDA not later than February 15 and August 15 every year,
beginning February 15, 1997. The reports would be concise and action oriented and will
include: progress achieved against agreed implementation and disbursement schedules
and key performance indicators; review of the status of procurement against the
previously-agreed schedule of procurement implementation, and an updated procurement
plan; work programs and cost estimates for the following quarter; issues and problems
expected to arise; measures proposed to deal with these problems; comments on progress
in resolving previous issues; and the status of institutional audits (para. 3.21). PMO
would prepare standard reporting formats and make them available to MOW, the project
towns, Dar es Salaam, Dodoma, NUWA, and the UWSDs to facilitate their timely and
efficient reporting. A mechanism for direct client consultation will be established by
PMO, whereby a consultant would be engaged to solicit feedback on project
implementation from the intended beneficiaries, covering such issues as continuing
participation in decision making about project interventions; income distribution of the
actual beneficiaries; the extent to which the anticipated benefits are being realized; the
impact of O&M arrangements; willingness and ability of the beneficiaries to pay for



-27-
O&M; and future needs and opportunities. This review will be carried out on a sample
basis at least annually in preparation for the implementation review workshop (para.
3.25). A more thorough review would be carried out in preparation for the Mid-Term
Review (para 3.26).
3.25 A Project Launch Workshop would be held by PMO, with the participation of the
project towns, Dar es Salaarn and Dodoma and all other institutions involved in project
implementation, within three months of project effectiveness to familiarize all concerned
with the provisions under the project and with the procedures for its implementation,
including procurement, disbursement, auditing, and reporting. Assurances were obtained
during negotiations that PMO would hold an implementation review workshop to review
the operation, financial, and institutional performance of the project during the preceding
12 months, no later than March 15 of every year of project implementation, beginning
March 15, 1997, with the participation of all concerned.
3.26 Assurances were obtained during negotiations that the Government, jointly with
IDA, would carry out a Mid-Term Review of progress made with project implementation
by no later than March 31, 1999. The Government, with the assistance of the
implementing agencies, would prepare an evaluation report describing the status of
progress regarding the items to be covered by the Mid-Term Review, and submit it to
IDA at least one month before the Mid-Term Review. The Mid-Term Review would
cover the following main areas: review of experience with the implementation procedures
in each town; the progress of project implementation as measured by the Key
Performance Indicators and targets agreed during negotiations for the project and for the
financial and management performance of the eight project towns (Annex I); performance
and use of technical assistance personnel, their national counterparts, and consultants;
status and results of training; reporting, accounting and audit performance, including
SOEs; status of procurement; disbursement procedures and the use of Special Accounts;
and provision for the future sustainability of the investments financed through the project.
Following the Mid-Term Review, PMO would promptly prepare an action plan,
acceptable to IDA, for the future implementation of the project, and would subsequently
implement the plan.
3.27 Near the end of project implementation, PMO would prepare an Implementation
Completion Report, the contents and format of which would be agreed upon during the
last World Bank supervision mission. The Government would submit this report to IDA
within six months after the completion of the project.



-28-
4. PROJECT BENEFITS AND RISKS
A. FINANCIAL ANALYSIS AND MANAGEMENT IMPROVEMENT PLANS
Purpose, Scope, and Methodology
4.1   This analysis aims to assess the past financial performance and standing of each
of the eight project towns8 to evaluate their potential for future financial improvement
and autonomy using the available data and Management Improvement Plans (MIPs)9, and
to measure the financial impact of the proposed investments and actions on their finances
and the sustainability of their operations. Similarly, it attempts to assess the viability of
the piloted system and the sustainability of the proposed investments in the water and
sanitation sub-sector, using the available data from Arusha, Moshi, and Tanga, where
semi-autonomous Urban Water and Sewerage Departments (UWSDs) were recently
established (para. 1.26).
4.2   During project preparation, the borrowing and debt carrying capacity of each town
was assessed, and attempts were made to establish under what circumstances and at what
point in time each town will be financially strong enough to fully finance its operating
and maintenance costs, and, in the long term, to be able to borrow for future investments.
Thus the project would include such measures that are necessary to monitor and direct the
municipalities towards achieving such financial targets. For the water and sanitation sub-
sector, the performance of the three pilot UWSDs was reviewed and was found
satisfactory. Hence, the project would assist in replicating the semi-autonomous UWSDs
in the other five project towns and in Dodoma (para. 3.6).
4.3   The analysis for the eight municipal councils includes an evaluation of financial
performance of each town for the last three years, review of their management capacity
and respective future plans, and analysis of individual cash-flow projections during the
period of project implementation and two years after its completion. The computation of
a financial internal rate of return was not attempted because of the difficulties
encountered in isolating and quantifying the incremental revenues. However, since the
incremental costs were identifiable and measurable, least cost analysis was the alternative
method used. Thus, whenever applicable, the "with project" scenario development
followed an exercise of comparison between different feasible and mutually exclusive
Arusha, Iringa, Mbeya, Morogoro, Moshi, Mwanza, Tabora and Tanga
The MIPs are mechanisms introduced in the eight towns and Dar es Salaam as an integral part of
project preparation. In December 1995 the Tanga Municipal Council submitted an MIP which has
been recommended by PMO as a model for the other project towns. A standard outline of an MIP has
been agreed on during the "technical discussions" at the time of negotiations and is included in the
PIP.



-29-
investment alternatives. With regard to the water and sanitation sub-sector, financial
analysis was carried out for all beneficiary towns.
4.4   The project design takes into account the differences in institutional capacity,
financial standing and economic base which exist among the project towns, and an
adequate investment mix has been chosen so that solid institutional and financial bases
are established before an additional burden is put on less advantaged towns.
Furthennore, the MIPs are considered to be instrumental to the establishment of a solid
financial base. Following the example of an MIP that was prepared by the Tanga
municipal council, MIPs are under preparation in the remaining seven project towns. The
essential elements of an MIP are: general management including well designed
operational plans for personnel administration, finance, and technical services; financial
management including analysis of present position and action plans for ievenue
improvement and expenditure control; and services management for roads and drainage,
and environmental sanitation (solid and liquid waste disposal) including institutional
options and reform. The implementation of these plans would be closely monitored
during the first few years of project implementation and would be used to gauge the
management performance during the Mid-Term Review (para. 3.26).
4.5   For the purpose of projections and analysis of the basic relationships involved in
the financial management in the project towns, Dar es Salaam and Dodoma, three major
sets of issues and data were reviewed and are discussed below: revenue generation,
expenditure control, Government financing, and linkage between investment and
performance. This was complemented by a review of proposals to improve the
institutional capacity, to increase the efficiency of taxes, and to enhance accountability.
Analytical accounting and other instruments would be put in place at an early stage of
implementation of the proposed project, and the management and financial performance
would be closely monitored through a systematic review of agreed-on performance
indicators which are shown in Annex I and will be updated in the PIP in the course of
project implementation.
Revenue Generation and Government Subsidies
4.6   The municipal councils of the eight project towns are important urban centers and
represent the Government's priority in urban growth management. Although a
decentralized system is in place, the Central Government is still playing an important role
in local affairs due to the importance of the financial transfers from the Central
Government to local authorities. For example, the Municipal Directors and top ranking
officers are still nominated by the Local Government Service Commission.
4.7   By the time of appraisal in May 1995, most of the eight project towns had shown
some progress in terms of revenue generation from local sources, but they continued to
rely heavily on Central Government transfers to balance their recurrent budget and to
finance their investments. In FY94 self generated revenue by the eight towns represented



-30-
only 34% of total resources for the recurrent budget (this figure was only 22% for Dar es
Salaam) and the remaining 66% came from the Central Government (Table 4.1).
4.8    Such blanket protection by the Central Government has provided incentives for
inefficiency. Operating in a centralized system where the release of funds for
remuneration of staff is more forthcoming than for procurement of goods and services,
municipalities have relied heavily on construction and operations through force account
as opposed to contracting to the private sector. As a result, salaries consumed on average
about two thirds of the total resources in FY94, leaving limited funds for the operation
and maintenance of infrastructure and equipment. Some of the eight project towns and
Dar es Salaam, however, contributed up to 3% to their capital expenditure.
Table 4.1: Revenue Generation by the Eight Project Towns and DSM
(T Sh Million)
1992.   1993    PercentEE    1:994.:ig  Percent
iS:0;   ..03   ..:0Eg; .....;   i E      E ;   Ci   g EEi   Change     Change   E
......                       4~~~~~~992-9            19A93944.
Eight Project Towns:
Self Generated Revenue            909    1,459     +61%           1,574    +8%
CG transfer for Recurrent Exp.   1,482    2,083    +41%           3,099    +49%
Total Resources for Rec. Exp.   2,391    3,542     +48%           4,672    +32%
ielf eu. lv.:asR %:WofTtalE::    38%      4i%                     34%
Dar es Salaam:
Self Generated Revenue            734    1,028     +40%            912    - 11%
CG transfer for Recurrent Exp.   1,736    2,079    +20%           3,287    +58%
Total Resources for Rec. Exp.   2,469    3,108     +26%           4,199    +35%
Setlf-Geu. Rev. as % of Total   E 30% M. 33%      i :        i   22%           i
Source: PMO
4.9    This dependency and inefficiency has been essentially the result of a centrally
controlled system. As part of a decentralization effort and in order to improve urban
finances and increase local autonomy, the Government is pursuing a two-pronged
strategy of (i) raising additional revenue via improvement in tax efficiency and in
administrative capacity, and (ii) expenditure plan iing and control via enhancement of
accountability by standardization of the budgeting and accounting system. This effort
was complemented by the National Civil Service Reform, under which a retrenchment
exercise was recently carried out in the project towns.
4.10   The Bank has supported the Government in this endeavor and, under the Urban
Sector Engineering Project, has assisted the Government to start the implementation of its
strategy. The following activities are ongoing, and positive financial results have already
been registered:



-31-
(a)   A property valuation and tax role update exercise is ongoing in Dar es
Salaam and in the eight project towns, computerized data base systems are
in place in most towns, and the property tax administration has been
strengthened (Table 4.2).
(b)   A new activity-based budget format, which improves the budgetary
control, is being used, and a new accounting system contained in the Local
Authorities Accounting Manual (LAAM; para 4.17) has been successfully
tested and is being implemented in all eight project towns.
Table 4.2: Property Tax Collection in the Eight Project Towns and Dar es Salaam*
(T Sh Million)
1992     1993     1994  1995**
. . .   . .   . -.  . .   .   .   ., . ..,-...   
Dar es Salaam*                   57       128      110     180
Percent Increase                          124      -14      64
Eight Project Towns, Combined   115       266      337     380
Percent Increase                          132       26      13
Eight Project Towns, Average     14        33       42      48
* The Dar es Salaam tax roll was gazetted in October 1994.
* *Estimates.
Source: PMO
4.11  Similarly, the autonomy of the UWSDs in the project towns and Dodoma would
be supported under the project (para. 1.26). The scheme which had been successfully
piloted in Arusha, Moshi and Tanga will be replicated in other towns. The results from
the three towns indicate that the water supply sector operations can become financially
sustainable through user charges in the short to medium term, possibly in 3 to 5 years
(O&M cost only). Assurances have been obtained from the Government during
negotiations that it will ensure that the UWSDs in the eight project towns and Dodoma
will reach a billing and collection efficiency of at least 80 percent of all consumers by the
time of the Mid-Term Review. To achieve this, the UWBSs in the eight project towns
and Dodoma would at least annually review the water and sewerage tariffs, starting not
later than six months after the Board members of the respective UWSB have been
appointed (para 3.6), and adjust them as required to ensure that O&M costs are recovered
by the time of the Mid-Term Review. The production and financial data from the
beneficiary towns, including the pilot schemes, formed the basis of the projections and
analysis. The project production figures for each town and projected average tariff have
been used to estimate the revenues. The Net Present Value (NPV) of the cash flow
streams of this component during the implementation and 15 years thereafter, at a twelve
percent discount rate, is estimated at US$1.7 million (Financial Internal Rate of Return of
13%). This requires stiff tariff increases in some towns, annual increases of 30-35% in



-32-
real terms. In case the tariff increases do not materialize at the expected levels or other
unfavorable factors cause a 13% reduction in expected revenues, this NPV would become
negligible. The net incremental revenues would, however, cover the incremental'" O&M
costs. There is only a small risk that the incremental O&M cost (excluding depreciation)
would not be fully recovered: for this situation to arise the incremental revenues would
have to drop below 25% of the projected figures.
4.12   As the towns improve their cost effectiveness and reestablish the operation and
maintenance of the infrastructure to acceptable levels, they will also improve their cost
recovery mechanisms so that the O&M costs would be fully financed through self-
generated funds. Under normal circumstances, and with adequate management, the
financial targets reflected in each town's projections are attainable and would allow them
to fully recover all non-salary recurrent costs before the project completion and to reduce
their dependence on Central Government transfers. In order to mitigate the risk of under-
achievement, a model of the MIP was reviewed by the appraisal mission and found
satisfactory, ane management performance and financial improvement indicators have
been selected and would be closely monitored (paras. 3.9, 4.1, 4.4, and Annex 1).
4.13   Taxes on local sources, charges and rents provide revenues to the Municipal
Councils. Some of these local sources are also taxed by the Central Government. During
the project preparation under USEP, almost all towns have improved their revenue
collection from the property tax and other major sources (Table 4.3), albeit at different
rates. However, the towns have not met their budget targets, and taxes and tariffs have
not kept pace with inflation. Moreover, more often than not other categories of the
population, particularly lower income groups such as small vendors, have been
inadvertently the target of rate hikes (market rents have increased more than any other
rates and charges in any given town).
4.14  In general, this substandard performance is due to a lack of capacity and
weaknesses in the control systems of municipalities as well as the population's
unwillingness to pay (mainly because of the unreliability of services) and lack of
commitment by local officials. Double taxation of local sources has also adversely
affected local revenues (para. 4.21). The performance has been very uneven between
towns, and future tax collection could be greatly improved in most of the eight project
towns and Dar es Salaam.
4.15   This is achievable provided that (i) the tax base for the five biggest items is
systematically updated; (ii) the rates are reviewed and adjusted regularly; and (iii) targets
are set, controls are in place and collection is enforced. The project would assist the
municipalities through upgrading the Municipal Economist's position, revision of her/his
' The term incremental is used here in the sense of "due to the project." Incremental O&M is that which
would have to be carried out on the assets created by the project, in addition to the O&M of the other
(existing, non-project) assets for roads, storm drains, water supply, sewerage, sanitation, and solid
waste management in the project towns.



-33-
job description, and through training. This should enable the Municipal Economist in
future to systematically carry out a review of rates and charges, evaluate fairness and
efficiency of taxes, cost recovery strategies and revenue collection efficiency.
Table 4.3: Major Revenue Items for the Eight Project Towns
(Percent)
SW-Ge td Revenues              1q92- 1993                   1994
Annual Increase in Total Self-               51%            10%
Generated Revenues                         (1992-93)     (1993-94)
Property tax                    13            19            22
Trade licenses                  19            15            15
Market rent                     18            16            18
Development levy                 9             7             7
Hotel levy                       5             4             5
Service charges                  5             3             3
All others                      32            36            30
Total Self-Generated Revenues  100           100           100
Excluding water
Source: PMO
4.16  The installation and use of activity based budgeting and the new accounting
system (through LAAM; para. 4.17) would facilitate these and other necessary reviews.
Tlhe inclusion of rate and tariff adjustments in the annual budget approval exercise and
greater autonomy for tariffs and rate adjustments by the municipalities during the budget
approval are measures that the Government will take into consideration when submitting
draft legislation to Parliament, arnending the applicable local governnent acts (para.
1.28). The Government will also revise the by-laws for tax and tariff adjustments by the
urban local authorities by the time of the Mid-Term Review.
Expenditure Control
4.17 In order to overcome the shortcomings of financial management practices, the
Government has promulgated a new accounting and budgeting system for local
authorities (through LAAM; para. 4.10). Financed under USEP, the LAAM
implementation was piloted in two of the eight secondary towns (Tanga and Mwanza)
and in Dar es Salaam and is being put in place in the other six project towns. Similarly,
the new activity-based budget format which was piloted in those towns has been
replicated for all eight project towns for FY96. In addition, external financial audit of
towns has started and FY92-FY94 accounts have been audited, and the audit of FY95
accounts is underway.



-34-
4.18  Due to the lack of disaggregated data, detailed cost analysis has not been possible.
However, from the available data it can be concluded that recurrent expenditures have
steadily grown and remain in excess of the self-generated funds for all towns. As
explained in paragraph 4.8 above, the recurrent expenditures consisted mainly of payroll,
and thus did not include much for repair and maintenance of infrastructure and
equipment.
4.19 Under the National Civil Service Reform, a retrenchment exercise was recently
carried out which entailed a reduction of staff and substantial salary increases. In order to
support this effort and to encourage the Municipal Councils to use the private sector's
capacity for service delivery, the financing of the incremental O&M cost gap during the
project implementation would be for contracts with non-Government entities (para. 4.23).
4.20  Given the recent restructuring of the civil service and the staff reduction,
combined with a substantial salary increase, comparative data are not available to carry
out a trend analysis, and cost projections are thierefore based on 1994 actual and 1995
budgeted figures. In order to assure adequate maintenance of the totality of infrastructure
in the project towns, our projections and incremental analysis assume that resources at
FY94 levels would be set aside for the O&M of assets which are not included in the
project. Thus additional resources would be necessary to operate and maintain the assets
procured and rehabilitated under the project. These resources would be Government
transfers of IDA funds on a sliding scale during project implementation and would be
gradually replaced by incremental revenues generated by the towns (para. 4.23).
Government Financing and Linkage Between Investments and Performance
4.21  An analysis of revenue generation and expenditure showed that most towns are
heavily dependent on Government transfers for both recurrent and capital expenditures
(up to 70% of the O&M budget and 100% for capital expenditures (para. 4.7). It should
be noted that the taxation of local sources by the Central Government reduces the
efficiency of tax collection and negatively affects the Municipal Council's finances.
Since these taxes could be more efficiently collected by the local authorities under
improved management and control, the Central Government should gradually exclude the
local sources from the federal taxation. The Government will initiate suitable
amendments to the applicable local government legislation (para. 1.28).
4.22  Given the present lack of funds for proper maintenance of the existing
infrastructure and heavy reliance on Government transfers, a town's operations was
defined, for the purpose of sustainability measurement of the project, to be financially
sustainable when its recurrent cost surplus after the O&M cost for other assets (non-
project assets) has been deducted would equal or exceed the total O&M cost (inclusive of
salaries) of project-related assets, exclusive of depreciation. The investments for each
project towns were accordingly selected based on each town's priorities and financial
capacity.



-35-
4.23 A comparison of the total O&M costs with the total revenues in the eight project
towns is shown in Chart 1. The total O&M costs are composed of non-project O&M and
incremental O&M (due to the project). The total revenue stream assumes that Central
Government subsidies would continue unchanged in real terms. The graph shows a
period of shortfall of total revenues over total O&M costs from the start of the project to
FY 2001, which would require additional Government transfers, to be financed through
the project (Table 3.1). The Central Govermnent's transfers for the incremental O&M
cost would gradually decline and would disappear by the target year of FY 2001. After
FY 2001 the self-generated revenues are expected to exceed the total O&M costs,
producing a surplus. This would allow Central Government to gradually reduce the
subsidies for salaries for the municipalities. The percent of Central Government share in
incremental O&M is one of the performance indicators (Annex I) to be monitored.
Chart 1. Government Subsidies for O&M Costs
(US$ Thousand by Fiscal Year)
Municipal Councils (8 Towns)
4000.0  __-_-_-___- _ ___ _ ---- _ __ _  _  _   _ _
.                                      ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~Surplus
3500.0                            Incremental O&M
3000.0
2500.0b the
2000.0
1500.0
1000.0   /
. _Non-Project O&M
-u- Total O&M
500.0
-- Total Revenue
0.0      I    l    l          I    I     l         l     I    l    l     I
OS   n          t  m D   t-     X 00  0%   0    -          m
0%   0%   0%  0%1  0%1  01   ON   0%   0D                    CD0 0    0
0%  o0i  o%  0%  0%  0%  0%               0    0    0    C    0    0o
-    -    -    -    -    -    -    -    e~  ri  ri  ri   ri res
4.24 The municipal councils in the eight project towns and the nine UWSDs in these
towns and Dodoma would have the financial statements of their operations audited
annually and prepare financial projections for three years (para. 3.21). In order to assure
the reliability of financial data, new accounting systems would be in place (paras. 3.9 and
4.17). The performance of the municipal councils will be closely monitored and
evaluated as part of the process reporting on the project (para. 3.24).



-36-
Financial Performance of the National Urban Water Authority (NUWA)
4.25  The little reliable data on the financial performance of NUWA available reflect a
precarious situation. NUWA has increasingly experienced operational losses from 1987
onwards. Its billing and collection efficiency is low, which contributes to high arrears.
The debt collection problem is reflected in NUWA's financial statements through the
provision for bad debts of about 50% of gross debtors. It appears that domestic and
institutional customers are the major defaulters: only an estimated 20% of domestic
consumers pay their bills. The improvement of the billing and collection efficiency is
one of the priorities of the institution. Assurances have been obtained during negotiations
that (i) the Government will present draft legislation to the National Assembly amending
the statutes of NUWA by June 30, 1997, to (a) change its area of responsibility from all
urban areas to be solely responsible for Dar es Salaam, and (b) provide it with greater
managerial and financial autonomy to effectively manage the water supply, and ultimate
sewerage, in Dar es Salaam; (ii) NUWA will complete the implementation of the
Management Improvement Plan (para 4.26) by the time of the Mid-Term Review; and
(iii) NUWA will improve its billing and collection efficiency by at least 20% per year in
FY97 and FY98, and by 10% per year thereafter, and the average age of arrears (net of
provisions for bad debts) will not exceed 90 days by the time of the Mid-Term Review.
4.26  Conditions of disbursement for the Dar es Salaam Water Supply component"
would be that (a) the Government and NUWA will sign a subsidiary agreement, the
terms and conditions of which would be satisfactory to IDA, including, among others, an
undertaking by NUWA to submit a certified copy of audit reports of its institutional
accounts and financial statements (balance sheets, statements of income and expenses,
and related statements) to PMU within six months of the end of each fiscal year (para.
3.21), improve its billing and collection efficiency to agreed percentages (para. 4.25), and
complete the implementation of the Management Improvement Plan, acceptable to the
Association, by the time of the Mid-Term Review (para. 4.25); and (b) NUWA, with the
assistance of MOW, will submit to IDA a satisfactory Management Improvement Plan,
which, among others, will contain provisions for: staff reduction and performance
incentives; a disconnection plan for large and small metered customers and uninetered
customers; agreement with the Government on a list of customers who would not be
disconnected for failing to pay overdue bills and for whom the Government would
assume the payment responsibility; criteria, organizational responsibilities, and the timing
of tariff revision; specifics and timing of management performance improvement of the
water supply; improvement of financial management and credible financial projections;
customer verification, registration, billing, and collection (with targets); a method for
settling long overdue customer arrears; inventory management and stores keeping; phased
digitalization of the records of consumers and the network; assessment of the status of the
physical condition of the distribution network; survey of water consumption and water
The cost of this component is estimated at US$6.0 million, including contingencies, or 4.2% of total
project cost.



-37-
utilization (including for garden watering); strategy and timing for pipes and fittings
replacement; and water meter installation.
B. ECONOMIC ANALYSIS
Purpose and Methodology
4.27  The main purpose of the economic analysis of USRP is to ensure that the project
contributes to the sustainable economic development and urban poverty alleviation in
Tanzania. To pursue this objective, careful attention has been paid throughout project
preparation that the design of the project and provision for later implementation would be
conducive to this goal. The following analysis focuses on describing what were
identified as the project benefits and risks, describing first the benefits and beneficiaries
of the project, and where possible quantifying the benefits and calculating the economic
rate of return. Sensitivity analysis was carried out for the project components with
quantifiable benefits in order to identify the variables which pose the major risk to the
success of the project. Before that, however, the project impact on public finances is
assessed, since one of the most important lessons learned from project implementation is
that projects often fail because there is a delay or lack of adequate Government
counterpart funds.
Project Impact on Public Finances
4.28  The fiscal deficit exceeded 8% of GDP in FY94, due to widespread and increasing
customs duty exemptions, an increasingly inefficient tax administration, and failure of the
expenditure control system. USRP would constitute a very small portion of the
Government's core investment budget: 1.3 - 3.2 percent of the projected annual
infrastructure core investment budget and 0.3 - 0.8 percent of the projected annual total
core investment budget. Yet in absolute terms the amount required is significant. In the
case of USEP, the counterpart funds, although relatively small compared to the amounts
needed for USRP, were provided on a timely basis. The project would have a positive
impact on Government finances towards the end of project implementation, since cost
recovery by local Governments and UWSDs would relieve Central Government from a
large portion of the present transfers to the towns (paras. 4.21 to 4.23).
Project Benefits
4.29  The rehabilitation and expansion of basic infrastructure under the project would
help restore existing infrastructure to its previous capacity, institute and implement an
improved maintenance program to prevent deterioration of rehabilitated infrastructure,
and carry out selective expansions and modifications for improved performance of
infrastructure services in the eight project towns. It would include urban roads and storm
drainage, sanitation, solid waste and water supply and sewerage, and would benefit
primarily the urban and adjacent periurban populations. The current population of these
eight towns is about 1.2 million people and is estimated to grow to 2.0 million by the year



-38-
2003, the last year of project implementation. A description of the benefits for each of the
sectors to be rehabilitated follows below.
4.30 Urban Roads and Storm Drainage (US$32.7 million or 27% of total project
base cost). The benefits of rehabilitating the roads and storm water drainage in the eight
project towns and Dar es Salaam are, among others: reduction of congestion and
improvement of traffic flows; reduction in damage to vehicles and vehicle operating
costs; increase in vehicle and pedestrian safety; reduction of property damage; reduction
in loss of production; reduction of flooding and ponding which have secondary health
effects; and improvement of the environment through reduction of dust and water run-off.
A detailed cost benefit analysis of this component is shown below.
4.31  Solid Waste (US$5.1 million or 4% of total project base cost). The benefits of the
solid waste component are: a clean and improved urban environment through proper
storage, collection, transportation and disposal methods; lower costs of refuse collection;
and reduction of health risks from reduced breeding grounds for pests. The improvement
in the urban environment also has a positive economic impact, especially for tourism-
based towns.
4.32  Sanitation (US$3.7 million or 3% of total project base cost). The main benefits of
the sanitation component of the project would be: increased productivity through
reduction of sanitation related diseases; and improvement of the environment through
reduction of septic tank and latrine overflow and groundwater contamination.
4.33  Water Supply and Sewerage (US$41.9 million or 35% of total project base
cost). The beneficiaries of this component would be provided with a reliable, more
accessible, and improved and increased water supply. The benefits of rehabilitating the
water systems of the eight project towns, Dar es Salaam and Dodoma would be: (i)
reduction in water-borne morbidity and infant mortality, which would contribute to higher
labor productivity of the population; (ii) easier access to a reliable supply of safe water,
relieving women and children of the burden of fetching water; (iii) savings on money spent
on secondary water supply from vendors because of more reliable water supply from the
urban water department at lower prices; (iv) consumers' surplus to be generated from an
increase in water consumption per capita; (v) reduction in managerial inefficiency such as
administrative unaccounted-for water, excessive accounts receivable and working capital,
and increased productivity of employees; and (vi) reduction in physical unaccounted-for
water from the rehabilitation of the water supply network. A detailed cost benefit analysis
of this component is shown below.
4.34 Institutional Strengthening, Capacity Building and Future Project
Preparation (US$36.7 million or 31% of total project base cost). The institutional
strengthening and capacity building component would improve operations and planning
functions of the Municipal Councils, UWSDs, and NUWA in Dar es Salaam. The main
direct and immediate benefit of these improvements would be more efficient and reliable
services due to better management and control of the operations, which would result in an



-39-
increase in revenue collection and reduction in operating expenditures. The
implementation of the capacity building component would be monitored with clearly
defined target indicators. These components would also have a long-term positive effect
on the municipal services and on the supply of water and sewerage provision, expansion
and sustainability, and would facilitate the implementation of the rehabilitation and
expansion of the urban systems to be carried out under the project. Also included in this
component are studies to improve the water supply of the town of Dodoma, future project
preparation studies and Dar es Salaam community infrastructure upgrading. These
studies would provide the basis for future Bank assistance in the sector. The Dar es
Salaam community infrastructure upgrading would apply a "demand driven" approach
which would benefit the population of selected infrastructure deficient communities in
Dar es Salaam, serving as pilot and learning experience to be applied later in other towns.
4.35  The Sanitation, Water Supply and Sewerage components of the project will all
contribute to control of water and sanitation related diseases. In addition, better
management of human waste will result in an enhancement of the quality of environment,
and reduction of groundwater and receiving water contamination.
Cost-Benefit Analysis of the Urban Roads and Storm Drainage Component
4.36 The estimated economic rate of return (ERR) of the urban roads and storm
drainage component is 23.9 percent (Annex E, Page 1). The net present value (NPV) of
this component at a 12 percent discount rate, 5 years of implementation and 15 years of
project operation is US$ 12.9 million. The benefit/cost ratio is 1.48. Project investment
and operating costs are based on engineering studies carried out by consultants during
project preparation in accordance with agreed design standards and using recently
awarded contract costs. Project investment and operating costs are expressed in constant
1995 prices and include physical contingencies. Given the liberalization of the Tanzanian
economy, financial prices are close to economic prices, in particular with reference to the
exchange rate, interest rate and tradable commodities' prices, reflecting minimal overall
distortion of the economy. Therefore, shadow prices were not calculated and prices have
been converted into economic costs by removing taxes and duties.
4.37  The quantifiable benefits of the project component are the savings in vehicle
O&M costs as a result of the project-assisted rehabilitation investments and improved
road maintenance plan. These benefit estimates are on the low side since they do not
include congestion savings, passenger time savings, improved road safety and the impact
on economic activity and the environment of improved roads. It does not include the
health benefits of improved drainage either. The vehicle operating cost savings due to the
project have been estimated using an average of US$ 0.24 per vehicle-km for light and
medium vehicles, US$ 0.40 for heavy vehicles, and the average daily traffic per class of
vehicle on each of the roads to be rehabilitated. These vehicle operating cost savings are
due to project-induced changes in road surface conditions (from poor to good) and are
based on actual figures from the Tanzania Sixth Highway Rehabilitation Project (Cr.



-40-
1688-TA), and estimates for other African countries. Road traffic is assumed to grow at
5% per year.
Cost-Benefit Analysis of the Urban Water Supply and Sewerage Component
4.38 The estimated ERR of the water supply and sewerage component is 12.4 percent
(Annex E, Page 2). This is a modest return which does not include substantial non-
quantified benefits, including health and consumers' saving from not buying water from
other sources, such as water vendors (para. 4.39). The project stream was calculated for 4
implementation years and 20 years of project operation. The net present value of this
component at a 12 percent discount rate is US$0.7 million. The benefit/cost ratio is 1.02.
Project investment and operating costs are based on the engineering studies carried out by
consultants during project preparation in accordance with agreed design standards and
using recently awarded contract costs. Project investment and operating costs are
expressed in constant 1995 prices. Given the liberalization of the Tanzanian economy, as
explained above for the roads and drainage component, shadow prices were not
calculated and prices have been converted into economic costs by removing taxes and
duties.
4.39  The quantifiable benefits of the project component are the additional volumes of
water distributed to the final beneficiaries as a result of the project-assisted rehabilitation
and minor expansion investments. These additional volumes of water include water
saved due to reduction of unaccounted-for water from about 40 or 50% of gross
production to 25% by the year 2001. The benefits have been estimated using an average
tariff of US$0.25/m3 by 1997. This average tariff reflects the beneficiaries' willingness
to pay as expressed in the surveys undertaken by the consultants and the current average
tariff in the pilot town of Tanga, which is already at US$0.24/m3. Current tariffs in the
other towns are still at an average low US$0.09, and subsidies mostly go to the wealthy
(see poverty analysis below). In all cases, however, tariffs for standpipes are projected to
remain unchanged at US$ 0.04 / m3 so as not to increase the financial burden on the poor.
This analysis has followed a conservative approach since it has not included in the
calculation the cost savings derived by substituting previous water sources (e.g., water
sold by vendors) and health benefits, which are difficult to quantify.12 Demand
projections are based on the consultants' estimates by class of beneficiary (i.e., standpipe,
domestic, commercial, institutional and industrial).
Poverty Analysis and Impact on Women
4.40 The project would have an overall positive impact on the populations in urban and
periurban areas. The poor are likely to be major beneficiaries of the services provided by
the project investment as well as of employment generated by these investments. Many
of the civil works of the project components are labor-intensive and would provide
12 The incremental benefits of the project include the benefits from sewerage for the towns in which there
would be sewerage rehabilitation/expansion. For these towns a sewerage surcharge was included in
the water tariff, and the incremental investment and 0 & M costs include the sewerage component.



-41-
employment for unskilled labor. The Dar es Salaam Community Infrastructure
Upgrading component would support efforts already underway through the Dar
Sustainable Cities Project (GovernmentlHabitat) which focuses on community
management for solutions to urban services and environmental problems in poor
neighborhoods. Tertiary and secondary infrastructure rehabilitation and limited new
construction feeding from/or into existing primary networks (standposts, simplified
sewers, neighborhood drainage, etc.) are high-priority investments and depend heavily on
community involvement and management.
4.41  Regarding the water and sewerage component, the Tanzania Social Sector Review
showed that the highest subsidies from the Government to water consumers go to the
relatively well off: about 60% of the subsidy for private connections goes to the 20% of
the population on the top of the income distribution. Under the project financing of water
supply in six towns, new standposts would be constructed under arrangements whereby
the communities manage the standposts. A tariff revision to bring the UWSDs' finances
in line and to address this issue would be undertaken under the project. It is anticipated
that tariffs at public standpipes will remain at the current level so as not to affect the
poorest strata of the population.
4;42 The project would have an overall positive impact on women. As women have
primary responsibility for the health of their families and are often the drawers of water,
improvements in water supply and sanitation facilities would have a beneficial impact on
women. It is estimated that about 71% of households in urban centers other than Dar es
Salaam collect water from outside the home spending an average of 2.5 hours per day
(Source: Tanzania Social Sector Review). It is mostly women and children who perform
this task. They would have more time to devote to other household activities, including
those for income generation, as a result of improvements in water supply. Improved
sewerage and sanitation at the household level would lead to better health for the entire
family. Children especially would benefit since they are highly affected by water-borne
and water-washed diseases. In terms of the recent institutional reforms in the water
sector, the establishment of the Urban Water and Sewerage Boards in the first three pilot
towns all have a composition that includes roughly one third women. The UWSBs are
the management authority for the water supply and sewerage systems and those women
on the Boards play a critical role in day to day management decisions effecting women -
this is not a token representation.
C. RISK AND SENSITIVITY ANALYSIS
4.43  Overall: The main risk associated with the project is that the Government may
not be able to fully implement the institutional andfiscal reforms required for project
sustainability as identified in the Letter of Sector Policy. While a number of significant
reforms have already been undertaken under the Urban Sector Engineering Project,
(paras. 2.6 and 4. 10), the proposed project contains further assistance, performance
incentives, and institutional strengthening to central and local agencies (project towns,
UWSDs, PMO). The policy reforms contained in the implementation plan that is part of



-42-
the Letter of Sector Policy (paras. 1.27 and 1.28) aims at ensuring the availability of tax
revenues for the urban local authorities to finance municipal infrastructure O&M, as well
as for the UWSBs set tariffs and collect revenues to cover O&M costs for water supply
and sewerage. There is also the risk of delay or lack of adequate Government
counterpart funds, especially under the current extremely tight budgetary situation of
Tanzania. The Government's contribution would however constitute only a small
fraction of the projected annual infrastructure core investment budget (para. 4.28). GOT
is giving high priority to urban development and assurances have been received that
counterpart funds will be made available when needed.
4.44  Another risk is that the project towns might have insufficient incentives to
improve their performance during implementation. This risk will be mitigated through:
(i) agreed institutional and financial performance targets and monitoring arrangements;
(ii) implementation of a performance improvement plan for those that perform poorly
during the first two years of implementation; and (iii) the prospect of reallocating
investment fumds to the project towns that meet the agreed performance targets from
other towns that do not.
4.45  There is also a risk that the project towns and Dar es Salaam may be unable to
implement the minor civil works as planned. The risk would be mitigated by private
sector participation in construction and management, technical assistance to the towns'
and UWSDs' engineering departments through the Project Support Units (para. 3.5),
involvement of community-based organizations (especially in Dar es Salaam), and limits
to the size of contracts managed at the local level (para. 3.12).
4.46  Sustainability of the project is at risk if adequate O&M are not carried out.
Various financial provisions of the project are to ensure that adequate financial and
management resources will be used for O&M. Technical assistance to strengthen
capacity (paras. 3.10, 3.11, and 3.16) and enhance skills will improve the likelihood of
project sustainability.
4.47 Urban Roads and Storm Drainage: The main risks associated with the Cost-
Benefit analysis of the urban roads and storm drainage component of the project are that:
(i) vehicle operating costs savings may be smaller than estimated; (ii) the operating and
maintenance costs due to the project may be higher than the considered level; (iii)
investment costs might be higher than the estimated level; (iv) traffic may grow at a
smaller rate; and (v) the project implementation may take longer than estimated. A
sensitivity analysis has been carried out to measure the effect of these risks on the
expected returns of the project. Table 4.4 summarizes the various scenarios examined.
The base case scenario, as explained in the subsection of cost/benefit analysis, takes the
following assumptions, which are the most likely based on the available information:
vehicle operating cost savings based on per vehicle savings from Tanzania and other
African countries, as well as traffic flows in each of the roads; operating costs of US$1.4
million. per year; traffic growth of 5% per year; and 5 years of project implementation.
The switching value of the NPV for the vehicle operating costs savings was calculated.



-43-
Vehicle operating cost savings have to be about 68% of the estimated base case scenario
for the NPV to become negative. NPV becomes negative when the operating and
maintenance costs are more than 2.3 times the base case. Investment costs would have to
be 1.7 times higher than the base case, for the NPV to become negative. If traffic does
not grow during the 15 years of project operation, the ERR would drop to 19.7%. A two-
year delay in implementation (7 years instead of 5) would reduce the ERR to 22.4%.
From this analysis, it can be concluded that, given the relatively high ERR of the project,
there are no variables that pose a high risk to the roads and drainage component of the
project. There is always the risk, however, that higher operating costs or delays in
implementation would reduce the benefits of the project and therefore these variables
must be closely followed up. To mitigate these risks, technical assistance, training,
conditionalities and close monitoring would be provided.
Table 4.4: Sensitivity Analysis for Urban Roads and
Storm Drainage
Scenario                          Economic Rate of
Return, in Percent
Base Case "most likely" Scenario: VOC savings of US$ 5.8 mill.
per year; Operating Costs = US$ 1.4 mill. per year; 5% of traffic
growth per year; 5 years of project implementation               23.9
Smaller Vehicle Operating Costs Savings: VOC savings of US$ 3.9
mill. per year (about 68% of base case scenario)                 12.0
Higher Operating Costs (about 2.3 times base case): Operating
Costs = US$ 3.3 mill. per year                                   12.0
Higher Investment Costs (about 1.7 times the base case)          12.0
Lower Traffic Growth: 0% of traffic growth per year              19.7
2 Year Delay in Implementation: Implementation takes 7 instead of
5 years (and an increase in 5% in O&M costs)                     22.4
4.48  Water Supply and Sewerage: The main risks associated with the Cost-Benefit
analysis of the water supply and sewerage component of the project are that: (i)
willingness to pay might be lower than estimated; (ii) water production might not be
increased as estimated or unaccounted-for water might not be reduced to the estimated
levels; (iii) the operating and maintenance costs due to the project might be higher than
the considered level; (iv) investment costs might be higher than estimated; and (v) the
project implementation might take longer than estimated. A sensitivity analysis has been
carried out to measure the effect of these risks on the expected returns of the project.
Table 4.5 summarizes the various scenarios examined. The base case scenario, as
explained in the subsection on cost/benefit analysis, makes the following assumptions: a
tariff of US$ 0.25 per cubic meter, net billable production of 33 million cubic meters by
the year 2001, unaccounted-for-water of 25% of gross production by the year 2001,
operating costs of US$ 1.1 mill. per year, and 4 years of project implementation. If the
willingness to pay were only equal to the current tariff levels of the pilot town of Tanga,
that is US$ 0.24 per cubic meter, the ERR would be reduced to 11.6%. In the case of
water production, it would have to be increased to 98.5% of the potential billable



-44-
production or alternatively unaccounted-for-water to be reduced from its current level of
40-50% to only 33%, for the NPV to become negative. NPV becomes negative when the
O&M costs are more than 10% the base case. Investment costs would have to be 12%
higher, for the NPV to become negative'3. A 50% delay in implementation (6 years
instead of 4) reduces the ERR to 1 1.8%. From this analysis, it can be concluded that all
the variables pose high risk to the water and sewerage component of the project and that
this component therefore must be closely followed up. To mitigate these risks, technical
assistance, training, conditionalities and close monitoring would be provided. It should be
added that these economic risks are, however, lower in reality due to the fact that some
benefits of this component were not quantified (benefits from health and from not having
to pay vendors for water).
Table 4.5: Sensitivity Analysis for Water Supply and Sewerage
.         .: i i  Scenario     i            :  Economic Rate of
Scenari t    Et   :!  E  t  !         Return, ir Percent
Base Case "most likely" Scenario: Average Tariff= US $ 0.25/m3; Net
Billable Water Production = 33 mill m3, Unaccounted-for-water 25%,
Operating Costs = US$ 1.1 mill. per year; 4 years of project             12.4
implementation
Lower willingness to pay: Average Tariff to increase only to US $
0.24/m3 (same as current level of the pilot town of Tanga)              11.6
Lower Water Production: Net Billable Water Production = 33 mill m3
(if production is to increase only to 98.5% of estimated net billable water
production or unaccounted-for-water to be reduced only to 33%)          12.0
Higher Operating Costs (more than 10% the base case): Operating
Costs = US$ 1.3 mill. per year                                          12.0
Higher Investment Costs (about 12% higher than the base case)           12.0
2 Year Delay in Implementation: Implementation takes 6 instead of 4
years (50% longer implementation)                                       11.0
D. ENVIRONMENTAL IMPACT
4.49   The Project is classified as an Environmental Assessment Category B project as it
may have some specific negative environmental impacts. Limited environmental studies
were accordingly carried out with the results summarized below and further described in
Annex D. There would be no abstraction of water from an international river basin. For
the addition of a sludge collection and treatment facility to the existing sewerage
13 This risk is reduced, however, by the fact that the investment costs in the calculation already include
physical contingencies and are based on recently awarded contract costs (para. 4.38).



-45-
treatment plant in Mwanza,14 about 80 families (about 480 people) would have to be
resettled. Prior to Board presentation the Government submitted to IDA a satisfactory
resettlement plan for these families, with a schedule of compensation to be paid to the
affected population and a time-table of implementation. No other settlement is
anticipated. Assurances were obtained during negotiations that the Government will
implement the agreed resettlement plan in accordance with the time-table contained in the
plan. As a condition of disbursement for civil works for Water Supply and Sewerage in
each town Government would provide IDA with satisfactory evidence that land rights
exist for the lands to be used for this part of the project. Such evidence would consist of
(i) a land title, or (ii) a letter of offer from the Ministry of Lands, with adequate site
specifications attached, confirming that the land has been allocated to the respective
project town.
4.50  The proposed rationalization and improvements to the existing solid waste
disposal sites will require further hydrogeologic investigations to ascertain the potential
for groundwater pollution. As these are existing disposal sites and the volume of solid
waste generation and disposal is not anticipated to increase as a result of the project, the
risk of exacerbating the situation is minimal. Precautions would be required such that
any existing natural layer of impermeable material is not punctured in the process thereby
endangering the water quality of an underlying aquifer. Investigations would also be
required to determine whether leachate runoff is currently a problem or could become a
problem as a result of project activities. If so, measures would be taken to mitigate the
adverse effects of the leachate. Project financing would be used to develop new landfill
sites in Tanga and Mwanza, for which full environmental assessments are in the process
of preparation.
4.51   Special attention has been paid in design and implementation of the water supply
and sanitation improvements to mitigate negative environmental effects. Additional
abstractions would be minimal because most of the additional piped water would be
obtained through the rehabilitation of existing installations. Groundwater would be
developed for additional water withdrawals wherever there is sufficient yield and in
accordance with best hydrogeological practices. Improvements in the urban environment
in the project towns and Dar es Salaam would result from improvements in sanitation
facilities and hygiene education. The investments in sewerage collection and treatment
have been designed so that the resultant quality of the receiving waters would be within
national guidelines.
No sludge treatment is at present carried out in Mwanza. The addition of this facility in Mwanza is
considered a high priority to reduce the pollution (and nutrient) load going into Lake Victoria.



- 46 -
5. AGREEMENTS REACHED AND
RECOMMENDATION
A. AGREEMENTS REACHED
5.1   The following agreements were reached during negotiations:
(a)   Govermment will present draft legislation to the National Assembly by
Mid-Term Review, amending (i) the Water Works Ordinance to grant
management and financial autonomy to UWSDs; and (ii) the Local
Government Service Act No. 10 of 1982 and the Local Government Act
No. 23 of 1991 (paras. 1.26 and 1.28);
(b)   Government will ensure that until the completion of the project the agreed
portion of the Road Fund will be paid to the project towns on a quarterly
basis (para. 1. 19);
(c)   Government will establish and maintain until the completion of the project
a Project Steering Committee (para. 3.1);
(d)   Government will implement the project in accordance with the project
implementation plan (para. 3.2);
(e)   Government will ensure that, until completion of the project, the following
positions in each of the eight project towns' are filled with qualified
regular staff: municipal director, treasurer, municipal engineer, and head
of manpower development (para. 3.3);
(f)    Government will have the project accounts - including those relating to the
part of the project implemented by MOW and NUWA, the three Special
Accounts, and the statements of expenditure - audited and will send a
certified copy of the audit report to IDA within six months of the end of
each fiscal year (para. 3.21);
(g)   The eight project towns and nine UWSDs'6 will have their institutional
accounts audited and will send the audited accounts to PMO within six
months of the end of their FY, and PMO will send IDA a summary of the
audited accounts within ten months of the end of each fiscal year (para.
3.21);
5  The project towns are Arusha, Iringa, Mbeya, Morogoro, Moshi, Mwanza, Tabora, and Tanga.
16  UWSDs exist or will be constituted in the early part of project implementation in the 8 project towns
and Dodoma (para. 5.4).



- 47 -
(h)   NUWA will have its institutional accounts audited and furnish IDA with a
certified copy of the audit report within nine months of the end of each
fiscal year (para. 3.21);
(i)    Government will (i) furnish IDA with progress reports on the project by
February 15 and August 15 of every year, beginning February 15, 1997,
and (ii) hold an implementation review workshop by March 15 of every
year, beginning March 15, 1997 (paras. 3.24, and 3.25);
(j)    Government will carry out, jointly with IDA, a Mid-Term Review of the
project by March 31, 1999 (para. 3.26);
(k)   UWSDs in the eight project towns and Dodoma will reach a billing and
collection efficiency of 80 % of all customers by Mid-Term Review (para.
4.11);
(1)   Starting not later than 6 months after their establishment, the UWSBs in
the eight project towns and Dodoma will annually review water and
sewerage tariffs and adjust them as required to ensure that O&M costs are
recovered by the time of the Mid-Term Review (para. 4.11);
(m)   Government will present draft legislation to the National Assembly
amending the statutes of NUWA by June 30, 1997 (para. 4.25);
(n)   NUWA will complete the implementation of the agreed Management
Improvement Plan by Mid-Term Review (para. 4.25 and 4.26);
(o)   NUWA will improve its billing and collection efficiency at least by 20%
per year in FY97 and FY98, and by 10% per year thereafter, to ensure that
by Mid-Term Review the average number of days of its arrears does not
exceed 90 days (para. 4.25); and
(p)   Government will carry out the agreed resettlement program in accordance
with the plan of action and timetable that it contains (para. 4.49).
B. CONDITIONS OF CREDIT EFFECTIVENESS
5.2   The conditions of effectiveness of the credit are:
(a)   Memoranda of Understanding for project implementation have been
signed between PMO and at least five of the project towns (para. 3.2); and
(b)   Government will have selected a Project Accountant and a Senior
Procurement Specialist for the PMU (paras. 3.4 and 3.13).



- 48 -
C. CONDITIONS OF DISBURSEMENT
5.3   Conditions of disbursement for civil works for Municipal Services for any of the
eight project towns are that the town will have:
(a)   Established a PSU (para. 3.5);
(b)   Signed a Memorandum of Understanding with PMO (para. 3.9);
(c)   Introduced LAAM (paras. 3.9 and 4.17); and
(d)   Si- ifftted an acceptable Management Improvement Plan (para. 3.9 and
4.4).
5.4   Conditions of disbursement for civil works for Water Supply and Sewerage for
each town of Arusha, Dodoma, Iringa, Morogoro, Moshi, Mwanza, Tabora, and Tanga
are that:
(a)   Government has opened an urban water and sewerage recurrent
expenditure account for this town (para. 3.6);
(b)   Government has appointed an Urban Water and Sewerage Engineer in
U--,` 'D (para. 3.6);
(c)   Government has established an Urban Water and Sewerage Board and
appointed the members of the Board (para. 3.6);
(d)   Ministry of Water has signed a Memorandum of Understanding with the
UWSD concerned (para 3.6); and
(e)   Government has furnished to IDA satisfactory evidence of land rights for
the land required for this part of the project (para. 4.49).
5.5   Conditions of disbursement for civil works for Dar es Salaam Water Supply are
that:
(a)   Government and NUWA have executed a subsidiary agreement (para.
4.26); and
(b)   NUWA has furnished to IDA a satisfactory Management Improvement
Plan (para. 4.26).
D. RECOMMENDATION
5.6   Subject to the above agreements and conditions, the project is suitable for a Credit
to the United Republic of Tanzania in the amount of SDR 72.3 million (US$105.0 million
equivalent) on standard IDA terms.



ANNEXA
Page I of 10
TM tImwTn UVwtL?LI or TAPdIAXA
MbJNYv or OFWFNA
TcIegvm: 'ntA3vv'. Ohm PR XA.A                          P.O. DOE 9111,
T.Ic6bo"W. 21271.
All 0Mfli co.mmuuictions shmild I-F addr_jld
to the Prielgp1t gSarsary to the Trv.gury and
NOT to 1ndividuals).
In my plan qs:
TYC( /B/40/83                                     25th March, 1996
KW. No...............................
The President
World Bank
Washington, V.C.
USA
LETTER OF SECTOR POLICY
With regard to thc proposed Urbani Seckun Rcljdlbilitation Project, 1
forwaird to you the attached statement of ScctQr Pg!itv. in fulfillment nf
cond.;ions for board presentationi.
I would like to convey our sincere thanks and gratitudc for the work
that the ianic is iomglg to retiatulitate the Urban Sector.
Thank you for your continued cooperation and support.
Yours sincerely,
Prof. Simon M. Mbilinyi
MINISTER FOR FINANCE
cc:   Minister of State
Office of the Prime Minister
DAR ES SALAAM



ANNEX A
Page2 of 10
LETTER OF SECTOR POLICY
Background
1.    The urban population in Tanzania has been increasing well above the overall National
population growth. This rapid urbanization has created enormous pressure on the supply
of basic community services and urban infrastructure. Although responsibility for the
supply and operation of urban services has been devolved to the Urban Local
Government, this has been only partially implemented. Designation of responsibilities
between Central and Local Government, and between Local Government and utilities or
other Public Agencies, for day to day management and administration, as well as for the
design, supply and operation of urban services, and for the collection of revenues, is
diffuse to a certain extent.
2.    Consequently, coordination and accountability for both the quality of services and the
recovery of costs, is inadequate. This is exacerbated by the inability of the Local
Govermnents to generate local revenue and undertake effective financial management,
with the result that the Urban Local Authorities continued to depend on Central
Government heavy subsidy for their capital and recurrent expenditures. The impact of
inadequately defined institutional framework, unskilled manpower, insufficient resource
base, and constraints on financial management by the Local Governments, are evident in
the absence of new investments and a long-term lack of maintenance. As a result there
has been a rapid deterioration of existing urban infrastructure, and extensive erosion of
the level of services available to the expanding population.
3.    The implications of this deterioration are evident in unreliable water, transport, and solid
waste management, services to the urban-based manufacturing sector, increasingly
serious environmental pollution due to inadequate waste treatment capacities, and
impassable road networks during the rainy season.
4.    The direct costs to the economy of the poorly functioning urban infrastructure system,
combined with the loss of assets resulting from accelerating deterioration, are
substantial. Given the reliance of Urban Local Authorities on transfers from the centre,
the projected population growth in the Urban Centres will place unprecedented demands
on Government financial and manpower resources, unless urban sector management and
resource mobilization are effectively decentralized and strengthened.
5.    The Government of Tanzania recognizes that until sound financial and institutional
arrangements have been established, any capital investments in rehabilitation or
expansion of infrastructure may not yield the expected results. In response to these
constraints, therefore the Government is formulating urban policies aimed at:
(i)    Strengthening the financial management, autonomy and viability of the Urban
Local Authorities;



ANNEX A
Page 3 of 10
(ii)   Devolving responsibility and accountability to Urban Local Authorities for
supply, operation and maintenance of infrastructure and services;
(iii)   Determining establishment structures for the Urban Local Authorities that
enhance efficiency;
(iv)   Creating effective cost recovery capabilities;
(v)   Involving the Private Sector and Community Groups in provision of Urban
Services.
Objective of the Letter of Sector Policy
6.    The purpose of this letter is to confirm the position of the Tanzania Government on
Sector Policy Issues for Urban Management, Service Delivery and Infrastructure
Investment and the Program of Actions which will provide the basis of execution of the
Proposed Urban Sector Rehabilitation Programme (USRP) in the nine Urban Centres
namely Dar es Salaam, Arusha, Moshi, Tanga, Morogoro, Iringa, Mbeya, Tabora and
Mwanza.
7.    The Government has already identified Key Policy Issues on Urban Management,
Service Delivery and Infrastructure Investment. The Government of Tanzania wishes to
draw on these key policy issues to describe the main Urban Infrastructure Management
and Service Delivery as well as to outline the actions that are scheduled to be taken
during the implementation period of the proposed Programme.
Overall Government Policy Position on Urban Management, Service Delivery and
Infrastructure Investment
8.    The principal policy objectives of the Government of Tanzania are:
(i)    To create an effective institutional and financial framework for operating Urban
Infrastructure Investment, Maintenance and Service Delivery in urban centres on
a sustainable basis; and
(ii)   To create effective monitoring mechanism within the Ministry responsible for
Local Government (currently under PMO) to ensure attainments of that
sustainability.
Key Policy Issues
9.    In order to specifically address the Urban Management, Service Delivery and
Infrastructure Investment, the Government is committed to pursue Policy reforms with
regard to:
(i)   Intergovernmental Roles;
(ii)   Capacity Building;
(iii)   Local Government Finance;
(iv)   Land Management and Human Settlement Development Issues; and
(v)    Role of the Private Sector and Community Participation.



ANNEX A
Page4 of 10
Intergovernmental Roles
10.   The Role of the Central Government with respect to that of the Local Government
includes:
(i)    Formulating National Policies and Legislation;
(ii)   Providing guidance, coordination, regulations and monitoring
(iii)   performance from the National and Regional levels;
(iv)   Providing grants, subsidies and other financial assistance;
(v)    Providing technical expertise;
(vi)   Providing sector services which are of National importance.
The role of the Regional Administration
11.   The Role of Regional Administration with respect to the Urban Local Authorities
includes:
(i)    Providing technical and professional guidance and advice;
(ii)   Acting as a link to sector Ministries and other Institutions;
(iii)   Promoting timely preparations of annual budgets;
(iv)   Facilitating the securing of funds.
(Grants from Central Government)
The Role of Local Authorities
12.   Local Authorities are responsible for provision of the infrastructure and services
including; roads, drainage, solid waste, sanitation, physical planning and land use within
their jurisdiction.
Urban Services
13.   In order to expand the availability, quality of Urban Infrastructure and Services (roads,
storm water drainage, solid waste, sanitation, physical planning and land use) Urban
Local Authorities will involve participation of private sector and community groups in
planning and delivery of these services. To this effect the Government of Tanzania
supports subsector policies which include:
Water and Sewerage
*   Establishment of autonomous Water and Sewerage utilities
*   Sewerage house connection policy
Roads
*  Establishment of road funds
*  Establishment of sound institutional framework which would lead and direct the
development; maintenance and administration of roads in Urban areas to ensure
efficient, safe and affordable mobility for goods and people in the designated urban
confines.



ANNEX A
Page 5 of 10
Saottoon
*   Privatization of Sanitation Services
Capacity Building
Staffing/Training
14.   The GOT, conscious of the key role of management and staff development in
strengthening ULAs, will ensure that the following steps are taken:
(i)    Strengthen the role of the LGSC to adequately address staffing and training of
Local Authorities' Staff.
(ii)   Local Authorities staffing arrangements and procedures to follow the existing
provisions contained in the Local Govemment Service Act No. 10 of 1982 as
amended by the Local Government Act No. 23 of 1991.
(iii)   Existing Local Government training institutional to be utilized and strengthened
to undertake Local Govemment training requirements.
(iv)   Local Authorities to set aside adequate funds for training and the Central
Govemment will set aside sufficient finds to enable the LGSC to provide
training.
(v)    All key posts in the Local Authorities are manned by competent and experienced
staff.
Local Government Finance
(a)    Preparation and Approval of Budgets
15.   Govemment of Tanzania recognizes the need to rationalize and simplify the local
authorities budgeting and budget approval process to support local financing autonomy.
In this regard the Government of Tanzania will ensure that:
(i)    Local Authorities adopt Central Government three year Rolling and Forward
Budgeting.
(ii)    Approval of band of rates and tariffs with provisional approval of budget.
(b)    Revenue Base and Tax Issues
(i)    Assist Local Authorities in enforcement of local taxation.
(ii)   Ensure that there is unequivocal support of equitable and adequate local
taxation.
(iii)   Ensure that Local Authorities exercise stricter application of the existing Laws
and By-laws to attain maximum collection of revenue.
(iv)   Encourage Urban Authorities will charge special rates in areas where residents
have benefited from capital expenditure utilizing the powers contained in Urban
Rating Act, 1983 so as to enable the authorities to properly service and maintain
and fund all related activities.



ANNEX A
Page 6 of Io
(v)    Ensure that all sources of revenue due to Local Government are collected by the
maximization of revenues.
(vi)   Continue supporting and strengthening Urban Authorities property valuation and
taxation activities.
(c)    Financial Management Issues
(i)    Ensure that Local Authorities exercise sound financial management in relation to
control all expenditure and maximization of revenues.
(ii)    Ensure that a standard accounting and revenue system is instituted in all the
Local Authorities.
(d)    Financial Mechanisms
(i)    Government of Tanzania supports activities aimed at increasing Local
Authorities financial capability to enable them contribute to development
expenditure in terms of equity contributions and borrowing from the Local
Government Loans Board or other intermediary, proposals will be developed for
a review of the existing development grants. This will focus on both needs
based development requirements and incentive based "matching funds" in the
form of development grants.
(ii)    Government of Tanzania recognizes there is need for greater transparency in
flow of funds from the Centre to Local Authorities in order to enable more
effective financial planning at both levels and effective utilization of funds.
Equally, there is need for greater local accountability.
(iii)   Local Authorities shall borrow for capital expenditure if there is financial
capability to service debts.
(iv)   Funds voted for the purposes of USRP implementation be channeled directly
from the Treasury to the Project Towns.
Land Use Management
16.   The Government of Tanzania will ensure that Land Management, Human Settlement and
Environment Issues as contained in the National Land Policy currently under review
will be adopted covering the following areas:
Land Tenure
(i)    Allocation
(ii)    Access to land
(iii)   Women access to land
(iv)   Land utilization
(v)    Protection of sensitive areas
(vi)   Disposition
(vii)   Revocation
(viii)  Acquisition
(ix)   Land values



ANNEX A
Page 7 of 10
(x)    Compensation
(xi)   Land Registration
(xii)  Settlements on Alienated Lands
(xiii)  Dispute Settlement Machinery and
(xiv)  Village Titling
Survey and Mapping
(i)    Surveys
(ii)    Village demarcation
(iii)   Mapping
(iv)   Land information system
Urban and Rural Land Use Planning
(i)    Urban growth
(ii)   Extensive township boundaries
(iii)   Conflicts or statutory and customary tenure
(iv)   Unplanned settlements
(v)    Renewal of inner town/city and blighted areas
(vi)   Protection of public open spaces and other urban land
(vii)  For public use
(viii)  Urban agriculture
(ix)   Effective planning for urban development
(x)    Development of intermediate settlements
(xi)   Village land use planning
(xii)  Areas of population pressure and resettlement
Role of the Private Sector
Community Groups
17.   GOT is committed to strengthening local participation and will support developments of
community groups.
(i)    Residents will be encouraged and facilitated to fully participate in all proposed
developments in their respective urban areas and be allowed to have say in the
decision making, especially when this entails financial obligations for which
they will eventually be responsible, either by way of user charges or increased
taxation. Securing the commitments of the Residents to pay the debts through
their local Representatives.
(ii)   In enhancing urban management, all efforts to be directed to removing the
prevailing constraints between the formal and informal organizations. This will
be achieved through appreciation of the importance of local neighborhood
organization (Mitaa) in the Urban Authorities.
Contracting Services
18.   Government of Tanzania will encourage involvement of the private sector in
consultancy, construction, operation and maintenance of selected urban infrastructure



ANNEX A
Page 8 of IO
(e.g., Sewerage Systems, Solid Waste Management, Water Supply Servicing, Road
Maintenance, etc.).
Proposed Action Plan
19.   The specific time-bound actions required to enable the GOT to implement the LSP and
the agencies responsible for implementation are enclosed.



ANNEX A
Page 9 of 10
Letter of Sector Policy
Action Plan
Action/Activity                                                 Responsible Agencies        Proposed
Target
____ ___ _   __ ___ ___ D ate
Lead       2nd        3rd
1. Establish Good Governance Program                      PMO                               31/12/97
1.1 Finalize ULA Management Improvement Plans          ULAs       PMO                   31/07/96
1.2 Carry out training program for Municipal Directors  LGSC      PMO                   31/07/96
1.3 Set Management Performance Standards               PMO                               15/02/96
1.4 Establish Management Monitoring Criteria           PMO        ULA                    31/07/96
1.5 Carry out training program for ULA Management Teams   LGSC    PMO                    31/12/97
1.6 Monitor Performance                                PMO                               Ongoing
2. Review ULA Legislation to determine whether amendments  PMO        ATG                   31/12/97
are required for private sector delivery of public services, private
collection of user fees, and ownership and management of local
services by community groups.
2.1 Draft amendments as necessary.                     PMO        ATG                    30/04/97
2.2 Pass amendments as necessary.                      GOT                               31/12/97
3. Establish autonomous UWSDs under Urban Water Boards in    MW       PMO                   30/06/96
the eight regional headquarters and Dodoma.
3.1 Monitor results                                    PMO        ATG                    30/04/97
3.2 Establish UWSDs in the remaining urban centres.    GOT                               31/12/97
4. Review LGB Act 10/82 and LG Act 23/91 to identify       PMO        LGSC                  31/12/97
legislative and procedural barriers to local staffing, management
initiatives hiring and remuneration arrangements.
4.1 Draft amendments                                   PMO        ATG                    31/03/97
4.3 Pass amendments                                    GOT                               31/12/97
4.3 Remove procedural barriers                         PMO        LGSC                   31/12/97
5. Review and amend where necessary LA legislation governing    GOT   ATG        PMO        31/12/97
the division of powers and responsibilities for policy making and
executive functions in ULAs.
5.1 Consolidate prior USEP reviews of legislation       PMO                               31/06/96
5.2 Draft amendments                                    PMO        ATG                    31/12/96
5.3 Pass amendments                                     GOT                               31/12/97
6. Strengthen LGSC through internal review and executive   PMO        LGSC                  30/06/98
training opportunities.
7. Identify ULAs training budget requirements in terms of both  LGSC  ULAs       PMO        31/12/96
central (LGSC) and local (ULAs) input.
8. Identify national and regional centers of excellence in LA  PMO    LGSC                  31/12/97
training and prepare long terms plan for LA training and course
development.
9. Implement Urban Council Financial Memorandum in all     PMO        ULAs                  31/12/96
project towns.                                                      I          I          I_I



ANNEXA
Page 10 of 10
Action/Activity                                                 Responsible Agencies        Proposed
Target
______Date
Lead      2nd         3rd
9.1 Finalize implementation contracts for Arusha, Moshi,  PMO                            15/02/96
Tabora, Morogoro, Iringa and Mbeya
9.2 Mobilize Consultants                               PMO                               29/02/96
9.3 Monitor performance and compliance in the towns.   PMO                               31/12/97
10. Create procedures for a single approval process for both ULA   PMO  MOF      ULAs       30/06/97
annual budgets and annual review and adjustments of rates and
tarif3s.
I 1. Introduction of Central Government 3-year rolling and  PMO      MOF        ULAs        30/06/97
forward budgeting method in LAs.
12. Compliance with regulations regarding closing of annual  ULA     CAG        PMO         30/06/96
accounts and completion of independent audit; to conform with
the provisions of the DCA.
13. Completion of revenue data base and utilization to assist in  ULA  PMO                  31/12/96
improved revenue generation of ULAs.
14. Support ULAs to maximize Property Tax revenues.       PMO        MOF                    31/12/98
14.1 TA Support - rating and Valuation Specialist.    PMO        MOF                   31/12/98
14.2 Computerization of valuation rolls in eight regional                              31/12/97
headquarters.
14.3 Revaluation of central business districts in Arusha,                              31/12/98
Moshi, Morogoro, Iringa, Mbeya, and Mwanza
14.4 Preparation of valuation rolls in Tanga and Tabora.                               31/12/97
15. Propose a plan to create a viable financial intermediary for  PMO  MOF                  30/06/97
ULA borrowing for development projects, either by strengthening
LGLB or through other organizational means.
15.1 Implement the plan.                                                               31/03/98
16. Revision of urban plot density standards, building standards,   MLHUD   PMO  ULA        31/12/97
and standards governing provision of urban infrastructure.
17. Encourage and involve Community Groups in ULA decision   ULAs    PMO                    31/12/97
and service delivery.
18. Inform IDA on developments in Urban Land Policy.      PMO        GOT                    Ongoing
19. Govemnment to ensure that the agreed portion of the Road  PMO    GOT                    Ongoing
Fund will be made available to ULA on a timely basis.
Lqd
GOT  -  Govermnent of Tanzania      MW        -  Ministry of Water
PMO      Prime Ministry's Office   UWB        -  Urban Water Boord
LA    -  Local Autboritde          LGSC       -  Locol Government Service Commision
ULA   -  Urban Local Authority     CAG        -  Comptroller & Auditor General
MOF  -  Ministry of Finance        MLNUD         Mhistry of Land, Housing & Urban Development
ATG   -  Attorney Generl           DCA        -  Development Credit Agreement



GOT FUNDS TO LOCAL GOVERNMENT FOR RURAL AND URBAN SECTOR INVESTMENTS
(T Sh Million)
Region                       1991/92                     1992/93                      1993/94                     1994/95                     1995/96
Rural  Urban    Total   Rural  Urban    Total   Rural   Urban    Total   Rural   Urban    Total   Rural   Urban    Total
1. Arusha               127       15      142       136       35       171      121       21       142      195        66      261       43        44       87
2. Coast                 75        0        75       90        0        90       74         0       74       58         0       58        33       11       44
3.Dodoma                 41       42        83       80       20       100       61       22        83       59        35       94       36        13       49
4. Iringa                69       15        84       90        10      100       70        13       83       51        14       65        49       20       69
5. Kigoma                44       50       94        92       20       112       71       22        93       54        18       72       40        14       54
6. Kilimanjaro           60       20        80       70       39       109       62       28        90       67        34      101       43        10       53
7. Lindi                105       21       126      122       30       152      100       26       126       78        20       98        55       19       74
8. Mara                  55       14       69        66       17        83       55        14       69       40        14       54       30        11       41
9. Mbeya                110       21       131       74       44       118       63        34       97       50        26       76       75        42      117
10. Morogoro             50       25       75        74       18        92       57       20        77       45        15       60       32        13       45
11. Mtwara               48       17       65        65       15        80       50       17        67       39        13       52       29        10       39
12. Mwanza               69       46      115       101       63       164       73       63       136       41       65       106       46        34       80
13. Ruvuma               45       55       100       95       25       120       74       25        99       57       20        77       43        15       58
14. Shinyanga            91       22      113       105       31       136       85       27       112       68       20        88       55        10       66
15. Singida              41       49       90       100       25       125       77       27       104       59       22        81       45        16       61
16. Tabora               58       20       78        70       24       94        58       20        78       44        17       61       44        15       59
17. Tanga                75       55      130       118       50      168       105       34       139       74       35       109       53       29        82
18. Kagera               65       39      104       103       26      129        84       21       105       61       21        82       46        16       62
19. Dares Salaam          0      750      750         0      204      204         0      168       168        0       80        80        0       99        99
20. Rukwa                48       17       65        89       26       115       75       20        95       54       21        75       42        14       56
TOTAL            1276      1293     2569     1738       722     2462     1415       622     2037     1194       556     1750       839      456     1295
NOTE: Totals may not add up due to rounding                                                                                                                   (l !Z
IX
patl



COST ESTIMATES BY FINANCING SOURCE
(US$ Million)
GOT            IDA         GERMANY  IRELAND   NETHER-    TOTAL
Component                                                                                LANDS
Amount   %    Amount   %    Amount   %    Amount   %    Amount   %    Amount   %
A. REHABILITATION AND EXPANSION OF
INFRASTRUCTURE SERVICES
Municipal Infrastructure Services
Roads and Drainage                 8.4  21.1    31.5  78.9                                                    39.9   28.3
Sanitation                         0.6  13.9      3.7  86.1                                                    4.3    3.0
Solid Waste                        0.2   3.4      5.6  96.6                                                    5.8    4.1
Urban Water and Sewerage
Water Supply                       1.8   5.3    15.9  47.1    16.1  47.6                                      33.8   23.9
Sewerage                           1.6   9.4    15.4  90.6                                                    17.0   12.0
SubtotalRehabilitation of Services        12.6  12.5    72.1   71.5    16.1  16.0                                     100.8   71.3
B. DAR ES SALAAM
Community Upgrading Program          1.0  16.1      5.2  83.9                                                    6.2    4.4
Water Supply                                        6.0  100.0                                                   6.0    4.2
SubtotalDaresSalaam                        1.0   8.2    11.2  91.8                                                     12.2    8.6
C. INSTITUTIONALSTRENGTHENING              1.0   4.0    18.5  73.4        3.3  13.1      1.9   7.5      0.5   2.0    25.2   17.9
D. FUTURE PROJECT PREPARATION                              3.1  100.0                                                  3.1    2.2
TOTAL                                     14.6  10.3   104.9  74.3    19.4  13.8         1.9   1.3      0.5   0.3   141.3  100.0
ItT
>19
oI 
00c



COST ESTIMATES BY YEAR
(US$ Thousand)
Component                  1997     1998     1999     2000     2001     2002     2003       Total
A. REHABILITATION AND EXPANSION OF
INFRASTRUCTURE SERVICES
Municipal Infrastructure Services
Roads and Drainage              3,185.0  5,782.2  7,234.9  10,394.0  7,985.2  3,725.3  1,596.5     39,903.0
Sanitation                       402.1   1,355.8    382.8  1,028.9    805.9    201.7     86.5      4,263.7
Solid Waste                      547.3  1,719.7    488.2  1,132.9  1,458.1    324.9    139.2       5,810.3
Urban Water and Sewerage
Water Supply                    3,978.6  5,903.1  6,563.9  7,909.7  6,239.7  2,222.6    952.5     33,770.1
Sewerage                        1,739.7  2,638.1  3,366.1  4,180.8  3,356.0  1,182.6    506.8      16,970.2
Subtotal Rekabilitation of Sewices      9,852.7  17,398.9  18,035.9  24,646.3  19,844.9  7,657.0  3,281.6    100,717.3
B. DAR ES SALAAM
Community Upgrading Program        194.7  1,262.2  2,128.8  1,748.7    583.8    215.6      92.4      6,226.2
Water Supply                     1,482.2  2,286.6  1,145.0    725.6    260.0     93.4     40.0       6,032.8
Subtotal Dar es Salaam                  1,676.9  3,548.9  3,273.8  2,474.2    843.8    309.0    132.4      12,259.0
C. INSTITUTIONAL STRENGTHENING          4,701.9  6,554.8  5,786.4  4,402.2  2,382.7    962.5    412.5     25,203.0
D. FUTUREPROJECTPREPARATION              469.2    481.4    524.8    538.4    552.4    396.8    170.0       3,133.0
T 0 T A L P R O J E C T C O S T        16,700.6  27,983.9  27,621.0  32,061.2  23,623.8  9,325.3  3,996.5    141,312.3
P] z:
34 z
0
(D >,



ANNEX D
Page 1 of 2
ENVIRONMENTAL ASSESSMENT SUMMARY
Introduction
While a large portion of this project involves the rehabilitation of existing works,
there are components that would result in the construction of new infrastructure. The
Project would add environmental benefits to urban populations in eight project towns,
Dodoma, and Dar es Salaam. The focus of the works would be on drainage, disposal of
liquid wastes and some new solid waste facilities. The environmental concerns
associated with the project are (i) the effects of the project on receiving areas for the
drainage and liquid waste components, and, (ii) the siting and operation of sanitary land
fills. The project has included environmental analyses and mitigation measures for the
proposed works. Some landfill sites have not been identified, therefore site-specific
environmental analyses must be delayed until the sites have been more precisely defined.
Solid Waste Disposal Sites
The primary concern with the development of solid waste disposal sites is related
to the potential effects of leachates on surface and ground waters. For each proposed site,
environmental analysis of local hydrology and geology will be conducted to insure that
the facilities will not contaminate surface and ground water resources or allow migration
of landfill gases. Secondly, the analyses will consider the effects of access routes and
truck traffic on the roads to the sites. Thirdly, the environmental analyses will consider
elements of the landfill management plans, including sources of fill material and
containment of various categories of solid waste materials within the site. Fourthly, the
analyses will consider the effects of the proposed facility and access routes on affected
populations including meaningful two-way dialogue with these populations. Lastly the
analyses will identify all involuntary resettlement and compensation issues in a four point
strategy. The four points are: (i) identification of affected people with a baseline survey;
(ii) a proposed resettlement/compensation plan agreed with the affected people; (iii) a
budget for implementing the plan; and, (iv) a proposed time frame.
Drainage and Liquid Wastes
The receiving areas will have a site analysis to insure that the discharges will not
produce unnecessary adverse environmental or social effects and that the discharges will
not compromise existing domestic water supplies. The need for siting a sludge treatment
ponds in Mwanza adjacent to the existing sewage treatment facility was identified after
project appraisal. This would necessitate involuntary resettlement of about 80 families
(about 480 people; para 4.49). A resettlement site belonging to the Municipal Council
has been identified and an adequate resettlement plan conforming to the Bank's
Guidelines for Involuntary Resettlement has been submitted by GOT. In accordance with
the guidelines, the project would finance preparation of the new site involving provision
of basic infrastructure (water supply, sanitation, roads and drainage). The Municipal
Council would provide adequate compensation and assistance to the affected people.



ANNEX D
Page 2 of 2
Actions
The Prime Minister's Office in collaboration with the Department of Environment
and the municipalities concerned will conduct or contract the environmental analyses for
each proposed solid waste site. At a minimum, these studies will address leachate and
gas management, erosion control, adequate provision of daily, intermediate and final soil
cover material, access routes and records of consultations with affected population.
Copies of the reports and a description of the consultative process followed will be
forwarded to the World Bank for review. Copies of these reports will be made available
to the public for their review.
For drainage and liquid waste components, the Ministry of Water in consultation
with the municipalities concerned will prepare or contract brief project descriptions
covering hydrology and geology of the receiving area, effects on existing water resources
and records of consultations with affected populations. These descriptions will be
available for review by World Bank supervision missions. Copies should also be
available for review by the local population.



ANNEX E
Page 1 of 2
COST/BENEFIT ANALYSIS OF URBAN ROADS AND STORM DRAINAGE
(1995 US$ Thousand)
Fiscal     VOC           Total      Project  Incremental   Total          Net
Year      Savings    Incremental Incremental   O&M    Incremental Incremental
Due to Project   Benefits  Investment    Costs       Costs      Benefits
1997              60           60        267      2             269          -209
1998            1,673       1,673       7,116    344           7,460        -5,787
1999           3,113        3,113       6,352    666           7,018        -3,905
2000            3,841       3,841       3,214    1,079         4,293          -452
2001            5,783       5,783       8,570    1,405         9,975        -4,192
2002            6,072       6,072               1,475          1,475         4,597
2003            6,376       6,376               1,549          1,549         4,827
2004            6,695       6,695               1,627          1,627         5,068
2005            7,029       7,029               1,708          1,708         5,321
2006            7,381       7,381               1,793          1,793         5,588
2007            7,750       7,750               1,883          1,883         5,867
2008            8,137       8,137 .             1,977          1,977         6,160
2009            8,544       8,544               2,076          2,076         6,468
2010            8,972       8,972               2,180          2,180         6,792
2011            9,420       9,420               2,289          2,289         7,131
2012            9,891       9,891               2,403          2,403         7,488
2013           10,386      10,386               2,523          2,523         7,862
2014           10,905      10,905               2,650          2,650         8,255
2015           11,450      11,450               2,782          2,782         8,668
2016           12,023      12,023               2,921          2,921         9,102
Net Present Value            39,853      17,338   9,651         26,988        12,865
Economic Rate of Return                                                       23.9%
Benefit/Cost ratio                                                              1.48
Main Assumptions:
Discount rate: 12%
Growth in traffic: 5% per year
Real Exchange Rate: constant at T Sh 550 = US $ 1
Project implementation: 5 years
Nature of Benefits:
Savings from vehicle operating cost reduction
Savings in maintenance costs
Congestion savings, passenger time savings, improved road safety, positive impact on economic activity and
the environment (not quantified)



ANNEX E
Page 2 of 2
COST/BENEFIT ANALYSIS OF WATER SUPPLY AND SEWERAGE
(1995 US$ Thousand)
Without    With   Increm.  Increm.   Total   Incre-    Incre-    Incre-  Incremental
Fiscal  Project   Project   Project  Project  Increm.  mental   mental    mental           Net
Year  Benefits,  Benefits, Benefits, Benefits,  Project  O&M   Investment Project   Benefits
Water    Water    Water  Sewerage Benefits   Cost           Cost       Cost
1997      1350       4052     2702         0      2702        0       5537      5537        -2835
1998      1215       4430     3215         0      3215      156      19633    19789        -16574
1999       1215      4829     3613         0      3613      663      10884    11547         -7933
2000       1215      5400      4185      1139     5324    1073        8567      9640        -4316
2001       1215      6087      4872      1511     6383    1149                  1149         5234
2002       1215      6087      4872      1511     6383    1149                   1149        5234
2003       1215      6087      4872      1511     6383    1149                  1149         5234
2004       1215      6087      4872      1511     6383    1149                   1149        5234
2005       1215      6087      4872      1511     6383    1149                  1149         5234
2006       1215      6087      4872      1511     6383    1149                   1149        5234
2007       1215      6087      4872      1511     6383    1149                   1149        5234
2008       1215      6087      4872      1511     6383    1149                   1149        5234
2009       1215      6087      4872      1511     6383    1149                   1149        5234
2010       1215      6087      4872      1511     6383    1149                   1149        5234
2011       1215      6087      4872      1511     6383    1149                   1149        5234
2012       1215      6087      4872      1511     6383    1149                  1149         5234
2013       1215      6087      4872      1511     6383    1149                   1149        5234
2014       1215      6087      4872      1511     6383    1149                   1149        5234
2015       1215      6087      4872      1511     6383    1149                   1149        5234
2016       1215      6087      4872      1511     6383    1149                   1149        5234
2017       1215      6087      4872      1511     6383    1149                   1149        5234
2018       1215      6087      4872      1511     6383    1149                  1149         5234
2019       1215      6087      4872      1511     6383    1149                  1149         5234
2020       1215      6087      4872      1511     6383    1149                   1149        5234
Net Present V'alue                                 41,232    6,734     33,786   40,520          712
ERR                                                                                           12.4%
Benefit/Cost ratio                                                                              1.02
Main Assumptions:
Discount rate: 12%; Real Exchange Rate: constant at T Sh 550 = US$1
Growth in demand: 0% per year (once capacity is re-established in the year 2001, by which time the
implementation of this component is expected to be completed)
Growth in real prices of output: Tariffs to be increased from US$0.9-0.24 per cubic meter to S$0.25 by the
year 2001
Net Billable Water Production increase from 23 million m3 to 33 million m3 per year by the year 2001
Unaccounted for water to be gradually reduced from 40-50% to 25% by the year 2001
Nature of Benefits:
Consumers' surplus from more water available and improved sewerage due to the project
Health benefits (not quantified);
Savings to consumers from not buying from vendors (not quantified)
Improved technical, financial, planning and administrative capacity of the eight Regional Centers (not
quantified)



ANNEX-F
Page I of 1
CONSULTING SERVICES AND TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE
Type of                    Scope                 No. of Individual Consulting   No. of Contracts
Assignment                                                   Contracts              with Firms (1)
National    International
Project Support    One in each Project Town                                           8 (each composed
Unit                                                                                of 2-3 national
consultants)
Construction       Group of Project Towns:
Supervision
(for Water Supply    (i) Arusha, Moshi and Tanga                                              I
and Sewerage ICB
Contracts)           (ii) Morogoro and Iringa                                                 I
(iii) Tabora and Mwanza                                                 I
Design             Dodoma Water Supply                                                        I
Tabora Water Supply                                                        I
Mbeya Water Supply                                                         I
Dar es Salaam Community                                                    I
Infrastructure
Studies            Dar es Salaam (Water Supply and                                            I
Environmental Management)
PMU (Future Urban Project                                                 2
Preparation)
Technical          PMU- Implementation Support             2              3
Assistance for Projct
Implementation     MOW - Implementation Support            2              1
NUWA - Financial Specialist                            1
Training           Local Government Service                4              2
Commission
* Contracts with firms could include one or several assignments



ANNEX G
Page lof 1
ESTIMATED SCHEDULE OF DISBURSEMENTS
Fiscal Year Ending        Disbursements             Cumulative Disbursements
(US$ Million)             US$ Million       Percent
Fiscal Year 1996/97
December 31                   2.2                  2.2                   2.1
June 30                       4.1                  6.3                   6.0
Fiscal Year 1997/98
December 31                   5.5                 11.8                  11.2
June 30                       7.2                 19.0                  18.1
Fiscal Year 1998/99
December 31                   8.8                 27.8                  26.5
June 30                       9.1                 36.9                  35.1
Fiscal Year 1999/2000
December 31                  10.3                 47.2                  45.0
June 30                      10.7                 57.9                  55.1
Fiscal Year 2000/01
December 31                  10.7                 68.6                  65.3
June 30                      10.9                 79.5                  75.7
Fiscal Year 2001/02
December 31                   8.4                 87.9                  83.7
June 30                       7.2                 95.1                  90.6
Fiscal Year 2002/03
December 31                  4.5                  99.6                  94.9
June 30                       2.7                102.3                  97.4
Fiscal Year 2003/04
December 31                   1.9                104.2                  99.2
June 30                       0.8                105.0                 100.0



ANNEX H
Page 1 of I
SUPERVISION PLAN AND STAFF INPUT
1.    The Borrower's supervision activities would be carried out by the Prime Minister'
Office (PMO), the Ministry of Water (MOW), and the National Urban Water Authority
(NUWA). The PMO would coordinate project implementation with the local authorities
and MOW would do likewise with the Urban Water and Sewerage Departments
(UWSDs). Their supervisory functions would involve the following:
(a)   initial review, recording, and forwarding of:
(i)   all procurement orders,
(ii)   all disbursement requests,
(iii) special accounts expenditures/reimbursements,
(b)   preparation of an annual project implementation budget,
(c)   preparation of bidding and other project contract documents,
(d)   preparation of monthly financial statements,
(e)   preparation of semi-annual progress reports to IDA in February/March of
each year on all aspects of project implementation,
(f)   preparation of annual project accounts,
(g)   monitor key performance indicators,
(h)   arranging for the annual audits of project accounts and SOEs, and
(i)   liaising with all Bank supervision missions.
2.    In addition to the regular supervision mission to be carried out by IDA in
accordance with the schedule set out below, IDA staff would spend time at headquarters
on dealing with correspondence, reviewing and commenting on procurement documents,
disbursement requests, half-yearly reports and audited accounts. The amount of time
estimated is as follows:
HQ Tim             Field Time         Total Time
Project Year 1            8 sws              25 sws              33 sws
Project Year 2            8 sws              20 sws              28 sws
Project Year 3            7 sws              23 sws              30 sws
Project Year 4            7 sws              21 sws              28 sws
Project Year 5            5 sws              21 sws              26 sws
Project Year 6            5 sws              21 sws              26 sws
3.    Mid-Term Review by the PMO, MOW, NUWA, and IDA would be held not later
than March 31, 1999. The terms of reference and background papers for the review
would be prepared by the responsible Government agencies, coordinated by PMO, with
IDA staff assistance as may be necessary. The principal objective of the implementation
review would be to examine the status of implementation of the project, progress in
procurement, disbursements, construction and institutional and policy reforms. It would
also include a review of quantitative and qualitative outputs anticipated from the project.



ANNEXI
Page 1 of 3
URBAN SECTOR REHABILITATION PROJECT
KEY PERFORMANCE INDICATORS
Because the Urban Sector Rehabilitation Project (USRP) aims at municipal
management improvements in the project towns in addition to the physical investments in
infrastructure, it has two kinds of performance indicators, those measuring project
performance and those measuring management performance. The former are concerned
primarily with the progress of improvements in physical infrastructure through the
project, the latter with improved technical and financial management in the
municipalities. Since the project would be carried out in eight project towns (Arusha,
Iringa, Mbeya, Morogoro, Moshi, Mwanza, Tabora, and Tanga), Dar es Salaam and
Dodoma, separate measurements in each town would be taken on a standard set of
indicators on annual basis. The performance indicators for project performance are shown
on page 3; those for management performance are contained in the Project
Implementation Plan (PIP).
PROJECT PERFORMANCE INDICATORS - SEE PAGE 3
The Project performance indicators are meant to gauge the progress of project
implementation through monitoring the state of infrastructure services in each town. The
indicators would show how the project performs over time and will enable corrective
measures to be taken in the management of the implementation of the project in each
town. The Project Support Unit, the construction supervision consultants, the town
councils, and the Urban Water and Sewerage Departments in each town would be
responsible for periodically taking measurements of the specific performance indicators
that they are responsible for and providing the information to PMO in time for the bi-
annual reporting. The information would then be analyzed and compiled in a suitable
format for the reports which are due February 15 and August 15 every year (para. 3.24).
The specific organizational responsibilities for measuring and reporting on the various
project indicators are contained in the PIP. Standard reporting formats will be agreed on
before the submission of the first progress report. The reported progress on the project
indicators would be reviewed during the annual implementation review workshop (para.
3.24) and during the Mid-Term Review (para. 3.26), and corrective measures for project
implementation will be agreed on and subsequently implemented.
MANAGEMENT PERFORMANCE INDICATORS - SEE PIP
Management performance indicators are intended to assist in the assessment of
progress regarding the institutional reforms and capacity building efforts in each of the
municipalities and Urban Water and Sewerage departments. These indicators focus in
two areas, institutional and financial. Specific indicators and "base case" and target
figures were agreed on during the "technical discussions" at the time of negotiations and
are included in the PIP. A town that does not meet the agreed performance targets in a
review period would not be eligible to enter into further agreements for civil works
construction and would have to prepare a performance improvement plan (para. 3.9).



ANNEX I
Page 2 of 3
Similarly to the project performance indicators, the organization responsibility for
measuring each of the indicators periodically and reporting on them during the reporting
periods (see above) will be specified in the PIP. The management performance indicators
can be further broken down into those for institutional and for financial management.
Institutional. For the purpose of monitoring management performance of each
municipal council and the UWSD, a set of indicators which will compare the present
situation with the situation during project implementation as well as comparing the towns
with each other will be used. A table called "Comparators" is included in the PIP where
the indicators and their interpretations are discussed in detail. The implementation
performance indicators are meant to monitor the institutional strengthening and capacity
building efforts envisaged under the project
Financial
The financial performance will be monitored with each projected revenue and
expenditure item in the financial analysis tables serving as a target to be attained for each
town for both the municipal councils and the UWSDs. This is also included and
explained in the PIP. Other indicators of accountability and capacity are meant to
complement the financial performance indicators.



ANNEXI
Page 3 of 3
TANZANIA
URBAN SECTOR REHABILITATION PROJECT
Project Performance Indicators
Town:_
A. WATER SUPPLY & SEWERAGE
- Frequency of UWSB regular meetings
- Annual review of costs and tariffs
- Quantity of water produced (Mm3/yr)
- Quantity of billable water (Mm3/yr)
- Unit cost of water produced
- Total No. of connections
- No. of new water connections
- No. of metered connections in working order
- No. of kiosks
- Cost of 20 liter jerry can of water by vendor
- Unaccounted-for-water (%)
- No. of staff per 1000 connections
- Percentage of population served (%) by institutional connection, household
connection, yard tap, and stand post
- Average hours of service per day
- No. of sewerage house connections
- Sewerage service coverage (%)
- Percent of project funds disbursed for (i) water supply, (ii) sewerage
B. ROADS, DRAINAGE & URBAN TRANSPORT
- Km of roads rehabilitated
- Km of rehabilitated drains cleaned annually
- No. of rehabilitated culverts cleaned annually
- No. of traffic signs installed annually
- No. of traffic accidents aggregated (fatal, injuries, property damages)
- Kms. of segregated lanes for Non-Motorized Transport per 1000 inhabitants.
- Kms. of sidewalks rehabilitated
- Percent of project funds disbursed for roads
C. SOLID WASTE
- Frequency of review of costs and tariffs
- Solid waste generated annually (tons)
- Annual collection (tons)
- Percentage of solid waste collected
- No. of private service providers
D. SANITATION
- No. of vacuum tankers in working condition
- No. of daily trip/vacuum tanker
- Frequency of tariff review
- No. of private service providers



ANNEX J
Page I of 1
PROJECT FILE DOCUMENTS
1.   Project Monitoring Unit (PMU) - Progress and Implementation Reports (September 1993- March
1995).
2.   Institutional Working Group (IWG) Outputs (March- September 1992).
3.   DEVCO Ireland: Institutional Strengthening Program Study (April 1994)
4.   Financial Working Group (FWG) Outputs (September 1992).
5.   Technical Working Group (TWG) Outputs:
Phase 1:
Part I: Survey and Diagnostic Analysis (September 1992)
Part 11: Strategic Integrated Infrastructure Development Project (SIIDP)
(December 1992)
Phase I:
TWG Phase 2 Package 1: Arusha, Moshi, Tanga, Morogoro, and Iringa
Studies by M/S Howard Humphreys and Partners Ltd. UK (April 1994-
March 1995).
TWG Phase 2 Package 2: Mwanza, Tabora and Mbeya Studies by M/S
COWlconsult, Consulting Engineers and Planners AS Denmark. (January
1995- May 1995).
6.     Local Government Accounting and Revenue Implementation Systems, by M/S Insignia
Management Consultants Ltd. (November 1993 - December 1994).
7.     Short-term Specialist Outputs:
7.1 Analysis of Affordability and Willingness to Pay Study ( March 1993)
7.2 The Urban Housing Sector in Tanzania: Analysis of the Urban Housing Survey Study
(September 1991).
7.3 Government Policy Framework for Urban Development, Service Delivery and
Infrastructure Investment (April 1994).
7.4 Land Management Study -ARDHI Institute
8.     Mapping Component
a)   Topographic Mapping of Nine Project towns (June 1994)
b)   Extended Strengthening Program: Survey and Mapping Department, MLHUD (October 94
- July 1995).
9.     Valuation Component:
a)   Valuation of Eight Municipalities: Report by Rating and Valuation Advisor (February 93 -
January 1994).
b)   Dar es Salaam Valuation: Dar es Salaam Valuation Officer Reports.



130'                                                  135D.   3,' , ,_            6                        30'                        '0
(  / '                           v fi   i  Musom'ric -                                                  The boundoies colors,
7'  /                          j.~~~~~~~~~~~~Musoma                                                       - t   -dl
-ukoba                                   "-.                                           other iformotion showi-
0  his map do  o
RWANDA         /              ,                                                              KENYA                -y pldg-t. on the lolg
g , r ' ^ ^; *           \                             or any endo se-nenth
Mv.wnz                                 boundaries
BURUNDI   g  -                                                                       ArushMh>\
-.               S ,f  0* hinyonga
K~~~_~~~oa~
Tabora                -   Singida,
QOango'
ZAIRE                       '                                    "-n---l.o
DODCOA *_n 1bar 6,-
Dar Es
TANZAN IAeL .     -ogorf                                     .INDIAN
Lake        iRsrur
Tanganyikar                                                                            oR- I
*POETTWSum  a@)  REGION CAPITALSit BSoringao
Mbeya      ~/,,OCEAN
TANZANIA
URBAN SECTOR REHABILITATION PROJECT                                                                                               Lindt~
PROJECT TOWNS.                                                                              ssps                     Var
*PROJECT TOWNS             jg1  REGION CAPITALS                      '!Soogeo
MAIN ROADS                   NATIONAL CAPITAL                                                                        y p                    w
>                    t   RAILROADS                     REGION BOUNDARIES
RIVERS                       INTERNATIONAL BOUNDARIES        0_1_
On -,1                                        3,                                                 36  '-'>             -    1R   tOZAMBIQU                   \         x









IMAGING
Report No:      15125 TA
Type: SAR



