                                     Document of
                                   The World Bank




                                                                     Report No: 32225




                       IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
                       (PPFI-P9020 PPFI-P9021 IDA-28670 TF-23043)

                                         ON A

                                        CREDIT

         IN THE AMOUNT OF SDR 72.3 MILLION (US$105.0 MILLION EQUIVALENT)

                                        TO THE

                           UNITED REPUBLIC OF TANZANIA

                                        FOR THE

                       URBAN SECTOR REHABILITATION PROJECT




                                      June 7, 2005




Water and Urban 1
Tanzania & Uganda Country Department
Africa Regional Office

                            CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS

                    (Exchange Rate Effective December 31, 2004)

                             Currency Unit = Tanzania Shillings
                                      Tsh 1 = US$ 0.0010
                                     US$ 1 = Tsh 1050



                                   FISCAL YEAR
                                 July 1   -   June 30


                       ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS

CAS       Country Assistance Strategy
CIP       Community Infrastructure Program
CIUP      Community Infrastructure Upgrading Program
DAWASA    Dar es Salaam Water and Sewerage Authority
GoT       Government of Tanzania
IDA       International Development Association
ICR       Implementation Completion Report
ISS       Institutional Strengthening Strategy
KfW       Kredit Anstalt fur Wiederaufbau
MC        Municipal Council
NSGRP     National Strategy for Growth and Reduction of Poverty
O & M     Operation and Maintenance
PHRD      Policy and Human Resources Development
PICU      Project Implementation and Coordination Unit
PIU       Project Implementation Unit
PMU       Project Management Unit
PMO       Prime Minister's Office
PO-RALG   President's Office Regional Administration and Local Government
QAG       Quality Assurance Group
QSA       Quality of Supervision Assessment
SAR       Staff Appraisal Report
USEP      Urban Sector Engineering Project
USRP      Urban Sector Rehabilitation Project
UWSA      Urban Water and Sewerage Authority




                            Vice President:    Gobind T. Nankani
                         Country Director:     Judy M. O'Connor
                           Sector Manager:     Jaime M. Biderman
                        Task Team Leader:      Solomon Alemu

                                             TANZANIA
                       URBAN SECTOR REHABILITATION PROJECT


                                            CONTENTS




                                                                                 Page No.
   1. Project Data                                                                    1
   2. Principal Performance Ratings                                                   1
   3. Assessment of Development Objective and Design, and of Quality at Entry         2
   4. Achievement of Objective and Outputs                                            7
   5. Major Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcome                            17
   6. Sustainability                                                                20
   7. Bank and Borrower Performance                                                 21
   8. Lessons Learned                                                               23
   9. Partner Comments                                                              24
   10. Additional Information                                                       24
   Annex 1. Key Performance Indicators/Log Frame Matrix                             25
   Annex 2. Project Costs and Financing                                             27
   Annex 3. Economic Costs and Benefits                                             32
   Annex 4. Bank Inputs                                                             43
   Annex 5. Ratings for Achievement of Objectives/Outputs of Components             45
   Annex 6. Ratings of Bank and Borrower Performance                                46
   Annex 7. List of Supporting Documents                                            47
   Annex 8. Borrowers Contribution                                                  48



MAP

IBRD No. 26878

Project ID: P002758                                                  Project Name: Urban Sector Rehabilitation Project
Team Leader: Solomon Alemu                                           TL Unit: AFTU1
ICR Type: Core ICR                                                   Report Date: June 7, 2005


1. Project Data
                   Name: Urban Sector Rehabilitation Project                      L/C/TF Number: PPFI-P9020; PPFI-P9021;
                                                                                                     IDA-28670; TF-23043
   Country/Department: TANZANIA                                                            Region: Africa Regional Office

        Sector/subsector: General water, sanitation and flood protection sector (48%); Roads
                            and highways (30%); Central government administration (11%);
                            Sub-national government administration (11%)
                  Theme: Access to urban services and housing (P); Municipal finance (P);
                            Municipal governance and institution building (P); Other financial
                            and private sector development (S); Participation and civic
                            engagement (S)


  KEY DATES                                                                  Original               Revised/Actual
           PCD: 12/07/1994                                     Effective: 08/23/1996                05/06/1997
     Appraisal: 04/24/1995                                         MTR: 03/01/1999                  03/01/1999
      Approval: 05/23/1996                                      Closing: 06/30/2004                 12/31/2004



    Borrower/Implementing Agency:          GOVT/PRESIDENT'S OFFICE - REGIONAL AND LOCAL GOVERNMENTS
                      Other Partners:

STAFF                           Current                                        At Appraisal
Vice President:                 Gobind T. Nankani                              Callisto E. Madavo
Country Director:               Judy M. O'Connor                               James W. Adams
Sector Manager:                 Jaime M. Biderman                              Stephen Weissman
Team Leader at ICR:             Solomon Alemu                                  Gerhard Tschannerl
ICR Primary Author:             Solomon Alemu; Ephrem Asebe


2. Principal Performance Ratings

(HS=Highly Satisfactory, S=Satisfactory, U=Unsatisfactory, HL=Highly Likely, L=Likely, UN=Unlikely, HUN=Highly Unlikely,
HU=Highly Unsatisfactory, H=High, SU=Substantial, M=Modest, N=Negligible)

                           Outcome:        S
                      Sustainability:      L
   Institutional Development Impact:       SU
                 Bank Performance:         S
            Borrower Performance:          S


                                                      QAG (if available)             ICR
                                  Quality at Entry: S                                S
                     Project at Risk at Any Time: No

3. Assessment of Development Objective and Design, and of Quality at Entry

3.1 Original Objective:

The Urban Sector Rehabilitation Project (USRP) consisted of a large program of infrastructure
rehabilitation works and institutional reform activities covering eight project towns in Tanzania (Arusha,
Iringa, Morogoro, Mbeya, Moshi, Mwanza, Tabora, and Tanga) as well as Dodoma and Dar-es Salaam.
The investments in Dodoma and Dar es Salaam were of limited scope and complexity compared to those in
the other eight towns. The project became effective on May 6, 1997 and closed on December 31, 2004.

The project objectives were sustainable economic development and urban poverty alleviation through:

(a)      rehabilitation of the basic infrastructure and expansion into high priority, under-served areas, and

(b)      improvement of urban local government management and financing capacity by (i) strengthening
         the financial, technical and overall operations of the urban local authorities through training and
         technical assistance, and (ii) encouraging private sector and community involvement in urban
         services delivery and operation and maintenance.

The project concept was based both on Government Policy Framework for Urban Management, Service
Delivery and Infrastructure Investment and an Implementation Strategy for that framework prepared on
the basis of urban sector policy reform undertaken under a prior project, the Urban Sector Engineering
Project (USEP) (Credit 2291-TA). The USEP project closed on December 31, 1996 and its outcome was
rated as satisfactory. The strategy was well thought out based on extended consultation, and provided an
assessment of the issues anticipated in every phase of the project cycle and a solid foundation for the design
of the USRP.

The project was complex relative to the country's capacity at the time of its inception. The available
manpower and the implementation environment were viewed as major constraints. However, on the
brighter side, extensive macroeconomic and civil service reforms were made during and prior to the project
launch. The GOT had also developed a strategy for raising additional revenues through improvement in
tax system efficiency and administrative capacity, including better expenditure planning and control,
standardized budgeting and accounting system. USEP helped implement this policy through updating of
property valuation and tax system and establishment of an improved standard accounting system through
the Local Authorities Accounting Manual (LAAM) and tested it in two project towns and Dar es Salaam.
The USRP design envisaged roll out of the LAAM in the remaining six project towns.

The project objectives were consistent with the IDA Country Assistance Strategies (CAS) issued since
1994. The CAS discussed by the IDA Executive Directors prior to the launching of the project in March
1994 focused on: (i) poverty alleviation through policy reforms and economic growth; (ii) targeted
intervention to improve urban services for the poor; and (iii) upgrading and expansion of basic
infrastructure and urban services. The project objectives were in line with the three primary thematic
objectives of IDA contained in the CAS of (i) capacity building and improved public sector management,
(ii) private sector development, and (iii) environmental sustainable investments.

The 1997 CAS also focused on supporting: (i) critical link between economic growth and poverty
reduction; (ii) targeting interventions to improve urban services for the poor; (iii) upgrading and expansion
of basic infrastructure and urban services; (iv) reinforce the growth oriented macroeconomic reforms
introduced by the newly elected government; and (v) the need to respect and foster government ownership
of both macroeconomic reforms and investment programs. The project objectives were also supportive of



                                                      - 2 -

FY2001-2003 CAS, the period of major USRP implementation, which also focused on higher growth,
poverty reduction, and institutional reforms to improve governance and service delivery, which provided a
favorable implementation environment for USRP.

In addition, the physical and institutional project objectives are in line with current Government of
Tanzania National Strategy for Growth and Reduction of Poverty (NSGRP), also known as MKUKUTA
in Swahili, with its three cluster goals of: (i) growth and income poverty reduction; (ii) improvement of
quality of life and social well being; and (ii) governance. The benefits of the USRP are likely to reinforce
these three desired broad outcomes.

3.2 Revised Objective:

The Project development objectives were not revised. The Mid-Term Review undertaken in March 1999
confirmed the relevance of the development objectives. However, they would have been better stated as
"contributing" towards sustainable economic development and urban poverty alleviation through elements
(a) and (b) noted in 3.1 above, since a single project could at best only make a modest contribution towards
economic growth and poverty alleviation.

3.3 Original Components:

The project (US$141.3 million equivalent (US$120.1 million base cost and US$21.2 million
contingencies)) consisted of the following four components in eight project towns of Arusha, Iringa,
Mbeya, Morogoro, Moshi, Mwanza, Tabora, and Tanga, plus Dodoma, and Dar es Salaam. These were
(SAR costs estimates indicated below are base costs):

A.      Rehabilitation and select expansion of infrastructure services in the eight project towns and
        Dodoma (US$83.4 million, 68%). This included:

        (i)       Municipal infrastructure and services ­ rehabilitation and expansion of priority
                  infrastructure (US$41.5 million, 34%)

                  ·   roads, storm water drainage (US$32.7 million, 27.%): rehabilitation of key arterial
                      and collector roads to bitumen standard, improving and building new bus stands, and
                      rehabilitation of municipal workshops;

                  · sanitation (US$3.7 million, 3%): establishment of an improved pit latrine program,
                      schools latrine construction, and provision of vehicles and equipment for strengthening
                      pit latrine and septic tank emptying capacity;

                  ·   solid waste management (US$5.1 million, 4%): provision of skips and vehicles for
                      communal refuse collection and transportation in the eight project towns; improvement
                      of existing dumpsite and access roads and construction of new ones where needed.

        (ii)      Water Supply and Sewerage (US$41.9 million, 34%)

                  · Water Supply (US$28.0 million, 22%): rehabilitation and selected expansion of the
                      water supply systems in the towns of Arusha, Dodoma, Morogoro, Moshi, Tabora,
                      and Tanga

                  · Sewerage (US$13.9 million, 12%): rehabilitation of sewerage systems in Arusha,
                      Morogoro, Moshi, Mwanza, Tabora, and Tanga, and new construction of system in
                      Iringa; and construction of sludge treatment ponds in these project towns.



                                                       - 3 -

B.       Dar es Salaam Community-based infrastructure upgrading program and water supply (US$10.8
         million, 9%);

         (i)      Community-based Infrastructure Upgrading Program (US$ 5.2 million, 4%):
                  demand-driven community infrastructure program in selected infrastructure deficient
                  settlements consisting primarily of local distributor roads, access roads, storm water
                  drains, sewer laterals and connections and tertiary distribution of water supply.

         (ii)     Dar es Salaam Water supply (US$ 5.6 million, 5%): to assist maintenance of services,
                  provide urgently needed equipment, spare parts, fittings, installation of meters, leak
                  detection and repair and replacement of water mains; Technical Assistance (TA) to
                  management, and studies to develop future source water supply.

C.        Institutional Strengthening (US$23.1 million, 19%) - consisting of:

         (i)      Technical Assistance to Municipal Councils (MCs) and Urban Water and Sewerage
                  Authorities (UWSAs): TA for property valuation in the 8 project towns and the three
                  municipalities of Dar es Salaam (Kinondoni, Ilala and Temeke).

         (ii)     Training: Management training for senior MC and UWSA staff; technical training for
                  technical staff; training for economists, valuers and IT training for senior and middle
                  management, technical and secretarial staff.

         (iii)    Provision of maintenance-related goods and equipment for: MCs for road maintenance,
                  and UWSAs for maintenance of water supply and sewerage systems.

D.       Future project preparation (US$2.8 million, 2%):

         (i)      Feasibility studies and detailed design for water supply and sewerage expansion studies for
                  the towns of Dodoma, Morogogo, and Tabora; and

         (ii)     Support to the preparation of a future urban community based project.


Assessment of Components

The project components, prepared over an extended period of consultation, were aligned with the
achievement of the project objectives. Initially financed under the Urban Sector Engineering Project (Cr.
2291-TA), substantial institutional, financial and technical preparatory work was carried out to define the
policies and guidelines for project design and implementation. The preparatory work was also supported
through additional funds from PHRD grant (Japanese Government) and a Project Preparatory Facility
advance (PPF No. 902-TA). Overall the design of the components was closely related to achieving the
project objectives with the first two components and an allocation of about 80% of the project funds
directly targeted to the first Project Development Objective (PDO).

·   Component A was generally well designed and subsequently well-managed in spite of the wide
    geographic spread of the project towns and the varied types of infrastructure. The implementation
    arrangement whereby the Project Support Units (PSUs) were established to supervise the major works
    contracts and supported by the Project Management Unit (PMU) at the center staffed by qualified
    professionals, was a major factor in effective implementation with high quality of works. The



                                                      - 4 -

    contracts for minor works (works related to sanitation, solid waste and depot rehabilitation) were fully
    prepared and managed by the works departments of the respective municipalities on the basis of skills
    acquired by the staff as counterparts to the supervisors of the major works.

·   Component B was well designed based on the demand­driven Community Infrastructure Program
    (CIP) and implemented by the Dar es Salaam City Council through in-house capacity with
    backstopping from the PMU; the Dar es Salaam water supply subcomponent was implemented by the
    Dar es Salaam Water and Sewerage Authority (DAWASA) through its Project Implementation Unit
    (PIU).

·   Component C was also well designed to address the needs of improving the managerial and financial
    capacity of the Municipal Councils and Urban Water and Sewerage Authorities. However, at
    Mid­Term Review, it was decided to develop an Institutional Strengthening Strategy to better align
    and focus the efforts to the needs of the local authorities. The Institutional Strengthening Strategy
    grouped the activities under this component around three areas ­ technical assistance, training, and
    provision of essential goods and equipment for maintenance of the investments. Regional and local
    public and private institutions were used for training.

·   Component D was also an appropriate provision given the need to move speedily with preparatory
    activities for follow on expansion in key infrastructure (given that USRP's intervention is mostly
    limited to rehabilitation) and for preparation of a follow on project in the local government sector.

At the time the project was prepared the log-frame was not available as a tool for presenting the project
design summary with clear outcome and output indicators. The performance indicators in the SAR tended
to focus on output rather than outcome. These shortcomings were recognized and corrected during
implementation.

3.4 Revised Components:

The project components remained substantially the same through out the project life except for a few
adjustments in sub components in light of evolving realities on the ground as implementation progressed.
These included: (i) under Component A, addition of required solid waste site equipment for spreading and
compacting refuse, and (ii) under Component B, the studies for future source of water supply under the Dar
es Salaam water supply sub component were eliminated and replaced by an emergency borehole drilling
program to alleviate the water supply shortage encountered during the 1997 drought, since the planned Dar
es Salaam Water Supply and Sanitation Project would address the issue of studies for future water supply
source for Dar es Salaam. As originally designed, the Community Infrastructure Upgrading Program in
Dar es Salaam was to focus generally on tertiary infrastructure to cover six communities. However, the
communities' demand for tarmac arterial roads was higher than anticipated and as a result the available
funds could cover only two communities.

The Credit Agreement has been amended twice (September 2000 and January, 2004). Both times, it was
to reallocate funds among disbursement categories to make funds available for the implementation of the
adjusted sub components indicated in the paragraph immediately above. The project closing date was also
extended by six months from the original closing date of June 30, 2004 to December 31, 2004 primarily to
support activities related to the preparation of a follow-on project, Local Government Support Project
(LGSP), which required disbursement from the project funds beyond the original closing date.




                                                       - 5 -

3.5 Quality at Entry:

The quality at entry was not reviewed at appraisal by the Bank's Quality Assurance Group (QAG).
However, Quality of Supervision Assessment (QSA6) assessed the quality at entry retrospectively in its
October 2004 Report covering the last two years of project implementation. Accordingly, QAG took
cognizant of the complexity of the project and the difficult country environment and assessed the
implementation arrangements, and the M & E arrangements put in place as appropriate. In addition, it
considered the fact that policy reforms and disbursements have been largely on track as confirmation of the
Borrower's commitment. These are good indicators of the soundness of the quality at entry.

This ICR rates the quality at entry as satisfactory. This assessment is based on:

(a)    Consistency of project objectives with Government's strategies, the CAS and consistency with
       IDA support under the previous project. The project objectives were consistent with the 1994 IDA
       Country Assistance Strategy (CAS) which was in force at the time of the project appraisal, and
       which focused on (i) poverty alleviation through policy reforms and economic growth, (ii) targeted
       intervention to improve urban services for the poor, and (iii) upgrading and expansion of basic
       infrastructure and urban services. The project was also consistent with the 1997 and the 2001
       CAS, which were in force during the period of implementation of USRP. Both focused on higher
       growth, poverty reduction, and institutional reforms to improve governance and service delivery,
       providing favorable implementation environment for USRP.

(b)    The project design benefited from the policy change and management improvement under
       previous IDA assisted projects particularly the Urban Sector Engineering Project (USEP) (Cr.
       2291-TA) under which the USRP was prepared. The USRP design, built on the main
       achievements of USEP: (i) property valuation rolls had been updated, rates adjusted, and
       municipalities' revenue collection increased substantially; (ii) semi-autonomous Urban Water and
       Sewerage Departments had been created in three pilot towns (Arusha, Moshi, and Tanga) where
       water tariffs substantially increased, more revenue collected and delivery of water services
       markedly improved; (iii) all key posts in the eight municipalities were filled with long-term and
       qualified staff; and (iv) accounting and auditing in the municipalities markedly improved (with the
       development and installation of the Local Authorities Accounting Manual (LAAM)).

       In addition, the project benefited from important reforms introduced under the Integrated Roads
       Project I (Cr. 2149-TA) where civil works and O & M services were to be provided by private
       contractors rather than by force account which was the practice in the past. These provisions for
       private sector participation also formed part of the project design.

(c)    The design of the project had also taken advantage of lessons learnt from implementation of
       previous urban related projects. IDA's urban project experience in Tanzania includes National
       Sites and Services Project (Cr. 495-TA, FY75), Second National Sites and Services Project (Cr.
       732-TA, FY78), Water Supply I Project (Cr. 1271-TA, FY77), and Dar Sewerage Project (Cr.
       1312-TA, FY83). The problems associated with these projects during implementation were: (i)
       inadequate provision of counterpart funds, (ii) lack of policy in relation to generation of revenues
       to sustain services, (iii) inadequate financial management capacity and insufficient provision to
       address it, (iv) lack of donor coordination leading to fragmentation, and (v) inadequate involvement
       of the private sector in service provision. The design of the USRP took place under USEP, which
       was successfully implemented in the early 1990s and addressed the deficiencies listed above, and
       set out to build on the achievements (see (b) above). Accordingly, the SAR provided for explicit
       risk mitigating measures.



                                                     - 6 -

(d)      The project was preceded by the Government National Civil Service Reform which created a
         favorable implementation environment. The reform assisted the urban local authorities with
         retrenchment of thousands of staff through compensation packages, revised upward national civil
         service salary scales and recruit (where needed) qualified staff.

(e)      Project preparation had progressed significantly and was ready for implementation at
         approval. Moreover, the preparation of the USRP program was participatory,involving
         consultations with civil society and a large number of stakeholders. With respect to the Bank's
         environmental safeguards, the project was classified as Category B as it would have limited
         environmental impacts since it was predominantly a rehabilitation project. As required, the GOT
         had prepared environmental assessments for all planned rehabilitations and expansions to waste
         water facilities and solid waste sites. In the case of the city of Mwanza, the government prepared
         and submitted a resettlement action plan to address the needs of persons identified to be affected by
         the project due to the location of the sludge disposal pond adjacent to the waste stabilization ponds.
         However, this action plan was not implemented since the MC opted for a new location for the
         sludge disposal ponds that did not require resettlement, but for which an environmental assessment
         was carried out as part of the design of the ponds.

(f)      The government's commitment to sector policy was strong. This was expressed in its Letter of
         Sector Policy. Moreover, in view of more positive relations with the county's development
         partners, the policy environment was favorable for the implementation of the project.

(g)      Design of the project was focused on effective capacity building initiatives. The
         implementation arrangement adopted was designed to address the existing weak institutional
         capacities to implement such a complex and large project with emphasis on vigilant and disciplined
         supervision; and a strong output monitoring and evaluation feedback that have contributed to the
         successful achievement of the project objectives.

4. Achievement of Objective and Outputs

4.1 Outcome/achievement of objective:


Overview: In spite of USRP's wide scope and complexity as well as Tanzania's challenging development
environment, the project has satisfactorily achieved its objectives and made significant contributions to the
overarching goals of sustainable economic development and urban poverty alleviation. It is also likely to
continue to contribute to the three goals outlined under the National Strategy for Growth and Poverty
Reduction (NSGPR) in the eight project towns, plus Dodoma and the city of Dar es Salaam.

The high quality works in roads and drainages, water supply, sanitation, and solid waste management, has
reduced vehicle operating costs, improved accessibility, reduced maintenance costs, and improved overall
urban amenities and created attractive environment for private sector investments in the project towns.
This is clearly documented through the key performance indicators and EIRR calculations which show high
rates of return for most of the project components (see section 4.3 and Annex 3).

As evidenced during the ICR mission, there is a general consensus among Senior Government Officials
both at the central and local levels, members of parliament and residents of the project towns (the real
beneficiaries) that the implementation of the project has had significant positive outcome on improved
service delivery in the project towns. This consensus on the outcome of the project is best summed up in the
words of a respected veteran project manager in the water sector with over 36 years of IDA and other
donor supported project implementation experience who noted: "USRP is the single most successful
project that IDA has financed and completed in Tanzania according to plan with very little problem".


                                                       - 7 -

Further evidence of the impact of the project was reflected in the results of the annual Environmental
Health Competition of 2003 and 2004 - among towns and municipalities and city councils conducted by
the Environmental Health Department of the Ministry of Health. The results of the competition show that
all eight project towns are ranked at the top of the list, with four classified as very good and the remaining
four as good. The environmental health matrix used for the comparison and analysis contains some 21
criteria covering aspects of solid waste, hazardous waste, waste water, hygiene and sanitation, clean and
safe water, control of storm water, public toilet, etc, activities financed by the project.

The successful implementation of both major and minor works has stimulated socio-economic development
and resulted in opening up of significant number of new enterprises and the expansion of the existing ones
leading to increase in employment opportunities. The large number of staff trained and institutional
capacity built as well as fiscal reform which has enhanced willingness to pay for services augur well for
sustainability of the benefits of the project investments over the project economic life. Overall, the quality
and impact of the project as well as its timely implementation is highly appreciated by the various
beneficiaries.

A.       Rehabilitation of the basic infrastructure and expansion into high priority, under-served areas

Achievement of the physical targets and the impact on poverty alleviation was highly satisfactory. Access
to water, transport, sanitation, and protection from storm water have improved urban amenities to a
significant portion of the population in the project towns. The quality of works and successful meeting or
exceeding of the physical targets in roads and drainage, water and sewerage, and minor works have
improved the social infrastructure and improved access to essential public services by the poor; and also
facilitated private sector development.

Private sector and infrastructure development: All project sub components were implemented by the
private sector. It is now accepted practice and supported by the procurement laws of the country to utilize
the private sector in major construction, O & M activities, and services. The project has thus contributed
to the government objective of fostering the private sector as an engine of economic growth, one of the
themes of the CAS.

The improvement of the water supply facilities and services had positive outcome on women and children
who often bear the burden of fetching water ­ average of 2.5 hours before the project was reduced to less
than half an hour.

Achievement related to Road and drainage works

·   The project has rehabilitated roads and drainage works and expanded the service into high priority
    under-served areas in the project towns - the percentage of tarmac road network rehabilitated is 33% at
    the end of the project far exceeding the planned 21.6%, contributing to:

    o     Travel cost - vehicle operating costs have been reduced resulting in high economic rates of return
          (see section 4.3 of the ICR);
    o     Ease of access - trip attraction and generation have increased significantly as evidenced by the
          high volume of traffic utilizing the roads;
    o     Comfort - diversion of traffic has been realized towards rehabilitated roads;




                                                       - 8 -

  o     Safety - traffic accidents have been reduced. Cases of injuries and damages of property have been
        reduced;
  o     Travel time has been reduced and lower delays or traffic congestion;
  o     Economic activities stimulated - more hotels and other service facilities have been constructed,
        tourism has risen; more variety of products are readily available in the market; and
  o     Willingness of people to pay property tax has significantly increased due to improved transport
        facilities and general improvement in amenities.

Achievement related to water supply

· More people living in the project towns have reliable supply of piped water with enough pressure due
  to availability of more water. The percentage of people served with piped water has increased from
  56% in 1996 to 86% at project closing in 2004;

· Availability of water has made it possible to increase the construction of residents and commercial
  premises even in peri-urban areas where the land was unoccupied due to unavailability of water supply;
  economic activities have been enhanced contributing to employment generation;

· The quality of water available to the people in the project towns has been improved; water supply is
  now available for 24 hrs in most of the towns, and service level has improved with the number of pipe
  connections increasing by nearly 100% from about 50,000 in 1996 to about 101,000 in 2004;
  unaccounted for water has been improved from above 40% to around 35%;

· The increased number of customers has resulted in improved revenue in the eight project towns from
  about Tshs 2.00 billion in the base year of 1996 to about Tshs11 billion at end of 2004, thus improving
  sustainability of the operations;

· Improvement in sewerage service has mitigated environmental hazards; improved sanitation at the city
  center; reduced mosquito breeding location in the residential areas; generated revenue; provided value
  for money service where the service has been provided;

· In Dar es Salaam, the project has assisted in sustaining and stabilization of the water supply to the city
  through maintenance of the electro-mechanical equipment. The leakage control works carried out
  along the two transmission mains supplying Dar es Salaam resulted in a reduction of losses due to
  leakage by more than 10,000 m3/day. The emergency borehole drilling program that has provided 34
  boreholes fitted with electrical high lift pumps managed by communities has enabled the supply of safe
  water to about 100,000 inhabitants in the poor peri-urban areas. While these interventions were not
  intended to provide a comprehensive response to Dar's needs (this is being currently addressed through
  the Dar es Salaam Water and Sanitation Project), they provided essential short-term solutions to real
  (sometimes urgent) problems.

Achievement of Community Infrastructure Program (CIP) in Tabata and Kijitoyama and minor
works in the project towns

· The successful completion of the modified CIP subcomponents has given the community members,
  who have contributed the initial 5% of the capital cost, a sense of ownership and pride in their
  accomplishment, which is an important factor for sustainability;

· Construction of both spine and neighborhood roads increased the value of land almost by 100%.
  Property rent has almost doubled in both planned and unplanned settlement in the vicinity;




                                                   - 9 -

·   Public transport is now available to the community and the transport time for various activities has
    been reduced considerably;

·   Provision of services such as schools, health centers, shopping centers have increased as a result of
    private sector initiative;

·   Environmental and sanitation services have improved due to improved drainage system along side the
    road network;

·   Security has been enhanced due to the improved accessibility of the neighborhoods;

·   There has been a significant increase in startup of new income generation activities; and;

·   Incidence of communicable diseases especially water-borne ones and skin diseases has significantly
    dropped.

B.       Improvement of urban local government management and financing capacity in support of
the sustainable economic development and urban poverty alleviation

Achievement of this objective is assessed as satisfactory. Urban local governments' management and
financing capacity have significantly improved as a result of the project as evidenced below:

Urban Local Government Management and Water and Sewerage Authority Management Capacity

·   Improved Quality of staff: The quality of the Municipal and Urban Water and Sanitation Authorities'
    staff has significantly improved due to the provision of appropriate training. This improvement is
    manifested in timely decisions, quality reports, timely reports, understanding of the planning process,
    use of modern IT, and quality of communication demonstrated in the course of the project
    implementation;

·   Ability to identify priority needs: The training program has heightened the level of consciousness of
    the participants in identifying needs;

·   Improved management style: This is manifested in improved team work, relation with beneficiaries,
    relation between counselors and management; and improved labor relations in project management;

·   Improved financial management: Timely reporting of financial records; This has resulted in
    unqualified/clean audited accounts, improved billing and collections;

·   Improved O&M planning and execution: MCs and UWSAs staffs are now aware of the importance of
    O&M priority and sustainability of the investments undertaken under the project, as well as other
    investments.

Municipal and UWSAs Financing Capacity

Through implementation of the property valuation, municipal revenues have more than doubled during the
project implementation period. In 1996, the eight project towns had total revenue of Tshs.2100 million. At
end of FY 2003/2004 (for which there is audited data), total revenue was Tshs.7500 million, nearly 3.6
fold increase, much higher than that projected at appraisal.

During the project implementation period, the financial situation of UWSAs had improved substantially. In
1996, the project towns had a total water and sewerage revenue of Tshs 1,800 million. At end of FY



                                                    - 10 -

2003/2004, the total revenue was Tshs 10,000 million, a 5.6 fold increase. As indicated in Section 4.5
below, the UWSAs in all the eight project towns and Dodoma are in Category A, implying that, as a
minimum, they meet all their operating and maintenance cost. In most cases they generate surplus revenue
for limited expansion works and for contribution to counterpart funds.

Impact of technical assistance

·   Performance Review and Feedback System for Municipal Authorities has assisted councils in
    monitoring and improving their performance as well as central agencies in developing local government
    policies and support mechanisms;

·   Road Maintenance Management Systems (RMMS) has contributed to improving the sustainability of
    road infrastructure and related assets through institution of preventive and periodic maintenance
    planning and budgeting;

·   Water Supply and Sewerage Maintenance Management System (WSSMMS) has contributed to the
    improvement in the sustainability of water and sewerage facilities and related assets through institution
    of preventive and periodic maintenance planning and budgeting;

·   Valuation for Properties has contributed to increased overall revenue base for councils, increasing the
    potential financial capacity of project towns.

·   Performance review of UWSA - contributed to the formulation of the National Water Supply Policy
    for Tanzania.

Based on the foregoing achievements, the project outcome is thus assessed as satisfactory.

4.2 Outputs by components:

Overall achievement of the outputs of the project is highly satisfactory. The output targets have been met
or exceeded as evidenced in Annex 1 (b) and the quality of the outputs is satisfactory.

A.       Rehabilitation and selective expansion of infrastructure services in the eight project towns
         and Dodoma (SAR US$83.4 million; ICR: US$ 93.1 million)
         The outputs of this component were highly satisfactory. The physical targets have been met or
         exceeded generally within budget and on schedule.

         (a)   Municipal infrastructure Services (SAR: US$41.5 million; ICR US$42.4 million)

               (i)     Road and Storm Water Drainage (SAR: US$32.7 million; ICR: US$37.5
                       million)
                       The achievement of this subcomponent was highly satisfactory. In the eight project
                       towns a total of 102 km of roads, with side lined drains were rehabilitated to tarmac
                       standard, against Project Implementation Plan (PIP) target of 65.92 km, has been
                       achieved. As a result, the share of the tarmac network reached 33% above the target
                       of 21.6%, an increase of 55% over the target. The number of bus stands increased
                       by 100%; 13 bus stands against the planned target of 6 bus stands. The use of
                       competitive bidding, appropriate packaging and proactive supervision by project
                       staff reduced the risks of cost overrun and the project ended up with substantial cost
                       savings considering the increased physical targets achieved.



                                                    - 11 -

    (ii)    Sanitation (SAR: US$3.7 million; ICR: US$1.8 million)
            The achievement of this subcomponent is also assessed as highly satisfactory
            having met its physical targets at a substantially lower cost. The planned 311 VIP
            latrines in 188 schools have all been constructed. In addition a total of 16 vacuum
            tankers for emptying latrines and septic tanks (2 for each town) were provided. At
            closing all were in good operational conditions.

    (iii)   Solid waste management (SAR: US$5.1 million; ICR: US$3.1 million);
            This subcomponent met or exceeded its physical target at lower than anticipated
            costs. Achievement is rated as highly satisfactory. The project provided a total of
            490 skip pads, 60 per project town for the 7 towns and 70 for Mwanza city;
            provided 240 skips (30 skips per town), 16 skip loading vehicles (2 per town),
            improved the existing 8 dumpsites (access roads, washing bays and guard houses),
            and provided a total of 8 high performance wheel loaders (1 per town) including
            steel wheels for management of solid waste site (for spreading covering and
            compaction of waste).

(b) Water supply and sewerage (SAR: US$41.9 million; ICR: US$50.7 million)

    Water supply (SAR: US$28.0 million; ICR: US$37.3 million)
    Overall achievement of this subcomponent was satisfactory. This subcomponent was
    financed by IDA and KfW. Almost all the above cost variation between appraisal and actual
    was incurred by KfW financed subcomponent mainly due to additional works performed.

    Under the IDA Credit, major water supply system rehabilitation and expansion were carried
    out in the towns of Dodoma, Morogoro and Tabora as follows:

    a.      Morogoro: replacement and reinforcement of 44.855 km of pipes of diameter
            100mm-700mm; Mindu dam spillway channel repairs, rehabilitation of Mafiga
            treatment plant; installation and rehabilitation of pumps (7 pumps in total);
            construction of 2 service reservoirs (1100m³ and 450 m³).

    b.      Tabora : Rehabilitation of treatment works at Igombe; high lift pumping station;
            trunk transmission (12.1 km of diameter 600mm); Water storage tank at Kazeh Hill
            (2250 m³); 20.3 km of distribution system (diameter 75-500 mm), replacement of 3
            low lift raw water pumps.

    c.      Dodoma: installation of two new pumps at Mzakwe and Maili Mbili booster
            stations; laying of rising main from Maili Mbili to Nkhungu area and construction of
            350m³ storage tank.

    Under KfW financing major water supply system rehabilitation and expansion were carried
    out in the towns of Arusha, Moshi Tanga as follows:

    a.      Arusha: Construction of chlorination building at Olgilai spring, construction of trunk
            main pipeline (3.7km); modification of existing chlorination plant at Sekei Central
            Station; construction of primary/secondary/tertiary pipelines in the distribution
            system (57km); rehabilitation of 18 break pressure tanks (BPT) and construction of
            1 BPT; modification of inlet pipe system for Themi Hill reservoir; and supply of
            pipes, fittings and equipment for Nduruma borehole.




                                          - 12 -

             b.      Moshi: Rehabilitation and expansion of Nsere and Shiri Springs; construction of
                     trunk main pipeline from Shiri and Nsere Springs (16km); construction of new
                     2,000m³ storage reservoir and rehabilitation of 3 existing ones; construction of
                     distribution pipelines in town (39km); extension of reticulation systems by
                     constructing 63km of pipeline at Kiboriloni, Msaranga, Kaloleni, Pasua and Rau.

             c.      Tanga: Upgrading of raw water/treatment plant capacities from 26,000 to
                     40,000m³/day; rehabilitation of 20km of raw water/gravity trunk mains;
                     Refurbishment of Kange (1) and Nguvumali (1) reservoirs; replacement of pumps at
                     Mwakidila and Maweni pumping stations; improvement of distribution system:
                     installation of 665 valves, 3.6km of consumer connections and 23 zone bulk meters,
                     and laying of 11km trunk pipeline to Pongwe and Amboni; extension of distribution
                     system: laying of 118km pipeline extensions and to replace old ones; supply of 5,000
                     water meters.

             At closing, all the planned works were completed and being operated satisfactorily.

             Sewerage (SAR: US$13.9 million; ICR: US$13.4 million)
             Achievement of the output of this subcomponent was satisfactory. The physical targets
             were satisfactorily met or exceeded within budget. Under this subcomponent, rehabilitation
             and new construction of sewerage systems and waste stabilization ponds was achieved in
             seven project towns - Arusha, Moshi, Tanga, Morogoro, Iringa, Mwanza and Tabora -
             summarized as follows:

             a.      Arusha: rehabilitation (sludge removal and deepening) and construction of
                     inlet/outlet structures of 5 treatment ponds (8 ha); construction of two new sludge
                     ponds, and 8.75 km sewers and associated manholes;

             b.      Moshi: CCTV survey sewers, laying of 8 km sewers and associated manholes,
                     construction of 9 treatment ponds and 2 sludge ponds (20ha);

             c.      Tanga: construction of 9 km of sewers and associated manholes and 4 (6ha)
                     treatment ponds;

             d.      Morogoro: construction of 9 km of sewers and associated manholes and 4 (6ha)
                     treatment ponds;

             e.      Iriga: construction of 4 (20ha) treatment ponds, two sludge ponds, laying of 19 km
                     of sewers and associated man holes;

             f.      Mwanza: CCTV survey of 10 km sewers; construction of 2.6 km sewers and
                     associated manholes;

             g.      Tabora: CCTV survey of 7.5 km sewers; construction of 1.7 km sewers and 2 km
                     laterals and associated manholes, rehabilitation of oxidization ponds, construction of
                     4 sludge ponds, and replacement of a sewage pump.

             At closing all of the above works have been completed and were operating satisfactorily.

B.    Dar es Salaam Community-based Infrastructure Upgrading and Water Supply (SAR:
US$10.8 million; ICR: US$11.1 million)




                                                    - 13 -

    a.    Community­based Infrastructure Upgrading Program (SAR:US$5.2 million; ICR:
          US$5.0 million). The achievement of this subcomponent is satisfactory. The subcomponent
          was implemented by the Dar es Salaam City Council with the participation of and
          contribution to capital cost by the community. The following were achieved: 6 km of spine
          roads in Kijitoyama and Tabata (tarmac) against planned target of 6km; sewerage works in
          Kijitonyama and Tabata: 12.9 km of sewers were constructed against the planned target of
          11.1 km; Neighborhood roads in Kijitoyama and Tabata (gravel): 14.5 km was constructed
          against planned target of 16km. In addition 3 km of flood alleviation drains which were not
          initially planned were constructed. All the above works were completed and are now
          operational.

    b.    Dar es Salaam Water Supply (SAR: US$5.6 million; ICR: US$5.9 million)
          This component has met or exceeded its targets. The subcomponent covered civil works,
          consulting services, and supply of goods and equipment for sustaining the water supply
          service in Dar es Salaam, and supporting institutional reform of DAWASA in its
          transformation to Asset Holding Authority and engaging an international operator through a
          10 year lease contract for the operations of the system (which is now being supported by a
          separate IDA credit). Summary of outputs achieved is as follows:

          (i)       Civil works: Under the emergency borehole program a total of 34 boreholes with
                    panel houses and system installation were completed. Rehabilitation of service
                    mains off the Upper and Lower Ruvu transmission mains were undertaken to reduce
                    leakage. In addition, rehabilitation of DAWASA offices at Mwananyamala; repair
                    of Ruvu River breach at Kidogozero and rehabilitation of Boko yard was completed.

          (ii)      Goods and Equipment: supply and installation of pumps, water works
                    electro-mechanical spares, ultrasonic water meters and gate valves; supply and
                    installation of 40 submersible borehole pump; supply of office and laboratory
                    equipment; and information technology hardware and software.

          (iii)     Consulting Services: TA for financial, engineering and procurement advisory
                    services, design and supervision of the leakage control works, auditing and
                    communication services were provided.

C.  Institutional Strengthening (SAR: US$23.1 million; ICR: US$29.3)

    The output of this component is rated as highly satisfactory. The increase in component cost from
    the appraisal was mainly due to additional training and provision of equipment for solid waste
    management, and additional domestic consumer water meters. The component consisted of a
    number of subcomponents aimed at supporting the implementation of the Project, provision of
    Technical Assistance to MCs and UWSAs, training of MCs and UWSAs staff, and provision of
    maintenance equipment for roads, water supply and sewerage systems (the cost of equipment
    constituted 33% of total component costs). Achievements of this component are summarized as
    follows:

    a.    Support to the implementation of the project: The project established project management
          and coordination units staffed with skilled officers who provided assistance to the successful
          implementation of the project. Substantial skills transfer to counterpart staff through
          established project support Units (PSUs) and Construction Supervision Consultancies
          (CSCs) has taken place.



                                                - 14 -

        b.    Technical Assistance to MCs and UWSAs in all eight project town and the three Dar
              Municipalities: Over 44,000 properties were valued under this TA. In addition, Road
              Maintenance Management System (RMMS) (hardware, software and training) was installed
              in all the eight project towns; Development of a Performance Review and feedback system
              for MCs; Performance Review of 18 UWSAs; establishment of Computerized Maintenance
              Management System (CMMS) including hardware, software and training for all the eight
              UWSAs were financed. The outputs of the TA and support system provided is being used
              effectively at project closing.

        c.    Training: A total of about 1,508 persons have benefited from the training program under
              this component, of which 15 were top management, 440 were middle management, 613
              technical staff, 32 support staff, 48 union members, 64 councilors, 40 UWSAs Board
              members, 144 Ward Executives and 112 training of trainers. The training was provided
              through public and private institutions in the country and the region and has empowered the
              staff to be effective and respected in their communities for their improved service delivery.

        d.    Provision of maintenance goods and equipment: The municipal councils have been
              provided with computers, office equipment, vehicles to support O&M and property tax
              collection, and a package of basic road maintenance equipment. The UWSAs were also
              provided with computers (including relevant software) and various office equipment, vehicles
              and packages of essential water supply and sewer maintenance equipment, and a large
              number of domestic water meters and bulk meters. The equipment was being utilized
              effectively and had improved the performance of the MCs and UWSAs substantially.

D.      Future project preparation (SAR: US$2.8 million; ICR: US$1.8 million)

        The quality of the outputs of studies and preparatory activities was satisfactory.
        The project has financed three consulting services for preparation of Feasibility Study,
        Environmental Impact Assessment, and Detailed Design and Preparation of Tender Documents
        for Water Supply and Sewerage Improvements in the towns of Dodoma, Morogoro, and Tabora.
        All the three studies have been completed satisfactorily and will be inputs to the planned urban
        water sector expansion program. The component has also financed the preparation of the IDA
        funded Tanzania: Local Government Support Program (LGSP), which was appraised and
        negotiated in September 2004, and approved by the Board on November 30, 2004, and became
        effective on April 13, 2005.

4.3 Net Present Value/Economic rate of return:

An economic evaluation was undertaken for two sub components: (a) urban roads and storm water
drainage; and (b) water supply and sewerage works, implemented over 1998 to 2004. The economic
evaluation covers both the above two sub components individually, as well as together for the entire
project. The detailed analysis is in Annex 3 and the findings are summarized as follows.

Urban Roads and Storm Water Drainage

The Economic Internal Rate of Return (EIRR) of the component is estimated to be 33.0% versus the SAR
estimate of 23.9%. The SAR Net Present Value (NPV) of US$12.9 million at a discount rate of 12% is
now estimated to be US$55.7 million. The recalculated EIRR and NPV are higher than anticipated at
appraisal mainly because of savings in project costs and higher growth in traffic than the SAR projections.
The table below summarizes the results and the detailed analysis is in Part I of Annex 3.


                                                     - 15 -

Urban Roads and Storm Drainage: EIRR (in %) and NPV (12%, million USD)
                                                        SAR                    ICR
                                                  EIRR        NPV      EIRR        NPV
 Urban Roads & Storm Drainage
                                                  23.9        12.9      33.0        55.7


Water Supply and Sewerage (WSS)

The EIRR for Water Supply and Sewerage is estimated at 16% percent versus the SAR estimate of 12.4 %
and the NPV, at a discount rate of 12%, is estimated to be US$8.5 compared to the SAR value of US$0.7
million. Summary of the results is as follows and the detailed analysis is in Part II of Annex 3.

Water and Sanitation: EIRR (in %) and NPV (12%, million USD)
                                                        SAR                    ICR
                                                  EIRR        NPV      EIRR        NPV
 Water and Sanitation
                                                  12.4         0.7      16.0        8.5


The entire project

The EIRR and NPV for the entire project (Roads & Storm Water Drainage, and Water Supply &
Sewerage) are estimated to be 25.0% and US$65.7 million, respectively, compared with EIRR of 16.2%
and NPV US$11.9 million estimated in the SAR. Summary of the results is as follows and the detailed
analysis is in Part III of Annex 3.

Entire Project: EIRR (in %) and NPV (12%, million USD)
                                                        SAR                    ICR
                                                  EIRR        NPV      EIRR        NPV
 Entire project
                                                  16.2        11.9       25.0       65.7


4.4 Financial rate of return:

FIRR and NPV for the water and sanitation component were not undertaken at appraisal because the
UWSAs were not yet operational and there was no historical financial data available. However, on the
basis of the data on financial performance of the UWASs currently available, the results of the financial
evaluation shows that the FIRR, based on the current average tariff of Tsh 239 per m3, is expected to be
2.7%. The NPV (Tsh 15.0 Billion) at 5% discount rate is however negative. A sensitivity analysis shows
that, if the average tariff is increased to Tsh 400 per m3, the FIRR will be 5.4% and the NPV positive at
Tsh 3.3 billion.   As indicated under section 4.5 below, the UWSAs' performance has been improving
steadily and they are currently capable of financing all their O & M costs from the generated revenues. In
most cases, they generate revenues in excess of O & M expenditures, thus allowing them to carry out
limited expansion works. Their performance is thus considered satisfactory given that the objective of the
operations is to provide affordable and sustainable services.

For the non revenue earning entities - the road and drainage component - the financial evaluation focuses on
the availability of sufficient funds to cover operating and maintenance expenses. The eight project towns



                                                      - 16 -

made investments on a total of 102 km of roads with storm water drainage under the project. The financial
evaluation of these non-revenue earnings entities focuses on the MCs capacity to maintain existing
infrastructure. In each of the past 4 years, on the aggregate the revenue exceeded the actual expenditure
indicating that as long as the allocation of grant from the Road Fund and other sources is maintained at the
current rate, the MCs would adequately maintain their assets. The investment made under the project has
limited risks due to financial constrains.

4.5 Institutional development impact:

The project has had substantial institutional development impact as documented above. The MCs and
UWSAs staffs involved with the implementation of the project have gained significant hands-on capabilities
by handling various aspects of project management, maintenance planning, and contracting. The skills
acquired under USRP were directly applied in the execution of the maintenance activities which has proven
effective. The maintenance equipment provided under the project are being maintained and utilized
effectively. The involvement of staff during the various studies financed under the project is likely to
enhance their effectiveness in implementation of the designed projects.

The project was instrumental in the creation of the semi-autonomous, ring-fenced UWSAs in all the project
towns. These UWSAs are being managed efficiently and have led to extraordinary improvements in water
supply and sewerage service delivery. The GoT has adopted the creation of UWSAs as a matter of policy
in all urban centers that are assessed as being in a position to do so. Currently there are a total of 19
UWSAs nation wide. The Directorate of Urban Water Supply and Sewerage of the Ministry of Water
and Livestock Development has categorized the UWSAs into three - A, B, and C. In Category A are those
UWSAs whose cash generation has enabled them to cover all O & M costs including salaries of all staff.
There are currently only 9 UWSAs in category A. All category "A" UWSAs are those in the eight project
towns and Dodoma. This demonstrates the effectiveness of the institutional and financing capacity that the
project has created in the project towns.

The project also assisted the institutional reform of the Dar es Salaam water supply services by assisting
the transformation of DAWASA into an Asset Holding Authority and leasing out the day to day operations
to a professional operator for effective provision of affordable and reliable water supply and sewerage
services to the residents of Dar es Salaam.

5. Major Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcome

5.1 Factors outside the control of government or implementing agency:

"In a rare of events - probably unprecedented in the nation's construction industry - a government - run
project, found itself explaining how it managed to excel - not why it failed to perform - by over 45% in
the implementation of civil works program". The Contractor, News Letter of the Contractors Board of
Tanzania, thus wrote in its October - December 2003 issue.

Further, the QAG in its QSA6 report on the project found no significant problem with the supervision of
the project as did this ICR. Moreover, conflicts in contract administration were few and of no consequence
to cost, quality and timely completion.

In view of the consensus of external and internal observers as to the success of the project, the ICR mission
made a serious attempt to get feedback from senior government officials, project staff at MCs and UWSAs




                                                      - 17 -

and the beneficiaries to help identify the main factors that contributed to the success of the project. The
factors so identified are summarized as follows.

·   Proper implementation of Bank policy with respect to the client. In line with Bank policy, the
    project team has empowered the client to take full responsibility during project implementation. This
    attitude towards the client during the period of project implementation improved communications and
    enhanced transfer of knowledge to project staff and is cited as a major factor in positively impacting
    the project outcome. In particular, the wholesome cooperation of Bank project team, characterized by
    communication based on respect to the government project teams, was cited as exemplary by
    Government project staff. The IDA project team is viewed by its partners as one concerned in
    providing helpful guidance than acting as "auditor" or "fault finders".

·   Cooperation of beneficiaries: The representatives of beneficiaries (the MCs and the UWSAs) were
    highly supportive of the project. In addition to their full participation in the preparation phase, in the
    identification and choice of specific interventions, they were willing to make monetary contributions
    towards counterpart funding to ensure that there were no delays in implementation. In the case of the
    Community Infrastructure Program sub component in Dar es Salaam, at the time when the community
    contributions required under the program were not being collected in full in a timely manner, the
    respective municipal councils paid up the difference to ensure that the project implementation would
    not be delayed.

5.2 Factors generally subject to government control:

·   Favorable Government Policy. During the project implementation period, the Government steered the
    country towards more openness and favorable macroeconomic environment. The project management
    teams were allowed more freedom to take implementation decisions and technical staffs were in charge
    with little political interference with respect to selection of contractors and consultants in the course of
    executing the project during implementation.

·   Timely resolution of implementation issues. Issues which arose during project implementation, such
    as timely provision of counterpart fund, and approval of procurement by the tender board were
    resolved. The decentralized organizational structure for project implementation under competent
    project management units (PMU, PICU, and PIU) under the guidance and assistance of a Steering
    Committee chaired by the PS, Prime Minister's Office, was a major contributing factor in completion
    of the project within budget and essentially on time. The government carried out annual project
    implementation review workshops with the participation of all stake holders to take stock of the
    implementation of the project and to address cross cutting issues and provide timely resolution of
    problems.

·   Competent use of the competitive approach. Project management team, consultants, contractors,
    staff were all selected on competitive basis in line with the Bank's procurement guidelines and the
    GOT's procurement regulations. This reduced the chance of recruiting incompetent staff or
    appointment of people with lack of interest. Transparent procedures which helped select competent
    contractors and consultants were put in place.

·   Qualified and well motivated (remunerated) project staff. In part the success of the project is
    attributed to the recruitment of well qualified project staff and adequate remuneration of the staff. The
    total expense of the project staff, salary as well as operating expenses, over the project implementation
    period was only 1.25% of total project cost.




                                                       - 18 -

5.3 Factors generally subject to implementing agency control:

·   Administrative capacity of project staff. The government recruited experienced local project staff on
    a competitive basis. The staff understood what is to be done and was able to present the Project
    Steering Committee and IDA supervision staff with clear options on issues to be addressed and thereby
    helping them make timely decisions. Ability of the staff to keep good system and procedure in place,
    clean records, timely processing of procurement, payments to contractors and timely request for
    counterpart funds and utilization of the support of the Steering Committee as and when needed were
    factors that contributed to the success of the project.

·   Decentralized implementation arrangement. The organization structure consisting of a Steering
    Committee, PMU (secretariat for steering committee and with units for roads & drains, small works
    institutional goals, and project finance management), PICU (water sewerage components) and CUIP
    (community upgrading in Dar es-Salaam City), and PIU for the Dar es Salaam water supply sub
    component, provided a decentralized framework for project execution. The Steering Committee
    addressed issues related to staffing, plan approval, review of progress reports, and approval of
    modifications to plans.

·   Packaging of small components. Cost savings were achieved due to economic of scale by packaging
    small contracts, and use of consultants and contractors for adjoining regions. This also led to reduction
    in cost of mobilization.

·   Participatory approach and team work. Both the Bank Team and the Tanzania Project Team
    followed participatory approach thereby creating an atmosphere for the members to be a party and own
    the process. Decisions were made after thorough discussions by all concerned, and effort was made to
    gain the commitment of others to execute the action plan. However, participatory approach should be
    handled with due sensitivity, especially when it involves community contributions. Delays in start up
    of planned work for whatever reasons (e.g. Dar es Salaam Community Infrastructure Project due to
    uneven contribution of the community members) can create mistrust and may lead to inference that the
    community leaders may have misused the community money collected for the project.

·   Training program as an incentive to staff towards improved performance. The impact of the
    training on project implementation was positive. Project towns now could plan and implement small
    works; balance their books of accounts; plan, contract out, administer and supervise maintenance
    contracts. By conducting training based on carefully designed program and the selection of the
    trainers, and delivery through a mature interactive processes, the training was able to transfer not only
    technical know how but also the desire to excel. For example, a young participant of a property
    valuation course got motivated to create a library of the literature on property valuation. The staff
    shares knowledge and resources to others interested in property valuation and corresponds with others
    in the field. It appears a new bread of Tanzanians, who recognize knowledge and actions are the
    ingredient of results, is in the offing.

·   Counterpart fund provision. Delays in counterpart fund provision for the water supply and sewerage
    components of the project led to late payment (with interest) to contractors and consultants, even
    though it had minimal impact on timely completion of construction works and studies. There was no
    problem of counterpart funds with respect to the municipal works for which adequate counterpart
    funds were allocated by the PO-RALG.



                                                     - 19 -

5.4 Costs and financing:

The project cost at appraisal was estimated at US$141.3 million equivalent. Of the total project cost,
US$105.00 million (about 74.3%) was to be financed by IDA, US$14.6 million (about 10%) by GoT,
including about US$2.8 million in taxes and duties. Other donors (KfW, Ireland, and Netherlands) were to
finance about US$21.7 million (about 15.4%). At project closing, US$96.53 million (92%) of IDA credit
was disbursed. Other sources of funding were US$11.79 million (81%) from the GoT, and US$25.83
million (119%) from other donors. Over the implementation period, the US$105 million equivalent (at the
time of approval) of the IDA funding dropped to US$98.38 million (a loss of US$6.62 million) due to the
appreciation of the US$ against the SDR. Expressed as percentage of the US$ value at closing, IDA credit
disbursed is 98.3%. The remaining un-disbursed balance of about US$1.7 million was cancelled.

6. Sustainability

6.1 Rationale for sustainability rating:


The project sustainability is rated as likely on the following grounds:

(i)     Increasing awareness of local authorities and communities. There is a growing sense of
        awareness about the importance of adequate maintenance both at local government staff level and
        among community members. Municipal workers once looked down as ineffective have won great
        respect from the community because of improved maintenance. Community members are now
        more willing to pay their arrears and current taxes. As a result municipal revenues have shown
        increases on the average by a factor of more than 200%. Such increase in revenues coupled with
        changing attitude about the importance of operation and maintenance augurs well for sustainability
        of the investments made under the project.

(ii)    Increased capacity of MCs and UWSAs staff in O & M. The project has provided relevant
        training to staff, appropriate O & M tools and equipment, and O & M planning tools (RMMS, and
        CMMS) which would assist staff in planning and implementing effective O & M.

(iii)   Improvement in revenue base. Resources available for O&M expense mostly from MCs and
        UWSAs revenues have increased substantially with a potential for further improvement and should
        be adequate to sustain the benefits achieved under the project.

(iv)    Measures taken by MCs to enhance own source revenue and budgeting for O & M. While the
        scope of activities varies between project towns, project town management have taken steps that
        promise to ensure sustainability through revenue enhancement measures:

        ·   In neighborhoods where rehabilitated/upgraded constructed roads, property values have
            increased bringing new economic activities broadening the tax base of the municipality;

        ·   Introduction of new potential revenue sources such as service levy and street car parking fees;

        ·   Setting aside a share of the municipal revenue (e.g. 30% of revenue in Mwanza City Council,
            Tshs.25.0 million in Tanga, to meet the costs of O&M for infrastructure;

        ·   10% of the total collection from property tax is set aside and is utilized to facilitate property
            tax valuation and improvement in collection; frequent awareness campaigns are carried out to
            enhance the attitudes of tax payers so that they are willing to pay.



                                                    - 20 -

(v)      Availability of a Road Fund from the Central Government for maintenance of roads. The
         GoT has instituted a Road Fund for maintenance of roads. This fund is being made available to
         the councils on a quarterly basis without default. The Road Fund Board monitors the effective use
         of this fund.

6.2 Transition arrangement to regular operations:

All the subcomponents were completed and put into operation before the project closing date. The MCs
and UWSAs are equipped with routine maintenance equipment and have trained staffed capable of planning
and designing maintenance and contracting out to the private sector. The project towns have qualified to
receive capacity building and capital development grants under the recently approved IDA funded Local
Government Support Project (LGSP) which was prepared under the project. This capital development
grant is a discretionary grant which affords flexibility to the municipal authorities to maintain and expand
infrastructure services.

7. Bank and Borrower Performance

Bank
7.1 Lending:

IDA's performance in the lending phase was satisfactory. During the identification phase, the task team
had ensured that the project development objectives and project scope were consistent with the
government's sectoral priorities and IDA's Country Assistance Strategies. The project team also complied
with the relevant Bank safeguard policies with preparation of environmental analysis and mitigation
measures for all components and resettlement action plans where applicable. The economic analysis for
urban roads and storm drainage component as well as water supply and sewerage component reflected the
economic viability of the project. In the road sector the assumptions on traffic growth; project
implementation period and investment cost proved to be conservative; in the water sector the assumption on
(i) willingness to pay of US$0.25 was about right in the initial phase; (ii) the O&M cost was in line with
assumption; (iii) water production and unaccounted for water improved significantly; investment cost was
in line with estimate; and (iv) the project implementation was within the anticipated period.

Like most projects in the Bank designed during the mid-1990s the monitoring indicators were more focused
on output rather than outcome. However, appropriate indicators were retrofitted during implementation.
On the other hand, the team's assessment of the project risks was relevant and served well during project
supervision. The assessment rightly flagged the potential risks due to: (i) lack of success in fully
implementing institutional and fiscal reforms required for project sustainability as identified in the Letter of
Sector Policy; (ii) the lack of adequate government counterpart funds; (iii) insufficient incentives to
improve the project towns performance during implementation; and (iv) the potential risk that minor works
may not be implemented in the project towns and Dar es Salaam; and (v) the potential risk to project
sustainability. However, with careful handling of these issues as they arose during implementation, none of
them proved to be significant hurdle to achievement of the project objectives.

7.2 Supervision:

The performance of IDA staff during supervision is rated as highly satisfactory. The skill mix of
supervision staff fielded was appropriate. The project team has ensured that all the anticipated risks are
mitigated. The project team has led by example- detailed field supervision feedback, timely response to
project staff queries, and timely and proper guidance to project staff. The satisfactory overall outcome of



                                                     - 21 -

the project is to some measure attributed to capacity of the team to transfer knowledge to project staff, and
performance with integrity and diligence. Technical assistance was effectively used to enhance the
capacities of the staff in project towns.

The QAG panel, in its assessment of the quality of supervision during the last 2 years of project
implementation as part of QSA6, determined that the task team has supervised the project effectively by
maintaining focus on the project's development objectives, fulfilling all fiduciary responsibilities,
addressing any emerging implementation problems, and pursuing the objective of ensuring sustainability
upon completion. In addition QSA6 assessed that management inputs were found to be equally satisfactory
in maintaining strategic focus and providing adequate resources for supervision.

7.3 Overall Bank performance:

Overall, IDA performance is rated as satisfactory.

Borrower
7.4 Preparation:

The Borrower performance during preparation was satisfactory. The Borrower participated fully in all
project preparatory activities which were carried out during implementation of the preceding project,
USEP. The PMU of USEP which participated in project preparation was staffed with qualified staff
including relevant TA to assist in project preparation. Sufficient resources were provided from USEP, a
PHRD grant and a PPF to prepare the project. The Borrower carried out strategic reforms that created the
favorable atmosphere for the project and prepared a clear and comprehensive Letter of Sector Policy which
would guide the implementation of the project.

7.5 Government implementation performance:

Government implementation performance was highly satisfactory. Even though credit effectiveness was
delayed due to inability to staff the PMU on time, implementation progress picked up very quickly. The
Steering Committee provided timely resolution of implementation issues of counterpart fund. There were
some delays in the counterpart fund availability for the water and sewerage component. However with the
assistance of the Ministry of Finance, the Ministry of Water and Livestock Development was able to
resolve the issue with minimal impact on ongoing activities. As agreed in the Credit Agreement, the
government carried out the annual implementation review workshops regularly to review project
implementation issues that arose during the previous year and review the plan for the next year. This
enabled identification of issues and provision of appropriate solutions. The government also successfully
carried out the Mid-Term Review of the project according to plan. Out of seventeen legal covenants all
have been complied with exception of two which dealt with billing and collection performance of
DAWASA. But these were overtaken by events as DAWASA was in the process of being transformed to
an Asset Holding Authority with operations to be leased to an international private operator.

7.6 Implementing Agency:

The performance of the implementing agency is highly satisfactory. The selected project team was a
learning type. As a result, the attitude of the staff has been proactive throughout, searching for economical
and efficient ways of implementing the project. The implementing agencies were fully supportive of the
project staff and the consultants and contractors. The cooperation accorded to the Bank project staff was
unreserved and highly complementary.




                                                      - 22 -

7.7 Overall Borrower performance:

Overall, the performance of the Borrower was satisfactory.

8. Lessons Learned

·  Successful implementation depends on setting realistic development objectives, keeping the design
   of the project simple and establishing practical implementation arrangements. The implementation
   organization structure with a project team under the guidance of a Steering Committee proved a
   successful model for the implementation of the project. It provided confidence to proceed and solve
   problem encountered with respect to counterpart fund and procurement. The membership of the
   Permanent Secretaries of the relevant ministries in the Steering Committee played an important role
   with respect to timely approval of sectoral decisions. The structure allowed direct reporting of the
   Project Manager to the PS, PO-RALG, unlike the mainstreamed arrangement, and helped shorten the
   time to reach decisions. In addition, the setting up of Project Support Units (PSUs) in each project
   town, composed of consultants supervising major works and seconded municipal staff, proved to be an
   effective means for transfer of skills in contract preparation, tendering and management of contracts.
   Municipal staffs have at later stages demonstrated their acquired skills by handling the preparation and
   supervision of small works contracts effectively with very limited backstopping from the PMU. Under
   the follow on project (LGSP), building on experience from USRP, investment decisions using the
   Capital Development Grant (CDG) and implementations of the investments will be fully carried out by
   the local governments themselves. The Capacity Building Grant (CBG) which will be provided will
   allow LGs to enhance capacities in areas they decide that needs strengthening.

·  Establishing base-line data for the key output/impact indicators for a project and tracking it over
   the implementation period will make quantitative information available and makes the assessment of
   the outcome/impact of the project easier.

·  Bank effect. The Bank has led by example. The current IDA staff was reportedly not acting as
   "auditors to check where the government project staff has gone wrong". Instead, the IDA team focused
   on how best to help the government execute the project optimally. The Bank team worked
   harmoniously with the government team. Its relationship was based on respect and recognition of the
   potential contributions of the Government project team. Communication was quick and directed to
   respond proactively to the challenge and achievement of result.

·  The supervision strategy for large infrastructure projects must be well structured and should be
   followed in a disciplined fashion, and include exhaustive site visits. This was the strategy adopted
   by the IDA team and the borrower's team in supervising the project. Project status briefing notes were
   prepared by the respective Municipal Councils and the Urban Water and Sewerage Authorities well
   ahead of supervision missions, supplemented by the PMU briefing notes that identified main issues.
   All the project towns were visited during missions to consult with the councils and UWSAs first hand
   and inspect progress. This has heightened the vigilance of contractors, consultants and the service
   providers.

·  Creation of autonomous UWSAs with ring-fenced revenue has proven to be an effective
   institutional arrangement for sustainable service delivery. This has been demonstrated by the total
   transformation of the performance of the eight project towns UWSAs and that of Dodoma as indicated
   in Section 4.5 of this ICR.

·  Quality of work and improved services alter public perception. The public perception of the
   quality of the output and service of the project ­ roads, drainage, water service, sanitation facilities etc
   is extremely high. Beneficiary perception of municipal workers, government and the Bank has been


                                                    - 23 -

    altered for the better. One factor that contributed to such favorable outlook, beside the objective facts
    on the ground was the sequencing of the project executions. The project implemented initially small
    works with significant benefits that gained community support.

· Good record keeping and timely processing of financial issues simplifies audits. Record keeping
    has been exemplary. This is particularly reflected in the financial area. Almost all audit reports were
    unqualified as certified by external auditors.

·   Making Community contribution a condition of construction commencement in the urban setting
    could lead to delays. Often communities are slow in contributing the full amount of the contribution
    on time since they would like to see start up of works before making the full contribution. This has led
    to delays. In the case of the CIP in Dar es Salaam, the MCs paid the difference to ensure timely
    commencement of works. This may not be possible in situations where most of the MCs in developing
    countries are cash strapped to pay the difference.

·   Importance of long-term framework and careful project preparation study. The long-term
    framework and careful studies carried out under USEP during the preparatory phase have helped for
    the thinking process to congeal into concrete plans of actions which help generate consensus on what is
    to be done. Future projects would do well to seriously ascertain the existence of an action plan within
    the framework of a long-term plan.

·   Effective conflict management minimizes cost and implementation delays. The project experienced
    no undue delays due to conflicts arising from project contracts. In facts, consultants and contractors
    never worked in such smooth operation compared to previous projects executed in Tanzania. Payments
    were prompt and the few changes in contracts were executed in time. Delays and cost overruns due to
    contractors' and consultants' claims have thus been avoided. This is attributed in part to the skills
    acquired by project staff particularly in contract management including conflict resolution.

9. Partner Comments

(a) Borrower/implementing agency:

The Borrower has submitted an implementation completion report which is attached unedited as Annex 8.
Its assessment is comprehensive. The overall assessment of the project is consistent with that of the ICR.
The report assesses achievement of the project objective as "highly satisfactory", Bank performance as "
highly satisfactory" and its own as highly "successful".

The Borrower has compiled a set of lessons learnt which reflect its grasp of the issues involved in every
aspect of the project cycle. Details are shown in its contribution in Annex 8.

(b) Cofinanciers:


(c) Other partners (NGOs/private sector):


10. Additional Information




                                                     - 24 -

Annex 1. Key Performance Indicators/Log Frame Matrix


Outcome /Impact Indicator

Indicator                                            Baseline       Planned       Actual
                                                       (1996)      (2004/05)     (2004/05)
Municipal
% Increase in property tax collection                   0             82             233
Number of towns submitting timely unqualified           0             8              8
audits
% of tarmac road network rehabilitated                  0             21.61          33
% of solid waste collected and disposed                 38.6          55.1           55.1
Surplus revenue as % of revenue earned                  11.5          11.7           11.7


Water & Sanitation
% of population served with piped water                 56%           86%            86%
% of schools provided with latrines                0 no data here
% of project towns UWSAs with revenue more              0             100            100
than expenditure
Surplus revenue as % of revenue earned                  9             11.4           12
No. of employee per 1000 connections                    14            11             11
Index in increase in house water connections            100           190            195
Index in increase of sewer connections                  100           441            441

Output Indicators

Indicator                                        Projected during Actual/Latest  Change in
                                                  Implementation   Estimate     Percentage
A. Municipal Infra.
Road (km)                                             65.92        102.06        155
Bus Stands (Nos.)                                     6            13            217
Drains/ Culvert (Nos.)                                4            5             125
Drains (km)                                           4.56         4.56          100
Depot Rehabilitation                                  8            8             100
B. Sanitation / Solid waste
Vacuum Tankers                                        16           16            100
Skid pads (Nos.)                                      480          490           102
Dumpsite                                              8            8             100
Pit latrine                                           311          311           100
C. Water supply
Rehab. of water supply system in project towns        5            5             100
(Nos.)
Construction of storage tanks (Nos./m3)               4/4150+      4/4150+       100/100
Transmission& distribution systems of various         77.285+      77.285+       100
diameter (km)
D. Sewerage



                                                 - 25 -

Construction of sewers and associated manholes           75.45     75.45      100
(km)
Construction of sludge ponds (Nos.)                      14        14         100
CCTV survey & sewers and cleaning (km)                   17.5+     17.5+      100
Construction of treatment & sludge ponds (Nos)/ha        26/54     26/54      100/100
E. Dar es Salaam Community Infrastructure
Program
         Roads                                           22.0      20.8       95
         Sewer line                                      11.1      12.9       116
         Separate drains/culverts (km)                   0.0       3.0        --
F. Dar es Salaam Water Supply
         Emergency boreholes & system installation       34        34         100
         Goods and equipment                                       Completed  Completed
         Consulting services                                       Completed  Completed
F. Institutional strengthening
a) TA to MCs and UWSAs
         property valuation in project towns and Dar     44,000    44,000     100
         Municipality
         Establishment of RMMS                                     Completed  Completed
         Establishment of CMMS                                     Completed  Completed
         Performance review of MCs & UWSAs
b)Training ­ total                                       1508      1508       100
         Top management                                  15        15         100
         Middle Management                               440       440        100
         Technical staff                                 613       613        100
         Support Staff                                   32        32         100
         Union Leaders                                   48        48         100
         Councilors                                      64        64         100
         UWSAs Board Members                             40        40         100
         Ward Executives                                 144       144        100
         Training of trainers                            112       112        100
c) Operation and maintenance goods and
equipment
 Municipal councils:
·        Computers and office eqpt.                                Completed  Completed
·        Vehicles for O&M and property tax                         Completed  Completed
collection
·        Road maintenance equipment package (14                    Completed  Completed
pieces for each))
UWSAs
·        Computers and office eqpt.                                Completed  Completed
·        Vehicles for O&M                                          Completed  Completed
·        Water supply and sewerage maintenance                     Completed  Completed
eqpt package (23 pieces for each)
·        10,350 water meters and 6 bulk flow water                 Completed  Completed
meters




                                                    - 26 -

Annex 2. Project Costs and Financing


Table Annex 2a: Project cost (US$`000)

      Component                                            Appraisal    Actual    % ( Actual/
                                                                                  planned)
A     Rehabilitation & Expansion of Infrastructure
      Services
1     Municipal Council Infrastructure
      Roads and Drainage*                                     32,701     37,476     114.6
      Sanitation                                              3,650       1,776       48.7
      Solid Waste                                             5,141       3,175       61.8
      Subtotal Municipal Infrastructure                       41,492     42,427     102.3


2   Water supply and sewerage
      Water Supply                                            28,017     37,328     133.2
      Sewerage                                                13,889     13,380       96.3
      Subtotal Water Supply & Sewerage                        41,906     50,708     121.0


      Subtotal Rehabilitation and Expansion of                                      111.7
      Infrastructure Services                                 83,398     93,135


B   Dar es Salaam
    Community Infrastructure Upgrading                        5,184       5,039       97.2
    Dar es Salaam Water Supply                                5,602       5,935     105.9
      Subtotal Dar es Salaam                                  10,786     10,974     102.7


C     Institutional Strengthening                             23,114     29,290     126.7


D   Future Project Preparation                                2,821       1,825       64.7


      Total Base Cost                                        120,119    135,224     112.7


      Physical Contingencies                                  7,785           0       0.0
      Price Contingencies                                     13,408          0       0.0


      Total Project Costs                                    141,312    135,224       95.8

* includes costs for rehabilitation of Municipal Depots




                                                       - 27 -

Table Annex 2b1: Summary of Appraisal Procurement Arrangement

       Description        ICB     NCB        Other      Non-Bank     Total
                                                        FInanced
Civil Works              29.60    34.80        0.00      14.40      78.80
                         (23.1)   (33.1)      (0.00)     (0.00)    (56.20)


Goods                     8.40     6.80        1.40       2.50      19.10
                         (8.40)   (6.80)      (1.40)     (0.00)     (16.6)


Consulting Services                            13.6       4.90      18.50
                                              (13.6)     (0.00)     (1.80)


Training                                       1.50       0.30       1.80
                                              (1,50)     (0.00)     (1.50)


Studies                                        6.90                  6.90
                                              (6.90)                (6.90)


O&M Costs                                      8.60                  8.60
                                              (3.80)                (3.80)


Incremental Operating                          5.70                  5.70
Cost
                                              (4.50)                (4.50)


Refunding of PPF                               1.90                  1.90
                                              (1.90)                (1.90)


Total                    38.00    41.60        39.6       22.1      141.3
                         (31.5)   (39.9)      (33.6)     (0.00)    (105.0)




                                       - 28 -

Table Annex 2b2: Summary of Actual Procurement Arrangement (US$ million)

        Description                  ICB           NCB            Other         Non-Bank       Total
                                                                                 Financed
Civil Works                          62.73          7.57            0.00           25.83      96.13
                                    (62.73)        (5.08)          (0.00)          (0.00)    (58.77)


Goods                                9.76           1.00            0.95            0.00      11.71
                                    (9.76)         (0.92)          (0.77)          (0.00)    (11.45)


Consulting Services                                                16.77            0.00      16.77
                                                                  (16.77)          (0.00)    (16.77)


Training                                                            3.68            0.00       3.68
                                                                   (3.68)          (0.00)     (3.68)


Studies                                                             1.83                       1.83
                                                                   (1.83)                     (1.83)


O&M Costs                                                           0.00                       0.00
                                                                   (0.00)                     (0.00)


Incremental Operating Cost                                          5.20                       5.20
                                                                   (5.20)                     (5.20)


Sub-Total                            72.49          8.57           28.43           25.83     135.32
                                    (63.45)        (6.00)         (28.25)          (0.00)    (97.70)


Refunding of PPF*                                                   0.62                       0.62
                                                                   (0.62)                     (0.62)


Total                                72.49          8.57           29.05           25.83     135.94
                                    (63.45)        (6.00)         (28.87)          (0.00)    (98.32)
Note
*Refunding of PPF shown only under this Table (Annex 2b2: Procurement Arrangements). All other Tables for
Project costs do not include this item as it doesn't fall under the given Components.




                                                          - 29 -

Table Annex 2c: Financing Plan (Appraisal) - (US$ million)

                  Component                 IDA     GOT      Germany,    Total
                                                             Ireland &
                                                            Netherlands


A   Rehabilitation & Expansion of
    Infrastructure Services
    Municipal Council Infrastructure
1
    Roads and Drainage                       31.5      8.4                39.9
    Sanitation                                3.7      0.6                  4.3
    Solid Waste                               5.6      0.2                  5.8
    Subtotal Municipal Infrastructure        40.8      9.2                50.0


2   Water Supply and sewerage
    Water Supply                             15.9      1.8     16.1       33.8
    Sewerage                                 15.4      1.6                17.0
    Subtotal water Supply & Sewerage         31.3      3.4     16.1       50.8


    Subtotal Rehabilitation and Expansion
    of Infrastructure Services               72.1    12.6      16.1      100.8


B   Dar es Salaam
    Community Infrastructure Upgrading        5.2      1.1                  6.2
    Dar es Salaam Water Supply                6.0      0.0                  6.0
    Subtotal Dar es Salaam                   11.2      1.0                12.2


C   Institutional Strengthening              18.5      1.0       5.7      25.2


D   Future Project Preparation                3.1      0.0                  3.1


    Total Project Costs                     104.9    14.6      21.8      141.3




                                           - 30 -

Table Annex 2c: Financing Plan (Actual) - (US$ million)

                Component                 IDA        GOT     Germany,    Total
                                                              Ireland &
                                                             Netherlands


A   Rehabilitation & Expansion of
    Infrastructure Services
1   Municipal Council Infrastructure
    Roads and Drainage                    29,115     8,361          0     37,476
    Sanitation                             1,503        273         0     1,776
    Solid Waste                            2,927        248         0     3,175
    Subtotal Municipal Infrastructure     33,545     8,882                42,427


2   Water Supply and sewerage
    Water Supply                          10,817        681   25,830      37,328
    Sewerage                              12,503        877         0     13,380
    Subtotal water Supply & Sewerage      23,320     1,558                50,708


    Subtotal Rehabilitation and
    Expansion of Infrastructure           56,865     10,440   25,830      93,135
    Services


B   Dar es Salaam
    Community Infrastructure Upgrading     4,794        345         0     5,139
    Dar es Salaam Water Supply             5,520        415         0     5,935
    Subtotal Dar es Salaam                10,314        760               11,074


C   Institutional Strengthening           28,700        590         0     29,290


D   Future Project Preparation             1,825          0         0     1,825


    Total Project Costs                   97,704     11,790   25,830     135,324




                                          - 31 -

Annex 3. Economic Costs and Benefits

Preface

1.      This annex is comprised of four parts. Part I is the economic evaluations of the urban roads and
drains; Part II is the economic evaluations of the water and sanitation components; Part III is the overall
economic evaluation of the project, including the probabilistic risk analysis, and; Part IV is the financial
evaluation of the project.

PART I: URBAN ROADS AND STORM WATER DRAINAGE

2.      The economic evaluation of the project covers the constructed Urban Roads and Storm Water
Drainage (URSD) in eight project towns totaling 102 km of roads with storm water drainage:

Approach

3.      The economic analysis is based on the re-evaluation of data on traffic, operational performance,
costs and benefits of project component. The methodology used was similar to that employed by the SAR
and is summarized as follows:

(a)     Capital investment and maintenance costs were revised to reflect December 2004 prices and are
        included in the cost stream.

(b)     The benefit streams (December 2004 prices) were included, and consist of savings in vehicle
        operating costs. To be consistent with the SAR, travel time savings, reduced traffic congestion on
        existing roads, and enhanced road safety; are not included on the benefit side. The resulting EIRR
        and NPV post-construction estimates are therefore conservative and do not reflect the benefits due
        to travel time savings, reduced congestion on existing roads and the improved road safety.

(c)     A project life of 15 years has been assumed given Tanzanian climate, and the capital investment
        period for all components was from 1998 to 2004, depending on the construction phases.

4.      The economic analysis reflects the project costs and benefits at end of implementation of the
project.

Economic Evaluation of the Urban Roads

         Roads                            Length (km) planned           Length (km) actual
  1      Arusha urban roads                        16.87                         24.57
  2      Moshi urban roads                          7.30                         16.65
  3      Tanga urban roads                         12.86                         14.69
  4      Morogoro urban roads                       6.00                          7.63
  5      Iringa urban roads                         6.30                          9.91
  6      Mbeya urban roads                          8.31                         12.87
  7      Tobora urban roads                         5.37                          6.86
  8      Tobora urban roads                         8.28                          8.88
         Total                                     65.92                        102.06




                                                    - 32 -

The Urban Road Network and Storm Water Drainage

5.       The sections of the urban road networks were opened to traffic over the period 1999 to 2004 as
completed.

Traffic Projection

6.       Traffic count was undertaken in 2004 to assess the traffic level (see below). The traffic projection
is based on the basis of the data. The provision of improved municipal infrastructure has enhanced
economic activities, attracted entrepreneurs to open up shops, and other services in these towns. As a
result, the number of privately owned vehicles have picked up. From 2000-2004, the average traffic
growth rate on the urban roads is known to have grown by over 7 percents. Despite the initial high traffic
growth rate during the period of 2000-2004, the long term traffic growth projections on the new roads are
estimated to grow at 3%. The traffic projections for the 8 project towns, based on the 2004 traffic counts,
are summarized as follows:

URBAN ROADS TRAFIC (2004)

         ICR           Arusha       Moshi     Tanga      Morogoro       Iringa     Mbeya      Tabor     Mwanza
 Motor Cycle               287        223        592          148           97         74        99         57
 Medium Car               3203      1228         192         1547         406        227       232        1393
 Light Goods(rural            0         0         29             0           0       120         48        364
 Four Wheel Drive         3315      1203         178          499         460        165         57        773
 Light Truck               650        122        156          302         139          57        62        182
 Medium Truck              680        139         53           32           82         23      105          56
 Articulated Truck         127         14         79           68           54          3      214          38
 Mini Bus (rural)         2081        824        127          234         292        152         88       1351
 Large Bus                 158         52         66           29           12          2      116          73
 Average growth             3%        3%          3%          3%          3%          3%        3%          3%
 2005-2020
Source: Bank staff estimates

7.       The GDP projected growth is 6.3% and its 2003 growth was 5.7%. However, the traffic
projection used is 3%, which is lower than GDP growth. The figure is assumed reasonable for small towns
in a developing country where income growth is moderate, given the high capital investments of acquisition
of vehicles and high operating costs for vehicles with fuel cost projected to remain high world wide.

Economic Costs

8.       Financial construction costs have been converted to economic costs by excluding taxes and
subsidies. The Credit was available in SDR. Over the life of the investment, USD appreciated relative to
SDR. The total actual expenditure in USD was therefore less than anticipated at appraisal in the USD.

Urban Roads and Drainage Economic Cost Comparison (US$million)

  Roads & drainage        Planned Expenditure      Actual Expenditure       In December 2004 prices
                                                     (current prices)
          Total                   31.92                   25.46                       25.20



                                                    - 33 -

Economic Benefits

9.        The economic analysis includes the benefits derived from: VOC savings on the new roads
(summarized as below). Project benefits were estimated based on VOC model which was developed by the
Highway Design and Maintenance Standards Model (HDM-IV). The time savings through relieved
congestion on the existing road, and lower accident costs as well as value of passenger time savings are not
included as was done in the SAR.

Economic Vehicle Operating Costs (US$ per km, December 2004 prices)

                                        The New Roads          The Old Roads          Difference
 Car-Medium                                  0.149                  0.244                  0.95
 Four Wheel Drive                            0.175                  0.313                 0.138
 Bus Mini                                    0.187                  0.296                 0.109
 Motor Cycle                                 0.030                  0.033                 0.003
 Heavy Bus                                   0.465                  0.887                 0.426
 Goods Vehicle                               0.165                  0.244                 0.079
 Truck Medium                                0.391                  0.658                 0.267
 Track Heavy                                 0.644                  1.059                 0.415
 Truck Articulated                           0.933                  1.563                  0.63

Vehicle Fleet Characteristics

                           Car    Four-  Business Motorcycle   Bus    Goods    Truck  Truck    Truck
                          Medium  Wheel                       Heavy   Vehicle Medium Heavy Articulated
                                  Drive
 Economic Unit
 Costs
 New Vehicle Cost          18360  31560    23150      870     114660  15950    55900  84900    121390
 ($/vehicle)
 Fuel Cost ($/liter for      0.39  0.39      0.39    0.39        0.39   0.39    0.39    0.39     0.39
 MT, $/MJ for NMT)
 Lubricant Cost ($/liter)    2.30  2.30      2.30    2.30        2.30   2.30    2.30    2.30     2.30
 New Tire Cost ($/tire)     68.00 136.00  120.00    10.00      358.00 154.00  236.00  316.00   358.00
 Maintenance Labor           2.86  2.86      2.86    2.86        2.86   2.86    2.86    2.86     2.86
 Cost ($/hour)
 Crew Cost ($/hour)          0.39  0.39      0.77    0.00        1.23   0.86    0.86    0.86     1.18
 Interest Rate (%)           5.00  5.00      5.00    5.00        5.00   5.00    5.00    5.00     5.00
 Utilization and
 Loading
 Kilometers Driven per     25000  40000    30000    8000      120000  60000   100000 120000    120000
 Year (km)
 Hours Driven per Year        590  1250     1050      600       2720   1800    3260     3660     3660
 (hr)
 Service Life (years)          15    15       15       10         15     12       15      15      15
 Percent of Time for       100.00 50.00      0.00   50.00        0.00   0.00    0.00    0.00     0.00
 Private Use (%)
 Gross Vehicle Weight        1.30  2.30      2.20    0.10       14.00   7.00   15.00   26.00    45.00
 (tons)




                                                    - 34 -

Economic Evaluation

10.      Economic Internal Rate of Return (EIRR) of the roads and storm water networks of eight project
towns is estimated to be 33 percent, which is higher than the 23.9 percent return estimated in the SAR. The
high EIRR is primarily the result of (a) a higher traffic growth stimulated by improved infrastructure in the
project towns (b) increased in improved road length by 55%, (c) lower actual construction cost per km
(61%) in real terms than anticipated in the SAR, and (d) lower VOC due to improved road network and
more fuel efficient vehicles on the road.

EIRR (in %) and NPV (12%, million USD)

                                                  SAR                        ICR
                                           EIRR           NPV         EIRR         NPV
 Total Urban Roads & Drainage               23.9          12.9       33.0%         55.7
Sources: PMU and the Bank staff.

SENSITIVITY TEST

Scenario Analysis

11.      Besides the normal traffic growth scenario, two traffic growth alternatives have also been
considered: e.g. a lower traffic growth projection (2 percent per annum) and a higher traffic growth
projection (4% per annum). The traffic growth scenarios assumed are high and low growth rates relative
the basic case.

12.      The overall EIRR for the different traffic growth scenarios are summarized in the following table.
It shows that the overall EIRR for a higher traffic growth rate is 39 percent and for a lower traffic growth
rate is 27 percent.

TRAFFIC GROWTH RATE SCENARIO TEST

                                                                 EIRR         NPV (12%,
                                                                (in %)       million USD)
 Base case                                                       33%             55.7
 The high traffic growth rate scenario ( 4% per annum)          39%               81.9
 The low traffic growth rate scenario (2% per annum)             27%              33.1

13.     With Tanzania Economy growing at 5.7 in 2003 and expected to grow at 6.3 % over the medium
term, the results of the estimates for EIRR and NPV, therefore appears robust.

PART II: WATER AND SWERAGE COMPONENT

Background

14.      The water and sewerage subcomponent provided the six towns of Arusha, Dodoma, Morogoro,
Moshi, Tabora and Tanga with improved water supply and sewerage through the rehabilitation and selected
expansion of water supply systems. On the other hand, the sewerage subcomponent covered Arusha,
Dodoma, Mwanza, Moshi, Tabora and Tanga for sewerage rehabilitation and new construction for Iringa,
and construction of sludge treatment ponds in all the eight project towns.


                                                     - 35 -

15.   The Water and Sewerage Program completed under the project is summarized below:

  Project Town                                      Executed Works
  Arusha         Construction of chlorination building and water meter chamber at Olgilai spring
                 ·   Construction of Olgilai to Sekei trunk main pipeline (3.7km)
                 ·   Modification of existing chlorination plant at Sekei Central Station
                 ·   Construction of primary/secondary/tertiary pipelines in the distribution system
                     (57km)
                 ·   Rehabilitation of 18 break pressure tanks (BPT) and construction of 1 BPT
                 ·   Modification of inlet pipe system for Themi Hill reservoir by installing altitude
                     valve
                 ·   Supply of pipes, fittings and equipment for Nduruma borehole
  Dodoma         ·   Installation of seven (7) borehole pumps at Matukupora well field
                 ·   Installation of two (2) new pumps at Mzakwe and Maili Mbili Booster Station
                 ·   Laying of a rising main from Maili Mbili to Nkuhungu area
                 ·   Construction of 350 m³ storage tank at Nkuhungu
  Morogoro       ·   Replacement and reinforcement of 44.885 km of pipe (diameter 100 ­ 700mm)
                 ·   Repairs to Mindu Dam spillway channel
                 ·   Rehabilitation of Mafiga treatment plant
                 ·   Construction of Kihonda water tower (450m³)
                 ·   Construction of Mlima Kola water reservoirs (1,100m³)
  Moshi          Rehabilitation and expansion of Nsere and Shiri Springs
                 ·   Construction of trunk main pipeline from Shiri and Nsere Springs (16km)
                 ·   Construction of new 2,000m³ storage reservoir and rehabilitation of 3 existing
                     ones
                 ·   Construction of distribution pipelines in town (39km)
                 ·   Extension of reticulation systems by constructing 63km of pipeline at Kiboriloni,
                     Msaranga, Kaloleni, Pasua and Rau.
  Tabora         ·   Rehabilitation of Igombe treatment works
                 ·   Laying of 12.1 km (diameter 600 mm DI) trunk transmission pipeline from
                     Igombe water intake to town
                 ·   Replacement of two (2) high lift pumps at Igombe
                 ·   Replacement of three (3) low lift raw water pumps at Igombe
                 ·   Construction of water storage tank at Kazeh Hill (2,250 m³)
                 ·   Laying of 20.3 km (diameter 75 ­ 500mm) of distribution system pipes within the
                     town
  Tanga          ·   Upgrading of raw water/treatment plant capacities from 26,000 to 40,000m³/day
                 ·   Rehabilitation of 20km of raw water/gravity trunk mains
                 ·   Refurbishment of Kange (1) and Nguvumali (1) reservoirs
                 ·   Replacement of pumps at Mwakidila and Maweni pumping stations to enhance
                     supply
                 ·   Improvement of distribution system: installation of 665 valves, 3.6km of consumer
                     connections and 23 zone bulk meters, and laying of 11km trunk pipeline to
                     Pongwe and Amboni
                 ·   Extension of distribution system: laying of 118km pipeline extensions and to
                     replace old ones
                 ·   Supply of 5,000 water meters




                                                 - 36 -

Coverage

16.     The population of the project towns has increased from 1.59 million to 2 million over the life of the
project. At the same time, population served with improved water supply has increased both in absolute
number and as a share of the population. The tables below show the trends in improved water supply, the
revenues collected, water and sewerage tariffs, over the period 1999/2000 to 2003/04 as the program was
completed.

Percentage of population Supplied with Improved Water

    UWAS           1999/2000        2000/01           2001/02        2002/03          2003/04
 Arusha             87.00%             92%              94%            94%              951%
 Dodoma               N/A              55%              60%            64%               64%
 Morogoro           68.00%             75%              70%            75%               75%
 Moshi              34.63%             65%              75%            85%               85%
 Tabora             56.26%             72%              83%            88%               84%
 Tanga              89.90%             87%              92%            95%               98%

Quantity of Actual Water Supply (m3)

                    2000/01         2001/02           2002/03         2003/04         Average
  Arusha           8,250,095         9490000          9891500         9852810         9,371,101
  Dodoma           7,152,800         6789000          6971500         5889275         6,700,644
  Morogoro          5181873          5110000          5475000         5014370         5,195,311
  Moshi             4467200          5412950          7190500         6542260         5,903,228
  Tabora            2690826          3259450          3591600         3391215         3,233,273
  Tanga             5586996          6784255          7190500         6369980         6,482,933
                  33,329,790       36845655          40310600        37059910       36,886,489

UWASA Water Sewerage Tariffs In TShillings

  UWAS       Domestic   Institutional   Commercial     Industrial      Kiosk            Kiosk

              Tshs/m      Tshs/m3        Tshs/m3        Tshs/m3    TSHS/20 liters TSHS/20 liters
 Arusha          200        210            335            400            5            10 to 20
 Dodoma          300        300            300            n/a           15                  20
 Morogoro        200        225            462            388           10                  20
 Moshi           200        200            250            300            5                  n/a
 Tabora       311.2         430            780            990            6                  10
 Tanga           250        250            280            350            5               5 to10




                                                   - 37 -

Sewerage Charges

      UWAS            Domestic     Institutional    Commercial         Industrial     Connection
                      Tshs/m3        Tshs/m3          Tshs/m3          Tshs/m3         Tshs/m3
  Arusha                 25
  Dodoma               N/A             N/A              N/A               N/A              N/A
  Morogoro               80              70               85               90           25,000
  Moshi                 140             140              175              175
  Tabora               N/A             N/A              N/A               N/A              N/A
  Tanga                                  64              160              220

17.      Over the period 2000/01 to 2003/04 revenue collected grew at 14% per year. Existing demand is
approaching available capacity. The rate of growth of future revenue is therefore constrained by available
capacity. Minimizing water losses, improving revenue collection, increase in productivity and reduction of
administrative costs are some of ways open to enhance adequate maintenance & operation costs.
Affordability is assumed at US$0.40/m3, the higher rate is justified since the poor are already paying at
that rate (see table above)

Revenue Collected (Tshs)

    UWAS           2000/01         2001/02         2002/03           2003/04       Average over 4
                                                                                        years
 Arusha         1,441,397,708   1,850,302,494   2,021,077,237         2222168354     1,883,736,448
 Dodoma           497,106,345      884443796      1219894342          1305390685       976,708,792
 Morogoro         932,949,463     1392661428      1176352390          1355105491     1,214,267,193
 Moshi            723,836,926     1136906618      1142799949          1355396397     1,089,734,973
 Tabora           405,473,104      653459524       614330025           816999483       622,565,534
 Tanga            928,670,000     1351515484      1558877279          1795678787     1,408,685,388
 Total          4,929,433,546   7,269,289,344   7,733,331,222       8,850,739,197    7,195,698,327
 Growth            100%            128.37%         156.88%           179.55%           145.97%
 Average annual rate of growth at 14% per annum


18.      The share of revenue to budget for each of the six project towns has improved. In Tanga, revenue
collected has exceeded the budgeted expenses. The general trend shows improved revenue collection.
Financial construction costs have been converted to economic costs by excluding taxes and subsidies. The
Credit was available in SDR. Over the life of the investment, USD appreciated relative to SDR.

Revenue Collection Efficiency (Revenue collection to Revenue Budget)

    UWAS              2000/01        2001/02          2002/03           2003/04
  Arusha               0.72            0.83             0.99              0.92
  Dodoma               0.75            0.54             0.60              0.69
  Morogoro             0.77            1.05             0.94              0.94
  Moshi                0.90            1.13             0.96              0.87
  Tabora               0.69            0.95             0.86              0.84
  Tanga                1.06            1.33             1.09              1.10
  Total                0.80            0.92             0.89              0.89




                                                   - 38 -

Economic Costs

Water and Sewerage Investment Economic Cost Comparison (US$ million)

   Water and Sewerage       Planned Expenditure        Actual Expenditure       In December 2004
                                   (SAR)                 (current prices)             prices
 Total                             50.71                     40.71                    39.39



UWSAs Operations and Maintenance Expenditure (Tshs)

    UWAS            2001/01         2001/02           2002/03          2003/04        Average over
                                                                                        4 years
 Arusha             767527233      679110181          701571537      2284214622        1108105893
 Dodoma            1204386069      917800932        2333591378       1313047690        1442206517
 Morogoro           990353979     1317631105        1176238162       1350870364        1208773403
 Moshi             1068491538     1297934817        1448805786       2378017499        1548312410
 Tabora             573409760      524529080          537954744        778877247         603692708
 Tanga              508444000      645778786          764706000      1332688071          812904214
 Total             5112612579     5382784901        6962867607       9437715493        6723995145
 Nominal                   1.00 1.052844278        1.361900105       1.845967272       1.065177914
 growth rate
 USD                    5.5796         5.51345            6.5463          9.0489              6.6721
 (millions)



Economic Evaluation

19.     The EIRR Water Supply and Sewerage is estimated at 16% versus the SAR estimate of 12.4% and
the NPV, at a discount rate of 12%, is estimated to be US$8.54 million compared to the SAR estimate of
US$0.71 million. Summary of the results is as follows and the detailed analysis is in Part II of Annex 3.

20.     The higher rate of expected rate of return than appraisal estimates is mainly due to: increase in
water supply by over 20% and realistic estimate of overall affordability. The SAR estimated total volume
of water supply at 33 million m while the system now supplies about 40 million m , an increase of about
                               3                                                    3


20% over the planned target.

Water and Sanitation: EIRR (in %) and NPV (12%, million USD)

                                        SAR                         ICR
                                 EIRR          NPV          EIRR          NPV
 Water and Sanitation            12.4           0.7            16          8.5



Scenario Analysis

21.     The base case scenario assumes that improved collection will approach 100%, the unaccounted for
water (UFW) is the current average of 35%, and the affordability is an average US$0.40 cents per m ; for
                                                                                                       3




                                                    - 39 -

Scenario 1, collection is assumed at 100%, UFW is remains at 35%, but affordability is US$0.25 per m ;    3


and for Scenario 2, the UFW is assumed to deteriorate to 40% while the other two parameters remain as in
Scenario 1. Changes in these parameters affect the expected EIRR estimates, and the results show that
affordability is the critical variable affecting the outcome.

WATER SUPPLY & SEWERAGE SCENARIO

                                Base case          Scenario 1        Scenario 2
 Unaccounted for water             35%                 35%              40%
 Affordability                 US$0.4/m3           US$0.25/m3         US$040
 Collection                       100%                100%             100%

22.      The overall EIRR for the different scenarios are summarized in the following table. It shows that
the base case scenario is the best with an EIRR of 16% and NPV of US$8.54 million at a discount rate of
12%.

ALTERNATIVE SCENARIO TEST

                              EIRR (in %)                NPV (12%, million USD)
 Base case                         16.0                            8.54
 Scenario 1                          7                           (10..2)
 Scenario 2                         15                             7.14



PART III: OVERALL ECONOMIC EVALUATION OF THE PROJECT

Overall Economic Internal Rate of Return (EIRR)

23.      The overall EIRR of the Roads & Drainage and Water and Sanitation is 25.0 percent and the NPV
(12%) is about US$ 65.71million. In the SAR, the EIRR for the entire project was estimated to be 16%
percent.

Entire Project: EIRR (in %) and NPV (12%, million USD)

                                            SAR                      ICR
                                    EIRR           NPV        EIRR         NPV
 Entire Project                      16.17         11.9        25.0       65.71

The Project Risks

24.      The EIRR of the project is high particularly for the road and drainage component. The EIRR for
the road and drainage component is 33% and NPV at 12% discount rate is US$55.7 million versus the
SAR estimates of EIRR of 23.9% and NPV of US$12.9 million at 12% discount rate. The high EIRR is
primarily the result of (a) a higher traffic growth stimulated by improved infrastructure in the project
towns, (b) increased in improved road length by 55%, (c) lower actual construction cost per km in real
terms than anticipated in the SAR, and (d) lower VOC due to improved road network and more fuel
efficient vehicles on the road.




                                                       - 40 -

25.      The EIRR for Water Supply and Sewerage is estimated at 16% versus the SAR estimate of 12.4%
and the NPV, at a discount rate of 12%, is estimated to be US$8.54 million compared to the SAR estimate
of US$0.71 million. The SAR estimates are based on total volume of 33 million m3 of water supply while
the systems now supply about 40 million m3.



PART IV: FINANCIAL EVALUATION

Preface

26.      The financial evaluation of the project is comprised of two sections. Section 1 assesses the
financial return of Water and Sewerage sector; Section 2 assesses the financial capacity of the non-revenue
earning entities, the municipal councils.

THE FINANCIAL EVALUATION OF THE WATER & SEWERAGE COMPONET

27.      The Urban Water & Sewerage Authorities function as government enterprises with authority to
own operating revenue. The entities are responsible for the day to day management, operation,
maintenance, and development of the water and sewerage. A financial analysis based on the balance
sheets, income and expenditure statements, and sources and applications of the 6 UUWSAs, at the current
tariff rate (average of Tshs.239 per m3) was undertaken.

28.      Operating and Maintenance. The total operating and maintenance costs include production
expenses, treatment expenses, water distribution expenses as well as sewerage expenses. Also included are
depreciation expenses, maintenance and repair expenses, personnel expenses, administrative expenses,
corporate expenses, financial expenses and other payments.

29.      Profitability. Due to the low tariff rate, the rate of return on average net fixed assets is rather low.

30.       Cash flow. The low tariff assumption besides resulting in lower profitability, also affects
significantly the cash flow of the entities. However, based on the revenue forecast, it is estimated that the
USWAs may not need any external cash injection over the life of the project provided the investment is
passed as grants to the UWSAs.

Financial Internal Rate of Return (FIRR)

32.      Based on the projected financial status, on the aggregate the UWSAs may not need any external
financial assistance. Assuming investment financed under the credit is passed as equity by GoT, the
UWSAs will have on the average a 2.7% financial rate of return and net present value of (Tshs.15.3
billion) at 5% discount rate for the current average tariff rates for water supply and sewerage operations.

Scenario Analysis

33.      The financial sensitivity analysis tested an alternative scenario: a higher tariff growth rate
projection for the UWSAs. The results for the different tariff rates scenarios are shown as follows:




                                                      - 41 -

FINANCIAL SCENARIO ANALYSIS

                                                 FIRR (in %)    NPV (TShs. billion, 4.8%)

 Base case (Shs.239 average per m3)                  2.7                (15.0)

 Higher Tariff (Shs.400 average per m3)              5.4                  3.3


Project Risks

34.     The GoT implemented the UWSAs within budget and schedule. The field visits help confirm that
UWSAs can provide relatively good quality services to the water and sewerage users while maintaining the
systems in good condition. Given the operation situation, the investment is likely to be sustainability. The
financial risk to sustainability is therefore low.

THE FINANCIAL EVALUATION OF MUNICIPAL INFRASTRUCTURE

35.     The eight project towns made an investment on a total of 102 km of roads with storm water
drainage upgraded under the project. The financial evaluation of these non-revenue earnings entities
focuses on the MCs capacity to maintain existing infrastructure. In each of the past 4 years, on the
aggregate the revenue exceeded the actual expenditure (see below) indicating that as long as the recurrent
grant from the Road Fund and other sources is maintained at the current rate, the MCs would adequately
maintain their assets. The investment made under the project has limited risks due to financial constrains.

Aggregate Municipal Expenditure in Eighth Project Towns

 Year                                           2000       2001        2002           2003
 Revenue (Tshs. million)                       18,143      22,045      28,423        32,598
 Expenditure (Tshs. million)                   17,359      20,888      25,174        30,734
 Excess of income over expenditure                784       1,157       3,250         1,864
 (Tshs. million)


 Revenue growth rate                                       21.50%    28.93%         14.69%
 Expenditure growth rate                                   20.33%    20.52%         22.09%
 Excess of income over expenditure                         47.52%   180.90%         -42.64%
 growth rate




                                                     - 42 -

Annex 4. Bank Inputs

(a) Missions:
Stage of Project Cycle                      No. of Persons and Specialty                 Performance Rating
                                           (e.g. 2 Economists, 1 FMS, etc.)         Implementation Development
                   Month/Year       Count            Specialty                        Progress       Objective

 Identification/Preparation
              09/1994                         6    TTL, SE, WSE, Eco, PRS, UP
              01/1995                       14     TTL, SE, WSE, Eco, FA, OA,
                                                   SPRS, ME, UTS, SWS, WIS, IS,
                                                   EnvS, OpO

 Appraisal/Negotiation
              05/1995                       12     TTL, FA, Eco, ME, OA,
                                                   SPS, SE, WSE, WIS, IS, CE,
                                                   DivC

 Supervision

              08/1996                         4    TTL, SE, SFA, WSE,                     S              S
              11/1997                         6    TTL, Eco, PRO, WSE, SE                 S              S
              04/1998                         3    TTL, WSE, Eco                          S              S
              09/1998                         6    TTL, WSE, Eco, POpO, PRO,              S              S
                                                   FMS
              03/2000                         3    TTL, SSE, OA                           S              S
              09/22/2000                      3    TTL, SSE, OA                           S              S
              04/2001                         2    TTL, SSE)                              S              S
              10/12/2001                      5    TTL, SSE, UFS, WSS, ME                 S              S
              03/2002                         1    SSE                                    S              S
              09/2002                         2    TTL, Cons./ENSR                        S              S
              05/2003                         3    TTL, FMS, Cons./ENSR                   S              S
              10/2003                         3    TTL, FMS, Cons./ENSR                   S              S
              04/2004                         3    TTL, FMS, Cons./ENSR                   S              S

 ICR
              10/2004 -                       4     TTL, FMS,Cons/Engr,
              12/2004                               Cons/Eco


TTL            Task Team Leader                     PRO          Procurement Officer
CE             Civil Engineer                       UTS          Urban Transport Specialist
Cons/Engr      Consultant/Engineer                  PRS          Procurement Specialist
DivC           Division Chief                       SE           Sanitary Engineer
Eco            Economist                            SFA          Sr. Financial Analyst
EnvS           Environmental Specialist             SSE          Sr. Sanitary Engineer
FA             Financial Analyst                    SPRS         Sr.Procurement Specialist
FMS            Financial Management Spec.           SWS          Solid Waste Specialist
IS             Institutional Specialist             UFS          Urban Finance Specialist
ME             Municipal Engineer                   UP           Urban Planner
OA             Operations Analyst                   WIS          Water Institutions Specialist
OpO            Operations Officer                   WSE          Water Supply Engineer
PopO           Principal Operations Officer         WSS          Water Sanitation Specialist



                                                    - 43 -

(b) Staff:

       Stage of Project Cycle                Actual/Latest Estimate
                                 No. Staff weeks                 US$ ('000)
  Identification/Preparation           170.5                         341.8
  Appraisal/Negotiation                113.9                         237.2
  Supervision                          209.9                         607.7
  ICR                                   10.0                           26.0
  Total                                504.3                        1212.7




                                            - 44 -

Annex 5. Ratings for Achievement of Objectives/Outputs of Components

(H=High, SU=Substantial, M=Modest, N=Negligible, NA=Not Applicable)
                                          Rating
  Macro policies                        H        SU    M       N    NA
  Sector Policies                       H        SU    M       N    NA
  Physical                              H        SU    M       N    NA
  Financial                             H        SU    M       N    NA
  Institutional Development             H        SU    M       N    NA
  Environmental                         H        SU    M       N    NA

Social
           Poverty Reduction            H        SU    M       N    NA
           Gender                       H        SU    M       N    NA
           Other (Please specify)       H        SU    M       N    NA
  Private sector development            H        SU    M       N    NA
  Public sector management              H        SU    M       N    NA
  Other (Please specify)                H        SU    M       N    NA




                                                    - 45 -

Annex 6. Ratings of Bank and Borrower Performance

(HS=Highly Satisfactory, S=Satisfactory, U=Unsatisfactory, HU=Highly Unsatisfactory)


6.1 Bank performance                           Rating

   Lending                                       HS     S     U       HU
   Supervision                                   HS     S     U       HU
   Overall                                       HS     S     U       HU


6.2 Borrower performance                       Rating

   Preparation                                   HS     S     U       HU
   Government implementation performance         HS     S     U       HU
   Implementation agency performance             HS     S     U       HU
   Overall                                       HS     S     U       HU




                                                    - 46 -

Annex 7. List of Supporting Documents

The World Bank, Staff Appraisal Report, Urban Sector Rehabilitation Project, April 12, 1996.

The World Bank, Urban Sector Project, Development Credit Agreement, August 9, 1996.
GoT, Urban Sector Rehabilitation Project (IDA Cr. No. 2867-TA), Audit Reports and Accounts for
Project Towns, for Fiscal Year Ending 31, December 2000 and 2001.

The World Bank, Memorandum of the President of the International Development Association to the
Executive Directors on a Country Assistance Strategy of the World Bank Group for The United Republic
of Tanzania, May 6, 1997.

The World Bank, Memorandum of the President of the International Development Association and the
International Finance Corporation to the Executive Directors on a Country Assistance Strategy of the
World Bank Group for The United Republic of Tanzania, June 30, 2000.

The World Bank, Implementation Completion Report, Tanzania- Urban Sector Engineering Project (Credit
2291-TA), June 2, 1998.

Aide Memoires of supervision missions of the project.

GOT, Water Supply and Sewerage Improvement in Project Towns (Main Report, Tabora, Dodoma,
Municipality), February 2004.

GOT, Urban Sector Rehabilitation Project (IDA Cr. No. 2867-TA), Project Implementation and Mid-term
Review Report, January 1999.

GOT, Dar es Salaam Water & Sewerage Authority, Mid-term Review report, Urban Sector Rehabilitation
Project, January 1999.

GOT, Urban Sector Rehabilitation Project (IDA Credit No. 2867-TA), Design of performance review and
Feedback System for Municipal Councils, Baseline Survey draft November 2003.

GOT, Urban Sector Rehabilitation Project (IDA Credit No. 2867-TA), Project Implementation Report,
April 2004.

GOT, Ministry of Water and Livestock Development Annual Report. The Urban Water Supply &
Sewerage Authorities, July 2001- June 2002, February 2003.

Ernst & Young, Design of Performance Review and Feed Back System for municipal Councils, baseline
Survey Draft Report, November 2003.

Price Water House Coopers, Ministry of Water and Livestock Development, Water Sector Expenditure
Review 2004/05, Draft Report, January 2005.

GOT, Ministry of Health, Check List for National Environmental Health Completion for City Municipal
and Town Councils, ( Criteria used for evaluation, 2004).

GOT, Poverty Reduction Strategy, Progress Report 2002/2003, March 2004.

GOT, PMU, Briefing Notes to IDA Supervision mission of September 29-October 10, 2003.

Tanzania: Urban Sector Rehabilitation (P002758)-Final QSA6 Assessment, October 15, 2005.




                                                  - 47 -

Additional Annex 8. Borrowers Contribution

1.0   BACKGROUND

1.1   Origin of the Project

      Recognizing the large unfulfilled demand for urban infrastructure services, the Government of
      Tanzania initiated the Urban Sector Rehabilitation Project (USRP) in 1990 through the
      IDA-assisted Urban Sector Engineering Project (USEP) ­ Credit No. 2291-TA.

      The policy, institutional development and design work carried out under USEP led to the
      development of the Urban Sector Rehabilitation Project (USRP). The objective of USEP was to
      create an effective institutional and financial framework for urban sector investment and prepare
      the related detailed engineering work. The key concepts in the design of the program were: (a) the
      promotion of self sufficiency in urban local governments; and (b) the development of a program of
      infrastructure rehabilitation and expansion that is consistent with the financial capacities of urban
      councils and focused on meeting the needs of the manufacturing sector and low-income sections of
      the population.

1.2   Project Processing

      Based on the work completed under USEP, the Government of Tanzania (GoT), with the assistance
      of the IDA, prepared USRP, which the Bank's Board of Directors approved on May 23, 1996 and
      its Development Credit Agreement was signed on August 09, 1996. The project was declared
      effective on May 07, 1997 and closed on December 31, 2004.

2.0   PROJECT OBJECTIVES, SCOPE AND COSTS

2.1   Project Development Objectives

      The objectives of the project were sustainable economic development and urban poverty alleviation
      through (i) rehabilitation of basic infrastructure and expansion into high priority underserved areas
      and (ii) improvement of urban local government management and financing capacity by (a)
      strengthening the financial, technical and overall operations of the urban local authorities through
      training and technical assistance and (b) encouraging private sector and community involvement in
      urban services delivery and Operation and Maintenance (O &M).

2.2   Project Components

      USRP consisted of four (4) components covering eight project towns of Arusha, Moshi, Tanga,
      Morogoro, Iringa, Mbeya, Tabora and Mwanza, plus Dodoma and Dar es Salaam. The
      components were: (a) the rehabilitation and selected expansion of infrastructure services in eight
      project towns and Dodoma that included roads and storm water drainage, sanitation, solid waste
      management, water supply and sewerage sub-components; (b) community based upgrading of
      infrastructure and rehabilitation of water supply in Dar es Salaam (c) institutional strengthening
      consisting of technical assistance, training, information technology and provision of basic
      equipment for the municipal councils and UWSAs' organizational and management capacity
      improvements in the eight project towns, Dar es Salaam and Dodoma; and (d) the preparation of
      future projects in the urban sector.




                                                   - 48 -

2.3 Project Costs

                                             Budget                                         Actual
             Component        Total     IDA      GoT       Germany        Total     IDA     GoT         Germany
                                                           Ireland &                                   Ireland &
                                                          Netherlands                                 Netherlands
       A   Rehabilitation     100.8      72.1   12.6         16.1           93.1     56.9    10.4         25.8
           & Expansion of
           Infrastructure
           Services
       B   Dar es Salaam        12.2     11.2       1            0          11.1     10.3     0.8            0
           Community
           Infrastructure
           Upgrading and
           Water Supply
       C   Institutional        25.2     18.5       1          5.7          29.3     28.7     0.6            0
           Strengthening
       D   Future Project        3.1      3.1       0            0           1.8      1.8       0            0
           Preparation
           Total Project      141.3     104.9   14.6         21.8         135.3      97.7    11.8         25.8
           Costs
     1.  The achievement attained under each component was generally much higher than the initially planned as
         explained in paragraph 3 below.
     2.  The IDA contribution was lower than the initially budgeted due to the depreciation of the currency of credit
         (SDR) against the US Dollar (currency of transaction) during the most part of the implementation period of the
         project.



3.0 PROJECT ACHIEVEMENTS

3.1 Municipal Infrastructure Services

    Roads & Drains and Bus Stands

    The outputs for roads, drains and bus stands were highly satisfactory. The overall achievement
     exceeded the target in the original plan by about 50%.

     In the eight (8) Project towns, a total of 102 km of roads, with side lined drains have been
     rehabilitated/upgraded to tarmac level. The originally planned roads as per the Project
     Implementation Plan (PIP) were 65.92 km. Over the eight project towns, this represents a 33%
     rehabilitation of tarmac road network. It was planned to construct 6 bus stands in the project
     towns; at end of project a total of 13 had been realized; an increase of over 100%. Details are
     given in the table below.

     In addition, the municipal depots of the Project towns were rehabilitated to improve facilities for
     servicing of road maintenance and other municipal equipment. Maintenance activities are being
     carried out satisfactorily in all towns.




                                                      - 49 -

 Project Town                Planned Works                           Executed Works
                Roads                       16.87 km   Roads                     24.57 km
  Arusha                                               Bus Stands                2 Nos.
                                                       Naura Culvert             1 No.
  Moshi         Roads                       7.30 km    Roads                     16.65 km
                Bus Stands                  2 Nos.     Bus Stands          .     2 Nos.
                Roads                       12.86 km   Roads                     14.69 km
  Tanga         Bus Stand                   1 No.      Bus Stands                2 Nos.
                Duga Drain                  1 No.      Duga Drain                1 No. (3 km)
  Morogoro      Roads                       6.00 km    Roads                     7.63 km
                Bus Stand                   1 No.      Bus Stands                2 Nos.
  Iringa        Roads                       6.30 km    Roads                     9.91 km
                                                       Bus Stand                 1 No.
                Roads                       8.31 km    Roads                     12.87 km
  Mbeya         Bus Stand                   1 No.      Bus Stand                 1 No.
                Airport Drain               1 No.      Mahakama Road Drain       1 No.
  Tabora        Roads                       5.37 km    Roads                     6.86 km
                                                       Bus Stand                 1 No.
                Roads                       8.28 km    Roads                     8.88 km
  Mwanza        Bus Stand                   1 No.      Bus Stands                2 Nos.
                Main Market Drain           1 No.      Main Market Drain         1 No. (1.15 km)
                Industrial Area Drain       1 No.      Kitangiri "A" Drains      1.21 km
                Roads                       65.92 km   Roads                     102.06 km
  TOTAL         Bus Stands                  6 Nos.     Bus Stands                13 Nos.
                Separate Drains/Culverts    4 Nos      Separate Drains/Culverts  5 Nos


Sanitation and Solid Waste

Sanitation

The sanitation sub-component has achieved its targets satisfactorily. The plan under this
component was to construct pit latrines in selected primary schools, and provide equipment for
latrine and septic tank emptying. Accordingly, a total of 311VIP latrines were constructed in 188
schools in the eight towns. In addition, a total of 16 vacuum tankers for emptying latrines and
septic tanks (2 for each town) were provided.

Solid Waste

The solid waste sub-component has met or exceeded its target as shown in the table below. The
achievement is assessed as highly satisfactory. The project envisaged to provide solid waste
collection and transportation facilities, improvement to solid waste controlled dump sites.
Accordingly, the project provided a total of 240 skips (30 for each of the project towns), 490 skip
pads, 16 skip loaders (2 for each of the project towns), improvement to the solid waste sites (access
roads, washing bays and guard house), and high performance wheel loaders fitted with steel wheels
for management of solid waste site for spreading, covering and compaction of waste. This
equipment was not in the initial plan but was found to be very important for operationalization of
the solid waste dumpsites in the project towns.




                                             - 50 -

        Project          Skip Pads           Dumpsite         Deport Rehab.        Pit Latrines
         Town         Plan   Executed     Plan    Executed   Plan    Executed    Plan    Executed
      Arusha          60        60         1          1         1         1        32         32
      Moshi           60        60         1          1         1         1        48         48
      Tanga           60        60         1          1         1         1        72         72
      Morogoro        60        60         1          1         1         1        36         36
      Iringa          60        60         1          1         1         1        20         20
      Mbeya           60        60         1          1         1         1        41         41
      Tabora          60        60         1          1         1         1        36         36
      Mwanza          60        70         1          1         1         1        26         26
      Total           480      490         8          8         8         8       311        311


3.2 Water Supply and Sewerage

    Water Supply

    The achievement of this sub-component is assessed as highly satisfactory. All the planned targets
    were met in full and on some activities such as laying of trunk/distribution pipes the target was
    surpassed by more than 80%. Under the IDA Credit, major water supply system rehabilitation and
    expansion were carried out in the towns of Morogoro, Tabora and Dodoma. The project also
    rehabilitated the water supply system in the three towns of Arusha, Moshi and Tanga through
    parallel financing by KfW (Germany). Details of the Works are given in the table below:

        Project                                    Executed Works
         Town
      Morogoro       ·  Replacement and reinforcement of 44.885 km of pipe (diameter 100 ­
                        700mm)
                     ·  Repairs to Mindu Dam spillway channel
                     ·  Rehabilitation of Mafiga treatment plant
                     ·  Construction of Kihonda water tower (450m³)
                     ·  Construction of Mlima Kola water reservoirs (1,100m³)
      Tabora         ·  Rehabilitation of Igombe treatment works
                     ·  Laying of 12.1 km (diameter 600 mm DI) trunk transmission pipeline
                        from Igombe water intake to town
                     ·  Replacement of two (2) high lift pumps at Igombe
                     ·  Replacement of three (3) low lift raw water pumps at Igombe
                     ·  Construction of water storage tank at Kazeh Hill (2,250 m³)
                     ·  Laying of 20.3 km (diameter 75 ­ 500mm) of distribution system pipes
                        within the town
      Dodoma         ·  Installation of seven (7) borehole pumps at Matukupora well field
                     ·  Installation of two (2) new pumps at Mzakwe and Maili Mbili Booster
                        Station
                     ·  Laying of a rising main from Maili Mbili to Nkuhungu area
                     ·  Construction of 350 m³ storage tank at Nkuhungu
      Arusha         ·  Construction of chlorination building and water meter chamber at
                        Olgilai spring
                     ·  Construction of Olgilai to Sekei trunk main pipeline (3.7km)



                                                - 51 -

                 ·   Modification of existing chlorination plant at Sekei Central Station
                 ·   Construction of primary/secondary/tertiary pipelines in the distribution
                     system (57km)
                 ·   Rehabilitation of 18 break pressure tanks (BPT) and construction of 1
                     BPT
                 ·   Modification of inlet pipe system for Themi Hill reservoir by installing
                     altitude valve
                 ·   Supply of pipes, fittings and equipment for Nduruma borehole
  Moshi          ·   Rehabilitation and expansion of Nsere and Shiri Springs
                 ·   Construction of trunk main pipeline from Shiri and Nsere Springs
                     (16km)
                 ·   Construction of new 2,000m³ storage reservoir and rehabilitation of 3
                     existing ones
                 ·   Construction of distribution pipelines in town (39km)
                 ·   Extension of reticulation systems by constructing 63km of pipeline at
                     Kiboriloni, Msaranga, Kaloleni, Pasua and Rau
  Tanga          ·   Upgrading of raw water/treatment plant capacities from 26,000 to
                     40,000m³/day
                 ·   Rehabilitation of 20km of raw water/gravity trunk mains
                 ·   Refurbishment of Kange (1) and Nguvumali (1) reservoirs
                 ·   Replacement of pumps at Mwakidila and Maweni pumping stations to
                     enhance supply
                 ·   Improvement of distribution system: installation of 665 valves, 3.6km of
                     consumer connections and 23 zone bulk meters, and laying of 11km
                     trunk pipeline to Pongwe and Amboni
                 ·   Extension of distribution system: laying of 118km pipeline extensions
                     and to replace old ones
                 ·   Supply of 5,000 water meters

Sewerage

The achievement of this sub-component was highly satisfactory. Outputs exceeded or met the
targets. Rehabilitation and new construction of sewerage systems and waste stabilization ponds
were carried out in the seven project towns as shown in the table below:

    Project                                      Executed Works
     Town
                 · Rehabilitation (sludge removal and deepening) and construction of
  Arusha             inlet/outlet structures of 5 treatment ponds (8 ha)
                 · Construction of 2 new sludge ponds
                 · Construction of 8.75 km sewers and associated manholes
  Moshi          · CCTV survey of sewers and cleaning
                 · Construction of 8.0 km sewers and associated manholes
                 · Construction of 9 treatment ponds and 2 sludge ponds (20 ha)
  Tanga          · Construction of a pumping station
                 · Construction of 6.9 km sewers and associated manholes
  Morogoro       · Construction of 9.0 km sewers and associated manholes
                 · Construction of 4 treatment ponds (6 ha)



                                              - 52 -

      Iringa           · Construction of 4 treatment ponds and 2 sludge ponds (20 ha)
                       · Construction of 19.0 km sewers and associated manholes
      Tabora           · CCTV survey of 7.5 km sewers and cleaning
                       · Construction of 1.7 km sewers, 2.0 km laterals and associated manholes
                       · Rehabilitation of oxidation ponds, construction of 4 sludge ponds and
                         replacement of a sewage pump
      Mwanza           · CCTV survey of 10.0 km sewers and cleaning
                       · Construction of 2.6 km sewers and associated manholes

3.3 Dar es Salaam Community Infrastructure Upgrading and Water Supply

    Community Based Infrastructure Upgrading Program

    The achievement of this sub-component was highly satisfactory as all activities generally met or
    exceeded initial targets:

         Type of Works                   Planned Works                      Executed Works
     Spine Roads in           Roads                    6.0 km    Roads                     6.3 km
     Kijitonyama and Tabata
     (tarmac)
     Sewerage Works in        Length of sewer          11.1 km   Length of sewer           12.9 km
     Kijitonyama and Tabata   line constr/rehab.                 line constr/rehab.
     Neighbourhood Roads      Roads                    16.0 km   Roads                     14.5 km
     in Kijitonyama and
     Tabata (gravel)
     Flood Alleviation        Drains/Culverts          NIL       Drains/Culverts           3.0 km
     Drains in Kijitonyama
     and Tabata
                              Roads                    22.0 km   Roads                     20.8 km
     TOTAL                    Sewer Line               11.1 km   Sewer Line                12.9 km
                              Separate Drains/Culverts NIL       Separate Drains/Culverts  3.0 km


    Dar es Salaam Water Supply

    This sub-component achieved its planned targets satisfactorily. It consisted of civil works,
    consulting services, and supply of goods and equipment aimed at sustaining the water supply
    services in Dar es Salaam and supporting institutional reform of DAWASA in its transformation to
    an Asset Holding Authority. Apart from accomplishing its initial plans a substantial number of
    emergency/necessary additional activities were also implemented. Activities carried out are shown
    in the table below:

        Category                                       Activities
     Civil Works        · Emergency borehole drilling program (34 boreholes)
                        · Construction of panel houses and system installation to the 34
                           boreholes
                        · Rehabilitation of service mains off the Upper and Lower Ruvu
                           transmission mains to reduce leakages
                        · Rehabilitation of DAWASA offices at Mwananyamala
                        · Repair of Ruvu River breach at Kidogozero
                        · Rehabilitation of Boko Yard



                                                 - 53 -

     Goods and          · Supply and installation of pumps, water works electro-mechanical
     Equipment             spares, ultrasonic water meters and gate valves
                        · Supply and installation of 40 submersible borehole pumps
                        · Supply of office and laboratory equipment
                        · Supply of information technology hardware and software
     Consulting         · TA for financial, engineering and procurement advisory services
     Services           · Design and supervision of the leakage control works
                        · Auditing
                        · Communication services

3.4 Institutional Strengthening

    The Institutional strengthening component was highly satisfactorily achieved. It consisted of a
    number of sub-components aimed at supporting the implementation of project and sector
    ministries, provision of Technical Assistance to MCs and UWSAs training of MCs and UWSAs
    staff, provision of maintenance equipment for roads, water supply and sewerage systems.

    Immediately after the mid-term review, the IS was re-oriented more towards benefiting end users
    (direct beneficiaries) after observing that the prevailing approach was rather fragmented and ad
    hoc. The re-formulated IS strategy and work plan resulted into achieving about 50% more than the
    initially planned activities for the beneficiaries. Details are summarized in the table:

         Category                                          Activities
     Support to the        · Skills transfer to counterpart staff through established Project
     Implementation           Support Units (PSUs) and Construction Supervision Consultancies
     of the Project           (CSCs) for implementation of the major works
                           · Staffing of the PMU, PICU and PIU with skilled manpower to assist
                              in the implementation of the project
                           · Provision of the necessary goods and equipment
     Technical             · TA for property valuation in all the eight project towns and the 3
     Assistance to            Dar Municipalities (over 44,000 properties valued)
     MCs and               · Establishment of Road Maintenance Management System (RMMS)
     UWSAs                    (hardware, software and training) in all the eight project towns
                           · Development of a Performance Review and Feedback System for
                              MCs, Performance Review of 18 UWSAs
                           · Establishment of Computerized Maintenance Management System
                              (CMMS) (hardware, software and training) for all the eight UWSAs
     Training              · Top Management - 15 participants
                           · Middle Management - 440
                           · Technical Staff ­ 613
                           · Support Staff - 32
                           · Union Leaders ­ 48
                           · Councillors - 64
                           · UWSAs Board Members - 40
                           · Ward Executives - 144
                           · Training of Trainers (ToT) ­ 112
                           Total Trained = 1,508
     Provision of          Municipal Councils:



                                                  - 54 -

     Operation and        · Computers
     Maintenance          · Various Office Equipment
     Goods and            · Vehicles to Support O & M and Property Tax Collection
     Equipment            · A package of 14 Units of Basic Road Maintenance Equipment
                          UWSAs:
                          · Computers
                          · Various Office Equipment
                          · Vehicles to Support O & M
                          · A package of 23 pieces of essential Water Supply and Sewer
                              Maintenance Equipment
                          · Supply of 10,350 water meters and 6 bulk flow water meters

3.5 Future Project Preparation in the Urban Sector

    The achievement of this component was highly satisfactory. Planned activities under this
    component were all carried out successfully including preparation of Local Government Support
    Project (LGSP), its appraisal, negotiations, approval and fulfillment of effectiveness conditions
    ready for its implementation. The following activities were carried out:

    (i)      Consulting services for Feasibility Study, Environmental Impact Assessment, Detailed
             Design and preparation of Tender documents for Water Supply Improvements in Tabora
             Municipality.

    (ii)     Consulting services for Feasibility Study, Environmental Impact Assessment, Detailed
             Design and preparation of Tender documents for Water Supply and Sewerage
             Improvements in Dodoma Municipality.

    (iii)    Consulting Services for Detailed Design and preparation of Tender documents for
             Rehabilitation of Mambogo Water Intake, Water Treatment Works and Improvement of
             Water Transfer in the Existing Distribution System in Morogoro Municipality.

    (iv)     Preparation of IDA funded LGSP: support to the preparation of the LGSP, specifically for
             consulting services for preparation of final designs of the CIUP component (Stage 3) of
             LGSP, short-term project preparation consultancies, goods and office running costs,
             procurement of goods for the Project Support Team (PST) of LGSP and preparation of the
             Project Implementation Plan (PIP). Training of implementation staff in the Dar es Salaam
             local authorities and sensitization of beneficiaries through workshops, campaigns, printed
             materials, visual presentations etc were also carried out.

    Final design reports and draft tender documents for (i), (ii) and (iii) were prepared. All the
    activities under (iv) were also completed and the LGSP was appraised and negotiations were
    completed on October 01, 2004.

3.6 Managerial Capacity

    The project has assisted the MCs in enhancing their managerial capacities through training and
    provision of essential maintenance equipment which has resulted in substantial improvement in
    service delivery.




                                                 - 55 -

3.7 Financial Capacity

    MC's financial capacities have also improved through enhancement of revenue collection following
    technical assistance in property valuation.

3.8 Establishment of UWSAs

    The project played a leading role in bringing about institutional reforms in the provision of water
    supply and sewerage services in the urban areas.

    These services were being provided by the water supply and sewerage departments of the Ministry
    of Water in the respective towns. Through the project, the existing departments were transformed
    into semi-autonomous bodies known as Urban Water Supply and Sewerage Authorities (UWSAs)
    which were mandated to run their operations on commercial basis.

    The project also assisted the newly formed UWSAs to build their financial and managerial
    capacities and enhanced their operations and service delivery through training and provision of
    goods and equipment.

    As a result, the UWSAs overall performance in the Project towns has improved substantially to a
    very good level of service. All the Project towns and Dodoma are in Category "A" meaning that
    they cover all their O & M costs in full including payment of staff salaries, except Iringa, which is
    in Category "B" (up from "C") and is being assisted by the GoT to pay part of the senior staff
    salaries, while meeting O & M costs in full.

4.0 ASSESSMENT OF PROJECT OBJECTIVES, DESIGN AND IMPLEMENTATION

4.1 Assessment of Project Objectives

    The broader development objectives of sustainable economic development and urban poverty
    alleviation through (i) rehabilitation of basic infrastructure and expansion into high priority
    underserved areas and (ii) improvement of urban local government management and financing
    capacity were highly satisfactorily achieved. This is evidenced in the remarkable impact the
    project has had on the economic development and poverty alleviation in the respective project
    towns.

4.2 Assessment of Project Design

    Overall, the implementation arrangement put in place was highly satisfactory. The design of the
    project was appropriately based on the Government's desire to fulfill its development objectives
    and policies directed towards economic growth and poverty reduction.

    It was also in line with the IDA Country Assistance Strategy (CAS) of 1994 in terms of (i) poverty
    alleviation through policy reform and economic growth (ii) targeted interventions to improve urban
    services for the poor and (iii) upgrading and expansion of basic infrastructure and urban services.

    Furthermore, the project was in agreement with the three primary thematic objectives contained in
    the CAS of (i) capacity building and improved public sector management (ii) private sector
    development and (iii) environmentally sustainable investments.


                                                 - 56 -

4.3 Assessment of Project Implementation

    (i)   Under the Urban Sector Engineering Project (USEP), institutional strengthening was made
          one of the primary objectives to better enable the municipalities to absorb and manage
          investments in infrastructure and services to be made under USRP and to sustain them
          through coherent O&M programs. The overriding principle that guided the preparation of
          the project was that investments in infrastructure should be made only when the users and
          municipalities can afford to pay for the O&M costs of the proposed investments.

    (ii)  Institutional arrangements put in place for the implementation of the Project made use of
          existing Government organs as well as establishing special units staffed with teams of
          experienced professionals as follows:

          (a)      President's Office, Regional Administration and Local Government

                   Overall responsibility for the implementation and management of the Project
                   through Project Management Unit (PMU) was headed by a Project Manager.

          (b)      Ministry of Water and Livestock Development and DAWASA

                   Responsible for the implementation of the water supply and sewerage investments
                   through Project Implementation Coordination Unit (PICU) headed by a Project
                   Coordinator and DAWASA through Project Implementation Unit (PIU) headed by
                   a Project Coordinator.

          (c)      Project Steering Committee

                   ·   Provided overall guidance through addressing inter-sectoral policy issues
                       affecting the project

                   ·   Reviewed major reports and took staffing decisions

    (iii) Rehabilitation and expansion/upgrading of infrastructure in the project towns, Dar es
          Salaam and Dodoma was carried out with full participation of private sector (i.e.
          consultants, contractors, suppliers etc.), Communities and Municipal Councils/UWSAs
          which also provided counterparts to work with Consultants during implementation of the
          project thus transferring knowledge and building capacity for sustaining the investments.

    (iv)  The institutional strengthening was implemented concurrently with the rehabilitation of
          Municipal infrastructure, water supply and sewerage as well as upgrading of Dar es
          Salaam Community Infrastructure and water supply rehabilitation. This lead to
          substantial improvements in organizational and management capacity of the municipal
          councils and UWSAs financially, technically and in service delivery, operation and
          maintenance and feed back systems, thus creating enabling environment for sustainability
          of the infrastructure and future expansion.

    (v)   Key performance indicators were used to monitor physical progress of the project and
          performance in operational, financial and institutional development matters. Quarterly
          progress reports were prepared by the Project Management Unit (PMU) and reviewed by
          the Project Steering Committee. Annual and Mid-term reviews of the project
          implementation progress were carried out through workshops bringing together the
          implementers of the project, the World Bank and a wide range of stakeholders'
          representation with the lessons learnt being carried over further for improvement of the
          project implementation process.



                                               - 57 -

5.0 ASSESSMENT OF PROJECT ACHIEVEMENTS

5.1 The achievement of project objectives was highly satisfactory. The project has rehabilitated key
    infrastructure and expanded to underserved areas. It has provided capacity enhancement measures
    through training and technical assistance and provision of maintenance equipment. The outcomes
    of these interventions may be summarized as follows:

    (i)     Rehabilitation of Municipal Infrastructure

            The impact/outcome of this objective was overall highly satisfactory. The rehabilitation
            and improvement of priority road networks and associated works like storm water drains
            and bus stands has resulted in varying impacts in the project towns. Most notable of the
            impacts include: improvement of accessibility of services; facilitation of smooth flow of
            traffic, both vehicular and pedestrians; increased traffic flow; increased traffic speeds and
            reduction in journey times; reduced traffic conflicts leading to less accidents; increased
            traffic activity for various economic services; improvement of the general view and
            landscape; reduction of the environmental pollution that was caused by dusty roads; and
            reduction in flooding or standing water as a result of improved storm water drains that lead
            water to natural water courses and away from properties.

            Other impacts include: reduced vehicle operating costs so that savings made are released
            for other uses; bus stands have made it convenient for passengers boarding vehicles and at
            the same time created business opportunities for other residents and have become an added
            source of revenue for the councils; in neighborhood of improved roads, property values
            have increased bringing new economic activities in the respective areas; and beneficiaries
            more satisfied with services leading to willingness to pay other council dues. The
            provision of improved dump sites in the project towns and the provision of latrines in
            selected schools has resulted in the improvement of sanitation and in particular achieved
            the following: reduced haphazard dumping of solid waste; increased frequency of
            collection of solid waste whole provision of pit latrines has reduced pollution of the
            environment associated with poor disposal of human waste; and there has been improved
            cleanliness in the towns.

    (ii)    Rehabilitation of Water Supply and Sewerage

            The impact/outcome of this objective was highly satisfactory. Rehabilitation and other
            improvements of the water supply systems have resulted in increased supplies thus
            enabling the UWSAs to expand their services to areas that were previously underserved or
            not served at all, leading to access of more population to adequate, clean and safe water
            and hence health improvements of the beneficiaries. In addition, there have been
            remarkable improvements in various performance indicators: increased water supply
            service hours; reduction in unaccounted for water; and increased revenues.

            Other noted impacts include: reduced complaints on water issues; customer satisfaction
            has increased; reduction of water borne diseases; and increased willingness to pay.




                                                - 58 -

             The impact of rehabilitation of the sewerage networks include: reduction of overflows of
             sewage and hence eliminating pollution of the environment; and effluent water from
             oxidation ponds is to the required quality levels for release to natural water courses hence
             reducing pollution and health hazards.

    (iii)    Institutional Strengthening

             The achievement of the institutional objective was highly satisfactory. The Institutional
             Strengthening under the USRP was unprecedented and it tremendously impacted on the
             way the relevant staff of the MCs and UWSAs performed their duties. The following
             impacts have generally been noted: enhanced communication within the councils and
             UWSAs and also outside; improved behavior in working environment; improved data
             capture and dissemination, improved billing and revenue collection; enhanced time
             management and hence increased productivity; efficiency in report writing and quality,
             particularly reports on finance, budgets, progress reports and audit reports are being
             prepared and submitted on time; there is increased use of the computer in record keeping
             and data processing among employees; and capacity of staff in designing, planning, and
             activity scheduling in the implementation of new activities as well as in maintenance and
             supervision have all been enhanced.

             The Technical Assistance provided under various categories provided tools for better
             planning and management for improved service delivery. As a result, revenue collection
             has generally improved and local government urban management has substantially been
             enhanced.

5.2 Considering the above outcomes, the project implementation has been a success.

6.0 BANK'S PERFORMANCE

    The overall Bank performance was highly satisfactory. The World Bank Team on the USRP did
    not change much over the project period, though some changes did occur at the start and slightly
    towards the end of the project implementation.

    The Bank responded promptly and adequately to requests for reviews and no objections throughout
    the duration of the project. There were no delays in receiving clearances for activities, program,
    budgets and documents and a great deal of flexibility was exercised when necessary for the interest
    of the project.

    The Supervision Missions were undertaken twice a year and were appropriately staffed to cope
    with tasks at hand. Issues were tackled promptly; aide memoires produced timely and relevant
    agreed actions followed up diligently.

    The GoT and the beneficiaries on aggregate, view the performance of the World Bank as highly
    satisfactory.

    The Government therefore wishes to commend the valuable contribution by the World Bank Team
    in terms of advice and guidance provided during the project implementation.




                                                - 59 -

7.0 BORROWER'S PERFORMANCE

    The Borrower views his performance as highly successful. Being the first Urban Sector
    Rehabilitation Project of its kind for the country, implementation was both complex and demanding
    and required co-ordination of inputs from several key players including central ministries, relevant
    institutions and urban authorities.

    Despite the complexity, the objectives of the project were satisfactorily achieved. The Steering
    Committee which was made up of Permanent Secretaries from relevant ministries provided the
    necessary oversight and guidance to the Project Management Unit (PMU) and Coordination Units
    that enabled successful implementation of the project. Furthermore, the performance of the staff in
    the implementation units as well as the cooperation from project towns and other stakeholders also
    contributed much to this success.

    The Government ensured that the project management/coordination units were all the time staffed
    with dedicated local teams of professionals who took charge of the preparation and implementation
    of the project. There was a very limited support from technical advisors during the implementation
    of the project, unlike as is mostly the case with many other donor financed projects in the country.

    Also the project did not experience counterpart funds constraints as the Government was always
    making available the required funds timely, thus meeting its obligation as per the DCA.

8.0 LESSONS LEARNED

    Municipal/UWSAs Infrastructure

    The following lessons have been learnt in the course of implementation of the project:

    ·   The issue of ownership is best addressed through involvement of beneficiaries at every stage of
        implementation as demonstrated in the case of USRP.

    ·   Use of Consultants to provide various services during project implementation is more
        beneficial with active and matching participation of the client/beneficiaries. Use of counterpart
        engineers provided by councils/UWSAs with construction supervision consultants, on the basis
        of learning-by-doing, has built significant capacities in the project towns for planning and
        implementation of projects as well as their sustainability.

    ·   Quality of construction works/consultancy services/goods and completion/delivery period
        depend to a large extent, on the proper execution of the procurement processes so as to get
        quality contractors/consultants/suppliers.

    ·   There is need to undertake thorough review, have updated designs and relevant contract
        documents prior to commencement of implementation of project work to ensure adequacy of
        pertinent information.

    ·   It is important to carry out proper fieldwork, consultations and negotiations with utility
        authorities on the costing and scheduling of relocation of utility services at design/costing stage
        by designers/consultants of the works.

    ·   There is need for continued consultation with the financiers and relevant procurement
        authorities on how best to handle the variation orders/additional works and contingencies



                                                 - 60 -

    issues and hasten approvals for increased efficiency in implementation of future projects, citing
    problems experienced during execution of the project works.

·   Councils need to put in place necessary by-laws on encroachers interfering road works/use and
    strictly enforce them. This also has to apply to littering, dumping wastes and discharging of
    sewage on the roads/into drains.

·   There is need to have the established road maintenance management system utilized and
    sustained in the project towns for the rehabilitated roads to have any chance of attaining the
    projected/desired life span..

·   Maintenance of municipal roads and drains should be carried out with appreciable
    participation of private sector and local communities for efficiency and sustainability. This
    will also assist to inculcate the culture of maintenance and ownership to the communities.

Community Infrastructure Program (CIP)

Lessons learnt from the implementation of the CIP program include:

·   Involvement of sectoral committees at the grass root level in the implementation of community
    works brings in valuable technical inputs and facilitates participation of the beneficiaries in the
    decision making process.

·   Community mobilization and participation in decision making, implementation and evaluation
    is necessary in creating trust, self-help spirit and sense of ownership of the project investments.

·   Transparency in all aspects of program implementation is essential in maintaining harmony
    and commitment to the project's objectives and enhances community contributions to the
    project fund.

·   Community Based Organizations (CBOs) are effective vehicles for community participation in
    development activities.

Institutional Strengthening (IS)

The following lessons have been learnt in the cause of implementation of the Institutional
Strengthening component of the project:

·   The success of the IS and Capacity Building interventions depends on:

    -   the implementing agencies and the beneficiaries to recognize the importance of the
        institutional strengthening sub-components, that is, training, provision of basic goods and
        appropriate technical assistance, as the engine of bringing about improved efficiency and
        sustainability of both the investments and service delivery; and

    -   cultivating the culture of being target oriented

    ·   The Project initiatives on Capacity Building and IS are best carried forward in the medium
        and long-term plans of the benefiting organizations (e.g. MCs and UWSAs) by advocating
        and explicitly budgeting for:

    -   establishment and institutionalization of a culture of regular and periodic maintenance of
        infrastructure and support services at the beneficiary level;




                                              - 61 -

  -    strategic skills upgrading and development training program (internal and external)
       designed to meet the ever changing demands for service deliveries; and

  -    improved financial and management capacities to effectively cater for O & M and viable
       development projects/equipment that will guarantee sustainable provision of quality
       services to the urban dwellers.

· The project has achieved its objective of infrastructure rehabilitation and expansion, and
  management and technical capacity built through the project in the Municipal Councils and
  Urban Water and Sewerage Authorities in the project towns. Sustainable service delivery is
  still a challenge that requires effective maintenance of the investments. This requires sustained
  enhancement of the revenue base of local authorities and improvement of overall
  accountability, which will continue under the LGSP's capacity enhancement activities.




                                            - 62 -


