Page  1
CONFORMED COPY
CREDIT NUMBER 2867 TA
Development Credit Agreement
(Urban Sector Rehabilitation Project)
between
UNITED REPUBLIC OF TANZANIA
and
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
Dated August 9, 1996
CREDIT NUMBER 2867 TA
DEVELOPMENT CREDIT AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT, dated August 9, 1996, between UNITED REPUBLIC OF TANZANIA (the 
Borrower) and INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION (the Association).
WHEREAS (A) the Association has received a letter, dated March 25, 1996, from 
the Borrower, describing a program of actions, objectives and policies, designed to 
achieve reforms in the Borrower’s urban sector (hereinafter called the Program), and 
declaring the Borrower’s commitment to the execution of the Program;
(B)
the Borrower, having satisfied itself as to the feasibility and priority 
of the Project described in Schedule 2 to this Agreement, has requested the 
Association to assist in the financing of the Project;
(C)
the Borrower has requested from the Government of the Federal Republic of 
Germany, through the Kreditanstalt fur Wiederaufbau (KFW), a grant (the KFW Grant) in 
an amount of DM 30,850,000 to assist in financing Part A.4 of the Project;
WHEREAS the Association has agreed on the basis, inter alia, of the foregoing, 
to extend the Credit to the Borrower upon the terms and conditions set forth in this 
Agreement;
Page  2
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
ARTICLE I
General Conditions; Definitions
Section 1.01. The “General Conditions Applicable to Development Credit 
Agreements” of the Association, dated January 1, 1985, with the modifications thereto 
set forth below (the General Conditions) constitute an integral part of this 
Agreement.
(a)
The last sentence of Section 3.02 is deleted.
(b)
the second sentence of Section 5.01 is modified to read:
“Except as the Association and the Borrower shall otherwise agree, no 
withdrawal 
shall be made: (a) on account of expenditures in the territories 
of any country which is not 
a member of the Bank or for goods produced in, or 
services supplied from, such territories; 
or (b) for the purpose of any payment to 
persons or entities or any imports of goods, if 
such payment or import, to 
the knowledge of the Bank is prohibited by a decision of the 
United 
Nations Security Council taken under Chapter VII of the Charter of the United 
Nations”.
Section 1.02. Unless the context otherwise requires, the several terms defined 
in the General Conditions and in the Preamble to this Agreement have the respective 
meanings therein set forth and the following additional terms have the following 
meanings:
(a)
“FY” means the Borrower’s fiscal year, beginning July 1 and ending on 
June 30 of the following year;
(b)
“LAAM” means the Local Authorities Accounting Manual to be introduced in 
the Project Towns;
(c)
“MIP” means the Management Improvement Plans, satisfactory to the 
Association, to be prepared by the Project Towns, the UWSDs and NUWA (as hereinafter 
defined), which shall include operational plans for personnel administration, finance 
and technical services, financial management and services management;
(d)
“MOU” means any of the following Memorandum of Understanding, 
satisfactory to the Association, to be entered into between PMO and each of the 
Project Towns, PMO and Dar es Salaam or MOW and each of the UWSDs, specifying, inter 
alia, their respective roles in Project implementation, as provided for in paragraphs 
4 and 1 (c) respectively of Schedule 4 to this Agreement;
(e)
“MOW” means the Borrower’s Ministry of Water;
(f)
“NUWA” means the National Urban Water Authority, a body corporate 
established and operating pursuant to the Urban Water Supply Act, No. 7 of 1981;
(g)
“Participating Community” means a community in one of the infrastructure 
deficient settlements in Dar es Salaam, meeting the criteria for participation in Part 
B.1 of the Project, as provided for in the PIP, as hereinafter defined;
(h)
“PMO” means the Borrower’s Prime Minister’s Office, the office 
responsible for local government affairs;
(i)
“PMU” means the Project Management Unit within PMO, established pursuant 
to the provisions of paragraph 2 of Schedule 4 to the Development Credit Agreement, 
dated October 31, 1991, between the Borrower and the Association (Urban Sector 
Engineering Project);
(j)
“Project Preparation Advance” means the project preparation advance 
granted by the Association to the Borrower pursuant to letters dated January 4, 1995, 
and September 11, 1995, respectively from the Association and confirmed by the 
Page  3
Borrower on January 26, 1995, and October 4, 1995, respectively;
(k)
“Project Towns” means the towns of Arusha, Iringa, Mbeya, Morogoro, 
Moshi, Mwanza, Tabora and Tanga and such other towns as may be included in the Project 
by agreement between the Borrower and the Association;
(l)
“PIP” means the Project Implementation Plan, adopted by the Borrower on 
April 1, 1996, specifying, inter alia, procedures and other arrangements for the 
implementation of the Project, referred to in paragraph 2 of Schedule 4 to this 
Agreement;
(m)
“PSU” means a Project Support Unit referred to in paragraph 1 c) of 
Schedule 4 to this Agreement; 
(n)
“Resettlement Program” means the program, satisfactory to the 
Association, adopted by the Borrower on April 1, 1996, for the resettlement of persons 
displaced by Project activities in the town of Mwanza;
(o)
“Special Accounts” means the accounts referred to in Section 2.02 (b) of 
this Agreement;
(p)
“Subsidiary Agreement” means the agreement to be entered into between the 
Borrower and NUWA pursuant to Section 3.01 (b) of this Agreement, as the same may be 
amended from time to time, and such term includes any schedules to the Subsidiary 
Agreement;
(q)
“Urban Water and Sewerage Recurrent Expenditure Account” means the 
account established by the Borrower under the Exchequer and Audit Ordinance, Chapter 
439 of 1961, for the UWSD, as hereinafter defined, in each Project Town, to be used 
for operations and maintenance expenditures;
(r)
“UWSB” means an Urban Water and Sewerage Board, established by the 
Borrower in the Project Towns and Dodoma with responsibility for deciding key 
management issues, including tariff levels for the UWSDs; and
(s)
“UWSD” means an Urban Water and Sewerage Department, a semi-autonomous 
department in the Project Towns and Dodoma under the supervision of MOW.
ARTICLE II
The Credit
Section 2.01. The Association agrees to lend to the Borrower, on the terms and 
conditions set forth or referred to in the Development Credit Agreement, an amount in 
various currencies equivalent to seventy-two million three hundred thousand Special 
Drawing Rights (SDR 72,300,000).
Section 2.02. (a) The amount of the Credit may be withdrawn from the Credit 
Account in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1 to this Agreement for 
expenditures made (or, if the Association shall so agree, to be made) in respect of 
the reasonable cost of goods, works and services required for the Project described in 
Schedule 2 to this Agreement and to be financed out of the proceeds of the Credit.
(b)
The Borrower may, for the purposes of the Project, open and maintain in 
dollars three special deposit accounts (Special Account A for Parts A.1 through 3, 
B.1, C.1, C3, C.4 and D of the Project, Special Account B for Parts A.4, A.5 and C.2 
of the Project and Special Account C for Part B.2 of the Project) in commercial banks 
on terms and conditions satisfactory to the Association , including appropriate 
protection against set-off, seizure or attachment. Deposits into, and payments out of, 
the Special Accounts shall be made in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 5 to 
this Agreement.
(c)
Promptly after the Effective Date, the Association shall, on behalf of 
the Borrower, withdraw from the Credit Account and pay to itself the amount required 
to repay the principal amount of the Project Preparation Advance withdrawn and 
outstanding as of such date and to pay all unpaid charges thereon. The unwithdrawn 
balance of the authorized amount of the Project Preparation Advance shall thereupon be 
Page  4
canceled.
Section 2.03. The Closing Date shall be June 30, 2004, or such later date as the 
Association shall establish. The Association shall promptly notify the Borrower of 
such later date.
Section 2.04. (a) The Borrower shall pay to the Association a commitment charge 
on the principal amount of the Credit not withdrawn from time to time at a rate to be 
set by the Association as of June 30 of each year, but not to exceed the rate of 
one-half of one percent (1/2 of 1%) per annum.
(b)
The commitment charge shall accrue: (i) from the date sixty days after 
the date of this Agreement (the accrual date) to the respective dates on which amounts 
shall be withdrawn by the Borrower from the Credit Account or canceled; and (ii) at 
the rate set as of the June 30 immediately preceding the accrual date or at such other 
rates as may be set from time to time thereafter pursuant to paragraph (a) above. The 
rate set as of June 30 in each year shall be applied from the next payment date in 
that year specified in Section 2.06 of this Agreement.
(c)
The commitment charge shall be paid: (i) at such places as the 
Association shall reasonably request; (ii) without restrictions of any kind imposed 
by, or in the territory of, the Borrower; and (iii) in the currency specified in this 
Agreement for the purposes of Section 4.02 of the General Conditions or in such other 
eligible currency or currencies as may from time to time be designated or selected 
pursuant to the provisions of that Section.
Section 2.05. The Borrower shall pay to the Association a service charge at the 
rate of three-fourths of one percent (3/4 of 1%) per annum on the principal amount of 
the Credit withdrawn and outstanding from time to time.
Section 2.06. Commitment charges and service charges shall be payable 
semiannually on May 15 and November 15 in each year.
Section 2.07. (a) Subject to paragraphs (b) and (c) below, the Borrower shall 
repay the principal amount of the Credit in semi-annual installments payable on each 
May 15 and November 15 commencing November 15, 2006, and ending May 15, 2036. Each 
installment to and including the installment payable on May 15, 2016, shall be one 
percent (1%) of such principal amount, and each installment thereafter shall be two 
percent (2%) of such principal amount.
(b)
Whenever: (i) the Borrower's gross national product per capita, as 
determined by the Association, shall have exceeded $790 in constant 1985 dollars for 
five consecutive years; and (ii) the Bank shall consider the Borrower creditworthy for 
Bank lending, the Association may, subsequent to the review and approval thereof by 
the Executive Directors of the Association and after due consideration by them of the 
development of the Borrower’s economy, modify the terms of repayment of installments 
under paragraph (a) above by requiring the Borrower to repay twice the amount of each 
such installment not yet due until the principal amount of the Credit shall have been 
repaid. If so requested by the Borrower, the Association may revise such modification 
to include, in lieu of some or all of the increase in the amounts of such 
installments, the payment of interest at an annual rate agreed with the Association on 
the principal amount of the Credit withdrawn and outstanding from time to time, 
provided that, in the judgment of the Association, such revision shall not change the 
grant element obtained under the above-mentioned repayment modification.
(c)
If, at any time after a modification of terms pursuant to paragraph (b) 
above, the Association determines that the Borrower’s economic condition has 
deteriorated significantly, the Association may, if so requested by the Borrower, 
further modify the terms of repayment to conform to the schedule of installments as 
provided in paragraph (a) above.
Section 2.08. The currency of the United States of America is hereby specified 
for the purposes of Section 4.02 of the General Conditions.
ARTICLE III
Execution of the Project
Page  5
Section 3.01. (a) The Borrower declares its commitment to the objectives of the 
Project as set forth in Schedule 2 to this Agreement, and, to this end, shall: (i) 
carry out Parts A, B.1, C and D of the Project through PMO, with due diligence and 
efficiency and in conformity with appropriate administrative, financial, engineering, 
urban and environmental practices, and shall provide, promptly as needed, the funds, 
facilities, services and other resources required for the Project; and (ii) cause NUWA 
to carry out Part B.2 of the Project with due diligence and efficiency, in conformity 
with appropriate administrative, financial, engineering and water sector practices, 
and provide promptly as needed the funds, facilities, services and other resources 
required for such Part of the Project.
(b)
The Borrower shall make the proceeds of the Credit, allocated from time 
to time to Categories (1) (d), (2) (a), (3) (a) and (4) (a) of the table set forth in 
paragraph 1 of Schedule 1 to this Agreement, available to NUWA as a grant under a 
subsidiary agreement to be entered into between the Borrower and NUWA under terms and 
conditions which shall have been approved by the Association and which shall include 
those set forth in paragraph 6 of Schedule 4 to this Agreement.
(c)
The Borrower shall exercise its rights under the Subsidiary Agreement in 
such manner as to protect the interests of the Borrower and the Association and to 
accomplish the purposes of the Credit, and except as the Association shall otherwise 
agree, the Borrower shall not assign, amend, abrogate or waive the Subsidiary 
Agreement or any provision thereof.
(d)
Without limitation upon the provisions of paragraph (a) of this Section 
and except as the Borrower and the Association shall otherwise agree, the Borrower 
shall carry out and cause to be carried out the Project in accordance with the 
Implementation Program set forth in Schedule 4 to this Agreement.
Section 3.02. Except as the Association shall otherwise agree, procurement of 
the goods, works and consultants’ services required for the Project and to be financed 
out of the proceeds of the Credit shall be governed by the provisions of Schedule 3 to 
this Agreement.
Section 3.03. For the purposes of Section 9.07 of the General Conditions, and 
without limitation thereto, the Borrower shall:
(a)
prepare, on the basis of guidelines acceptable to the Association, and 
furnish to the Association not later than six (6) months after the Closing Date or 
such later date as may be agreed for this purpose between the Borrower and the 
Association, a plan for the future operation of the Project; and
(b)
afford the Association a reasonable opportunity to exchange views with 
the Borrower on said plan.
Section 3.04. The Borrower shall ensure that until completion of the Project,  
the portion of funds allocated for urban local governments in the Road Fund 
established by the Borrower pursuant to a Parliamentary Resolution, dated August 8, 
1991, shall be paid to the Project Towns on a quarterly basis.
Section 3.05. The Borrower shall ensure that, commencing not later than six 
months after its establishment, each UWSB shall annually review water and sewerage 
tariffs in the Project Towns and Dodoma, and adjust them as required, to ensure that 
operations and maintenance costs for the Project Towns and the town of Dodoma are 
recovered by no later than March 31, 1999.
Section 3.06. The Borrower shall ensure that, not later than March 31, 1999, the 
UWSDs in the Project Towns and Dodoma, reach a billing and collection efficiency of 
80% of all customers.
Section 3.07. (a) The Borrower shall carry out, not later than March 31, 1999, 
jointly with the Association, a mid-term review of the Project. This review shall 
cover, inter alia: (i) experience with the implementation performance in each Project 
Town, as well as, Dodoma and Dar es Salaam; (ii) progress of Project implementation as 
measured by the key performance indicators as defined in the PIP and contained in the 
MOUs; (iii) performance and use of technical advisory personnel; (iv) status and 
Page  6
results of training activities carried out under the Project; and (v) provision for 
future sustainability of the investments financed from the proceeds of the Credit;
(b)
the Borrower shall furnish to the Association, at least thirty days prior 
to such review, a report, in scope and detail, satisfactory to the Association, 
describing the status of progress regarding the items listed in paragraph (a) above 
and of Project implementation generally; and
(c)
based on such review, the Borrower shall promptly prepare an action plan, 
acceptable to the Association, for the further implementation of the Project, and 
shall thereafter implement such action plan.
Section 3.08. The Borrower shall by, March 31, 1999, present draft legislation 
to its National Assembly amending: (a) the Water Works Ordinance to grant management 
and financial autonomy to UWSDs; and (b) the Local Government Service Act, No 10 of 
1982 and the Local Government Act, No. 23 of 1991, to strengthen the financial 
management, accountability, autonomy and viability of urban local authorities.
Section 3.09. The Borrower shall, by June 30, 1997, present draft legislation to 
the National Assembly amending the statutes of NUWA, to limit its area of 
responsibility to Dar es Salaam and to grant it greater managerial and financial 
autonomy.
Section 3.10. The Borrower shall carry out the Resettlement Program in 
accordance with the plan of action and timetable contained therein.
ARTICLE IV
Financial Covenants
Section 4.01. (a) The Borrower shall maintain or cause to be maintained records 
and accounts adequate to reflect in accordance with sound accounting practices the 
operations, resources and expenditures in respect of the Project of the departments or 
agencies of the Borrower responsible for carrying out the Project or any part thereof.
(b)
The Borrower shall:
(i)
have the records and accounts referred to in paragraph (a) of this 
Section 
including those for the Special Account for each 
fiscal year audited, in 
accordance with appropriate auditing 
principles consistently applied, by 
independent auditors 
acceptable to the Association;
(ii)
furnish to the Association, as soon as available, but in any case 
not later 
than six months after the end of each such year, a certified 
copy of the 
report of such audit by said auditors, of such scope 
and in such detail as the 
Association shall have reasonably requested; 
and
(iii)
furnish to the Association such other information concerning said 
records, 
accounts and the audit thereof as the Association 
shall from time to time 
reasonably request.
(c)
For all expenditures with respect to which withdrawals from the Credit 
Account were made on the basis of statements of expenditure, the Borrower shall:
(i)
maintain or cause to be maintained, in accordance with 
paragraph (a) of this 
Section, records and accounts reflecting such 
expenditures;
(ii)
retain, until at least one year after the Association has received 
the audit 
report for the fiscal year in which the last withdrawal from 
the Credit 
Account or payment out of the Special Account was 
made, all records 
(contracts, orders, invoices, bills, 
receipts and other documents) evidencing 
such expenditures;
(iii)
enable the Association’s representatives to examine such records; 
Page  7
and
(iv)
ensure that such records and accounts are included in the annual 
audit 
referred to in paragraph (b) of this Section and that the 
report of such audit 
contains a separate opinion by said auditors 
as to whether the statements of 
expenditure submitted during such fiscal 
year, together with the procedures 
and internal controls involved in 
their preparation, can be relied upon to 
support the related 
withdrawals.
Section 4.02. The Borrower shall ensure that annually:
(a)
the Project Towns and UWSDs have their institutional accounts audited;
(b)
such audited accounts are furnished to PMO within six months of the end 
of the Fiscal Year; and
(c)
a summary of such audited accounts are furnished to the Association by 
PMO within ten months of the end of the Fiscal Year.
ARTICLE V
Remedies of the Association
Section 5.01. Pursuant to Section 6.02 (h) of the General Conditions, the 
following additional events are specified:
(a)
a situation has arisen which shall make it improbable that the Program or 
a significant part thereof, will be carried out; 
(b)
the Local Government Service Act, No. 10 of 1982, and the Local 
Government, Act No. 23 of 1991, shall have been amended, suspended, abrogated repealed 
or waived, so as to affect materially and adversely the ability of the Project Towns 
to perform any of their respective obligations under the Project; and
(c)
(i)
subject to subparagraph (ii) of this paragraph the right of the 
Borrower to 
withdraw the proceeds of the KFW Grant shall have been 
suspended, canceled or 
terminated in whole in part, pursuant to the 
terms thereof; and
(ii) 
subparagraph (i) of this Section shall not apply if the Borrower 
establishes 
to the satisfaction of the Association that (A) such 
suspension, cancellation 
or termination is not caused by the failure of 
the Borrower to perform any of 
its obligations under such agreement; 
and (B) adequate funds for the Project 
are available to the Borrower 
from other sources on terms and conditions 
consistent with the 
obligations of the Borrower under this Agreement.
Section 5.02. Pursuant to Section 7.01 (d) of the General Conditions, the 
following additional event is specified, namely that any event specified in 
paragraph (b) of Section 5.01 of this Agreement shall occur.
ARTICLE VI
Effective Date; Termination
Section 6.01. The following events are specified as additional conditions to the 
effectiveness of the Development Credit Agreement within the meaning of Section 12.01 
(b) of the General Conditions:
(a)
MOUs have been signed between PMO and at least five of the Project Towns; 
and
(b)
the Borrower shall have selected a Project Accountant and a Senior 
Procurement Specialist for the PMU in accordance with the provisions of Section II of 
Schedule 3 to this Agreement.
Page  8
Section 6.02. The date ninety (90) days after the date of this Agreement is 
hereby specified for the purposes of Section 12.04 of the General Conditions.
ARTICLE VII
Representatives of the Borrower; Addresses
Section 7.01. The Minister at the time responsible for finance of the Borrower 
is designated as representative of the Borrower for the purposes of Section 11.03 of 
the General Conditions.
Section 7.02. The following addresses are specified for the purposes of Section 
11.01 of the General Conditions:
For the Borrower:
Ministry of Finance
P.O. Box 9111
Dar es Salaam, Tanzania
Cable address: 
Telex:
TREASURY
41329
Dar es Salaam
For the Association:
International Development Association
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Cable address:
Telex:
INDEVAS
248423 (RCA)
Washington, D.C.
 82987 (FTCC)
 64145 (WUI) or
197688 (TRT)
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their duly authorized 
representatives, have caused this Agreement to be signed in their respective names in 
the District of Columbia, United States of America, as of the day and year first above 
written.
UNITED REPUBLIC OF TANZANIA
By /s/ Mustafa Nyang’anyi
Authorized Representative
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
By /s/ Callisto E. Madavo
Regional Vice President
Page  9
Africa
SCHEDULE 1
Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the Credit
1.
The table below sets forth the Categories of items to be financed out of the 
proceeds of the Credit, the allocation of the amounts of the Credit to each Category 
and the percentage of expenditures for items so to be financed in each Category:
Amount of the
  Credit
   % of
 Allocated
Expenditures
(Expressed in
   to be
Category
SDR Equivalent)
  Financed
(1)
Civil works
(a)
for Parts A.1
   15,690,000
100% of foreign
through A.3
expenditures and
of the Project
60% of local
expenditures
(b)
for Parts A.4
   12,110,000
100% of foreign
and A.5 
expenditures and
of the Project
60% of local
expenditures
(c)
for Part B.1
    3,170,000
100% of foreign
of the Project
expenditures and
60% of local
expenditures
(d)
for Part B.2
      690,000
100% of foreign
of the Project
expenditures and
60% of local
expenditures
(2)
Goods
(a)
for Part B.2
      890,000
100% of foreign
of the Project
expenditures,
100% of local
expenditures
(ex-factory costs)
and 80% of local
expenditures for
other items
procured locally
(b)
for the other Parts
    8,600,000
100% of foreign
of the Project
expenditures,
100% of local
expenditures
(ex-factory costs)
and 80% of local
expenditures for
other items
procured locally
(3)
Consultants’
services and
training
(a)
for Part B.2
      690,000
100%
of the Project
Page  10
(b)
for Parts A.4 and 
    1,100,000
100%
A.5 of the Project
(c)
for the other Parts
    7,430,000 
100% 
of the Project 
(4)
Studies
(a)
for Part B.2
    1,860,000
100%
of the Project
(b)
for the other Parts
    2,410,000
100%
of the Project
(5)
Operations and
    2,060,000
90% during
maintenance
FY 1997 and 1998,
costs
60% during
FY 1999 and 2000,
and 30% thereafter
(6)
Incremental
operating costs
(a)
for Parts A.4
      400,000
100%
and A.5 
of the Project
(b)
for the other Parts
    2,350,000
100%
of the Project
(7)
Refunding of
    1,310,000
Amounts due
Project
pursuant to
Preparation
Section 2.02 (c)
Advance
of this Agreement
(8)
Unallocated
   11,540,000
TOTAL
   72,300,000
2.
For the purposes of this Schedule:
(a)
the term “foreign expenditures” means expenditures in the currency of any 
country other than that of the Borrower for goods or services supplied from the 
territory of any country other than that of the Borrower;
(b)
the term “local expenditures” means expenditures in the currency of the 
Borrower or for goods or services supplied from the territory of the Borrower;
(c)
the term “operations and maintenance costs” means expenditures for 
operations and maintenance of the assets created or rehabilitated under Parts A.1 
through A.3 of the Project, to be undertaken under contracts for goods and works 
procured on the basis of National Competitive Bidding; and
(d)
the term “incremental operating costs” means expenditures incurred for 
fuel, maintenance and insurance of vehicles, office supplies and minor office 
equipment, utilities and field and travel allowances for Project staff.
3.
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 above, no withdrawals shall be 
made in respect of:
(a)
payments made for expenditures prior to the date of this Agreement;
(b)
payments made for expenditures under Category (1) (a) for any Project 
Town, until such Project Town has: (i) signed an MOU with PMO, except those Project 
Towns referred to under Section 6.01 (a); (ii) established the PSU for such Project 
Town; (iii) introduced LAAM; and (iv) submitted an MIP, acceptable to the Association;
Page  11
(c)
payments made for expenditures under Category (1) (b) for any Project 
Town under Parts A.4 and A.5 of the Project until: (i) the Borrower has opened an 
Urban Water and Sewerage Recurrent Expenditure Account for such Project Town; (ii) 
appointed an Urban Water and Sewerage Engineer within UWSD; (iii) established an Urban 
Water and Sewerage Board and appointed the members of such Board; (iv) furnished 
evidence, satisfactory to the Association, of land rights for Parts A.4 and A.5 of the 
Project; and (v) MOW has signed an MOU acceptable to the Association with the UWSD 
concerned; and
(d)
payments made for expenditures under Category (1) (d) until: (i) NUWA has 
furnished to the Association an MIP, satisfactory to the Association; and (ii) the 
Subsidiary Agreement has been duly executed by the Borrower and NUWA.
4.
The Association may require withdrawals from the Credit Account to be made on 
the basis of statements of expenditure for expenditures for goods and works under 
contracts not exceeding $100,000 equivalent, for consultants’ contracts not exceeding 
$100,000 equivalent for firms and $ 50,000 equivalent for individuals, under such 
terms and conditions as the Association shall specify by notice to the Borrower.
SCHEDULE 2
Description of the Project
The objectives of the Project are to assist the Borrower to achieve sustainable 
economic development and urban poverty alleviation through: (i) rehabilitation of 
basic infrastructure and expansion into high priority under-served areas in the 
Project Towns, Dodoma and Dar es Salaam; (ii) improvement of urban local government 
management and financing capacity. 
The Project consists of the following parts, subject to such modifications 
thereof as the Borrower and the Association may agree upon from time to time to 
achieve such objectives:
Part A:
Rehabilitation and Expansion of Infrastructure Services
1.
Rehabilitation and construction of roads and storm water drainage in the Project 
Towns through: (a) carrying out of spot improvements, (b) improving key arterial and 
collector roads, (c) resealing roads, (d) improving bus stands, (e) incorporating 
facilities for non-motorized transport; (f) improving municipal workshops; and (g) 
improving road and primary storm water drainage.
2.
(a)
Promotion of private sector interventions to facilitate the supply of 
sanitation components to residents in Project Towns through the acquisition of 
sanitation equipment.
(b)
Acquisition of vehicles and equipment to improve the capability of the 
municipal councils of the Project Towns to provide adequate and sustainable latrine 
and septic tank emptying services.
(c)
Construction of latrines in schools and other institutions in the Project 
Towns.
3.
(a)
Establishment of improved refuse collection arrangements in the Project 
Towns, through the acquisition of appropriate vehicles and equipment for the operation 
of a communal collection and transportation system.
(b)
Establishment or improvement in the Project Towns of commercial refuse 
collection from industries, business establishments, institutions, and hospitals, as 
well as, street sweeping and door-to-door collection arrangements from high income 
areas.
(c)
Rehabilitation and improvement of existing dump sites and access roads, 
development of new sanitary land-fill sites and construction of concrete skip pads in 
the Project Towns.
4.
(a)
Rehabilitation and expansion, of the water supply systems in Arusha, 
Moshi, Tanga, Morogoro, Tabora and Dodoma.
Page  12
(b)
Strengthening the management capacity of, provision of training and 
technical advisory services to, and acquisition of tools and equipment for, the UWSDs 
in the Project Towns and Dodoma.
5.
(a)
Rehabilitation and extension of sewerage systems in Arusha, Moshi, Tanga, 
Morogoro, Mwanza and Tabora, construction of a sewerage system in Iringa and 
construction of sludge treatment facilities in the Project Towns.
(b)
Site preparation, including road and drainage construction, water and 
electricity supply for the resettlement of people displaced by Project activities in 
Mwanza.
Part B:
Dar es Salaam
1.
Carrying out of a community infrastructure upgrading program in Participating 
Communities in Dar es Salaam, including, inter alia, the construction of local 
distributor roads, access roads, storm water drainage, sewer laterals and connections, 
local water supply and distribution, and other minor urban infrastructure.
2.
(a)
Rehabilitation of the Dar es Salaam water supply system, through the 
acquisition and installation of urgently needed equipment, spare parts and water 
meters.
(b)
Provision of technical advisory services to NUWA for the improvement of 
financial management and the water supply system.
(c)
Carrying out studies for future rehabilitation and expansion of water 
supply and improved environmental sanitation in Dar es Salaam.
Part C:
Institutional Strengthening
1.
(a)
 Carrying out a training program for the Project Towns and PMO involving: 
(i) senior management training and organizational development; (ii) development of the 
proposed Local Government Training Unit; (iii) technical training for technical 
personnel of Project Towns; (iv) rating and valuation training; (v) economists skill 
upgrading for municipal economists in the development of service management plans and 
use of information technology; (vi) strengthening the Department of Local Government 
in PMO; and (vii) information technology training.
(b) 
Provision of technical advisory services and information technology to 
PMO and PSUs.
2.
(a) 
Carrying out of a technical training program for the technical personnel 
of MOW and the UWSDs.
(b) 
Provision of technical advisory services and information technology to 
MOW and the UWSDs.
3.
Establishment of a maintenance management system for roads in the Project Towns.
4.
Acquisition of vehicles and equipment to support above activities.
Part D:
Studies
1.
Carrying out studies for the preparation of future projects in the Urban Sector.
2.
Carrying out community-based pilot interventions in other towns.
* * *
The Project is expected to be completed by December 31, 2003.
SCHEDULE 3
Procurement and Consultants' Services
Page  13
Section I.
Procurement of Goods and Works
Part A:
General
Goods and Works shall be procured in accordance with the provisions of Section I 
of the “Guidelines for Procurement under IBRD Loans and IDA Credits” published by the 
Bank in January 1995 (the Guidelines) and the following provisions of this Section, as 
applicable.
Part B: 
International Competitive Bidding
1.
Except as otherwise provided in Part C of this Section, goods and works shall be 
procured under contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions of Section II of 
the Guidelines and paragraph 5 of Appendix 1 thereto.
2.
The following provisions shall apply to goods and works to be procured under 
contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions of paragraph 1 of this Part B.
(a)
Grouping of contracts
To the extent practicable, contracts for works and goods shall be grouped into 
bid packages estimated to cost the equivalent of $500,000 or more each and $200,000 or 
more each, respectively.
(b)
Preference for domestically manufactured goods and domestic contractors
The provisions of paragraphs 2.54 and 2.55 of the Guidelines and Appendix 2 
thereto shall apply to goods manufactured in the territory of the Borrower and works 
to be carried out by domestic contractors.
Part C:
Other Procurement Procedures
1.
National Competitive Bidding
Works estimated to cost less than $500,000 equivalent per contract up to an 
aggregate amount not to exceed $34,800,000 equivalent, and goods estimated to cost 
less than $200,000 equivalent per contract up to an aggregate amount not to exceed 
$6,800,000 equivalent, may be procured under contracts awarded in accordance with the 
provisions of paragraphs 3.3 and 3.4 of the Guidelines.
2.
National Shopping
Goods estimated to cost less than $50,000 equivalent per contract and up to an 
aggregate amount not to exceed $1,400,000 equivalent, may be procured under contracts 
awarded on the basis of national shopping procedures in accordance with the provisions 
of paragraphs 3.5 and 3.6 of the Guidelines.
Part D:
Review by the Association of Procurement Decisions
1.
Procurement Planning
Prior to the issuance of any invitations to prequalify for bidding or to bid for 
contracts, the proposed procurement plan for the Project shall be furnished to the 
Association for its review and approval, in accordance with the provisions of 
paragraph 1 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines. Procurement of all goods and works shall 
be undertaken in accordance with such procurement plan as shall have been approved by 
the Association, and with the provisions of said paragraph 1.
2.
Prior Review
With respect to each contract estimated to cost the equivalent of $300,000 or 
more for works and $100,000 or more for goods, the procedures set forth in paragraphs 
2 and 3 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines shall apply.
3.
Post Review
Page  14
With respect to each contract not governed by paragraph 2 of this Part, the 
procedures set forth in paragraph 4 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines shall apply.
Section II.  Employment of Consultants
1.
Consultants’ services shall be procured under contracts awarded in accordance 
with the provisions of the “Guidelines for the Use of Consultants by World Bank 
Borrowers and by the World Bank as Executing Agency” published by the Bank in August 
1981 (the Consultant Guidelines).  For complex, time-based assignments, such contracts 
shall be based on the standard form of contract for consultants' services issued by 
the Bank, with such modifications as shall have been agreed by the Association. Where 
no relevant standard contract documents have been issued by the Bank, other standard 
forms acceptable to the Association shall be used.
2.
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 of this Section, the provisions of 
the Consultant Guidelines requiring prior Association review or approval of budgets, 
short lists, selection procedures, letters of invitation, proposals, evaluation 
reports and contracts shall not apply to (a) contracts for the employment of 
consulting firms estimated to cost less than $100,000 equivalent each or (b) contracts 
for the employment of individuals estimated to cost less than $50,000 equivalent each. 
However, said exceptions to prior Association review shall not apply to (a) the terms 
of reference for such contracts, (b) single-source selection of consulting firms, (c) 
assignments of a critical nature, as reasonably determined by the Association, (d) 
amendments to contracts for the employment of consulting firms raising the contract 
value to $100,000 equivalent or above, or (e) amendments to contracts for the 
employment of individual consultants raising the contract value to $50,000 equivalent 
or above.
SCHEDULE 4
Implementation Program
1.
(a)
PMO shall be responsible for the overall implementation of the Project, 
through PMU, which shall be headed by a Project Manager, with adequate staffing, 
satisfactory to the Association.
(b)
The Borrower shall establish and maintain until completion of the 
Project, a Project Steering Committee, which shall meet quarterly, to address 
inter-sectoral policy issues affecting the Project, review major reports and take 
staffing decisions. It shall be chaired by the Principal Secretary of PMO, and include 
the Principal Secretaries of MOW,  the Ministries of Finance, Works, Land, Housing and 
Urban Development, Natural Resources and Tourism, Health, Justice and Constitutional 
Affairs and the Planning Commission.
(c)
As part of the PMU, the Borrower shall establish a PSU in each Project 
Town which shall, inter alia,: (i) support the urban local authorities in the Project 
Towns in the implementation of the Project and the supervision of contracts; (ii) 
undertake procurement management and administration of contracts for works procured on 
the basis of National Competitive Bidding costing $50,000 and above; and (iii) assist 
in improving Project accounting, financial management and control.
(d)
MOW shall implement Parts A.4 and A.5 of the Project, including 
supporting the UWSDs, monitoring their performance and preparing progress reports. For 
this purpose, MOW shall enter into MOUs with all UWSDs. In addition MOW shall provide 
technical support for the implementation of Parts A.2 and B.2 of the Project.
(e)
Dar es Salaam City Council shall carry out Part B.1 of the Project, 
including identifying Participating Communities in accordance with criteria agreed 
with the Association, collecting baseline demographic and spatial data. Dar es Salaam 
City Council shall execute agreements with the Participating Communities, specifying 
the division of responsibilities, the works to be undertaken and the respective 
financial contribution and accountability of the Participating Communities.
2.
The Borrower shall implement the Project in accordance with the procedures set 
out in the PIP and, except as the Association shall otherwise agree, the Borrower 
shall not amend, abrogate or waive any provision thereof, which in the opinion of the 
Association may materially and adversely affect the implementation of the Project.
Page  15
3.
The Borrower shall: (a) by February 15 and August 15 in each year, beginning 
February 15, 1997, furnish to the Association progress reports on the Project, 
including the status of procurement and the financial and management performance of 
each of the Project Towns and UWSDs; and (b) by March 15 in each year, beginning March 
15, 1997, hold an implementation review workshop.
4.
PMO shall enter into MOUs, satisfactory to the Association, with each Project 
Town and Dar es Salaam City Council, with respect to the implementation Parts A, B.1 
and C of the Project, specifying, inter alia, the respective role of each organization 
in Project implementation, as well as reporting and accounting responsibilities.
5.
The Borrower shall ensure that, until completion of the Project, the following 
positions in each of the Project Towns are filled with regular staff, whose 
qualifications are acceptable to the Association: the municipal director, treasurer, 
municipal engineer and head of manpower development.
Terms and Conditions of Subsidiary Agreement pursuant to Section 3.01 (b) 
of this Agreement
6.
The terms and conditions of the Subsidiary Agreement shall include the following 
obligations of NUWA to:
(a)
carry out Part B.2 of the Project with due diligence and efficiency, in 
conformity with appropriate administrative, financial and engineering practices, with 
due regard to environmental factors, and in accordance with the PIP referred to in 
paragraph 2 above; and provide, or cause to be provided, promptly as needed, the 
facilities, services and other resources required for said Part of the Project, 
including counterpart contributions at levels satisfactory to the Association.
(b)
comply with the procedures for procurement of goods, works and services 
set forth in Schedule 3 to this Agreement;
(c)
comply with record keeping, auditing and reporting requirements set forth 
in Section 4.01 of this Agreement and paragraph 3 of this Schedule, with respect to 
Part B.2 of the Project;
(d) 
furnish to the Association the annual audits of its accounts and 
financial statements (balance sheets, statements of income and expenses and related 
statements), not later than nine months after the end of its fiscal year;
(e)
carry out its operations and conduct its affairs in accordance with sound 
administrative, financial and engineering practices;
(f)
take out and maintain with responsible insurers, or make other provision 
satisfactory to the Association for, insurance against risks and in such amounts as 
shall be consistent with appropriate practice;
(g)
in accordance with Section 3.07 of this Agreement, (i) participate in the 
review of the progress made in carrying out Part B.2 of the Project, and (ii) 
thereafter prepare and implement an action plan, satisfactory to the Association, for 
the further implementation of said Part of the Project;
(h)
at the request of the Borrower or the Association, exchange views with 
the Borrower and the Association with regard to the progress of Part B.2 of the 
Project and the performance of their obligations under the Subsidiary Agreement;
(i)
promptly inform the Borrower and the Association of any condition which 
interferes or threatens to interfere with the progress of Part B.2 of the Project or 
the performance by the NUWA of its obligations under the Subsidiary Agreement;
(j)
except as the Borrower and the Association shall otherwise agree, neither 
take nor concur in any action which would have the effect of amending, abrogating, 
assigning or waiving the Subsidiary Agreements;
(k)
improve its billing and collection efficiency at least by 20% per year in 
FY 1997 and FY 1998, and by 10% per year thereafter, and ensure that by March 31, 1999 
Page  16
the average number of days of its arrears does not exceed 90 days; and
(l)
complete implementation of an MIP, acceptable to the Association, by 
March 31, 1999. 
SCHEDULE 5
Special Accounts
1.
For the purposes of this Schedule:
(a)
the term “eligible Categories” means Categories (1) (a), (1) (c), (2) 
(b), (3) (c), (4) (b), (5) and (6) (b) for Special Account A, Categories (1) (b), (3) 
(b) and (6) (a) for Special Account B and Categories (1) (d), (2) (a), (3) (a) and (4) 
(a) for Special Account C, set forth in the table in paragraph 1 of Schedule 1 to this 
Agreement;
(b)
the term “eligible expenditures” means expenditures in respect of the 
reasonable cost of goods and services required for the Project and to be financed out 
of the proceeds of the Credit allocated from time to time to the eligible Categories 
in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1 to this Agreement; and
(c)
the term “Authorized Allocation” means an amount equivalent to $2,000,000 
for Special Account A, $1,200,000 for Special Account B and $600,000 for Special 
Account C, to be withdrawn from the Credit Account and deposited into the Special 
Account concerned pursuant to paragraph 3 (a) of this Schedule, provided, however, 
that unless the Association shall otherwise agree, the Authorized Allocation shall be 
limited to an amount equivalent to $1,000,000 for Special Account A, $600,000 for 
Special Account B and $400,000 for Special Account C until the aggregate amount of 
withdrawals from the Credit Account plus the total amount of all outstanding special 
commitments entered into by the Association pursuant to Section 5.02 of the General 
Conditions shall be equal to or exceed the equivalent of SDR 10,500,000 for Special 
Account A and SDR 7,000,000 for Special Account B and SDR 1,400,000 for Special 
Account C, respectively.
2.
Payments out of the Special Accounts shall be made exclusively for eligible 
expenditures in accordance with the provisions of this Schedule.
3.
After the Association has received evidence satisfactory to it that the Special 
Account concerned has been duly opened, withdrawals of the Authorized Allocation and 
subsequent withdrawals to replenish the Special Account concerned shall be made as 
follows:
(a)
For withdrawals of the Authorized Allocation, the Borrower shall furnish 
to the Association a request or requests for a deposit or deposits which do not exceed 
the aggregate amount of the Authorized Allocation. On the basis of such request or 
requests, the Association shall, on behalf of the Borrower, withdraw from the Credit 
Account and deposit into the Special Account concerned such amount or amounts as the 
Borrower shall have requested.
(b)
(i)
For replenishment of the Special Accounts, the Borrower shall 
furnish to the 
Association requests for deposits into the Special 
Account concerned at such 
intervals as the Association shall specify.
(ii)
Prior to or at the time of each such request, the Borrower shall 
furnish to 
the Association the documents and other evidence required 
pursuant to 
paragraph 4 of this Schedule for the payment or 
payments in respect of which 
replenishment is requested. On the basis 
of each such request, the Association 
shall, on behalf of the Borrower, 
withdraw from the Credit Account and deposit 
into the Special Account 
concerned such amount as the Borrower shall have 
requested and 
as shall have been shown by said documents and other evidence to 
have 
been paid out of the Special Account concerned for eligible expenditures.
All such deposits shall be withdrawn by the Association from the Credit Account under 
the respective eligible Categories, and in the respective equivalent amounts, as shall 
have been justified by said documents and other evidence.
Page  17
4.
For each payment made by the Borrower out of any Special Account, the Borrower 
shall, at such time as the Association shall reasonably request, furnish to the 
Association such documents and other evidence showing that such payment was made 
exclusively for eligible expenditures.
5.
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 3 of this Schedule, the Association 
shall not be required to make further deposits into any Special Account:
(a)
if, at any time, the Association shall have determined that all further 
withdrawals should be made by the Borrower directly from the Credit Account in 
accordance with the provisions of Article V of the General Conditions and paragraph 
(a) of Section 2.02 of this Agreement;
(b)
if the Borrower shall have failed to furnish to the Association, within 
the period of time specified in Section 4.01 (b) (ii) of this Agreement, any of the 
audit reports required to be furnished to the Association pursuant to said Section in 
respect of the audit of the records and accounts for the Special Account concerned;
(c)
if, at any time, the Association shall have notified the Borrower of its 
intention to suspend in whole or in part the right of the Borrower to make withdrawals 
from the Credit Account pursuant to the provisions of Section 6.02 of the General 
Conditions; or
(d)
once the total unwithdrawn amount of the Credit allocated to the eligible 
Categories, less the amount of any outstanding special commitment entered into by the 
Association pursuant to Section 5.02 of the General Conditions with respect to the 
Project, shall equal the equivalent of twice the amount of the Authorized Allocation. 
Thereafter, withdrawal from the Credit Account of the remaining unwithdrawn amount of 
the Credit allocated to the eligible Categories shall follow such procedures as the 
Association shall specify by notice to the Borrower. Such further withdrawals shall be 
made only after and to the extent that the Association shall have been satisfied that 
all such amounts remaining on deposit in the Special Account concerned as of the date 
of such notice will be utilized in making payments for eligible expenditures.
6.
(a)
If the Association shall have determined at any time that any payment out 
of any Special Account: (i) was made for an expenditure or in an amount not eligible 
pursuant to paragraph 2 of this Schedule; or (ii) was not justified by the evidence 
furnished to the Association, the Borrower shall, promptly upon notice from the 
Association: (A) provide such additional evidence as the Association may request; or 
(B) deposit into the Special Account concerned (or, if the Association shall so 
request, refund to the Association) an amount equal to the amount of such payment or 
the portion thereof not so eligible or justified.  Unless the Association shall 
otherwise agree, no further deposit by the Association into the Special Account 
concerned shall be made until the Borrower has provided such evidence or made such 
deposit or refund, as the case may be.
(b)
If the Association shall have determined at any time that any amount 
outstanding in any Special Account will not be required to cover further payments for 
eligible expenditures, the Borrower shall, promptly upon notice from the Association, 
refund to the Association such outstanding amount.
(c)
The Borrower may, upon notice to the Association, refund to the 
Association all or any portion of the funds on deposit in the Special Account 
concerned.
(d)
Refunds to the Association made pursuant to paragraph 6 (a), (b) and (c) 
of this Schedule shall be credited to the Credit Account for subsequent withdrawal or 
for cancellation in accordance with the relevant provisions of this Agreement, 
including the General Conditions.
