                                      Documentof
                                  TheWorldBank




                                                      ReportNo.: 43736




                  PROJECTPERFORMANCEASSESSMENT REPORT

                          UNITED REPUBLICOF TANZANIA

                     URBANSECTOR REHABLITATION PROJECT
                                     (CR.2867-TA)

                                     June 17,2008




Sector Evaluation Division
Independent Evaluation Group (World Bank)

   Currency Equivalents (annual averages)

   Currency Unit = Tanzania Shillings (TSh)

   1995         US$1.OO         TSh 575                   2001        US$l.OO      TSh 876
   1996         US$l.OO         TSh 580                   2002        US$l.OO      TSh 967
   1997         US$l.OO         TSh 612                   2003        US$l.OO      TSh 1,038
   1998         US$1.OO         TSh 665                   2004        US$l.OO      TSh 1,089
   1999         US$1.OO         TSh 745                   2005        US$l.OO      TSh 1,129
   2000         US$1.OO         TSh 800                   2006        US$l.OO      TSh 1,252




   Abbreviations and Acronyms

CAS            CountryAssistance Strategy                  NBS    National Bureauof Statistics
CIP            CommunityInfrastructure Program             NGO    Non-GovernmentalOrganization
CMMS           ComputerizedMaintenanceManagement System    NUWA   National UrbanWater Authority
DAWASA         Dares SalaamWater andSewerageAuthority             (later known as DAWASA)
DCA            DevelopmentCredit Agreement                 O & M  OperationandMaintenance
EU             EuropeanUnion                               PIU    ProjectImplementationUnit
GDP            GrossDomesticProduct                        PMO    PrimeMinister's Ofice
GOT            Governmentof Tanzania                       PMU    ProjectManagementUnit
ICR            ImplementationCompletionReport              PPAR   ProjectPerformanceAssessment Report
IDA            InternationalDevelopmentAssociation         PPP    PurchasingPowerParity
IEG            IndependentEvaluationGroup                  PSU    Project Support Units
IEGWB          IndependentEvaluationGroup(World Bank)      REPOA  Researchon PovertyAlleviation
I T            InformationTechnology                       SAR    StaffAppraisalReport
JAST           Joint Assistance Strategy for Tanzania      S W M  Solid Waste Management
KfW            Kredit Anstalt fur Wiederaufbau             RMMS   RoadMaintenanceManagement System
LAAM           Local Authorities AccountingManual          TA     TechnicalAssistance
LGA            Local GovernmentAuthority                   USEP   Urban SectorEngineeringProject
LGRP           Local Government ReformProgram              USRP   Urban SectorRehabilitationProject
MKUKUTA        National Strategyfor Growth and             UWSA   UrbanWater and SewerageAuthority
               Reduction of Poverty                        UWSD UrbanWater and SewerageDepartment
M O W          Ministryof Water                                   (later known as UWSA)



   FiscalYear

   Government:                  July 1-June 30



   Director-General, Independent Evaluation              : Mr.Vinod Thomas
   Director, Independent Evaluation Group (World Bank)   : Ms.Cheryl Gray
   Manager, Sector Evaluation Division                   : Ms.MonikaHuppi
   Task Manager                                          : Mr.RoyGilbert

                                                             i


 IEGWBMission: Enhancingdevelopmenteffectivenessthroughexcellenceand independenceinevaluation.


About this Report
       The Independent EvaluationGroup assesses the programs and activitiesof theWorld Bankfor two purposes:
first, to ensurethe integrity of the Bank's self-evaluationprocessandto verify that the Bank's work is producingthe
expected results,andsecond, to helpdevelopimproveddirections,policies, and proceduresthroughthe
disseminationof lessonsdrawn from experience. As part of this work, IEGWBannually assesses about 25 percent of
the Bank's lendingoperations through fieldwork. Inselectingoperationsfor assessment, preference is givento those
that are innovative, large, or complex; those that are relevantto upcoming studies or country evaluations; those for
which ExecutiveDirectorsor Bank management have requestedassessments; andthose that are likelyto generate
importantlessons.
       To preparea Project PerformanceAssessment Report (PPAR), IEGWB staff examine projectfiles and other
documents, interviewoperationalstaff, visit the borrowing countryto discuss the operationwith the government,
and other in-countrystakeholders,and interview Bank staff and other donor agency staff bothat headquartersand
in local oftices as appropriate.
       Each PPAR is subject to internal IEGWBpeer review, Panel review, and managementapproval. Once cleared
internally, the PPAR is commented on by the responsible Bank department. IEGWBincorporatesthe commentsas
relevant. The completed PPAR is then sent to the borrowerfor review; the borrowers' comments are attachedto
the document that is sent to the Bank's Boardof Executive Directors.After an assessment report has beensent to
the Board, it is disclosed to the public.

Aboutthe IEGWB RatingSystem
       IEGWB's use of multipleevaluation methodsoffers both rigor and a necessary levelof flexibility to adapt to
lending instrument, projectdesign, or sectoralapproach. IEGWBevaluators all apply the same basic methodto
arrive at their project ratings. Followingis the definitionand rating scale used for each evaluationcriterion
(additionalinformation is availableon the IEGWBwebsite: http://worldbank.org/ieg).
       Outcome: The extent to which the operation's major relevantobjectiveswere achieved,or are expectedto
be achieved, efficiently. The rating has three dimensions: relevance, efficacy, and efficiency. Relevanceincludes
relevanceof objectives and relevanceof design. Relevanceof objectives is the extent to which the project's
objectives are consistentwith the country's current development priorities and with current Bank country and
sectoralassistancestrategies and corporate goals (expressed in Poverty ReductionStrategyPapers, Country
Assistance Strategies, Sector Strategy Papers, OperationalPolicies). Relevanceof design is the extent to which
the project's design is consistentwith the stated objectives. Efficacy is the extent to which the project's objectives
were achieved, or are expectedto be achieved, taking into accounttheir relativeimportance.Efficiencyis the
extent to which the projectachieved, or is expected to achieve, a return higher than the opportunity cost of capital
and benefits at least cost comparedto alternatives. The efficiencydimensiongenerally is not appliedto adjustment
operations. Possibleratings for Outcome: Highly Satisfactory, Satisfactory, ModeratelySatisfactory, Moderately
Unsatisfactory, Unsatisfactory,HighlyUnsatisfactory.
       Risk to DevelopmentOutcome: The risk, at the time of evaluation,that developmentoutcomes (or
expected outcomes)will not be maintained(or realized). Possible ratings for Risk to DevelopmentOutcome: High
Significant, Moderate,Negligibleto Low, Not Evaluable.
       BankPerformance: The extent to which services providedby the Bank ensured qualityat entry of the
operationand supported effectiveimplementationthrough appropriatesupervision (includingensuring adequate
transitionarrangementsfor regularoperation of supported activities after loadcredit closing,toward the
achievement of developmentoutcomes. The rating has two dimensions: quality at entry and quality of supervision.
Possibleratings for BankPerformance: Highly Satisfactory, Satisfactory, ModeratelySatisfactory, Moderately
Unsatisfactory, Unsatisfactory,Highly Unsatisfactory.
       BorrowerPerformance: The extent to which the borrower (includingthe governmentand implementing
agency or agencies) ensuredquality of preparationand implementation,and compliedwith covenants and
agreements, toward the achievementof development outcomes. The rating has two dimensions: government
performanceand implementingagency(ies) performance.Possibleratings for BorrowerPerformance: Highly
Satisfactory, Satisfactory, ModeratelySatisfactory, Moderately Unsatisfactory, Unsatisfactory,Highly
Unsatisfactory.


                                                                     iii


Contents

PRINCIPAL RATINGS               ...................................................................................................                    V

KEY STAFF RESPONSIBLE                      .........................................................................................                   V

PREFACE     ....................................................................................................................                      vi1

SUMMARY      ...................................................................................................................                       IX

1.      BACKGROUNDAND CONTEXT                                   ........................................................................                1

2.      OBJECTIVESAND DESIGN                           ...............................................................................                  1

3.      IMPLEMENTATIONAND COSTS                                  .......................................................................                3

4.      MONITORINGAND EVALUATION                                   ....................................................................                .4

5.      OUTCOMES BY OBJECTIVE                            .............................................................................                  4
            Sustainable Economic Developmentand Poverty reduction......................................................                                 4

            Stronger LGA Managementand Operations.............................................................................
            RehabilitatedInfrastructurefor High PriorityUnder-servedAreas..............................................                                 5

            More PrivateSector and Community Involvementin Service delivery .......................................                                     8
                                                                                                                                                        9


6.      BROADER ISSUES ARISING FROMTHIS EVALUATION                                                                  ................................    9

            Distortions in Community Deliveryof Urban Services..............................................................
            InvoluntaryResettlement............................................................................................................         9
                                                                                                                                                       10


7.      RATINGS        ..........................................................................................................                     11
            Outcome...................................................................................................................................
            Risk to DevelopmentOutcome.................................................................................................                11
                                                                                                                                                       11

            Borrower Performance.............................................................................................................
            Bank Performance....................................................................................................................       11
                                                                                                                                                       11


8.      FINDINGSAND LESSONS                         ...............................................................................                   12

ANNEX A    .BASIC        DATA SHEET               .................................................................................                   13

ANNEX B    .BACKGROUND                   INFORMATION                   ................................................................               15

This reportwas preparedbyNilakshiDe Silva. Consultant.who visitedTanzaniato assess project
performanceduring October-November2007. andby RoyGilbert. Task Manager
Drovidedadministrativesu~uort        .                                                                              .RomaynePereira

                                                              iv


ANNEX C FINANCIAL PERFORMANCEINDICATORS FOR UWSAS
         .                                                                                                   ....................... 16

ANNEX D  .GOVERNMENT                COMMENTS               .....................................................................     19

BIBLIOGRAPHY        ..........................................................................................................       23

MAP...........................................................................................................                       22

                                                          V




                                                 ICR*             ICR Review*                       PPAR

  Outcome                                    Satisfactory      HighlySatisfactory                Satisfactory
  InstitutionalDevelopment                   Substantial           Substantial
  Impact**
  Risk to Development Outcome                                                                       Modest
  Sustainability***                             Likely               Likely
  Bank Performance                           Satisfactory          Satisfactory                  Satisfactory
  Borrower Performance                       Satisfactory          Satisfactory                  Satisfactory
 *ICR ImplementationCompletion Report (ICR) is a self-evaluation by the responsible Bank department. The
     The
           Review is an intermediateIEGWBproductthat seeks to independentlyverify the findings of the ICR.
 **As of July 1,2006, InstitutionalDevelopment Impactis assessed as part of the Outcome rating.
 ***ASof July 1,2006, Sustainability has been replacedby Risk to DevelopmentOutcome.As the scales are
  different,the ratingsare not directly comparable.




 Project                                  Task Manager/          Division Chief/               CountryDirector
                                             Leader              Sector Director
                                                           _I                                       _____

 Appraisal                              GerhardTschannerl      Stephen Weissman                James W. Adams

-_l-a-L_----.
 Completion                               SolomonAlemu           Jaime Biderman                Judy M. O'Connor
                                                   ---=-,               -m_a--L-=*-/c*-_L_--                 >LIrr


                                            vii


Preface

This is the Project Performance Assessment Report (PPAR) for the Tanzania Urban
Sector RehabilitationProject (Cr.2867-TA) for which the World Bank approved a Credit
o fUS$lOS.O million equivalent on May 23, 1996. The Credit was closed on December
31,2004, six months later thanplanned, andUS$1.9 million equivalent was cancelled.

The report i s basedon a review o fproject documents, includingthe Implementation
CompletionReport, Appraisal Report, Memorandum to the President, legal documents
andproject files, and on discussionsheldwith Bank staffinvolvedinthe project. An IEG
missionvisitedTanzania inOctober -November 2007 to review project results andmet
with over 60 interlocutors includingofficials ofthe central and localgovernments, staff
of urbanwater supplyand sewerage authorities, NGOs, consultants, as well as project
beneficiaries themselves. The missionmade field visits to 48 project sites inthe towns o f
Arusha, Mwanza, Morogoro andMoshi andDar es Salaam. The missionmet with
excellent co-operation from the Tanzanian authorities and other stakeholders, and
gratehlly acknowledges the courtesiesand attention givenby all these interlocutors, as
well as the excellent planningandlogisticalsupport providedbythe Bank's country
office inDar es Salaam.

IEGselectedthis project for aPPARfield assessment, as recommended at the ICR
Review stage, to verify outcomes, learn more about the successfulproject
implementation andprovide aninput into IEG's ongoing special study into municipal
management.

Following standardIEGprocedures, copies o fthe draft PPAR were sent to government
officials andagencies for their review and comments received are attached as Annex D.


                                               ix


Summary
With only 25 percent o fitspopulationlivingincities, Tanzaniaremains one o fthe least
urbanized countries inAfrica. But rapid urbanizationhas seen urbanpopulation growth
accelerate to more than five percent per annum over the past decade. This has resulted in
inadequate andpoorly maintained infrastructure, particularly insecondary city clients o f the
Urban Sector Rehabilitation Project - USRP - (Cr.2867) reviewedhere.
The objectives o f USRP, namely to help achieve sustainable economic development and
poverty reductionthrough rehabilitating priority basic infrastructure, and strengthening the
management o f Local Government Authorities (LGAs) were highly relevant to both country
and Bank priorities for Tanzania. Inchoosing appropriate components-rehabilitation      o f
urbanroads, drainage, basic sanitation, and institutional strengthening o f LGAs-in needy
towns with sensible implementation arrangements, the project design was substantially
relevant. Its relevance would have been even higher hadthere been an instrument and
rationale for ensuring the achievement o fthe basic objective o f sustaining economic
development and reducing poverty.
After a slow start up, project implementation accelerated and this large and geographically
dispersed operation was fully completedjust six months beyondthe expected date. Thanks in
part to international competitive biddingon twice the scale foreseen, there were considerable
cost savings allowing more work to be done. The actual 102 k m s o froad rehabilitatedwas
nearlytwice the appraisal target. Packaging o fworks into large contracts assured the interest
o flarger contractors, both foreign and local, who could operate inseveral distant cities at one
time. While most o fthe contractedworks were completed on time and finished to a high
standard, community infrastructure made least progress. Part o f the reasonwas "elite
capture" by community leaders demanding highand expensive standards for infrastructure to
suit their ownminorityneeds.
Project monitoring and evaluation (M&E)was modest. Itwas designed primarily to check
project implementation, notably lackingperformance indicators (and their baseline and target
values) to measure the achievement o f the project objectives, notablypoverty reduction. In
spite o f its shortcomings, the project M&E helped increase LGA awareness o f the need to
monitor projects' development effectiveness.
Overall, the project was successful inmeeting its objectives. IEGconsiders, however, that
achieving sustainable development andpoverty reduction cannot be evaluated, since the
projectprovidedno explicit means to achieve this or measure the result. On the other hand,
there was substantial achievement inrehabilitating priority urbaninfrastructure, such as
roads, bus terminals, basic sanitation and solid waste management inthe eight project towns
(Arusha, Iringa, Mbeya, Morogoro, Moshi, Mwanza, Tabora and Tanga). The project
substantially achieved the strengthening o fLGA management through training and technical
assistance that left LGAswith more robust finances and working methods. Inseeking greater
community involvement, inurban service provisionthe project achievements overall were
modest. There was more success with the private sector that was fully responsible for
buildingthe projectworks and operating some city systems, notably solid waste.
The project experience showed the needto fully document involuntary resettlement, even
when it occurred on a small scale following the establishment o fnew solidwaste disposal

                                                 X


sites bythe project. IEGfound no evidence o f lack o f compliance with Bank safeguards, but
documentation on this was not complete.
Another findingo fbroader relevance was how distortions can enter community involvement
inurbanservice delivery. As alreadynoted, articulatemembers o fa localcommunitycan, in
the name o f the community as a whole, use large public meetings to choose investments that
support their own minority interests.
The overall outcome o fthe project i s ratedSatisfactory, as it substantially achieved its major
relevant objectives. Minor shortcomings not apparent at the time o f IEG's desk review o f the
ICR explainthe downgrade from the ICRReview rating. Efficacy i s rated Substantial
particularly for the achievements inrehabilitating infrastructure and strengthening the LGAs.
Efficiency i s rated Substantial too, given reported higheconomic rates o freturn arising
principally through cost savings. The Risk to Development Outcome i s ratedModest.
Ongoing maintenance needs are high,but LGAs are ina stronger positionthan before to meet
at least some o fthem. Bank Performance i s rated Satisfactory thanks to a mostly sound
project design and careful supervision that helped ensure successful implementation.
Borrower Performance too was Satisfactory, with the government consistently supporting the
necessary sector reforms and local implementingagencies performingwell inimplementing
them.
The assessment o f the USRP experience points to the following lessons:

    0    Logistics mustbe well worked out for the successful implementation o f large projects
         dispersed over a wide geographical area. Inthis case, success came from: (i)
        packaging works into larger contracts to be undertaken by experienced large firms
         able to operate across these large areas; (ii)
                                                      assembling design work already done
         under earlier operations; and (iii)fully deployingthe Bank country office to ensure
         regular contact with client towns.

    0    Project experience demonstrates that direct technical assistance and trainingwith on-
        the-job experience o f executing priority physical investments continues to be a
        winningcombination for improving local government municipalmanagement and
         urban service delivery.

    0   While community involvementinurban service delivery has been demonstrably
         correlated with good project outcomes inmany projects, care mustbe exercised that
        community choices are not pre-empted bylocal elites who may be especially skilled
        inusingpublic meetings andassemblies for furthering their ownminorityinterests.

        Project design should focus only upon intended outcomes that can feasibly be
        achieved and whose success can convincingly be demonstrated. Claims to attain
        higher level intended outcomes-economic development and poverty reduction in
        this case-should   only be made when there i s a convincing rationale that project
        interventions can achieve them, and also a sound M&E system to recordthe baseline,
        target and endline values o f indicators to measure the achievement.



                                                                Vinod Thomas
                                                                Director-General
                                                                Evaluation

                                             1


 1. BackgroundandContext

Urbanization and UrbanPoverty
 1.1      Duringthe pastdecade, Tanzania's urbanpopulationhasgrown at over five
percent per annum-more     than twice the rate for the populationas awhole. Despite this
acceleratedgrowth, still only 25 percent o f Tanzania's populationof 39.5 million lives in
urban areas, well below the average o f 36 percent inSub-SaharanAfrica. Today about
one third o f Tanzania's urbanpopulationlives inand around Dar es Salaam, the
country's largest city, maincommercial center and former capital (moved to Dodomain
1974). With 2.3 million inhabitants, Dar es Salaam i s six times larger than Mwanza, the
next largest city.

1.2       Rapidurbanization has increasedpressure on often inadequately maintained and
rarely expandedurban infrastructure and services. One result i s that many urbanresidents
live inpoor and overcrowded informal settlements that lack basic infrastructure services.
Butthere some evidenceofpovertyreduction. InDares Salaampovertyfell from28
percent o fhouseholds in 1990to 18 percent in2000, and inother urban areas from 29 to
26 percent o fhouseholds, (Research andAnalysis Working Group 2005). Overall about
24 percent o fthe urbanpopulationi s still below the national poverty line, compared with
39 percent o fthe ruralpopulation. Therehas also been important progress on non-income
dimensions o fpoverty such as inhealth, education and access to services.

Decentralization and Local GovernmentAdministration
1.3      Tanzania is administratively divided into 26 regions, which are further
subdividedinto 122districts knownas LocalGovernment Authorities (LGA), ofwhich
25 are urban and97 rural. UrbanLGAs are responsible for the provisiono f services
within the city boundaries and are the legal owners ofinfrastructure assets, except
important ones like water and seweragethat are owned and operatedby autonomous city
basedUrbanWater and Sewerage Authorities (UWSA) establishedby an Act of
Parliament in 1998.

1.4      Farreaching decentralization reforms were launchedinTanzania inthe mid
1990s at the time ofthe start up o fthe Urban Sector RehabilitationProject -USRP -
(Cr.2867) reviewedhere. Key policy initiatives, the "Local Government ReformAgenda"
(1996) and the "Policy Paper on Local Government Reform" (1998), ledto the Local
Government Reformprogram (LGRP), transferred additional financial resources to
LGAs.The Bank financed project supportedthe LGRP, especially its objective to imp-
rove the quality, access and equitable delivery o fpublic services, particularlyto the poor.

2.      ObjectivesandDesign

2.1      USRPobjectives (Box 1) were thus and remainhighly relevant to current
development priorities inTanzania. The current 2005 National Strategy for Growth and
Reduction o fPoverty (MKUKUTA) highlightspoverty reduction, access to shelter and
sanitation services, andbetter local governance, all supported byUSRP.Project

                                                            2


objectives are also consistent with the priorities identified inthe Joint Assistance Strategy
for Tanzania (JAST), the approach agreed between GOTandits external development
partners, including the World Bank Group, which was finalized inMarch 2007. The aim
o f the JAST is to harmonize donor assistance with the MKUKUTAoutcome clusters. In
particular, USRP fits into JAST support for (i)                reducing infrastructure bottlenecks; (ii)
improving capacity at local government level to deliver services; and (iii)                        improved
governance at national, district and village levels. The project objectives have also been
supportive o fthe focus uponupgrading and expansiono fbasic infrastructure and urban
services for the poor highlighted by all Country Assistance Strategies (CAS) since 1994.

Box 1. A Summary of ProjectObjectivesand Components

           Objectives               I                                        Components
                                                     ~                                            ~


To help achieve sustainable           Rehabilitationand Select ExpansionofInfrastructureServices inselected
economic development and              towns (appraisal US$83.3 million; actual US$93.I million) coveringroads
urbanpoverty alleviation              and drainage, water supply and sewerage, and solid waste collection and
through:                              disposal.
(i)rehabilitation o fbasic            Water Supply and CommunityBasedInfrastructureUpgrading in Dar
infrastructure and expansion          es Salaam (appraisal: US$10.8million; actual US$I1.0 million) covering
into highpriority, under-served       water network improvements andrepairs and "demand-driven" upgrading in
areas;                                low-income settlements.
(ii) LGA management
    greater                           InstitutionalStrengthening(appraisal US$23.1 million; actual US$29.3
and financing capacity through        million) including TA and training for central government and local officials.
TA andtraining andprivate             FutureProject Preparation(appraisal US$2.8 million; actual US$1.8
sector and community                  million) mainly for studies inrelation to the urban sector.
involvement.
                                    I
Sources: Development CreditAgreement (OCA), Staff Appraisal Report (SAR) andImplementationCompletionReport (ICR)



2.2         Overall, project design was substantially relevant for including appropriate
components to achieve the project objectives inneedy towns and with sensible
implementation arrangements. The design emphasis upon rehabilitating existing
infrastructure was appropriate given the deterioration o furban infrastructure services
through years o fneglect. For the infrastructure, it also made sense to concentrate on a
few strategic sub-sectors, particularly priority roads, drainage and sanitation, that could
contribute to both economic development andpoverty alleviation. While the inclusion o f
institutional strengthening was relevant, inits original form the component was found to
be too fragmented andhadto be substantially re-designed at mid-term. Whether these
were the best components to achieve sustainable development andpoverty reduction was
not made clear. The choice o f Tanzania's secondary towns, Arusha, Iringa, Mbeya,
Morogoro, Moshi, Mwanza, Tabora and Tanga, with less emphasis uponDar es Salaam
that hadbeen assisted by earlier operations, was appropriate too. The regions that include
these eight secondary towns are responsible for producing more than one third o f
Tanzania's GDP. But through hosting more rapid urbanization, the secondary towns had
inadequate andpoorly maintained infrastructure. Their LGAs were insore need o f
strengthening too. Project execution faced logistical challenges involving eight LGAs
scattered across the country, up to 1,000 km from Dar es Salaam, where the Project
ImplementationUnit (PIU) was located. Attaching the PIUto the Prime Minister's office

                                                3


helped streamline contacts with the cities, stimulate counterpart finding and foster
coordination among the sectoral ministries involved. InDar es Salaam a Steering
Committee composed o fpermanent secretaries o f all the relevant ministries headed
implementation arrangements. This helpedto facilitate timely approval o f sectoral
decisions. Project Support Units ineach participating LGA staffed by local consultants
and seconded municipal staff, effectively supervised works and local institutional
strengthening activities. Project finding for LGAs was inthe form o f grants, allowing
cash strapped local authorities to focus filly upon the challengingtechnical aspects o f
improving longneglected infrastructure inpoor areas o fthe cities.

3.       Implementationand Costs

3.1        Although Credit effectiveness was delayed for nine months untilMay, 1997
because o f delays inPIU staffing, the rhythmo fproject execution quickly picked up. By
mid-term in2000, actual disbursements were inline with those planned. By the original
closing date 89 percent o f the original Credit hadbeen disbursed. A single loan extension
o f six months allowed some important road construction work to be finished. At project
completion, US$l.9 million o f the Credit was cancelled, since there hadbeen significant
project cost savings through procurement by international competitive bidding(ICB). In
fact, the level o f I C B was twice that foreseen at appraisal. For such a large and
geographically dispersed project, implementation went smoothly, staying remarkable
close to the planlaid out at appraisal.

3.2        Smooth project implementationwas helpedbyhaving sub-project detailed
designs ready at start up. Manyhadbeenprepared, as intended, under the prior Urban
Sector EngineeringProject - USEP (Cr.2291). Implementation was also assistedby
having several small works packaged together inlarge contracts to attract the bids o f
larger firms who had the capacity to undertake works simultaneously indifferent
localities. Biddingo f this kindwas successful for roads and drainage works inthe three
towns o f Arusha, Moshi and Tanga, where one internationalcontractor was able to carry
out all the identified works to a highquality standard. Design o f civil works was also
done with efficiency considerations inmind. For example, storm water drains were
mainly constructed as open culverts, which were cheaper to buildand easier (and
cheaper) to maintain. Because o f these efficiency gains, actual project outputs were
significantly higher than planned. For example 102 kmo f roads were rehabilitated
against a target o f 65km and 13 bus terminals were rehabilitated as against a target o f 6.

3.3        There were some shortcomings inimplementation, however. InDar es Salaam,
the Community Infrastructure Upgrading Program (0) implemented inonly two
                                                              was
out o f the six communities that had originally beenidentified for support for two reasons.
First community demand for more expensive filly paved roads was more than expected,
rather than the cheaper gravel option offered bythe project. Second, less than one third o f
the expected community counterpart contribution o fUS$1millionactually materialized.
Implementationwas also disrupted somewhat by the severe drought o f 1997 inTanzania
that ledto a shift inproject resources to emergency borehole drilling, rather thanthe
existingnetwork repair and rehabilitation that had originally been envisioned.

                                              4


4.      Monitoring and Evaluation

4.1     IEGrates the overall design, implementation andutilizationo fM&Efor this
project as modest. The project's M&Ewas more designed to monitor project
implementation, namely the delivery o fproject outputs, than to monitor progress in
achieving intendedproject outcomes laid out by the objectives. Although the project
explicitly sought to help achieve sustainable economic development and alleviate urban
poverty, M&Eincluded no explicit performance indicators for this. For each project
town, however, M&Ewas designed to follow up physicalprogress inimproving basic
infrastructure and also measuringthe state o f institutional capacity ineach participating
LGA. Some o fthe indicators chosen, such as the additional length o froads newly
rehabilitated, measured project implementation itself. Others, such as the share o f the
total solid waste collected andproperly disposed of, andincreases inproperty tax
collection, helpedmeasure improvements engendered by the project. All M&Ewas
constrained, however, by the lack o fbaseline data that accurately reflectedthe before-
project situation. Duringfield visits to the towns, IEGfound mostly anecdotal
information about baselines from residents themselves than hard data.

4.2     The lack o f attention to outcome indicators was partially corrected during
implementation. Some outcome indicators, such as the number o f towns submitting
timely unqualified audits and the percentage o fpopulation served with piped water, were
identified andmonitoredthrough to project closing. Inthe water supply and sanitation
sectors, U W S A performance data i s regularly collectedbythe Ministry o f Water, whose
annual reports o fUWSAsbenchmark their performance against national standards o f
service coverage, unaccounted for water, andwater quality, and billingefficiency.

4.3     Byproject closing, LGAsthemselves became more aware o fthe needto look
beyond outputs to assess performance. LGA reports to the IEGmission referred explicitly
to the achievements or otherwise o fUSRP's formal objectives. The information they
provided, on improved LGA management, for instance, was mostly qualitative. Even so,
attributing results to USRP was not always made clear. For example, most project towns
report as USRP benefits, the increase inbusiness activity andthe availability o f more
products inmarkets. Such findings rely more upon their hands-on knowledge o f the town,
thanon systematic study. Still, the increasingemphasis at the localleveluponassessing
development effectiveness, rather than merely project implementation, i s a positive sign,
and should be further supported through project training and TA.

5.      Outcomesby Objective

SUSTAINABLE ECONOMICDEVELOPMENT POVERTY REDUCTION
                                             AND


5.1       Non evaluable: This objective does not lend itselfto explicit evaluation for
three reasons. First, the project design didnot make clear at what level the objective was
to be achieved; national, city or urban district. Second, the design didnot include specific
components for achieving this objective, or at a minimuman explanation o fhow the

                                               5


components would contribute to achieving it. This makes it difficult to attribute advances
toward sustainable development or poverty reduction to the project. Itwould be even
more difficult to demonstrate that this project would be the best way to achieve these
goals. Third, project M&E didnot include performance indicators to measure progress
toward the desired outcomes, nor data on the baselines and targets. Without them, the
ICR does not assess economic growth or poverty reduction outcomes.

5.2         Notwithstanding the U S W design shortcoming inthis respect, Tanzania did
indeedmake significant progress on the macroeconomic front over the 1995-2005 period
o f this project. GDP growth was more than 4.9 percent per annum. Inreal terms,
Tanzania's GDPper capita grew by 30 percent over this period, more than twice the rate
for Sub-Saharan Africa as a whole. Even so, Tanzania's current per capita GNI o f
US$350 is still far less thanhalfSub-Saharan Africa's US$842. Time series data on
urbanpoverty inTanzania is scarce butthe country is reckonedto be one o fthe few in
Sub-Saharan Africa, on target to meet the Millennium Development Goal o f halving
poverty by 2015. IEGwas unable to find city level poverty data for the 1995-2005
period. However they can be measured, many o f the achievements have been attributed to
other causes, most notably Tanzania's soundpolicy andmacroeconomic framework that
has remained stable for an extended period. Inhindsight this project experience shows
how important it i s for project design to explain how project interventions will achieve
the stated objectives, and to assemble the appropriate M&E system and data to
demonstrate the results obtained. Unless the design can handle this convincingly, caution
would recommend against staking claims o f intendedresults that a project i s unlikelyto
achieve. IEGconsiders that that the inclusion o f explicit macroeconomic and poverty
reduction objectives was a shortcoming o fproject design andnot a poor result initself-
hence the non-evaluablerating.


REHABILITATEDINFRASTRUCTUREFORHIGHPRIORITY UNDER-SERVED AREAS
5.3        Substantially achieved: LGAs identified rehabilitation o fthe road network as
highprioritybecauseofitspotential contributionto improvedaccessto their cities and
less congested movement within them. Well above the target o f 65 km, 102 kmo f arterial
and collector roads were upgradedwith a more permanent pavement andproper storm
water drainage ineight project towns. Inmost o f them the intenselyusedroads are
locatedinand around the central business areas and connect key economic and social
facilities such as markets, bus stands, schools and health centers. They carry public buses,
non-motorized transport and large numbers o fpedestrians. On site, beneficiaries told the
IEGmissionthat the very poor condition o fthese roads beforethe project impeded
access, and consequently kept economic activity away from these towns. Other town
roads still not improved by USRP provide a stark counterfactual. They are ina very
dilapidated condition. Traffic counts over 2000-2004 found annual average increases o f
traffic o f 7 percent onproject supported roads.

5.4      The project also supported improvements to 13 central terminals for town and
longdistance buses inthe eight project towns. The IEGmission visited several o f them.
Today, they are hives o f activity, especially for low income users. Large numbers o f
people transiting through them as well as using these facilities to carry out livelihood

                                                         6


activities such as small-scale sale o f food items andmerchandise, and services such as
taxis. Upgrading o fbus terminals, including paving, street lights andprovision o fpublic
toilets, have increased the safety and comfort oftravelers. Because o f increased capacity
for docking, the number o fbuses using the terminals has increased substantially. For
example, inArusha the paved and well organizedmain and town bus terminals now
handle up to 6,000 buses a day, significantly more than the 4,500 before the upgrading.

5.5        Water supply, both interms o f quantityand quality, has improved too. Project
investments were made inMorogoro, Tabora and Dodoma, by rehabilitating storage
reservoirs, pumps and distribution networks. These resulted inbroader coverage, as well
as increases inhours o f supply per day. According to U W S A officials, most o f the
reduction inunaccounted-for-water inMorogoro and Tabora is due to the replacement
andreinforcement o ftrunk transmissionpipesunder USRP. Untreatedor partially treated
water was a problem inmany o f these project towns. After project support to rehabilitate
treatment plants inMorogoro andTabora, water quality has improved, though neither
UWSA is yet meeting the national standards on turbidity levels (details Table 1).

Table 1. Improvementsin UWSA performancebetween 1997 and 2006

                                               Tabora           I       Morogoro           ;      Dodoma

                                      F    1997         2006    1     1997         2006    I    1997       2006
Water supply coverage (yoof total) j       55%          84% j         65%          81% j       55%         80%
Hoursof supply per day                :     14           20     j      21          24      j     6         20
Unaccountedfor water (% of total) :        35%          28%           40%          34% j       60%         32%

Water Quality:
- Turbidity                           1     6             5     ;       5           5      :     4          0
- Residual chlorine (mg/l)            ;    0.1           0.2    1      0.7         0.2     I    0.2        0.2
Sources: Ministv of Water, 2007 and 2005; and information provided to the IEG mission by the respective UWSAs,
November 2007



5.6        Project water supply investments have helpedto improve basic infrastructure in
under-served areas. InMorogoro, for example, the rehabilitation o fwater storage tanks
and extensions to the distribution network helpedto provide piped water to areas o fthe
town that previously hadnone. These extensions inthe network have brought water
supply closer to manyhouseholds and made it cheaper for local residents, particularly the
poor, to obtain house connections (Box 2). InDar es Salaam, where insufficient water
supply sources often resulted inno water available inthe pipes, the emergency borehole
subproject under USRP provided 34 boreholes inareas identified as underserved despite
having D A W A S A connections. These boreholes provided immediate reliefto an
estimated 120,000 people - or an average o f 3,500 persons per borehole. Over time
however, a proliferation o fboreholes has taken place through a number o f funding
agencies and the usage o f the boreholes provided under USRP has reduced. Those visited
bythe IEGmission are now serving about 300 to 500 persons throughhousehold
connections.

                                                7


5.7        Also inDar es Salaam, the
rehabilitation ofwater service mains and          Box 2: Impacts of Water Supply
                                                  InvestmentsunderUSRP
repair ofthe Ruwriverbreachunder the
USFU?helpedthe Dar es SalaamWater                 Investments inextending the water supply
SewerageAuthority (DAWASA/                        distribution network, for example into more
DAWASCO) to reduce leakages, by an                neighborhoods inthe Kihonda area inthe
estimated 10,000 m3/day. However,                 Morogoro Municipality, has brought the network

USRPinvestmentsofUS$5.6 million                   closer to low income households who are now
                                                  able, withthe help o f some pooling o fresources,
was insufficient to addressDAWASA                 to afford to connect to the network.
long-term supply issues, only
maintainingservice levels until the Dar           "We obtainedthe connection inApril this year
es Salaam Water Supply and Sanitation             usingcontributions froma group ofneighbors.
                                                  We usedto get our water from a neighbor's
Project (Cr.3771) providedan additional           compound which is a little far. Many people
US$164 million, approved inMay 2003.              would come there to fetch water so often there is
                                                  a queue and we would spend about one hour to
5.8         Seweragesystems were                  fetch water. N o w there is plenty o f water and
rehabilitated inall project towns                 most o f the time the water is clean."

excluding Mbeya. The project investedin                             - Female Morogoro Municipality

the construction o fnew oxidation and             Source: IEGJield visit in Morogoro Municipality,
sludgeponds, layingnew sewer lines and            November, 2007
CCTV surveys o f existing lines. These
have helpedimprove the collection o f
sewageinthesemunicipalities, therebyeliminating open sewage flows along residential
streets. Properlytreated, sewerage effluent qualityhas shown signs o f improvement and
now meets WHO standardsinfive project towns (Iringa, Morogoro, Moshi, Tanga and
Tabora), while its quality still falls short inArusha. Tanga andMwanza(Table 2). As
little (expensive) investment was made by the project (or by others) to extend sewerage
networks inthese towns, there hasbeen little increase o f coverage--from about 10
percent o f the populationin 1996 to about 14percent in2006. Beyondthe reach o f the
networks, the project investedin311pit latrines inschools. While not fully adequatein
terms o f demand and hygiene(inone Mwanza school, there are 20 latrines for more than
4,000 children), they still providebetter conditions for studentsinthese schools than
before, and continue to beusedintensively.

5.9        USWbrought amarkedimprovementto solidwastecollectionespecially and
also to waste disposal inproject towns. I t provided 490 skip pads (approximately 60 per
                                           project town) and 240 skips (30 per town) to
                                           collect garbage, and 16 skip loaders (2 per town)
Table 2. Sewage EffluentQuality            to transport the garbageto the disposal sites.
                      BOD5(mgll)           Garbage deliveredto disposal sites has increased
                2003104         2005106    from under 40 percent o fthe total collected to
Arusha              85            81       over 55 percent-an improvement, but still some
lringa              30            30       way to go. The project nevertheless helped LGAs
Morogoro           44             29       to relocate dumpsitesfrom denselypopulated
Moshi               24            33       areas to more suitable locations inthe outskirts o f
Mwanza             180            103      town. Eventhe new locations still operate as
Tanga             342             514      controlledtipping sites rather than sanitary
Tabora              6             NIA
Sources: Ministry of Water,2007 and 2005   landfills, however. As envisaged at appraisal the

                                               a

landfillswouldhaveproper coverage o fwaste andcollection andtreatment o fleachate
and methane gas. InArusha the IEGmission saw open dumpingtakingplace, with little
evidence o f such treatment. LGA staff there told IEGthat USRP funding was inadequate
for the technical solutions originally envisioned. Even so, the overall rehabilitation o f
solid waste management, particularly collection, has helpedto improve the environment
intheproject towns, making themmore attractive for residents andfor investment and
business activity.

STRONGER LGAMANAGEMENT              AND OPERATIONS
5.10      Substantially achieved: LGAsmade considerable progress thanks to the
project, which through training more than 1,500 local staff andthrough technical
assistance upgraded LGA administrative and operational capacity. IEGitselfbenefited
from this through the reports that LGAs efficiently preparedfor the IEGmission. LGA
staffbrought these skills to bear through the use o f computerizedmaintenance
management systems, for the first time inthese towns. USRP introducedthe Road
Maintenance Management System (RMMS) that was widely adopted inMoshi and
Mwanza, but not inArusha, where road maintenance needs are still assessedmanually.
For UWSAs too, the project offered a computerized maintenance management system,
but itwas rarely takenup owingto the highcost o fthe software license fee.

5.11      Through the on-the-job experience o f implementing the USRP sub-project,
Mwanza city for instance, was able to construct a second bus terminal inthe Nyegezi
district to similar specifications on its own and at its own expense. Working with USRP
also opened LGAsperspectives toward mobilizingadditional resources from elsewhere,
as Mwanza and Morogoro have done with the Millennium Challenge Corporation. In
Moshi the UWSA is partnering with University o f Dar es Salaam to pilot an eco-friendly
and space saving method o f treating sewage.

5.12      Financial strengthening o f LGAs andUWSAs has been significant under the
project. FollowingUSRP TA for property valuations with the help o fmodern computer
mapping methods, LGAs have more than doubled their own revenues over the project
period. But, it shouldbe noted that the increase was from a very low base, and that much
more needs to be done. InMwanza for example, only 24 percent o f the properties inthe
surveyed area have been valued andproperty tax revenue, while increasing, only provides
about 15 percent o f all self generated revenue. Naturally, LGAs have sought to increase
their revenues from other sources, particularly from quasi commercial activities inthe
project bus stations and from parking fees. But many LGAs still depend heavily on
central government transfers anddevelopment aid to finance their activities, particularly
for investment inbasic infrastructure services. U W S A financial performance has been
stronger, with revenues increasing threefold insome towns during2000-2006 (details
Annex D). By 2006, all participating UWSAs except Iringa, were classified as Category
A, which means that they meet all the direct andindirect costs o fO&M andpart o ftheir
investment costs. Both LGAs and UWSAs improved their financial management thanks
to training and TA that the project provided to their accounting units. Currently, all LGAs
have up to date and audited accounts, albeit with auditors' qualifications inthe case o f
Mwanza. Onthe other hand, the accounts o f all UWSAs are up to date and unqualified by
their respective auditors.

                                                9


MORE PRIVATESECTORAND COMMUNITY INVOLVEMENTINSERVICEDELIVERY
5.13      Modestly achievedoverall with substantial results for private sector
involvement andnegligible results for community involvement.

5.14      Private sector involvement: All project works, except for emergency water
boreholes inDar es Salaam were carried out byprivate contractors selected through
competitive procurementprocesses. Whether done by foreign or local contractors, the
quality o f the completed work was generally satisfactory. After completion, private
operators were contracted to maintain the new assets. Byhiringthe necessary equipment
insteado finvesting large amounts inacquiring it, firms were able to enter this business
with avery low capitalbase. Maintenanceis still wanting, however, not for inadequate
work done, but for the lack o f resources to do more. Even so, this was the first time that
private firms hadbeen used on such a scale for construction and maintenance o f urban
infrastructure inthe secondary cities inTanzania. Private initiatives arose spontaneously
inresponse to new demands stimulatedbythe project. Thus, privatecesspit emptiers got
into business inArusha, where six firms were informally established. InLGAs solid
waste collections was increasinglybeing contracted out to private operators. One area in
which private sector participation didnot succeed was inrevenue collection on behalfo f
LGAs, notwithstandingthe performance based contracts offered. Local residents were
distrustful o fwhat they saw as private individuals meddling inmatters that affected them
directly, especially revaluation o fproperty assessments inorder to raise property taxes.
Taking all the results together, the project succeeded inencouraging greater private sector
involvement inservice delivery. Evenwhere there were shortcomings, the project
experience was worthwhile inhelping LGAsunderstand better where such participation
showed the greatest promise.

5.15      Community involvement: While beneficiary communities were active, especially
intryingto maintainthe newproject facilities, the results were often lessthanideal. In
particular, local residents found it difficult to maintain gravel access roads without the
heavy equipment needed for suchwork. Some complained to the IEGmission that the
work was particularly difficult given Tanzania's volatile weather that frequently tested
drainage and sewerage infrastructure particularly to their limits. Common sights were o f
drains blockedby garbage and street pavement ina poor state o f repair. Better
community involvement results were obtained, however, when community-based
organizations inMwanza, Arusha and Moshi helped organize street cleaning and the
assembly o f local solid waste at strategic collection points inresidential areas o f the
respective towns. Altogether, the project experience points to some important, possibly
more general constraints incommunity involvement inurban service delivery that are
highlighted inthe following section (para. 6.3).

6.      Broader IssuesArising from this Evaluation

INVOLUNTARY      RESETTLEMENT
6.1       Since the USRP design focused upon the rehabilitation o f existing infrastructure
that generally didnot require landacquisition, the project, for the most part, avoided the
important Bank safeguard issue o f involuntary resettlement. But IEGlearnedthat in

                                                 10


Arusha, 56 households were displaced when new project solid waste disposal site was
established. An additional 71households were displaced inMorogoro when the sewage
treatment ponds were constructed. Since fewer households than the Bank's operational
policy (OP 4.12) threshold o f 200 were involved, only summary resettlement planswere
preparedby the respective LGA with the support o f GOTand submitted to the Bank in
October 2000. The LGAs told IEGthat all affected households were paidcompensation
at market rates andprovided alternative land for resettlement. IEG's own discussions
directly with the affected parties confirmedthese arrangements, but also revealedthat
new sites providedwere some considerable distance away.

6.2     Evidence about project compliance with this safeguard comes mostly from direct
verbal reports. Documentation showing that all necessary steps were taken was thin, as
Bank itselffound. Bank project supervision inMarch 2001 noted that residents hadbeen
moved from the Arusha site without a satisfactory resettlement plan or agreement on
compensation. Later, however, a May 2004 supervision mission was able to report that
there was no resettlement issue under the project. The ICR reports full compliance with
the safeguards (p. 21). Such inconsistent andincomplete reporting on this matter, even if
the number o fpeople affected is relatively small, would call for a more thorough and
systematic monitoring o f involuntary resettlement, inorder to allay concerns that the
scale o f the issue and the procedures followed to deal with it indeedcorresponded with
the verbal reports IEGheard on site.

DISTORTIONS COMMUNITYDELIVERY URBANSERVICES
                 IN                           OF
6.3     An underlying assumption o fcommunity-driven programs is that by enabling
communities andcitizens to define investment priorities, the development process will
become more inclusive and responsive, particularly to the needs o f the poor (Pozzoni and
Kumar, 2005:14). The USRPprovided US$5 million (about 3 percent o fproject costs)
towards a pilot Community Infrastructure Program (CIP). However, CIP design required
that only settlements free o f such hazards as floods are eligible, which effectively
precluded unplanned settlements where the urbanpoor live. CIP settlements eventually
chosen for project investment inthe Kijitonyama and Tabata districts o f Dar es Salaam
are middle rather than low income communities.

6.4     According to municipal officials and community representatives involved inCIP,
community needs assessmentswere done through large focus group discussions. These
however are generally more conducive to obtaining the views o f dominant groups or
individuals more confident to speak up andraise their concerns at large public gatherings,
a phenomenonknown as "elite capture". A large focus group discussioninKijitonyama,
for instance, identified the rehabilitation o f the sewerage network, usedby only a few, as
the second most urgent "community'y priority. Yet such a decision truly reflected the
priorities o f a minorityo f higher income households withinthe community-just       700 out
o f 6,000 households that already had sewerage connections-who        wished to upgrade
their own already reasonable level o f service. The concerns o f the majority who relied
upon pit latrines were not addressed at all. Earlyinimplementation, a 1999 Bank
supervision mission correctly asked whether "genuine community concerns" were being
addressedby the CP, going so far as recommending that the sewerage upgrading
activities inKijitonyama be cancelled.

                                              11


6.5     Such concerns undermined the CIP as a "demand-driven" program, because the
demands expressed through priorities inthis way may have beenthose o f the wealthier
households inthe community who were not targeted for development assistance. LGAs
appeared to accept any cccommunityyyproject representing the voice o f the community as
a whole. For community involvement to effective assist urban service delivery, it is
important for the voices o f all groups, particularly poorer households, to be heard. Having
more frequent meetings with smaller and more focused focus-groups mightbe an
important first step toward achieving this.

7.      Ratings

OUTCOME
7.1       The overall outcome o fthe project is ratedSatisfactory as it fully achieved its
major relevant objectives, albeit with minor shortcomings. The downgrade from the ICR
Review rating is due to shortcomings identified by the PPARfield work that were not
evident from IEG's earlier desk review o f the ICR. Efficacy is ratedSubstantialoverall
for the important achievements inrehabilitating priority infrastructure and strengthening
LGAs, with weaker results from community assisted service delivery. Efficiency is rated
Substantialas reflected inhigheconomic rates o f return such as the 33 percent estimated
for the project's road investments. Lower costs than expected were achievedthrough
competitive biddingo f contracts contributed to this positive result.

RISKTO DEVELOPMENT          OUTCOME

7.2       This risk is rated as Modest. Most works were completed to a highstandard,
thereby mitigating the needs for substantial fimding for maintenance. Although far from
being financially self sufficient, most LGAs are now able to meet their operations and
maintenance budgets. These factors diminish the risk. On the other hand, it would have
been lower still had more roads, especially those handlingheavy trucks, been
permanently paved, and for solid waste, more attention given to the challenges o f
disposal that is likely to become a serious environmental issue inthe short run.

BANKPERFORMANCE
7.3       RatedSatisfactory for a solid project design (notwithstanding its distraction
with higher levelmacro impacts) and careful supervision that contributedto the
successful implementation o f a large and geographically dispersed operation. Supervision
was effectively undertakenthrough mission fielded both from Washington and from the
Bank office inDar es Salaam. The Bank was flexible inallowing activities to be revised
and adapted to changes incontext, for example inrelation to the capacity building
component and Dar es Salaam Water Supply. It thereby established good working
relations with LGAs inparticular. Today, the Bank enjoys an excellent reputation among
its Tanzanian counterparts.

BORROWER     PERFORMANCE
7.4       The performance o f the GOTand implementing agencies i s also satisfactory.
Throughout the project, GOTmaintained consistency and continuity inthe policy

                                             12


environment relating to local administration andbasic service provision. It also carried
out the necessary strategic reforms, for example decentralizationo fpowers and h c t i o n s
to the local level and setting up o f autonomous water utilities with ringfenced revenue in
project towns, which paved the way for USRP. The implementing agencies, particularly
the PIU, were consistently staffed with qualified personnel. Despite what could havebeen
a very demanding project, the implementing agencies performed well to ensure that all
project activities were completed to a highstandard and on time.

8.      Findings andLessons

8.1        Logistics must be well worked out for the successful implementation o f large
projects dispersed over a wide geographical area. Inthis case, success came from: (i)
packagingworks into larger contracts to be undertakenby experienced large firms able to
operate across these large areas; (ii) assembling design work already done under earlier
operations; and (iii) fully deploying the Bank country office to ensure regular contact
with client towns.

8.2       Project experience demonstrates that direct technical assistance and training
with on-the-job experience o f executingpriorityphysicalinvestments continues to be a
winning combination for improving local government municipal management and urban
service delivery.

8.3       While community involvement inurbanservice delivery has been demonstrably
correlatedwith good project outcomes, care must be exercised that community choices
are not pre-emptedby local elites within the community who may be especially skilled in
using public meetings and assemblies for furthering their own minority interests.

8.4        Project design should focus only uponintended outcomes that can feasibly be
achieved andwhose success can convincingly be demonstrated. Claims to attain higher
level intended outcomes-economic development andpoverty reduction inthis case-
should only be made when there is a convincing rationale that project interventions can
achieve them, and also a soundM&E system to record the baseline, target and endline
values o f indicators to measure the achievement.

                                    13


AnnexA. BasicData Sheet

URBAN       SECTOR REHABILITATIONPROJECT(CREDIT 2867-TAN))

Key ProjectData(amounts in US$million)
                                   Appraisal          Actual or       Actual as % of
                                   Estimate        cumnt estimate    Appraisalestimate
Total project costs                 141.3               135.2            95.7%
Loan amount                         104.9                97.7            93.1%
Cofinancing                          21.8                25.8            118.3%
Economic rate of return              16.2                25.0



ProjectDates

Steps inproject cycle            Dateplanned                          Date actual
ADDraisai                                                             04/24/1995
Approval                                                              05/23/1996
Signing                                                               08/09/1996
Effectiveness                     08/23/1996                          05/06/1997
Loan closing                      06/30/2004                          12/31/2004



StaffInputs(staffweeks)
   Stage of ProjectCycle                     Stage ofproject cycle

                                No. Staff weeks                         US$ (`000)
IdentificationlPreparation           170.5                                 341.8
Appraisal                            113.9                                 237.2
Supervision                          209.9                                 607.7
ICR                                  10.0                                  26.0
Total                                504.3                               1,212.7

                                                            14


   Mission Data

Stage of project cycle            persons
                                    No. Of    Specialized staff skills represented                   Performance Rating

                                                                                                lmplementation   Development
                                                                                                  Progress         Objective
IdentificationlPreparation           6    TTL, SE, WSE, Eco, PRS, UP
                 09/1994             14   TTL, SE, WSE, Eco, FinA, OA, SPRS, ME,
                                          UTS, SWS, WIS, IS, EnvS, OpO
AppraisaVNegotiation
                 0511995             12   TTL, FA, Em, ME, OA, SPS, SE, WSE, WIS,                    S                 S
                                          IS, CE, DivC
Supervision
                 0811996             4    TTL, SE, SFinA, WSE                                        S                 S
                 1111997             6    TTL, Em, PRO, WSE, SE                                      S                 S
                 04/1998             3    TTL,WSE,Eco                                                S                 S
                 09/1998             6    TTL, WSE, Eco, POpO, PRO, FMS                              S                 S
                 03/2000             3    TTL,SSE,OA                                                 S                 S
                 09/22/2000          3    TTL,SSE,OA                                                 S                 S
                 10/12/2001               TTL, SE, UFS, WSS, ME                                      S                 S
                 03/2002             51   SSE                                                        S                 S
                 0912002             2    TTL, ConsIENSR                                             S                 S
                 05/2003             3    TTL, FMS, ConslENSR                                        S                 S
                 10/2003             3    TTL, FMS, Cons/ENSR                                        S                 S
                 04/2004             3    TTL, FMS, Cons/ENSR                                        S                 S
ICR
                 10/2004    -        4    TTL, FMS, Cons/ENGR.
                 12/2004                  Cons/Eco



   CE: Civil Engineer                                            PRS:ProcurementSpecialist
   ConsiEngr:ConsultantiEngineer                                 SE: Sanitary Engineer
   DivC: DivisionChief                                           SFinA: Sr. FinancialAnalyst
   Eco: Economist                                                SPRS Sr. ProcurementSpecialist
   EnvS: EnvironmentalSpecialist                                 SSE: Sr. Sanitary Engineer
   FinA: FinancialAnalyst                                        SWS: SolidWaste Specialist
   EMS: FinancialManagementSpeckilist                            TTL: Task TeamLeader
   IS: InstitutionalSpecialist                                   UFS: UrbanFinanceSpecialist
   ME: MunicipalEngineer                                         UP:UrbanPlanner
   OA: OperationsAnalyst                                         UTS: UrbanTransport Specialist
   OpO: OperationsOfficer                                        WIS: WaterInstitutions Specialist
   PopO:PrincipalOperationsOfficer                               WSE: Water Supply Engineer
   PRO:ProcurementOfficer                                        WSS:Water SanitationSpecialist

                                                 15



Annex B. BackgroundInformation
Table B.1: Tanzania at a Glance
                                                                        Tanzania        SubAfrica
                                                                                            Saharan

                                                                    1996         2006       2006
Population (millions)                                               29.6         39.5       770
GDP per capita, PPP (current international $)                        461          751       2,113
Poverty (YOof populationbelow national poverty line)                  39          N/A    45 to 50
Urban population (% of total population)                              21          25         36
Urban poverty (YOof urban population below national                  NIA          24     20 to 60
poverty line)
Urban populationwith access to an improved water                      85          85         80
source (YO)
Urban populationwith access to improved sanitation (%)                52          53         53
Gross primary enrollment (% of school-age population)                 66          110        92
Infant mortality (per 1,000live births)                               92          76         96
Sources: WorldDevelopmentReports; DECDG, Country-at-a-Glancetables; UNDP, Human Development Reports


Table B.2: Urban Centerswith more than 100,000 inhabitants

               LocalAuthority                     Urban Population (2002)
               Dar es Salaam *                               2,339,910
               Mwanza *                                       476,646
               Arusha *                                        270,485
               Mbeya                                           232,596
               Morogoro *                                     209,058
               Zanzibar                                       205,870
               Tanga                                           180,237
               Dodoma                                          150,604
               Moshi *                                         143,799
               Kigoma                                          131,792
               Tabora                                          127,887
               Musoma                                          104,851
               lringa                                         102,208
               USRPproject towns are shown in bold *Projecttowns visitedby IEG mission
               Source: 2002 Census, National Bureau of Statistics

                                             16


Annex C. FinancialPerformanceIndicatorsfor UWSAs

Table c.1:Revenue Collected (incurrentTanzanianShillings)

                        2000101                     2005106             PercentageIncrease
Morogoro                    932,949,463                   1,921,960,447            106.01%
Dodoma                      497,106,345                   1,969,189,047            296.13%
Tabora                      405,473,104                   1,298,033,240            220.13%
Arusha                    1,441,397,708                   2,766,455,947             91.93%
Moshi                       723,836,926                   1,761,939,000            143.42%
Tanga                       928,670,000                   2,024,750,040            118.03%
Mwanza                               NIA                  3,160,866,501
Mbeya                                NIA                  1,580,538,567
Sources: MoW 2007and ICR




Table C.2: Productivityof Administrative Inputs
                 Revenueaenerated Der TShl.OO eXDenditUre on inDut
                               2004105                                  2005106
Morogoro                          4.8                                     4.0
Dodorna                           5.9                                     6.2
Tabora                            3.7                                     9.4
Arusha                            2.4                                     6.9
Moshi                             2.9                                     3.2
Tanga                             3.6                                     3.3
Mwanza                            8.3                                     4.8
Mbeya                             2.0                                     2.6
lringa                            4.3                                     4.3
Sources: MOW2007

                                              17


Table C.3: Operating Ratio*
                                        2003104         2004105              2005106
Morogoro                                 1.43             1.50                0.95
Dodoma                                   0.93             1.07                0.85
Tabora                                   1.04             1.84                0.86
Arusha                                   1.08             1.17                0.94
Moshi                                    1.56             1.49                 1.07
Tanga                                    1.50            0.83                  0.95
Mwanza                                   0.96             1.07                 0.91
Mbeya                                    1.17             1.30                 0.99
lringa                                   1.63             1.50                 1.20
Source: MoW 2007
*ratio below 1 means that the UWSAwas able to generate sufficient revenue to cover
operating expenditure and still retain some surplus.


                                            19


Annex D. Government Comments

                                 THE UNITED REPUBLICOF TANZANIA
                                PRIME MINISTER'S OFFICE

Telegrams: "RALG" DODOMA                                     Regional Administration and
                                                             Local Government,
Telephone 026-2321607/2322848                                P.O. Box 1923,
Fax:         026- 232211612322146                            DODOMA,
E-mail Address: ps@rJmorala.go,tz

In reply please quote:


OUR Ref: LGSP/PE/21/8                                                          5`hJune 2008


Mr. John Heath,
Acting Manager,
Sector Evaluations,
Independent EvaluationGroup,
The World Bank,
1818 H Street NW,
Washington, DC 20433,
USA.


Dear Sir,

RE:      URBAN SECTOR REHABILITATION PROJECT (IDA CREDIT 2867-TA)

SUB: COMMENTS ON THE DRAFT PROJECT PERFORMANCEASSESSMENT REPORT


1. ,Thank you for your letter dated April 23, 2008 enclosing Draft Project
                                                                               I
         Performance Assessment Report (PPAR) for the Urban Sector Rehabilitation
         Project (USRP) for our review and comments.
                                     1
2,       We have reviewedthe report and the following our comments:

         Para 2.2 (Proiect Desianl: The 2 sentences starting with `While the inclusion
         ,....,...." and ending with ,,......... was not made clear, however" need to be
                                       \\
         elaborated. Does the 2ndsentence refer to the components of the Project or the
         sub-components/activities under the Institutional Strengthening (IS) component?
         If it is the latter; the reason was clearly explained in the USRP Implementation
         Completion Report (ICR), Para 3.3 (Assessment of Components Component C,
                                                                              -
         i.e. being the decision at the Mid-Term Review to develop an IS Strategy that
         would group the activities under this component to better align and focus the
         efforts to the needs of the beneficiaries (local government authorities) in order to
         help to achieve more sustainable development and poverty reduction at local
         level rather than the IS targeting more at the central level as it was in its original
         form; this proving to have substantial contribution to the success of the Project.

                                    20

Para 5.1 (Sustainable Economic Development and Poverty Reduction):
Whereas, it was found difficult to explicitly evaluate the outcome of the overall
objective of achieving sustainable development and poverty reduction due to the
Project Design and Project M&E not including desired outcomes on this as well as
data on baselines and targets, we are of the opinion that a general evaluation
could still be made through sub-objectives of the overall objective (see Box 1of
the PPAR) and this be linked to the significant contribution they have made
towards sustainable development and poverty reduction (see Revised Objective -
Para 3.2 of the ICR). The other two reasons/shortcomings could then be taken
as "lessons learnt" as rightly put in Para 8.4 of the PPAR.

 Paras 5.13 & 5.15 (Communitv Involvement in Service Delivew): We
feel that the results for community involvement in Para 5.13 could better be
termed as "modest" rather than "negligible" due to the fact that 3 out of the 8
Project towns (Mwanza, Arusha and Moshi) as well as Dar es Salaam have been
successfully using CBOs on hire basis for street cleaning, solid waste collection
etc since the period of the Project implementation. However, this can be taken
as a lesson so that community involvement is organized early during Project
implementation through CBOs (on hire basis) to do more O&M activities in their
areas including routine maintenance of community roads etc.

Paras 6.1 81 6.2 (Involuntarv Ressettlement): The USRP design indeed
focused on rehabilitation of existing infrastructure that generally did not require
land acquisition and hence avoided the World Bank (WB) safeguard issue of
involuntary resettlement. Sites for facilities for solid waste, oxidation ponds etc.
were identified before commencement of Project implementation and were all
free of encumbrances. However, in the course of the implementation of the
Project, illegal human settlements developed and encroached on two of the
earmarked sites in Arusha and Morogoro. The Project management in
collaboration with the Government and the WB followed the necessary safeguard
procedures for the involuntary settlement and satisfactorily resolved these
matters. The fact that these were one of the several emerging implementation
problems that were successfully resolved and also the number of the affected
persons being below the WB threshold of 200 could explain the reason for not
highlighting it in the ICR and limiting it to aide memoires for the implementation
supervision missions of that period.

Paras 6.3, 6.4 & 6.5 (Distortions in Communitv Delivew of Urban
Services]: As correctly indicated in Para 3.2 of the PPAR, most of the major
designs for USRP, including the selection process (e.g. participating project
towns, communities, types of infrastructure etc) were done during its
predecessor, USEP (UrbanSector Engineering Project CreditNo. 2291-TA).The
                                                         -
deficiencies pointed out in the above paragraphs could at best be attributed to
the work under USEP, whose evaluation might have already taken place
separately. However, these can be taken as "lessons learnt" for future projects.
Already, these have been taken into account in the design of successor Project,
LGSP (Local Government Support Project) where a demand-driven program,

                                            21
     CIUP (Community Infrastructure Upgrading Program) is currently being
     implemented.

     Para 7.1 (Outcome): With the above comments which have elaborated on all
     the issues reported as "minor shortcomings"; it would be desirable to reinstate
     the initial rating for the Overall Outcome of the Project as given at ICR Review,
     Le. High/ySatisfactoryinstead of downgrading it to "Satisfactory'<

     Para 8 (Findinss and Lessonsl: We concur with the findings and lessons
     listed in paragraph 8 of the PPAR.

3.   It is our hope that the comments above will be looked into more critically and
     eventually be reflected in the final report.




                                      NENT SECRETARY




C.C. Ms Mulu Ketsela, Executive Director for Tanzania, World Bank


                                            23


Bibliography

Andrew Young School o f Policy Studies. 2003. Final Report: Developing a System of
Intergovernmental Grants in Tanzania, Georgia State University,Atlanta

Braathen, E and G. Mwambe. 2007. ServiceDelivery in Tanzania: Findingsfrom Six
Councils 2000-2003, Special PaperNo. 06.20, REPOA, Dar es Salaam

Chaligha, A with F.Henjenwele, A.Kessy and G.Mwanbe. 2007. Local Governance in
Tanzania: Observationsfrom Six Councils 2002 -2003, REPOA Special Paper 07.22,
Researchon Poverty Alleviation, Dar es Salaam

Demombynes, G andJ.G. Hoogeveen.2004. Growth, Inequality and Simulated Poverty
Pathsfor Tanzania, 1992-2002, World Bank Policy ResearchWorking Paper 3432, October
2004, World Bank, Washington D.C.

Embassyof the FederalRepublic of Germany, Dar es Salaam. 2007. Waterfor Waterfor
Life: Lessons learntfrom 15years of GermanDevelopment Cooperation in the Kilimanjaro
Region, The Germandevelopment cooperation, Dar es Salaam

Fjeldstad, 0.2006. ToPay or Not to Pay? Citizens' Views on Taxation by Local Authorities
in Tanzania, Special Paper 06.18, Researchon Poverty Alleviation, Dar es Salaam

Fjeldstad,0 andF.Henjewele, G.Mwambe, E.Ngalewa andK.Nygaard, 2004. Local
Governmentfinances andfinancial management in Tanzania: Baseline datafrom six
councils, 2000-2003, CMI Working Paper Series 2004:7, Chr. Michelsen Institute, Bergen.

Government o fthe UnitedRepublic of Tanzania, TanzaniaDevelopment Partners Group and
the World Bank Group. 2007. Joint AssistanceStrategyfor the UnitedRepublic of Tanzania
FY2007 - FY2010

Government ofUnitedRepublic of Tanzania. 1997. The TanzaniaDevelopment Vision 2025
http://www.tanzania.go,tz/vision.htm

Kessides, Christine. 2006 The Urban Transition in Sub-SaharanAfrica: Implicationsfor
Economic Growth and Poverty Reduction, The Cities Alliance, Washington D.C.

Local Government Finance Working Group. 2008. Local Government Information.
www.logintanzania.net

MinistryofPlanning, EconomyandEmpowerment, TheUnitedRepublicofTanzania.2006.
Millennium Development Goals: Progress Report, December 2006

MinistryofWater, The UnitedRepublic ofTanzania. 2007.Annual Report: Urban Water
Supply and SewerageAuthorities (UWSAs) Financial Year 2005/2006, Ministryof Water,
Dar es Salaam

                                          24



MinistryofWater andLivestock Development, The UnitedRepublic ofTanzania. 2005.
Annual Report: The Urban Water Supply and SewerageAuthorities (UWSAs) Financial Year
2003/2004, preparedby Ernst & Young andNorplan, Dar es Salaam

Mpango, P. 2008. Spatial Dimensions of Growth andPovertv ReductioninSustaining and
Sharing Economic Growth in Tanzania,Robert J. Utz (ed), World Bank, Washington D.C

Pozzoni, B andNKumar. 2005.A Review of the Literature on Participatory Approaches to
Local Developmentfor an Evaluation of the Effectiveness of WorldBank Supportfor
Community-Based and -Driven Development Approaches, OED Working Paper Series,
World Bank, Washington D.C.

Sarzin, L. 2007. Local GovernmentRevenuePolicies and Their Impacts: A Modelfor
Tanzania and Uganda, World Bank, Washington D.C

Tanzania On-Line: A Gateway to Information on Development Issues in Tanzania
(www.tzonline.or.tz), Economic andSocial ResearchFoundation (ESRF), Dar es Salaam

TheNationalBureauof Statistics (NBS), Tanzania. (Undated). Business Survey 2003-2005,
Volume2 - Other RegionsReport, NBS, Dar es Salaam

TheNationalBureau of Statistics (NBS), Tanzania. 2002. Census 2002.
http://www.tanzania.go.tz/census/

The ResearchandAnalysis Working Group, Poverty Monitoring System. 2005. Poverty and
Human Development Report 2005, MkukinaNyota Publishers, Dar es Salaam.

Utz, R.J and J. Hoogeveen. 2008. Outlook on GrowthandPovertv ReductioninSustaining
and Sharing Economic Growth in Tanzania,Robert J. Utz (ed), World Bank, Washington
D.C

Wong, MandR. Ruparel and P.Mwanakatwe. 2008. Enhancing the Business Environment in
Sustaining and Sharing Economic Growth in Tanzania, Robert J. Utz (ed), World Bank,
Washington D.C

World Bank. 2005. TheEffectiveness of WorldBank Supportfor Community-Based
and -Driven Development: an OED Evaluation, Operations andEvaluations Department,
Washington D.C

World Bank. 2002. Upgrading Low Income Urban Settlements: Countiy AssistanceReport,
Tanzania, World Bank, Washington D.C

Mapsection


                                                                                                                                                                                            IBRD 36095

                                                                              TANZANIA
                                         URBAN SECTOR REHABILITATION PROJECT CITIES
                                   POPULATION
                                                                    2,339,910                                            CITIES VISITED BY IEG MISSION

                                                                                                                         PROVINCE CAPITALS

                                                                                                                         NATIONAL CAPITAL

                                                                    102,208                                              PROVINCE BOUNDARIES

                                                                                                                         INTERNATIONAL BOUNDARIES


                       30E                      32E                      34E                          36E                   This map was produced by the Map Design Unit of The World Bank.
                                                                                                                                The boundaries, colors, denominations and any other information
                                                                                                                                shown on this map do not imply, on the part of The World Bank
                                                                                                                                Group, any judgment on the legal status of any territory, or any
                                                                                                                                endorsement or acceptance of such boundaries.
0                                                                                                                                                                                                    0
                         UGANDA


                                                                                                                                                  K E N Y A
                                           Bukoba
                                                                            MusomaMusoma

                    RWANDA                                                   M A R A
2S                                     KAGERA                                                                                                                                                       2S
                                                   M W A N Z A
                                                     MwanzaMwanza

                                                                                                     A R U S H A
                    BURUNDI                                                                                                     Moshi
                                                                                                                                Moshi
                                                                                                             ArushaArusha

                                               S H I N YA N G A        ShinyangaShinyanga
                                                                                                                                           KILIMANJARO
                                                                                                                                                                                                     4S
                                                                                                         BabatiBabati
    CONGO                                                                                                                                                                                    PEMBA
                           K I G O M A                                                                                                                                                       NORTH

                       KigomaKigoma                                           SingidaSingida                             MANYARA
         OF.                                                     Tabora
                                                                  abora                                                                                   Tanga
                                                                                                                                                           anga                 Wete         PEMBA
                                                                                                                                                                                             SOUTH

                                                                                                                                                                                Mkoani
                                                        T A B O R A                                                                        T A N G A                                         ZANZIBAR
            REP                                                                                                                                                                              NORTH

                                                                                                                                                                         Mkokotoni           ZANZIBAR
                                                                               SINGIDA                    DODOMADODOMA                                  ZanzibarZanzibar Koani               SOUTH &
                                                                                                                                                                                             CENTRAL
                                                                                                                                                                                             ZANZIBAR
               DEM.                                                                                                                                                                          WEST
                                                                                                     D O D O M A           MorogoroMorogoro         Kibaha
                                                                                                                                                    Kibaha               Dar es Salaam
                                                                                                                                                                         Dar es Salaam
                                        R U K W A                                                                                                                           DAR ES SALAAM



                                                                                                         Iringa
                                                                                                         Iringa

8S                                Sumbawanga                                                                                                      P W A N I
                                                                                                                                                                                                     8S
                                                                   M B E Y A

                                                                                             I R I N G A                                                                          INDIAN
                                                                 Mbeya
                                                                 Mbeya                                                    MOROGORO

                                                                                                                                                                                   OCEAN
                                                                                                                                               L I N D I


10S                                                                                                                                                                            Lindi              10S
                                                                                                                                                                                          Mtwara
                     ZAMBIA
                                                                                                        SongeaSongea
                                                         TANZANIA                                                                                           MTWARA
                                                                         Lake                             R U V U M A

                                                                      Malawi


                                                                                                                                                                                                   12S
                                                                                                                         MOZAMBIQUE

                                                                                                                          0     50    100      150      200 Kilometers



                                                 32E                      34E                          36E             0          50          100          150 Miles           40E

                                                                                                                                                                                                APRIL 2008

