Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No. 11268-GUB
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
REPUBLIC OF GUINEA-BISSAU
SOCIAL SECTOR PROJECT
January 29, 1993
Population and Human Resources Division
Western Africa Department
Africa Region
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EOUIVALENTS
(August 1992)
Currency Unit = Guinean Peso (GP)
US$1.00 = 8,600 GP
WEIGHTS AND MEASURES
Metric System
ACRONYMS AND ABBREVIATIONS
AfDB        Africa Development Bank
ASB         Basic Health Agent
ASDI        Swedish International Development Authority
CECOMES  Center of Communication and Production of Education Materials for Health
EC          European Community
EDP         Essential Drugs Program
FP          Family Planning
HCs         Health Centers
IDA         International Development Association
IEC         Information, Education and Communication
IMF         International Monetary Fund
MCH         Maternal and Child Health
MINNE       Ministry of National Education
MINPH       Ministry of Public Health
MINFAC    Ministry of Foreign Affairs and Cooperation
NGOs        Non-Governmental Organizations
NMS         National Medical School
PCU         Project Coordinating Unit
PHC         Primary Health Care
PPF         Project Preparation Facility
PY          Project Year
SAF         Social Action Fund
SAFU        Social Action Fund Unit
SOLIDAMI  Solidarity and Friendship Institution
STDs        Sexually Transmitted Diseases
UNDP        United Nations Development Program
UNICEF      United Nations Children's Fund
USBs        Basic Health Units
WHO         World Health Organization
FISCAL YEAR
January 1 - December 31



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
REPUBLIC OF GUINEA-BISSAU
SOCIAL SECTOR PROJECT'
Table of Contents
Page No.
CREDIT AND PROJECT SUMMARY   ............                         ..      ..............
I.     INTRODUCTION  .....................................1
I.    THE SOCIAL SECTORS IN GUINEA-BISSAU   ..................                                          2
A. Overview    .................................                                                2
B.  Sectoral Issues ...... .................                                                    2
1. Effectiveness  ..................................                                     2
2. Efficiency  ....................................                                       3
3. Quality  ......................................                                       3
4. Equity and Access  ...............................                                    3
5. Sectoral Financing  ...............................                                   4
C. Health Sector ...... ................                                                        4
1. Health and Nutrition Status ..........................                                4
2. Health System: Organizational Structure ..................                            6
3. Human Resources  ...............................                                      8
4. Health Information, Education and Communication ....                 .......          9
D.   Government Strategy for the Health Sector  ........             ..     ........           10
E.   Bank Group Strategy ................................                                      11
F.   Bank Group Operations: Status and Lessons Learned  ..........                ..           11
I.   THE PROJECT .......................................                                              13
A.   Project Objectives ..................................                                     13
B.   Project Composition  ................................                                     13
C.   Rationale for Subproject Selection ........................                               14
D. Project Description .14
Health Sector Subprojects .14
1. Comprehensive Training for Health Workers
Subproject    ..14
2. Information, Education and Commnunication (IEC)
Subproject .16
3. Strengthening Delivery of Health Services through
Improvement of Health Facilities/Community
Participation Subproject .17
Social Action Fund Subproject .19
E.   Project Costs and Financing   ...........................                                21
This report is based upon the findings of an apprisal mission which visited Guinea-Biuau in May 1992. The mission members consisted
of Mmes/Messrs. Carol Hoppy (Mission Leader/Task Manager), J. Angers (Research Analyst, AF4PH), L. Secco (Architect/Consultant),
V. Reis (Health Specialist/Consultant), and 1. Chabot (Public Health Specialist/Consultant). Mr. Yves Tencalla(Resident Representative
in Bisau) also participated in the mission and project development. Ms. Hoppy conducted a post-apprisl mission in Guinea-Bissau in
August/September 1992 to follow-up on conditions precedent to negotiations. Mr. E. Elmendorf, AFTPN, was the Lead Advisor for the
project. Peer reviewers included: Mr. G. Gauthier and Mr. S. Berkman, AFTED, for the health trmining component, and Mrs. L.
Domingo, AF4PH, for the social action fund and project management. The report was written by Ms. Hoppy, with contributions
submitted by the mission members. Mrs. G. Santos assisted in processing the report. Messrs. Ian Porter and Edwin R. Lim are the
managing Division Chief and Department Director, respectively, for the operation.
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance
of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



Table of Contents (Cont'd)
IV.   PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION ............................                          22
A.  Project Preparation .................................                   22
B.  Project Management and Coordination .....................               22
C.  Project Sustainability ................................                 24
D.  Project Monitoring and Reporting ........................                25
E.  Mid-Term Review  .................................                       25
F.  Environmental Aspects ...............................                    26
G.  Procurement ..........          ...........................              26
H.  Disbursements ......... ...........................                      31
I.   Accounting, Auditing and Reporting ......................               32
V.   PROJECT BENEFITS AND RISKS ..........................                         33
VI.   AGREEMENTS REACHED AND RECOMMENDATION  ....                     .......      34
ANNEXES
2-1   Basic Data Sheet and Comparative Indicators
2-2   Ministry of Public Health - Organization Chart
2-3   Distribution of Health Facilities by Region, 1992
2-4   Health Policy Implementation Plan
3-1   Organigram of the Project Coordination Unit and Social Action Fund Unit
3-2   Distribution of Existing/Needs of Health Professionals, 1992
3-3   In-Service Training Refresher Courses
3-4   In-Service Training Upgrading Programs
3-5   In-Service Training for Medical Specializations
3-6   Training Subproject Implementation Schedules
3-7   Information, Education and Communications Overview
3-8   Detailed Description of Civil Works (including Solar Panels and Wells) to be Undertaken Under
the Project
3-9   Description of Past Experience in Community Participation
3-10  Incentive Schemes for Construction of Houses for Nurses and Roofing of USBs
3-11  Detailed Proposal from Government on Basic Health Units
3-12  List of Equipment and Furniture
3-13  List of International and National NGOs in Guinea-Bissau
3-14  Detailed Description of the Social Action Fund Subproject, including Terms of Reference of Key
Technical Assistance
3-15  Organigram of the Social Action Fund Unit
3-16  Detailed Project Cost Estimates
4-1   Organigram of the Project Coordination Unit
4-2   Terms of Reference of Project Coordination Unit Key Technical Assistance
4-3   Procurement Implementation Schedule
44    Specialist Services included in the Project and the Social Action Fund
4-5   Implementation Schedule of the RehabilitationlEquipping Component
4-6   Disbursement Profile
4-7   Key Performance Indicators
4-8   Supervision Plan and Mid-Term Evaluation Criteria
DOCUMENTS IN THE PROJECT FILE
MAP: IBRD 23997



REPUBLIC OF GUINEA-BISSAU
SOCIAL SECTOR PROJECT
CREDIT AND PROJECT SUMMARY
Borrower:           Republic of Guinea-Bissau
Beneficiaries:      Ministries of Foreign Affairs and Cooperation, and Public Health
Credit Amoun:       SDR 6.4 Million (JS$8.8 Million)
Terms:              Standard, with 40 years maturity
Project Description:   The project would assist the Government in improving the delivery and
quality of primary health care for a wider base of the population, with a
special focus on the most vulnerable groups, particularly those at the
periphery in rural areas of the country. In order to achieve this objective the
project would finance high priority investment, through coordinating efforts
with other donor agencies, strengthening institutions and developing human
capacity building measures. The project's design should enhance dialogue and
create synergy among various social sector institutions and NGOs. In health,
the project would finance: (a) rehabilitation and equipping of health centers in
three regions, and health posts, through community participation, throughout
the country; (b) comprehensive support for in-service, local and short-term
training programs for all levels of health workers and professionals; and (c)
technical assistance and institutional strengthening inputs to coordinate and
strengthen the delivery of information, education and communications (IEC)
activities, develop an IEC policy framework, and suggest targeted programs.
The project would be cross-sectoral, and support international and national
NGOs through the establishment of a Social Action Fund (SAF) to help
expand and/or develop social sector micro-projects throughout the country.
and Risks:        The main benefit of the project would be to improve the delivery and quality
of primary health care for a greater proportion of the population, particularly
the most vulnerable groups at the periphery, and, thereby, have a positive
impact on the social indicators. Direct benefits of the proposed project will be
the physical and human capital improvements resulting from the subprojects,
and strengthening the capacity of several institutions charged with delivering
social services. Through the creation of a Social Action Fund, the project
would improve coordination among various entities including social sector
ministries, community groups, donors and NGOs, while promoting greater
regional and local participation. The SAF would reach those at the grassroots
levels and the poor through micro social sector projects, i.e., women in
development, nutrition, maternal and child health, family planning and skills
development.



- ii -
The proposed operation has two significant risks. The first risk involves the
limited managerial and implementation capabilities of the Government and the
primary institutions involved. This risk is being minimized by keeping the
subprojects simple in design. It is also being minimized by establishing a
Project Implementation Committee with technical representatives from entities
involved in the project, who will be specifically responsible for the
implementation of subprojects in the respective ministries. Overall project
management will be situated within a strong Project Coordination Unit located
in the Ministry of Foreign Affairs and Cooperation. The second risk is the
lack of sufficient counterpart funds and the overall financial sustainability of
the project. These risks will be addressed by setting targets for increases in
central budget allocations to the social sectors and monitoring social spending
as part of the project conditionality; in addition, to ensure sufficient
counterpart funds, local labor and materials will be provided through the
community participation element built into the project.



- iii -
Estimated Project Costs (US$ Million)
Local   ~Foreign      Tota
A.  Health Sector
1.  In-Service Training Refresher Courses    0.07         0.29         0.36
2.  In-Service Upgrading Programs            0.15          0.49        0.64
3.  In-Service Training for Medical
Specializations                        0.16          1.84        2.00
4.  Information, Education and
Communication (IEC)                    0.02          0.29        0.31
5.  Strengthening Delivery of Health
Services (including community
participation)                        Q056           2A§         LQ1
Subtotal Health Sector                   0.96         5.36        6.32
B.  Social Action Fund                       0.19          0.54        0.73
C.  Project Coordination and Management      0.28         0.41         0.69
D.  PPF Refinancing                          0.00          0.30        0.30
E.  Taxes and Duties                         IN4          Q00          QAQ
Total Base Costs                         1.83         6.61        8.45
Physical Contingencies                       0.13          0.53        0.66
Price Contingencies                         0Q14           0 41       Q04
TOTAL PROJECT COSTS                      2.10         7.55        9.65
Financing Plan (US$ Million)
Local       Foreign      IQot
IDA                                      1.25         7.55        8.80
Government of Guinea-Bissau/Community    0.85         0.00        0.85
Participation
TOTAL PROJECT COSTS                      2.10         7.55        9.65
Estimated Credit Disbursements (USS Million)
IDA Fiscal Years                         FY94       FY95      EY96    FY97    FY21
Annual                                     3.1        2.3       1.9       1.4    0.1
Cumulative                                 3.1        5.4       7.3       8.7    8.8
Economic Rate of Return:    Not applicable
Map:                     IBRD 23997






REPUBLIC OF GUINEA-BISSAU
SOCIAL SECTOR PROJECT
I. INTRODUCTION
1.1          Guinea-Bissau is a small country in West Africa with about one million inhabitants.
With an estimated 1991 per capita income of about US$190, the country is one of the poorest in the
world. The economy is characterized by a large traditional rural sector, producing primarily for
subsistence. Agriculture, fisheries and forestry account for about 90% of employment and an
estimated 50% of GDP. Most Guineans live in conditions of extreme poverty and social deprivation.
The social indicators for health, education and the status of women are among the world's worst.
1.2          The country gained its independence from Portugal in 1974, following a protracted
and economically devastating war which dislocated one-fifth of the population, destroyed an important
part of the economic infrastructure, and reduced output of the principal crops by more than one-third.
The liberation war also resulted in a breakdown of public administration and services as the Guineans
lacked the necessary technical and managerial skills to run the state institutions. In 1987, against a
background of a deteriorating economic situation, the Government prepared a comprehensive medium-
term economic adjustment program in close collaboration with the International Monetary Fund (IMF)
and the International Development Association (IDA). The program's aims in the medium-term were
to re-establish internal and external equilibria, stimulate growth, improve resource allocation, and
normalize relations with foreign creditors. Notable progress was made in the early stages of the
program. In 1988 and 1989, however, there was slippage in meeting fiscal and monetary targets.
While the Government continues to be committed to a program of structural adjustment to bring the
country back on a sustainable growth path, and is engaged in the process of promoting privatization in
the economy, there have been further slippage in program implementation since 1989 which has
delayed the release of the third tranche of the Second Structural Adjustment Credit. The next phase
in the Government's adjustment program (1992-94) is expected to focus on overcoming recent
slippage on the stabilization front; deepening the reform process; and further strengthening the public
and private sectors. There will also be increased focus on poverty alleviation, the provision of social
services, particularly for the population's most vulnerable groups, and the development of human
resources.
1.3           It is recognized that real progress in the productive sectors of the economy is tied to
progress in the social sectors and expansion of the human resource base. Accordingly, the
Government of Guinea-Bissau is attempting to improve the social sectors by developing the country's
human resources and improving the quality and access of health and education in the country. To
achieve these goals, the Government has requested IDA's assistance in financing a social sectors
project for the years 1993-97.



- 2 -
II. THE SOCIAL SECTORS IN GUINEA-BISSAU
A.    Overview
2.1           Guinea-Bissau has an array of complex social problems. The country, which has a
young population with about 45% under 15 years of age, has an illiteracy rate of about 70% and a
society comprising more than 30 ethnolinguistic groups. Life expectancy is less than 47 years. A
Guinean child born today has one of the lowest life expectancies in the world: 140 children in every
1,000 do not survive the first year of life. The population growth rate is estimated at about 2.5%
annually. (Basic data sheet and comparative indicators are found in Annex 2-1). Endemic
diseases are widespread. Approximately 90% of the demand on the health system is currently due to
a small number of high prevalence diseases such as malaria, respiratory infections, diarrhea and other
infections. Sexually transmitted diseases (STDs), especially gonorrhea, have a high prevalence. It is
estimated that about 10% of the country's adult population is HIV-positive for AIDS.
2.2           While Portuguese is the country's official language, it is estimated that fewer than
10% of the population understand or speak it. The primary school enrollment ratio is about 40%,
and is on a downward trend. Guinea-Bissau is among the 10 countries in the region with the lowest
primary enrollment ratios, and females represent only about one-third of the total enrolled. The
secondary school enrollment ratio is only 4.2% of the relevant age group, and only about 3% of girls
of secondary school age attend school. Less than 2% of all students entering the secondary system
actually complete it.
2.3         Girls tend to be married young, and begin having children typically while they are still
in their teens. Family planning awareness is low. Guinean women, because of their lack of education
and training and limited access to information and health services, are particularly disadvantaged.
They have limited opportunities for participating in the formal sector of the economy, and their wage
earning opportunities are severely restricted. While the women are responsible for much of the
agricultural work, they have less access to credit, markets, technology and information than do men.
Because of their lack of education, and their lack of access to information and health services, women
are frequently unaware of how to take more control over their lives and adopt basic measures and
practices in nutrition, hygiene, sanitation and family planning to improve their own welfare and that
of their children.
B.    Sectoral Issues
2.4           There are a number of common issues and constraints which affect the social sectors
including: effectiveness of the services, delivery of health and education, quality of services, internal
efficiency, equity and access, and sectoral financing. An analysis of these issues, highlighted below,
leads to the conclusion that a social sectors strategy should be built around priority elements which
include the development of human resources; the rehabilitation of existing facilities; provision of
essential inputs; and, development of a consolidated information, education and communications
campaign to increase public awareness about basic social sector issues and programs.
1.    Effectiveness
2.5           Guinea-Bissau's health and education systems have been unable to respond effectively
to the demands of the post-colonial period. The health care system has not been able to improve such



-3 -
health indicators as infant and maternal mortality rates. Similarly, the education system has been
unable to supply the trainable manpower needed to direct the economy towards sustainable growth.
2.     Efficiency
2.6           Delivery of services. Delivery of health services and basic education are adversely
affected by a scarcity of adequately trained health care personnel and teachers. Low salaries and an
inadequate career structure diminish motivation and force teachers and health care workers into taking
on other jobs simultaneously in order to make a living. Insufficient supervision and monitoring,
hindered by a lack of transportation and insufficient numbers of trained inspectors to visit schools and
medical personnel to visit remote rural areas, compound service delivery problems. Primary health
care (PHC), the centerpiece of the Government's health policy, is not working effectively because of
weak links within the system, particularly at the health center level which is responsible for training
and supervising workers at village level basic health posts.
2.7           In addition to staffing and supervision constraints, delivery of services is also affected
by the generally poor physical state of health and education facilities. There is minimum maintenance
of facilities and equipment in both sectors due to a lack of funds and skilled personnel. Many schools
and health facilities are in a state of dilapidation, without water and sanitation, and most are poorly
equipped lacking even basic supplies and materials. Many health facilities, especially those at the
periphery and charged with delivery of PHC, are handicapped by a critical shortage of essential drugs
and medical supplies.
3.     Ouality
2.8           Declining enrollment rates, high repetition and attrition rates, and the present low
student/teacher ratios are indicators of the education system's low quality and efficiency. The system
is adversely affected by the complex language problem, inappropriate curricula, poor preparation of
teachers, lack of instructional materials, and deficient school infrastructure. Inadequate supervision in
both the education and health systems also contributes to the low quality and inefficiency.
2.9            While unpaid community volunteers staff the basic health units at the village level,
there are insufficient numbers of trained health center personnel to staff health centers, supervise and
provide training to the community workers at the health posts. Both the teaching profession and the
health system are finding it difficult to recruit individuals because of the low salaries, lack of career
structure and incentives. The number of nursing students, for example, has significantly diminished
since 1988.
4.     Equity and Access
2.10          A combination of socioeconomic, cultural and attitudinal factors in Guinea-Bissau
affect equity and access to health and education services. Poverty is the most daunting constraint to
access. Women and girls, in particular, have limited access to health and family planning services,
education and training. Female illiteracy is greater than 80%. Only 40% of the relevant age children
attend primary school, and of this number less than 38% are girls. Of the 4.2% of the school-age
children who attend secondary school, only 36.4% are girls. While the education system does not
actively discriminate against girls and women, these figures indicate that females do not participate
equally with males in the system. Guinean society does discriminate against women in a number of
ways: there is a low value assigned to education by parents; early marriage and motherhood is the
norm; and low school enrollments and attendance rates probably reflect the low relevance of the



- 4 -
curriculum, as well as the fact that children, especially girls, are taken out of school to help with
household chores and the care of younger siblings. Poor health care and personal hygiene, which
contribute to high maternal mortality and morbidity, also indicate the severe lack of access to
information by women. Women's access to basic health services, particularly in rural areas, is
affected by a shortage of basic village health posts, trained health workers and birth attendants, and
by an over-concentration of health resources in urban areas. The number of nurses and auxiliary
midwives is less than 50% of the established ratios in almost all areas of the country, except for
Bissau, which has an excess of nurses by nearly 180% of the established ratios.
5.     Sectoral Financing
2.11          The proportion of the central budget allocated to the health sector declined from 7.6%
in 1986 to about 7% in 1990, and as a share of GDP the health sector declined from 1.6% in 1986 to
about 1.0% in 1990. The education sector's share of the central budget declined from 13.8% in 1986
to 12.9% in 1990, and as a share of GDP it declined from 2.5% in 1986 to 1.6% in 1989. These
sectoral allocations are among the lowest in the region. Investment expenditures in the social sectors
are inadequately funded and not well organized. In both the health and education sectors, what
currently serves as the Public Investment Program is basically an expenditure program, related to
donor-supported projects, which, in fact, has a high recurrent expenditure content and is heavily
dependent on external assistance. It is a program through which donor assistance, mainly in the form
of grants, is used mostly to finance recurrent costs. Financing for the social sectors, in general, is
largely dependent on foreign donor assistance. In 1989, for example, nearly 94% of "investment
expenditures" for the health sector were financed by external assistance, and 76% of these
expenditures went to finance recurrent costs of salaries, non-durable goods and services. In the
education sector approximately 99% of "investment expenditures" were externally financed and
almost 86% of these expenditures were recurrent in nature. In sum, both the health and education
sectors are highly dependent on donor assistance, without which they could not function.
C.     Health Sector
1.     Health and Nutrition Status
2.12          The health status of the population is characterized by high rates of mortality and
morbidity. Infant mortality is officially 140 per 1,000 live births, but may be closer to 180 per 1,000.
Maternal mortality is estimated at 8 per 1,000 but could also be considerably higher. The official
crude death rate is 17.7 per 1,000 inhabitants, and over 30% of this total occurs during the first year
of life. Malaria, the main cause of mortality, is also the morbidity leader and during 1989 constituted
70% of all transmittable diseases. Moderate protein-energy malnutrition, diarrhea, respiratory
diseases and sexually transmitted diseases complete the group of other leading causes of morbidity.
Approximately 80% of all births occur in the home without the assistance of any trained health
worker or community midwife. In addition, less than 20% of the population has tap water, and
almost all the rural population obtain water from unprotected, easily contaminated natural sources.
Sociocultural and environmental factors interact to increase the vulnerability of children and of
women when pregnant, in labor or nursing.
2.13          Nutrition, Various nutrition studies conducted in the 1980s indicate an average
prevalence of 40% for moderate protein energy malnutrition (PEM) and 2% for severe. Problems of
food availability, in terms of quantity and quality, lack of appropriate weaning foods, cultural taboos,
and insufficient knowledge of nutrition may be some of the contributing factors to poor diets,
especially for children under five years and pregnant and lactating women. Malnutrition in the



-5 -
country also may be more directly linked to exposure to disease and housing occupational patterns.
While health center staff know and recognize the importance of growth monitoring, they do not
organize themselves to practice it efficiently. In-service training focusing on growth monitoring, the
appropriate use of local foods, correct eating practices for pregnant and lactating women, and the
preparation of nutritionally rich weaning foods using local foods, combined with better dissemination
of health and nutrition information in general could improve the situation.
2.14          Pharmaceuticals.  An essential drugs program (EDP) technically began in 1984.
During Phase 1 (1984-89) the objectives were to: ensure availability of essential drugs in primary
health care; encourage the rational use of drugs; improve drug management throughout the system;
and create public awareness of improved drug use. The program seeks to supply the most needed
drugs, related to treating high prevalence diseases such as malaria, diarrhea, STDs and respiratory
infections which account for 90% of the demand on the health system. The EDP's yearly budget is
supposed to be about US$1.8 million, of which 83% is allocated for drug purchases and the
remainder for distribution and recurrent costs. Due to a severe lack of Government funds and foreign
exchange needed to purchase drugs (less than 10% of the drugs are procured directly using
Governmental funds) external support for the program has been necessary. The principal funding
organizations have been UNICEF, WHO, IDA, the Italian Government and the Swedish International
Development Authority. During Phase II EDP's focus has been directed to implementing a gradual
self-financing plan, based on some of the main objectives adopted from the 1987 Bamako Initiative,
which has the major objective to strengthen the health care system and includes the following
elements: (a) ensuring a self-sufficient system by involving communities in the decision-making
process in implementation activities and in the cost recovery system; (b) improving the quality of
health services and extending coverage by increasing the effectiveness of health care at the various
levels of the system; (c) ensuring a constant supply of essential drugs and their rational prescription
and use; and, (d) increasing the responsibilities of staff at the district and sub-district levels in the
planning, management and implementation of health services by decentralizing the health structure. A
pilot cost recovery program using the Bamako Initiative approach was introduced in 1990 in the Gabu
Region, in an effort to enhance the health services through community participation, whereby partial
drugs costs are recovered at the health centers (HCs) and sectoral hospitals and a percentage of these
funds are returned to the local communities. There are plans for this pilot program to be expanded to
other regions. This will happen in conjunction with the ongoing efforts to decentralize at the central
level and strengthen regional health system management, which will be supported by the proposed
IDA project through training and construction of regional drug storage facilities.
2.15          Drug storage and distribution to public health facilities are managed by the Ministry's
Central Medical Store (CMS). Distribution is on a trimester basis, and while quantities are
insufficient to cover the needs, the deliveries are made without excessive delays. The CMS drug
system management was strengthened and improvements made in the selection, procurement, storage,
distribution, prescription and utilization of drugs, and improvements in the inventory control
procedures, as a partial result of support received from the first IDA project in the health sector
through provisions of staff training, transportation and a computer for the CMS, as well as the
production and distribution of a National Drug Formulary. In addition to the CMS, there is Farmedi,
a parastatal agency which procures drugs and pharmaceutical products for various ministries and the
commercial market. Until recently Farmedi had a near monopoly on the importation of drugs.
However, with the transition to a market economy there are now a number of private pharmacies in
the country which are importing their own supplies directly, and Farmedi's role has decreased
significantly due, in part, to increased competition, the diminished ability to obtain hard currency
from the Central Bank, and also due to high recurrent and fLxed costs including personnel, in relation
to the 35% profit margin imposed by the Ministry of Commerce.



- 6 -
2.16          The processes of selection, procurement, storage and distribution of essential drugs at
the various levels are treated in the pharmaceutical policy. While legislation has been formulated and
approved by the Council of Ministers, and a National Formulary distributed, the enforcement of these
regulations is difficult for several reasons, according to the 1992 UNICEF Bamako Initiative in
Guinea-Bissau report, including:
--inadequate infrastructure to guarantee the registration of drugs and the inspection of
the facilities at which they are sold;
-lack of qualified personnel to guarantee follow-up, and a lack of a national quality
control laboratory to guarantee drugs analysis; and,
-the inability and difficulty in applying drug import regulations and customs control,
including WHO's Certification Scheme on the Quality of Pharmaceutical Products
moving in International Commerce.
Due to the new economic policies in the country it can be assumed that the newly emerging private
sector will play an increasingly important role in the pharmaceutical field, however, it may be
difficult to control and could adversely affect the implementation of essential drugs concepts and
related activities. Guinea-Bissau has, in fact, made considerable progress in trade liberalization under
SAC II. Pharmaceuticals can be freely and directly imported into the country. While they are taxed,
they incur less than one-half the average taxation. However, donors and aid-assistance for medicines
are not subject to any taxes or surcharges.
2.     Health System: Organizational Structure
2.17          The health system is controlled almost exclusively by the public sector through the
Ministry of Public Health (MINPH). MINPH is responsible for developing health policies,
organizing health-related human and physical resources, and delivering health care through a
pyramidal structure that includes: national, regional and sectoral hospitals; health centers (HCs) and
basic health units (USBs). Personnel and other health resources are controlled centrally and in some
instances administered regionally. (Annex 2-2 provides an Organization Chart of MINPH). All
MINPH resources are allocated to the delivery level according to their availability and the needs and
functioning of the service delivery points. MINPH is in the process of decentralizing health services
and delegating increased authority to the regions. Significant external assistance is received from
international organizations and non-government organizations (NGOs) for funding, personnel,
equipment and supplies. Various NGOs also assist in the operation of facilities throughout the
system. While there is no organized private sector health care system, with the Government's
increasing support for promoting privatization in the economy, a number of physicians now have
limited private practices. There are also a number of traditional healers and birth attendants. In
addition, the number of pharmacies operating in the private sector continue to grow. The type and
number of health facilities in the country in 1992, including the 25 USBs to be constructed in the
region of Biombo by 1995, are as follows: (A distribution of health facilities by Region is given in
Annex 2-3):



-7-
Type of Facility                   Number
National Hospitals:                 2
- Hospital Simao Mendes
- Hospital Tres de Agosto
Regional Hospitals                  5
Sector Hospitals                   13
Health Centers (HCs)               115
Basic Health Units (USBs)         569
2.18          Basic Health Units (USBs). The USBs, built by the communities and staffed with
volunteer basic health agents (ASBs) and traditional birth attendants or matronas, are the first delivery
level of primary health care (PHC). Each USB is designed to serve approximately 1,000 people
within a five-mile radius and provide first aid, prenatal care, and diagnosis for simple treatment of
common ailments. The number of USBs varies considerably within regions. Actual coverage is less
than half the potential coverage. For start-up purposes each USB receives an initial supply of 12
basic drugs from MINPH. Each family in the catchment area pays a small annual fee to replenish
this supply of drugs. USB staff receive limited training and supervision from MINPH personnel at
the health centers, which are the first referral level. As community based, supported and operated
health facilities, the USBs are pivotal to the Ministry's strategy for expanding PHC delivery.
2.19          Health Centers (HCs). In the service delivery system the HCs receive direction from
the regional and sectoral hospitals and, in turn, oversee the USBs by providing training and
supervision. Structurally HCs are similar in design and size. They are provided with basic
equipment and some essential drugs by MINPH or donors. Ideally HCs are staffed with two nurses,
an auxiliary midwife and a laboratory assistant. The HCs carry out some health education and
immunization activities in addition to diagnosis and prescription for malaria, infectious diseases and
minor injuries. Some are equipped with beds and offer maternity services. Each center is supposed
to serve about 5,000 persons. Actual coverage by the HCs is less than one-third the minimum
estimated needs of the rural population. Guarantee of referral and periodic supervision are key to
PHC efficiency, and central to the role of HCs in the present system. The numbers of HCs,
however, are insufficient and those that are functioning are inadequately equipped and staffed.
Auxiliary nurses are the only staff category that presently conforms to established staffing ratios.
2.20          The primary bottleneck in the whole PHC delivery system is at the bealth center level,
which has the critical functions of supervision and providing training for the USB community based
workers-ASBs and matronas-who are not professionals but individuals from the community,
frequently illiterate. The training they receive is designed to enable them to return to their
communities and perform several health-related activities and simple interventions. While these
interventions are simple, they are critically important because they impact directly on the most
significant morbidity/mortality factors: the lack of maternity assistance and maternal and child health
(MHC) services. Due to insufficient human resources, managerial capacity, basic equipment and
supplies, and transportation, which are the fundamental links in the PHC system, the HCs are not
adequately fulfilling their supervisory and training functions for the USBs, without which PHC loses
its effectiveness and is seriously distorted. This scenario contributes to an under-utilization of the
system and perpetuates the country's poor health status.



- 8 -
2.21          Hospital Services. Guinea-Bissau has 20 hospitals (2 national, 5 regional and 13
se.toral), and, in 1991, there were a total of about 1,300 hospital beds, a ratio of one bed for every
760 persons based on UN 1990 population estimates of 987,000. The sector hospitals are the smallest
of the hospitals, averaging 25 beds, and serve as a transition point between the HCs and the hospital
sector. Their inpatient care is primarily obstetrics-related. A number of these "sector hospitals",
however, are operating essentially at the health center level. The four regional hospitals, with an
average of 60 beds each, vary widely in the level of services provided. Only one, the Cacheu
Hospital in Canchungo, is equipped to offer comprehensive health care, although all are supposed to
provide services in general medicine, obstetrics, pediatrics, minor surgery, radiology, laboratory
analysis and pharmaceuticals. The hospital in Canchungo, originally built and staffed by the People's
Republic of China, is now operated by the Taiwanese with a number of capable expatriate medical
staff. The regional hospitals are also often the site for the regional directories, small units with a core
staff consisting of a regional director, a chief nurse, and a statistician responsible for administration of
PHC services in each region.
2.22          The two national hospitals are located in Bissau, and together account for almost half
the total number of doctors and certified nurses in the country. Even with this concentration,
however, hospital staffing is inadequate for the provision of tertiary care required. Both hospitals are
in poor physical condition. Simao Mendes Hospital, with about 411 beds, is the largest health facility
in the country and is supposed to focus on specialty services, however, because of the inadequacy of
health centers in Bissau it ends up providing primary health care to much of the population. The
most complete laboratory and main pharmacy and drug supply center are located at Tres Agosto
Hospital. The original structure of Tres Agosto, however, is badly deteriorated and is no longer in
use, although smaller satellite buildings are still functioning.
2.23          Other Health Services. In addition to the USBs, HCs and the network of hospitals
there are several types of specialized centers: maternal child health/family planning (MCH/FP);
mental health center; physical rehabilitation; tuberculosis center; and leprosy treatment center which
receives assistance from Italy. There is also a Center for Tropical Medicine in Bissau, supported by
Portuguese technical assistance.
3.     Human Resources
2.24          Trained health workers are vital to the delivery of health services and the
corresponding improvement of the country's health indicators. There is growing concern about both
the quantity and quality of available human resources, as well as the maldistribution of existing
personnel. The types of practicing health personnel in Guinea-Bissau include: physicians,
pharmacists, certified nurses, nurses' aides, auxiliary midwives, and laboratory assistants. In addition
to a shortage of nurses and auxiliary midwives in all regions of the country except for Bissau, the
distribution of physicians and other health personnel is also disproportionate. In 1990 there were 128
physicians in the country, 54 of whom were Guineans. This is a ratio of 1 physician per 7,711
persons, based on 1990 UN population estimates. The capital city has 1 physician per 2,450.
National physicians work mainly in hospitals. The country depends on expatriate physicians, who
account for about 58% of the total, to help meet medical manpower needs and to staff health
facilities. Recent data suggest, however, that the number of expatriate physicians is beginning to
decline. There is also concern about whether physicians from some countries, including Cuba and the
former USSR, will continue to maintain their long-term presence in the country. Until recently no
training capacity existed for personnel above the certified nurse level. A Cuban-supported non-
traditional school of medicine began operating in 1987 to prepare Guinean physicians. It graduated
its first class of about 20 students in 1992. There is uncertainty, however, about whether future
_  --  ------



9-
graduates of the Medical School, whose education emphasizes PHC, will be able to fill some of the
vacancies of expatriate physicians, many of whom are medical specialists.
2.25         Ministry data for 1992 indicate that there were 14 midwives and 143 auxiliary
midwives. In order to strengthen birth attendance and increase the number of midwives in rural
areas, MINPH has an in-service training program that "re-cycles" auxiliary nurses into auxiliary
midwives. This retraining program is supposed to reduce the excessive number of nursing auxiliaries
by redeploying them to areas of greatest need. In 1992 there were 320 graduate nurses and 1,053
auxiliary nurses. The ratio of nurses to the population is 1 nurse per 3,063 persons, and there is
growing concern about the inadequate number of nurses and the increased demand for nursing
services. The number of nurses and auxiliary midwives is less than 50% of the established ratios in
almost all areas of the country except Bissau which has an excess of nurses by nearly 180% of the
estimated ratios. In 1992 there were 6 laboratory technicians and 178 auxiliary laboratory technicians
in the country assigned to hospitals and HCs. The ASBs and matronas, who serve primarily in rural
areas as staff for the USBs, are crucial in delivering primary health care. In 1988, however, services
and consultations delivered through USBs fell far short of what they might have been: 31 % of the
expected childbirth consultations; 38% of expected prenatal consultations; and 58% of the expected
number of ASB consultations for such health problems as malaria, diarrhea, conjunctivitis, cough,
wounds, and other pain.
2.26         Training. Until recently, no training capacity existed for personnel above the certified
nurse level. Prior to the opening of the Cuban-supported six-year medical school, most Guinean
physicians were trained outside the country, depending on limited scholarships and frequently having
to learn another language in order to pursue their studies. Many of those receiving training abroad,
particularly when in Portugal, have not returned to Guinea-Bissau to practice medicine. The National
Medical School (NMS) is at a site adjacent to Simao Mendes Hospital in Bissau, and shares
administrative offices and classrooms with the Technical School. About 90% of the faculty are
Cuban. Most funding has been provided by the Cuban Government; WHO has also contributed funds
for faculty and student stipends. The training's focus is on community health problems. Students
take their clinical courses in the wards and departments at the hospital. The NMS operates in a small
multi-purpose facility with few resources. Offices and classrooms are small, poorly lighted,
ventilated and equipped. All textbooks, which are provided on loan to each class, are in Spanish.
2.27         The Technical School for Health Personnel in Bissau trains health workers including:
nurses; nursing aides, midwives; and laboratory assistants. The school is situated in a small building
on the Simao Mendes Hospital complex, and some facilities and laboratories are shared with the
NMS. The School is now funded by MINPH, NGOs and donors. The African Development Bank
financed the construction of a new building for the Technical School, which has not yet been opened.
Recruitment of nursing students has not been very successful in recent years due in part to the
profession's low image resulting from small stipends paid to students, low salaries, difficult hours and
lack of career development.
4.    Health Information. Education and Communications
2.28         MINPH's Division of Health Education is responsible for information, education and
communications (IEC) activities for the sector and, with financial and technical support from donors
and NGOs, produces and distributes educational materials for PHC workers and the general
population. A full-time technical assistant, provided by CECI, a Canadian NGO, is presently
working with the Health Education Division and providing training for the Guinean staff. Several
years ago serial albums, with Canadian NGO assistance, were produced on MCH and hygiene in the



- 10 -
tabancas, containing messages about transmissible diseases. These albums were distributed
throughout the country and have been effectively used at the USB level. The division also produces
materials, mainly posters, on hygiene, breastfeeding, family planning, malaria, etc. The development
of audio-visual materials is being supported by donor technical assistance. The Ministry is also
implementing an IEC program for AIDS, which it plans to extend to other health projects with a more
comprehensive and integrated use of the resources, including the Health Learning Materials (HLM)
Program/(Material Educativo Para Saude) (MEPS), being implemented by UNDP and WHO in
several countries. As part of this program a Center of Communication and Production of Education
Materials for Health (CECOMES), is being financed by EC under the AIDS program, which will
involve the production of a variety of audio-visual materials for health personnel training, and
population and health education. While CECOMES is not connected to MINPH's Health Education
Division, the Division may participate and coordinate in some of CECOMES' activities. UNICEF
has developed several IEC programs including community mobilization campaigns for immunization.
UNICEF also has radio programs delivered in Crioulo, Fula, Mandinga and other local languages
which include messages on immunization, nutrition and child health.
2.29         While there are a number of excellent IEC activities presently underway, they are
largely uncoordinated efforts, with the end result being an inefficient use of available resources and
diverse messages being communicated. IEC requires a well structured management system, without
the parallels, duplication and overlapping functions, as now exist. At the present, the Ministry's
Health Education Division is too weak and underfunded to assume a central coordination role for IEC
activities.
D.    Government Strategy for the Health Sector
2.30         Since 1976 Guinea-Bissau has had a policy which considers primary health care to be
the ideal strategy for reaching the rural population and extending health services to the most
vulnerable and under-served groups. The National Health Policy (NHP) was adopted, with this
underlying tenet, in 1978, and Guinea-Bissau became one of the first countries in the world to adopt
the Alma Ata Declaration. The NHP went through a series of minor modifications as new or
expanded health care delivery programs were implemented (e.g., family planning (FP) integrated with
maternal and child health, expanded immunization program, and the leprosy and tuberculosis
program). The policy was later modified to include four priority areas of focus: PHC; the essential
drug supply system; health manpower; and rehabilitation of health facilities.
2.31         MINPH's National Health Plan for 1989-95 has the objective of providing PHC for
the whole population by the year 2000. The Ministry's Plan of Action for the period 1990-92 has
focused on health system development at the central level and in three regions--Bafata, Biombo and
Oio. The Plan of Action is well targeted in its emphasis on the utilization of all available health care
resources in the country (NGOs, private and traditional health systems) and increasing the managerial
and operational capacities of the existing public health system, initially in the three selected regions.
Specifically, this includes: (a) reorientation and training of health workers in each region; (b) repair
and renovation of existing facilities and equipment, including a maintenance and repair system; (c)
institutionalization of a cost-recovery system for essential drugs; (d) integration of the AIDS control
program into the PHC program; and (e) formulation and implementation of priority programs for
nutrition, malaria and schistosomiasis. In addition to the support required for the three regions,
MINPH has designated two other areas as requiring urgent attention: (i) meeting the critical need for
essential drugs throughout the health services, and (ii) ensuring continuing education of existing health
staff and strengthening the basic medical and nursing curriculum during 1991-94. In order to provide



- 11 -
adequate and timely support to the regions, the Ministry also intends to improve organization and
management at the central level.
2.32         The Government has developed, with assistance from WHO, a health policy
implementation plan. A draft of the plan was discussed with IDA during negotiations. Following
negotiations, Government revised the plan and on January 28, 1993 issued a plan that provides an
operational schedule for implementing the health policy in Guinea-Bissau over the next several years.
It contains a financial plan integrating cost recovery measures which have already been initiated in the
Gabu region. The health policy implementation plan is found in Annex 24.
E.    Bank Group Strategy
2.33         The Bank's overall country strategy emphasizes the need to urgently address and
improve the social indicators through supporting sectoral policies to alleviate poverty and by focusing
public expenditures on improving both the efficiency and the delivery of health and education
services. The concentration of the Bank's strategy is on assisting the Government in providing the
population, particularly the most vulnerable groups, with better quality and access to social services,
especially for primary health care and basic education, and continuing to improve the development of
the country's human resource base.
F.    Bank Group Operations: Status and Lessons Learned
2.34         The Bank Group's involvement in the social sectors in Guinea-Bissau is relatively
recent. It began with the Population, Health and Nutrition (PHN) Project (Cr. 1800-GUB, approved
for US$4.2 million equivalent in May 1987, and closed in December 1991). This project's objectives
were to improve the institutional capabilities of the Ministry of Public Health in planning,
management and finance, and to strengthen the delivery of health and family planning services at the
periphery. The second IDA intervention in the social sectors was with the ongoing Basic Education
Development Project (Cr. 1914-GUB, approved for US$4.3 million equivalent in May 1988, and
scheduled to close in 1995), which aims to improve primary education and build institutional capacity
in the sector. This project, which has experienced considerable implementation problems, is in the
process of being completely reviewed by IDA and the Government. The ongoing multi-sector Social
and Infrastructure Relief Project (SIRP) (Cr. 2020-GUB, approved for US$5.0 million equivalent in
1989, and scheduled to close in June 1993) has health and education components which build on the
first two projects in providing essential inputs and improving physical structures. These projects have
given IDA the experience to act as a catalyst in helping coordinate donor involvement, influencing
sector policies and supporting institutional development in the sectors.
2.35         As the first IDA operation in the social sectors, the PHN Project, in retrospect, was
undoubtedly too conceptually ambitious in its attempt to address a wide array of problems affecting
the health sector, particularly in light of the limited capacities of the country. In a number of areas it
failed to meet the original project objectives. The project did, however, develop some appropriate
frameworks for future efforts which should have lasting effects on the health sector including:
beginning the institutionalizing of a policy and practice of cost recovery in the sector, initiating a
model for supervising rural health services which has contributed to strengthening the regional health
systems management process, improving drug system management, and undertaking policy studies in
family planning and nutrition, as well as the first demographic health survey in the country which will
contribute to strengthening the health data base. At its close the PHN project was completely
disbursed. Typically projects in the social sectors have experienced problems resulting from limited
implementation capabilities and insufficient local funds, as well as lack of coordination among donors.



- 12 -
were directly related to the country's limited human resource capacity, weak institutions and
management, and a scarcity of required counterpart funds. In addition the performance of technical
assistance in the project, which did not adequately include national counterparts or technology
transfer, was mixed. These problems negatively impacted most notably on areas related to civil
works, the restructuring of the Ministry, and instituting a viable rolling financial plan.
2.36          The experience of IDA in the social sectors in Guinea-Bissau points to designing
simpler projects that are not overly ambitious in trying to correct everything that is wrong in the
system all at once. A more concentrated approach with limited and achievable objectives is required.
The design of projects must consider the context of Guinea-Bissau's realities in terms of generally
weak local institutions affected by both the limitations of human and financial resources. The design
of social sector projects in Guinea-Bissau should also give adequate consideration to appropriate
technical assistance, which does not operate in isolation but integrally provides for technology and
knowledge transfer. National counterparts should be involved in the entire process, and receive
adequate training from expatriate technical assistants so they can eventually perform in their absence.
Institutional strengthening should also be targeted where needed. Further, coordination and
collaboration among external donors is extremely important and should be an integral part in the
design of all social sector projects. Many social sector projects can be enhanced by involving NGOs
and other donors who have direct experience in developing and targeting programs for the poor and at
the grassroots level. The design of the Social Sector Project has been based on the lessons learned
and considers the realities of Guinea-Bissau's context as it exists today.



- 13 -
III. THE PROJECT
A.    Project Objectives
3.1          The main objective of the proposed Social Sector Project is to assist Government in
improving the delivery capacity and quality of primary health care for a wider base of the population,
with a special focus on the most vulnerable groups, particularly those at the periphery in rural areas
of the country. The project would achieve this objective by financing high priority investments,
through coordinating efforts with donor agencies, targeted institutional strengthening and supporting
human capacity building measures. Specifically, the project would seek to improve health and social
indicators through (a) simultaneously strengthening selective institutions at the central level of
MINPH, including support for the Ministry's regional decentralization efforts in progress for PHC,
and (b) capitalize on the proven effectiveness and strengths of NGOs and grassroots organizations
through support for a Social Action Fund. The project is designed to enhance dialogue and create
synergy in social sector institutions and within the donor and NGO communities in the country. In
health, the project would finance the rehabilitating and equipping of selected health centers and other
health facilities, including the construction of houses for nurses, in three regions and Bissau, as well
as rehabilitating health posts throughout the country using community labor; comprehensive support
for in-service, local and short-term training programs for all levels of health workers and
professionals; and technical assistance to coordinate information, education and communications (IEC)
activities, develop an IEC policy framework, and suggest targeted programs to better disseminate
health messages. The project would link the social sectors and support local and international NGOs
through the establishment of a Social Action Fund, which would be situated within an existing
umbrella institution that coordinates activities of NGOs. This fund, targeted to benefit some of the
most vulnerable groups and alleviate poverty, could be tapped by those NGOs submitting qualifying
proposals to expand or develop micro-social oriented projects, such as income generating activities for
women, nutrition programs, family planning activities, literacy, numeracy and skills development,
throughout the country. (An organigram combining a Project Coordination Unit and a Social
Action Fund Unit, which serve as administrative entities in coordinating activities related to
achieving the project's objectives is found in Annex 3-1).
B.    Proiect ComDosition
3.2          In sum, the proposed project would consist of the following sub-projects in the health
sector and a social action fund to support NGOs in developing cross-sectoral micro-social projects:
Part I. Health Sector Subprojects
A. Comprehensive Training for Health Workers and Professionals Subproject
B. Information, Education and Communications Subproject
C. Improvement of Selected Health Facilities and Community Participation Program
Subproject
Part II. Social Action Fund Subproject
A. Creation of Social Action Fund to Support NGOs in Micro-Projects for
Population, Health and Nutrition; Education and Training; and Women's
Development



- 14 -
C.    Rationale for Subproiect Selection
3.3           The selection of the subprojects included in the proposed Social Sector Project was
based on the findings and recommendations of the Bank's social sector review mission, carried out in
October/November 1990, which resulted in a Social Sectors Strategy Review (issued in green cover in
September 1991). The main issues identified by the sector review are discussed in the previous
chapter. The proposed subprojects are also consistent with the Government's priorities in the social
sectors. Further, the selection of the subprojects builds on the foundation created by the earlier IDA
interventions in the country's social sectors: the Population, Health and Nutrition Project, which
closed in December 1991; the on-going Basic Education Development Project, which is presently
being redesigned; and the Social and Infrastructure Relief Project. Experience gained from these
projects indicates a need to focus efforts, simplify project design, and ensure that an investment
operation in the social sectors is capable of being implemented within the context of the country's
realities and its limited human resource base.
3.4           The social sectors review made recommendations for the following priority areas: the
development of human resources; rehabilitation of existing facilities; provision of essential inputs; and
the development of a coordinated information, education and communications program. In the health
sector, the proposed project will focus on comprehensive training programs for all levels of health
care workers; rationalizing and improving the health infrastructure by rehabilitating selected health
facilities and supporting community efforts with inputs at the basic health posts level; and, technical
assistance to study how better to coordinate IEC activities and suggest a policy framework, equipment
and inputs to strengthen the Ministry's Health Education Division, and support for targeted IEC
programs in areas not now well covered such as nutrition, family planning, and women's issues, as
well as AIDS and endemic diseases. The proposed project would also provide funds for the
establishment of a Social Action Fund to support the expansion and/or creation of cross-sectoral social
sector projects developed by local and international NGOs at the micro-project level in order to reach
the most vulnerable segments of the population, particularly in rural villages.
D.    Project Description
Health Sector SubDroiects
1.    Comprehensive Training for Health Workers Subproject
3.5            A comprehensive and continuous training process, that has an out-reach approach,
has been identified as the most fundamental input required to further the development of human
resources in the health sector. The objective of this subproject is to assist the Government by
strengthening the capacity of MINPH to improve the quality and delivery of health care through a
comprehensive training program for all levels of health care workers, taking into account the existing
number of health professionals and additional needs of the country (Annex 3-21. Specifically, it
would: (a) provide professional knowledge and skills to health workers; (b) upgrade health workers
with low levels of qualification in order to better perform their tasks; and (c) provide the skills
necessary to help in carrying out the decentralization process and strengthening of the regional health
management services. The various training sub-components would cover (i) short-term in-service
training (less than six months) and long-term in-service training (more than six months); (ii) formal
education carried out locally or regionally; and (iii) multi-oriented training supported with technical
assistance. These programs would be closely linked to overcoming the poor health care status in the
country and, thereby, improving health indicators. (A detailed description of this subproject and its
implementation schedule are found in Annexes 3-3. 34. 3-5. and 3-6).



- 15 -
3.6          The benefits of the training subproject will be to: (a) improve the quality of health
care delivery through training of health workers without sufficient professional qualification, which
represents about 74% of the existing health manpower in the country; giving preference to refresher,
upgrading and specialization programs for existing health workers over new formal education
programs; assuring equal access to training for workers distributed all over the country; and supplying
equipment and diagnostic facilities in order to facilitate and improve the training of health
professionals at all levels; and (b) generally raise the overall conditions in the country in order to
develop adequate patterns of technical and professional behavior supported by physical improvements
and equipping selected health facilities. This subproject has been designed by focusing on those
training areas identified by Government and IDA to be priority, including: decentralization, drugs
management and supply, and cost recovery.
3.7          In-Service Training Refresher Programs. The in-service refresher courses will be
designed to upgrade the skills of health personnel. The main objective is to improve skills and
knowledge in the areas that were defined as priorities within the system, including decentralized
management, statistics and information systems, drug management, health financing, and
environmental sanitation. A large part of the in-service training program would be supported by the
assistance of local consultants, and conducted within the framework of existing institutions. The
specific types of training programs that have been identified and would be supported by the project
include the following:
Programns                       Number of Students
- Management in Health Services               120
- Computer Training                           20
- Statistics for Health Center Nurses         175
- Information Systems and Statistics
for Technicians                             25
- Training of Trainers                        25
- Financing of Health Care                    50
- Management of Drugs                          15
- Introduction to Drug Management
for Auxiliary Nurses                        50
- Environmental Sanitation                    25
3.8          In-Service Training Upgrading Programs. The subproject would support several new
programs in formal health education in specialized areas, which would, combined with the in-service
training proposed above, further improve the delivery of primary health care. The main objective of
these programs is to upgrade the skills of health personnel to improve quality and effectiveness in the
system and reduce the number of unqualified personnel. These programs would mainly affect
auxiliary nurses, whose numbers presently exceed the requirements, by upgrading their qualifications
and converting them into nurses or health technicians. This would result in increased numbers of
trained health personnel filling positions where there are presently an insufficient number to meet the
needs. These programs would, generally, be carried out at the Nursing and Technical Schools. The
project would provide some equipment, supplies and learning materials to strengthen the institutions
involved in delivering the training programs. The new programs identified would include:



- 16 -
Pro2rams                             Number of Students
- Upgrading Auxiliary Nurses to Nurses           150
- Upgrading Auxiliary Mid-wives to
Mid-wives                                 50
- Upgrading Auxiliary Nurses to Social
Technicians                               30
- Upgrading Auxiliary Laboratory Technicians     40
- Upgrading Auxiliary Nurses to Technicians
Pharmacists                               50
- Upgrading Auxiliary Nurses to Environmental
Sanitation Technicians                    20
- Upgrading Auxiliary Nurses to Anesthetic
Technicians                               20
3.9          In-Service Training for Medical Specialization. The primary objectives of this
component of the subproject are to support the local development of medical specializations in basic
areas and improve the specialized skills of professional medical staff necessary to provide better
quality and delivery of medical care to the population, particularly through local in-service training in
pediatrics (10 participants), obstetrics/gynecology (10 participants), general surgery (10 participants),
internal medicine (10 participants), and public health (20 participants). In addition, this component of
the subproject will support and strengthen the institutions involved in the training program, and
create a viable referral system. Bissau health centers will serve as hands-on training institutions for
primary health care, as will Simao Mendes Hospital, and will be supported through the project with
some medical and other equipment required for training doctors and other health personnel. Local
technical coordination for this component would be required by designated MINPH representatives
and WHO in Bissau.
3.10             The following areas would be supported by the project:
(a)       the Medical School through provision of books, journals and technical reviews,
providing direct support for students currently attending the Medical School;
(b)       Simao Mendes Hospital through provision of medical and other equipment
required for training doctors and other health personnel; and
(c)       foreign technical assistance to create some specialized training programs at Simao
Mendes Hospital, including: specialists to prepare/teach the local trainers; and
technical assistance to teach several Guinean doctors (who have had at least two
years of practical experience) per year in the specialties including pediatrics,
obstetrics, general surgery, and internal medicine.
2.        Information, Education and Communications (aEC) Subproiect
3.11             Guinea-Bissau's health problems cannot all be corrected in hospitals or health
centers. A multi-faceted but linked approach is required in making improvements in the quality and
delivery of basic health care. Concurrent with improving human resource development through
training programs for health care workers and revitalizing health facilities, particularly health centers,
which have been identified as the bottleneck in the primary health care system, and village health
posts, a better attempt must be made to change the behavior and attitudes of the population which are



- 17 -
incompatible with the preservation of health and prevention of diseases. This can be accomplished, in
part, through effective information, education and communications programs that reach rural
populations, in general, and women, in particular. Education for health promotion and prevention of
diseases is fundamental to the success of any program within the framework of primary health care.
3.12            Guinea-Bissau currently benefits from many varied IEC activities and support from
a number of international agencies and NGOs. However, these activities combined with national
initiatives are not well coordinated by the Government, and the dissemination of health information is
uneven. The Ministry recently proposed that a National Council for Health Information, Education
and Communications (CNIECS) be established. The following strategic actions have also been
identified by the Governrment in order to improve IEC in the country: (a) promoting training to
support IEC activities; (b) health education policy definition; (c) strengthening the health/education
division of MINPH in order to utilize it as a focal point in all health/education areas; (d) preparing
follow-up studies based on the activities carried out in health/education; (e) strengthening cooperation
and coordination among all organizations involved in delivering IEC in the country; (f) strengthening
MlNPH's Information and Documentation Center; and (g) developing teaching materials related to
health topics.
3.13            The objectives of the IEC subproject would be to assist the Government in
developing and implementing its IEC strategy and improving the coordination of IEC activities.
These improvements will have a direct effect on the Government's ability to better deliver health
education to the population, particularly to women and the most vulnerable in remote rural areas.
The following areas would be supported by the project: (i) short-term technical assistance to evaluate
the overall IEC activities in the country and assist the newly formed Council to further develop an
IEC framework within the context of the country. The TA would also evaluate the Ministry's health
education division and make recommendations as to how it can better develop adequate and useful
IEC activities as well as to serve as the country's central IEC coordinating body; (ii) training and
seminars on IEC for health personnel, and training and seminars for personnel involved in IEC
delivery in graphic arts, illustration, layout and design, and audio-visual; (iii) equipment and supplies
to strengthen the health education division and the Information and Documentation Center; and (iv)
funds to edit, adapt and distribute health information contained in two serial albums, "Health in the
Tabancas" and "Maternal and Child Health", which were produced a number of years ago by MINPH
with the support of a Canadian NGO. The materials resulting from these efforts will be made
available to all USBs and health centers in the country. (A detailed description of this subproject is
found in Annex 3-7).
3.       Strengthening Delivery of Health Services through Improvement of Health
Facilities/Community Participation Subproject
3.14            Many health facilities are in need of minor to substantial renovation. Some are in
a deplorable state and require complete replacement. A 1990 study on the health system's
infrastructure coverage reported that health facilities were adequately providing PHC to less than 65%
of the population. The Ministry plans, however, to first focus on improving and rehabilitating
existing health facilities, and construction of new ones only when the deterioration has gone beyond
the ability to repair. Similarly, many health facilities lack essential medical equipment and supplies.
In addition to repairing and equipping facilities to improve the delivery of primary health care, it is
necessary to attract qualified nurses and other trained health personnel to staff health centers in rural
areas.



- 18 -
3.15             The proposed subproject would assist the Ministry of Public Health in
rehabilitating/constructing selected health regional centers, health centers, staff houses, drug storage
units, and providing roofing and flooring materials for qualifying basic health units. The focus of the
civil works for regional centers, health centers, staff houses, and drug storage units would be initially
in the three regions of Bafata, Oio, and Biombo. Also financed would be access to safe water and
sanitation by the installation of wells at 12 health centers and the installation of solar panels at 22
health centers located in the three regions. In addition, one health center in Bissau will be repaired
under the project. This would support the Government's activities, which are underway, to
decentralize and strengthen the health management system in the three regions. (Technical details of
this subproject, including guidelines for construction of staff houses by the communities, are
found in Annex 3-8). In order to attract nurses to serve in rural areas and further strengthen the
regional management system, the subproject would provide for the construction of simple houses for
nurses adjacent to the health centers in the three regions. The communities would be encouraged to
provide some of the labor and to participate in the construction of these houses. (Detailed
description of past experience in community participation in the country is found in Annex 3-.
Appropriate incentives for community participation, such as food for work, transistor radios, and T-
shirts will be provided under the project. (Annex 3-10 provides detailed information on this
scheme).
3.16              The subproject would also provide funds to support the basic health units through
provision of simple tools and equipment for the villages to repair these structures. The subproject
would also provide subsidized corrugated zinc to replace the palm frond roofs presently on most of
these structures, and cement to replace dirt floors. To keep the community participation spirit that
exists in most of the smaller villages (tabancas) in the country, the villages with USBs would
determine if they want to have the roof replaced and would be expected to raise a small portion of the
funds required, i.e., 20%, which would go back into purchasing supplies for the village health post,
as well as contribute the labor. The works would be carried out by the local communities, which
would be responsible for undertaking construction activities following their own traditions. It is
anticipated that about 130 and 110 basic health units will request roofing and flooring replacement in
the three regions, respectively. The subproject will also consider roofing and flooring replacement
requirements by those USBs in other regions of the country. (A detailed proposal from
Government on this subproject can be found in Annex 3-11).
3.17             The subproject would further support the USBs and health centers throughout the
country by providing each with a bicycle and tool repair kit. A bicycle would be an important link
between the village USBs and the health centers. Each USB and HC would also be provided under
the subproject with a transistor radio, which will better enable health education messages to reach
people in some of the more remote areas of the country.
3.18             In sum, the health facilities improvement subproject would include the following
elements:
(a)       upgrading, rehabilitating, repairing, equipping, furnishing and maintaining about
10 HCs;
(b)       constructing, rehabilitating, furnishing, equipping and maintaining two health
regional centers, 29 houses for nurses, and three drug storage units (a list of
equipment and furniture is found in Annex 3-12);



- 19 -
(c)      providing roofing and flooring materials and furnishing to about 240 USBs in the
three regions, and reserve funds for USBs elsewhere in the country which submit
requests and are able to meet the requirements for these materials;
(d)      installing wells at 12 HCs and solar panels at 22 HCs;
(e)      providing 600 bicycles and tool repair kits for USBs and HCs throughout the
country, transistor radios for all USBs and workers participating in the
construction of staff houses; and,
(f)      providing vehicles including pick-up trucks, ambulances, and motorcycles to the
three regions.
Social Action Fund Subproject
3.19            In February 1992 the Government approved and recognized the legal position of
NGOs and formulated a law (decreto Lei dos ONG's Nacionais) that regulates national NGOs. This
was the official recognition of a process that had started in the mid-1980s and that has gained
considerable momentum ever since. In early 1992 there were 12 national NGOs and 63 international
NGOs registered and actively providing subsidies and technical assistance to more than 100 projects
in Guinea-Bissau. More than 40 of these projects were targeting assistance for the social sectors.
NGOs in Guinea-Bissau have proven to have a good track record for the development of successful
small-scale social sector projects which have the ability to quickly reach and have an impact on some
of the most vulnerable groups in the society. The rapid growth and participation of NGOs in the
socio-economic development process (from 20 in 1982 to 75 in 1992) led the country to establish
SOLIDAMI (SOLIdariedade e AMIzade) in 1984. This organization was created as a public
institution under the auspices of the Ministry of Planning and International Cooperation. In 1986 it
became financially and administratively independent from the Government, while retaining an
organizational link with the Ministry of Planning. The organizational link is now with the recently
established Ministry of Foreign Affairs and Cooperation (MINFAC). SOLIDAMI, which is
supported by a number of donors, is composed of four departments that promote, support, document
and administer the various projects of NGOs in the country. SOLIDAMI's main objectives are to act
as an umbrella to coordinate NGO activities in the country, support the creation and development of
national NGOs, and support small local initiatives from grassroots organizations in different regions
and sectors, particularly in the areas of production and credit. No specific objectives for the social
sectors have been formulated under SOLIDAMI although a substantial number of NGOs are active in
the field. SOLIDAMI funds are available for only local groups and national NGOs. (A list of
international and local NGOs in Guinea-Bissau is found in Annex 3-13.)
3.20            NGOs in Guinea-Bissau have the ability, and a proven track record, to cut through
the country's diverse cultural patterns and multi-language complexities through the promotion of
small-scale projects to improve the conditions of some of the country's most disadvantaged. Their
outreach experience at the grassroots level will be capitalized on through the proposed project, with
the ultimate objective being the measurable improvement of health and social indicators, and
concomitantly the quality of life. In order to better support and expand the activities of NGOs in the
social sectors designed to alleviate poverty of the society's most vulnerable groups, a Social Action
Fund (SAF) has been established with enough flexibility to permit support for a variety of small-scale
projects addressing social problems in various regions of the country. (A detailed description of this
subproject with terms of reference of key technical assistance is found in Annex 3-14.)
Specifically, the objective of this fund, supported through the subproject, is to allow eligible NGOs,



- 20 -
and eventually qualifying grassroots groups and associations, to draw upon a source of additional
resources in order to expand or develop micro-projects for targeted social programs. The most
important beneficiaries of the SAF will be rural and urban households below the poverty-line, which
are unable to assure sufficient revenue for their basic needs nor the access to essential health and
education services. Among some of the specific targeted groups to be reached are women
(particularly those heading single households, widows, prostitutes); children (particularly orphans,
street children, juvenile delinquents); elderly people without family support; and handicapped persons.
The type of micro-projects that will be eligible for funding by the SAF include income generating
activities for women, targeted health, nutrition and family planning programs, skills training, and
literacy and numeracy programs, among others. Efforts to enhance collaboration between national
and international NGOs, such as developing a "twinning arrangement" will be considered positively
and encouraged. Such an arrangement will allow local NGOs to benefit from the experience of
international NGOs and develop the necessary organizational, managerial and administrative skills
required for project development and implementation.
3.21             Expatriate technical assistance and a local consultant, both with significant
experience in working with SOLIDAMI and NGOs in Guinea-Bissau, were contracted under the
Project Preparation Facility (PPF) to assist Government in developing a framework for the SAF
including specific project criteria and guidelines for qualifying project proposals, and setting the scope
and parameters of the NGO micro-projects that will be eligible for funding under the SAF (para
3.20). The funding mechanism for administering the SAF was also elaborated. The resulting
product: a detailed operational framework to implement the SAF was submitted by Government to
IDA at negotiations, and the main features of the Fund were agreed to during negotiations. The
following general criteria will apply when submitting proposals to be financed by the SAF:
(a)   proposals should be linked to social problems and poverty alleviation;
(b)   proposals should be supportive to high risk groups in the society that are directly
affected by the economic reform programs;
(c)   proposals should be directed to groups of people that show interest and initiative and
are inclined to foster community participation;
(d)   proposals cannot be submitted nor will funds be distributed to those groups that
already have a privileged position in the country; and
(e)   proposals cannot exceed a maximum of US$15,000 per project.
3.22         Through the SAF the subproject would accomplish the following: (a) the delivery of
various social services to dispersed areas of the country through cross sectoral micro social projects;
(b) the training and development of local NGOs; and (c) providing a funding mechanism for NGOs to
expand some of their successful projects and to develop new ones. The SAF is an innovative first
attempt in Guinea-Bissau to tap the expertise of international and national NGOs in the country, which
are well positioned to target outreach programs at the grassroots level, to assist some of the poorest
and most disadvantaged individuals in the society through small-scale social programs. Further, the
proposed subproject will assist in the development and institutional strengthening of local Guinean
NGOs, and eventually grassroots organizations and groups, through their affiliation with the more
experienced international counterparts.



- 21 -
3.23         The SAF was officiallyestablished by Government resolution dated January 27, 1993.
Once the SAF's credibility has been established, co-financing from interested donor agencies will also
be sought to finance the Fund. It is intended that through the combination of eventual donor
financing and the Social Action Fund's location within the organizational structure of SOLIDAMI, the
SAF will become a viable entity beyond the life of the project. Funding under the project is provided
for: (i) staff, space, supplies, and equipment to set-up the SAF; (ii) short-term technical assistance to
assist in setting up the fund; (iii) training for staff; and (iv) grants to support qualified NGOs'
proposals for micro-projects that will be reviewed and approved by the SAF Technical Committee.
3.24         A Social Action Fund Unit (SAFU) has been created within the existing structure of
SOLIDAMI. (An organigram is found in Annex 3-15.) This arrangement will allow for
maximizing coordination, exchange of experience and information, while at the same time assuring
relative autonomy in order to respond rapidly and flexibly to the needs of the target groups. The
SAFU is headed by a national Managing Director who will manage and control the funds of the SAF
as well as administer the daily activities of the Unit. A Technical Committee, established under
SAFU, will meet on a regular basis and review project proposals from NGOs. The Committee,
chaired by the SAFU Managing Director, includes technical representatives from the social sector
ministries including MINPH, Ministry of National Education (MINNE), a local NGO representative,
an international NGO representative, and SOLIDAMI representative. The national and international
NGO representatives will serve on the Technical Committee on a one-year revolving basis. Those
proposals approved by the SAF Technical Committee, along with the written agreements with the
beneficiaries, would be submitted to IDA for its review and approval. In addition to the Managing
Director the SAFU is staffed by a local Assistant to the Managing Director who will provide
assistance to the Managing Director, assist beneficiaries and local NGOs in preparing project
proposals, and visit sites where SAF financed activities are being carried out to supervise and monitor
project activities. SAFU's staff will also include an accountant, a secretary and a driver.
E.     Project Costs and Financing
3.25         Project Costs. The total cost of the project is estimated at US$9.65 million
equivalent, including US$0.42 million in duties and taxes. Out of the total project costs, 84% is
investment costs and the remaining 16% is for incremental recurrent costs. Total base cost estimates
are US$8.4 million at September 1992 prices. Physical and price contingencies are estimated at
US$1.2 million (12% of total cost) with physical contingencies representing 8% of base cost. Price
contingencies have been derived from the implementation schedule and the following expected price
increases: foreign prices 3.7% in 1994, 1995, 1996, and 1997; local prices 20% in 1994, 15% in
1995, and 10% per annum thereafter. The project would be implemented over a four-year period,
with an expected completion date of June 30, 1997. Detailed project cost estimates are given in
Annex 3-16.
3.26         Financing Plan. The total project cost of US$9.23 million equivalent, excluding duties
and taxes, covers US$7.55 million in foreign costs and US$1.68 million in local costs, is shared as
follows:
(a)   the proposed IDA credit of US$8.8 million, which will cover US$7.55 million of
foreign costs and US$1.25 million of local costs, or 95% of total project costs,
excluding taxes and duties;
(b)   the Government's share of US$0.30 million, which represents the entire costs of living
allowances for participants and travel allowances for trainers under local training,



- 22 -
salaries of support staff under the PCU and SAFU, and part of civil works, or about
3% of total costs, excluding taxes and duties;
(c)   as part of an effort to incorporate community participation and a sense of ownership in
project development, it is expected that local labor will be provided from the
communities for the construction/rehabilitation of 29 staff houses and for the
replacement of roofs and floors at USBs. The terms and conditions of the community
participation would be based on agreement reached between the communities and
Government (US$0.13 million or about 2% of total cost, excluding taxes and duties).
3.27         Recurrent Cost Implications. Given the limited physical expansion envisaged under
the project, the expected incremental recurrent costs to be directly generated by project investments
would be minimal. The only addition in construction is for one regional center in Biombo and three
small drug storage units located in each of the three regions targeted in the project. The additional
recurrent costs created by these facilities are believed to be small. The staff houses will be
maintained by the occupying staff and/or the communities as part of an agreement between the
communities and Government. Recruitment of the local PCU and SAFU staff would be undertaken
on a contractual basis for the length of the project. The impact of the in-service upgrading programs,
provided under the training component of the project, on the Government's recurrent budget for
salaries, will represent, using 1992 prices, an estimated 864 million GP in MINPH recurrent cost
expenditures (14.8% of MINPH 1992 total salary budget and 10.14% of MINPH 1992 overall
budget). However, this will be minimized to a degree, as during negotiations it was agreed that the
Government would maintain a minimum budgetary allocation to the health sector of 8% of the total
national budget and attempt to increase this base by at least 1 % per annum in 1993 and thereafter
during project implementation. Since the in-service upgrading programs will increase the skills of
about 20% of existing health manpower, and therefore raise the overall quality of delivery of health
services, it is anticipated that the long term benefit of this investment in human resources will
outweigh the incremental recurrent costs to be incurred by the Government.
IV. PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION
A.    Project Preparation
4.1           The project was prepared by the Ministry of Public Health, the Ministry of Foreign
Affairs and Cooperation, and IDA staff following discussions held during the Identification, Pre-
Appraisal and Appraisal Missions. MINPH had also participated in the earlier sector work which
resulted in the Social Sectors Strategy Review issued in green cover in September 1991, which
identified issues and facilitated the identification of the proposed project.
B.     Project Management and Coordination
4.2          The proposed Social Sector Project includes three subprojects for the health sector and
one subproject supporting NGOs in developing micro-level social programs. Primary responsibility
for the implementation of the health sector subprojects will be with the Ministry of Public Health.
Specifically, the following MINPH General Directorates will be involved: Planning/Studies and
Cooperation; Human Resources; and the primary health care division of the Public Health General
Directorate. A Project Implementation Committee, under MINPH, will consist of the Ministry of
Public Health's Director of Planning, who will chair the committee, the project's Training and
Management Technical Director, the project's procurement/architectural specialist, the Ministry's
National Director of PHC, and the PCU Director, who will serve as secretary. This committee will



- 23 -
meet regularly and will provide technical and policy guidance and facilitate the health sector
subprojects' implementation. The Project's routine administration, management and day-to-day
coordination will be done through an existing project coordinating unit (PCU), presently responsible
for executing multi-sector projects under the general oversight of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs and
Cooperation. The PCU will be headed by an experienced national Project Director, who has been the
national director for the IDA financed Social and Infrastructure Relief Project (SIRP) and has been
contracted under a PPF for the Social Sector Project. The SIRP is expected to close in June 1993,
just as start-up activities for the Social Sector Project begin to accelerate. Primary responsibility for
the implementation of the SAF subproject is with the SAFU Managing Director, with technical input
on the viability of project proposals from the SAFU Technical Committee. (An organigram of the
PCU and terms of reference of key technical assistance are found in Annexes 4-1 and 4-2,
respectively).
4.3          General coordination and administrative management of the project is to be carried out
by the Project Director. The Project Director heads a small office which includes a project
accountant and several support staff. Using the administrative framework of an existing project unit
should ease the transition and facilitate implementation of the new project. This arrangement of
building on an existing institution will also allow the new project to take full advantage of the
experience of the existing staff, including the Project Director who is familiar with IDA procurement
and disbursement procedures and would have responsibility for administrative and contractual
procedures necessary for the implementation of project activities for all subprojects. A locally
recruited Training and Management Technical Director, who will have responsibility for coordinating
and implementing the training and IEC subprojects, will be funded by the project. A national
procurement/architectural specialist, to be recruited and funded by the project, will have specific
responsibility for implementing the rehabilitation subproject. Provisions will be made as necessary
under the project for international technical assistance for a procurement/implementation specialist to
support the national specialist in connection with the rehabilitation subproject, as well as technical
assistance, as required, to support the Training and Management Technical Director in implementing
the training for medical specialists component of the training for health workers subproject.
4.4           The project would finance incremental staff salaries, vehicles, equipment and materials
necessary for operating the PCU. A competitive salary incentive scheme will be developed for PCU
staff and key staff implementing the subprojects, consisting of a yearly merit review of the staff
against measurable performance criteria based on an implementation schedule for key project
activities. Individual incremental salary increases ranging from 3-10% will be determined for the
PCU Director, the SAFU Director, the project accountant, procurement/architectural specialist, and
the Training and Management Technical Director based on the project's implementation progress.
Funds for training project staff locally in computers and basic accounting and record keeping will also
be made available. In addition, the Bissau WHO office has received a formal request from MINPH
and has agreed to assist in coordinating, monitoring and supervising the health sector subprojects. In
connection with this WHO will assist the Ministry in developing measurable indicators to monitor and
evaluate the impact of the subprojects on the country's health status. This would include developing
and conducting a simple survey periodically of health workers and beneficiaries.
4.5           The Social Action Fund (SAF) subproject is managed by a Social Action Fund Unit
(SAFU) which is located structurally within SOLIDAMI, a public institution under the auspices of
MINFAC. SAFU is headed by a Managing Director who will manage and control the funds of the
SAF and administer the daily activities of the unit. Funds will be provided to SAFU through the PCU
Director, who will be the primary link with IDA in procurement and disbursement aspects of the
project. The SAFU Managing Director is assisted by a locally hired assistant who will also assist



- 24 -
beneficiaries and national NGOs in preparing project proposals, as well as visiting sites, and
monitoring and evaluating activities financed by the SAF to ensure adequate use of the funds. An
SAF Technical Committee, headed by the SAFU Managing Director, and comprised of one
representative from each of the technical social sector ministries (MINPH and MINNE), national and
international NGOs, and a SOLIDAMI representative, will meet on a regular basis to review project
proposals submitted by NGOs and decide on actions to be taken. The national and international
representatives will serve on the SAF Technical Committee on a one-year revolving basis. The
SAFU Director will prepare a quarterly report covering all activities and issues related to the SAF
and provide this report to the PCU Director for submission to IDA with the regular quarterly reports.
C.    Project Sustainability
4.6          Several features of this project contribute to its sustainability. Most importantly is the
fact that it will build on the foundation of experience gained and lessons learned from the first two
IDA interventions in the social sectors. The Social Sector Project will be a follow-up to the first IDA
project in the health sector, which was completed in December 1991, and it will build on the on-
going Social and Infrastructure Relief Project. The proposed project will be a first effort at
developing a project which addresses specific issues in the health sector, as well as broader social
issues in Guinea-Bissau through the creation of a fund to support NGO's micro-social sector projects
at the grassroots level. The project will benefit from intensive donor coordination efforts undertaken
by IDA during the preparation of the social sector work, the February 1992 social sectors donors
meeting, and throughout the course of implementing the PHN, the SIRP, and the Basic Education
projects. Further, a yearly donor's meeting will be held to review progress in social programs. The
fact that the proposed project will have a Social Action Fund subproject, to support certain micro-
projects developed by NGOs, should serve to further enhance donor collaboration and coordination.
In addition, WHO is expected to play an important role in providing assistance to Government for
monitoring and supervising the health worker training programs. Guinea-Bissau's absorptive capacity
will be strengthened by the project's primary emphasis on developing human resources and capacity
building through large-scale sectoral training programs, combined with institutional strengthening, and
provisions for appropriate technical assistance which will be designed to require that
technology/knowledge transfer be incorporated. It is suggested that any future IDA supported
projects for the social sectors continue to focus on these specific elements, and, in particular, continue
to develop human capacity building in the country to ensure sustainability. The proposed project
additionally incorporates a number of provisions to ensure satisfactory project implementation
including the design of the project management with the formation of a Project Implementation
Committee linked to MINPH and the Project Coordinating Unit, created from an existing unit
implementing the SIRP and located in the Ministry of Foreign Affairs and Cooperation. An
experienced national Project Director will oversee project administration and coordination. Similarly,
an experienced national Mananging Director has been named to head SAFU which has been
structurally located within SOLIDAMI, an existing institution which reports to the Minister of
Planning and International Cooperation. The SAF will have a Technical Committee which includes
representation from local and international NGOs and the technical social sector ministries. There
will also be a mid-term review of the project at which time measurable indicators, to be designed by
the Government with WHO assistance, such as improvements in qualifications of health personnel, in
access, delivery and the quality of health services resulting from the planned increased numbers of
trained nurses and health workers detailed to rural areas, will be monitored and assessed. A simple
survey will also be developed and conducted periodically to measure the overall impact of the project
on improving the health situation.



- 25 -
4.7          Guinea-Bissau's ability to provide counterpart contributions for externally assisted
projects is very low at the present time. However, part of the Government's share for counterpart
funds will come from the community participation contributions of labor and materials in the
construction of civil works. For these reasons the counterpart contribution is not expected to pose
significant problems in the project's implementation.
D.    Project Monitoring and Reporting
4.8          Monitoring and reporting on the state of the project's implementation progress would
be the overall responsibility of the Project Director. The Training and Management Technical
Director, a locally recruited consultant, will be responsible for the specific implementation,
monitoring and evaluation activities related to the health workers' training and the IEC subprojects,
and the Procurement/Architectural Specialist, responsible for the specific implementation, monitoring
and evaluation activities related to the rehabilitation subproject. Both will serve on the Project
Implementation Committee, along with the Ministry of Public Health's Director of Planning, Studies
and Cooperation, and the National Director of Primary Health Care, who will provide guidance and
technical input for implementation of the subprojects. The Training Director and the procurement
specialist will work closely with the PCU Director, who will also serve on the Project Implementation
Committee as secretary and will oversee all administrative matters related to the project. They will
submit systematic written progress reports on the respective subprojects they have responsibility for
implementing to the PCU Director. The PCU Director will be responsible for preparing quarterly
reports and highlighting major issues calling for resolution by the Project Implementation Committee.
These reports would be sent to IDA at the end of each quarter, and be discussed during each IDA
supervision mission. In addition, WHO will play a major role in supervising, monitoring and
evaluating the subprojects (para 4.4). (Key performance indicators are found in Annex 4-.
E.     Mid-Term Review
4.9          IDA's experience in the social sectors in Guinea-Bissau is limited to one operation in
the health sector (the PHN project which closed in December 1991); one operation in the education
sector, the on-going Basic Education Development Project; and, health and education sub-components
in the on-going Social and Infrastructure Relief Project. It is expected that the implementation
process of the Social Sector Project will provide lessons which might prompt mid-course corrections
in the design or implementation methods of some of the subprojects. In order to allow for this
possibility, the Government of Guinea-Bissau and IDA would carry out a mid-term review of the
whole project. This would involve a critical analysis of the in-service and multi-oriented training
programs for health workers subproject, the IEC subproject, and the progress in implementing the
rehabilitation of health facilities and constructing nurses' houses with community participation
subproject. For the various programs in the training subproject, in particular, training achievements
and targets will be measured during the mid-term review and for subsequent years of the project, to
determine if there is need for adjustments in the various programs. The mid-term review would also
analyze operational aspects of the social action fund subproject, and discuss any remedial corrections
to be made with the SAF Technical Committee. The Government would carry out jointly with IDA a
mid-term review of the project approximately 18 months after credit effectiveness, but not later than
July 1995. This review should also incorporate an assessment of the project's impact (para. 4.6) and
the preliminary results of a survey of measurable indicators to improve the country's health status
(para. 4.8). An assessment of the SAF and projects supported by the Fund will aso be made at the
time of the mid-term review. Based on this review, the Government would promptly prepare and
implement an action program, acceptable to IDA, for making necessary corrective actions and
improving the project's implementation. (Supervision plan and mid-term evaluation criteria are
found in Annex 4-8).



- 26 -
F.     Environrnental AsDects
4.10          The project will have no significant environmental effects. In conjunction with the
repair and substitution of selected health facilities (at the health center level) access to potable water
and sanitary facilities, if not already existing, will be included under the project.
G.       Procurement
4.11          The table below summarizes the project elements, their estimated costs and proposed
methods of procurement. The Implementation and Estimated Disbursement Schedules, allowing
sufficient time for various procurement steps, are presented in Annex 43.



- 27 -
Summary of Proposed Procurement Arrangements
(USS miltion equivalent, IncLuding contingencies)
TOTAL
Project Element                      ICe          LCB          OTHER           h.S.F.                COST
1. Works
1.1 New construction                  -          0.33          0.06             0.11 !/              0.50
-         (0.33)        (0.06)             -                  (0.39)
1.2 Rehabilitation/                   -          0.30            -              0.03  /              0.33
Extension                         -         (0.30)           -                -                 (0.30)
2. Goods
2.1 Roofing and flooring            0.41           -             -              0.06 b/               0.47
materiaLs                      (0.41)          -             -                -                 (0.41)
2.2 Vehicles, motorcycLes,          0.56           -             -                -                  0.56
and bicycLes                   (0.56)          -             -                -                  (0.56)
2.3 Furniture                                    0.42            -                -                   0.42
-         (0.42)           -               -                  (0.42)
2.4 Nedical equipment                1.42          -             -                -                   1.42
and SoLar paneLs               (1.42)          -                                                (1.42)
2.5 Office and Audio-                 -            -            0.27              -                   0.27
VisuaL equipment                  -            -           (0.27)             -                 (0.27)
2.6 Consumable Goods J                -            -            0.04              -                  0.04
-           -           (0.04)             -                  (0.04)
3.  Service Contracts
3.1 WeLLs                             -            -            0.07              -                   0.07
-           -           (0.07)             -                  (0.07)
4. ConsuLtancies
4.1 Pro ect preparation and           -            .            0.74              -                   0.74
ImpLementation support            -            -          (0.74)             -                  (0.74)
4.2 InstitutionaL development         -            -            1.74              -                   1.74
(Capacity buiLding)               -            -          (1.74)              -                 (1.74)
5. Miscellaneous
5.1 Training costs:
a) Teaching ALLowances for
Trainers and MateriaLs
for Training in Guinea-Bissau;
Training within the African
Region, with the exception    -             -           0.20               -                  0.20
of Guinea-Bissau               -            -          (0.20)              -                 (0.20)
b) Living ALLowances for          -            -                             0.17 S/             0.17
Participants and Travel        -            -                              -                 (0.00)
ALLowances for Trainers
5.2 SociaL Action Fund                -            -            0.40              -                  0.40
-           -           (0.40)             -                  (0.40)
5.3 Incremental recurrent
costs:
a) Maintenance & Operating        -                         1.53              -                  1.53
Costs                          -            -          (1.53)                                (1.53)
b) Salaries for Support Staff    -             -                             0.06 f/             0.06
under PCU and SAFU             -            -             -                                  (0.00)
5.4 PPF Refinancing                   -            -            0.30              -                  0.30
-          (0.30)             -                  (0.30)
5.5 Taxes and Duties                  -            -             -               0.42 g/             0.42
TOTAL                               2.39          1.18          5.22             0.85                 9.65
IDA Financing                      (2.39)       (1.18)         (5.22)             -                  (8.80)
Note:  TotaLs may not add up due to rounding.
Figures in parentheses are the respective amounts financed by the IDA credit.
N.B.F. * Not Bank-Financed.
Footnotes indicate amounts financed by Government and through community participation:
a/     Consumable goods refer to items to be procured such as smalt value Items (I.e., transistor radios, etc.).
i/     Goverment: USS0.04 million; Community participation: USS0.07 miLLion.
c/     Goverrnent: USSO.03 miLlion-
Community participation: USS0.06 million.
fI     Government: USS0.17 miLlion.
Government: US$0.06 million.
9/     Goverrment: USS0.42 miLlion.



- 28 -
4.12          Civil Works. The civil works included under the project are for: (a) construction of one
health regional center in Biombo (at a cost of about US$30,000); construction of three small drug storage
units each located in Bafata, Oio, and Biombo (unit cost of about US$18,000); construction of 24 staff houses
for nurses, in the Bafata, Oio and Biombo Regions (unit cost of about US$12,000); and (b)
rehabilitation/extension of nine health centers in the three regions (unit cost of about US$38,000), and
remodeling of one health center in Bissau (at a cost of about US$12,500); extension of one health regional
center in Bafata (at a cost of about US$6,000); and rehabilitation of five staff houses (unit cost of about
US$6,000). The construction program will be financed by IDA, apart from Government's contribution
(estimated at US$0.07 million or 10% of total civil works cost), and local labor for the
construction/rehabilitation of staff housing, which would be provided by the communities under an agreement
between the communities and Government (estimated at US$0.07 million). Construction and rehabilitation
are expected to be completed in PY3. Because the contract values are small and the works are geographically
scattered, all civil works contracts, excluding the works related to the roofing and flooring replacement at the
USBs, of a total value of US$0.63 million equivalent including contingencies would be awarded on the basis
of competitive bidding advertised locally (LCB) in accordance with procedures acceptable to IDA. In
addition, civil works for some staff houses estimated to cost the equivalent of US$12,000 or less per contract
may be procured on the basis of price quotations obtained from at least three reliable suppliers provided that
the aggregate amount of such procurement does not exceed a total of US$0.06 million equivalent.
4.13          Goods. Goods financed under the project would include: vehicles, motorcycles, bicycles
(including repair kits), roofing and flooring materials, solar panels, furniture, office, audio-visual, and
medical equipment and supplies, and consumable goods such as transistor radios, T-shirts, and food packages
as part of the incentive scheme for community participation, for a total value of US$3.12 million equivalent
including contingencies. Most of the goods will be procured in PYI and PY2, and will be grouped into bid
packages of at least US$100,000 each and procured through international competitive bidding (ICB) in
accordance with the IDA's "Guidelines for Procurement under IBRD Loans and IDA Credits' (May 1992).
Contracts for goods procured through ICB would total about US$2.39 million, representing about 77% of the
total value of goods financed by IDA. Furniture which can be competitively procured locally and which
cannot be grouped into packages of at least US$100,000 equivalent each which, in the aggregate, would not
exceed US$0.42 million equivalent and would represent about 13% of the total value of goods financed by
IDA, would be suitable for procurement through LCB under procedures acceptable to IDA. The remaining
10% of the total value of goods, small equipment and materials, which cannot be grouped into bid packages
of at least US$50,000 equivalent will be procured on the basis of price quotations obtained from at least three
reliable suppliers, provided that the aggregate amount of such procurement does not exceed a total of
US$0.31 million equivalent.
4.14          Services. Service contracts for the construction of wells estimated to cost the equivalent of
US$6,000 or less per contract, may be procured under contracts awarded on the basis of comparison or price
quotations solicited from at least three suppliers, provided that the aggregate value of such contracts does not
exceed the equivalent of US$0.07 million.
4.15          Consultants financed by IDA, totalling US$2.48 million equivalent would be contracted in
accordance with IDA's "Guidelines for the Use of Consultants" (August 1981). The consultancy services
required under the project would be mostly for project management, coordination and implementation in the
PCU and SAFU, and for training activities. It would include, specifically, the services of locally recruited:
(a) training and management technical director for the coordination, management and implementation of the
training subproject; (b) architectural/procurement specialists for the design and supervision of the construction
program and for the preparation of bidding documents; and (c) accounting and auditing specialists for
establishing and monitoring the accounting system at the PCU and SAFU and for preparing the annual audit
report, respectively. Consultancy services to be financed by IDA would total about 488 person months. (A



- 29 -
list of specialist services included in the Social Sector Project and the Social Action Fund is found in
Annex 4-4). Terms of reference for major consulting services and details on consultancies are given in
Annexes 3-14 and 4-2.
4.16          The procurement methods to be followed for items financed under the Social Action Fund
cannot be defined in advance. The SAF Technical Committee will be responsible for reviewing and
approving proposals submitted by beneficiaries such as NGOs (paras. 3.23-3.24). The eligible proposals
along with the written agreements with the beneficiaries would be submitted to IDA, for its review and
approval, by the SAF Technical Committee. The negotiated agreements with the beneficiaries would include,
inter alia, the method of procurement to be used, which could be carried out under ICB, LCB, or prudent
shopping depending on the value of each procurement, and the method of payments to beneficiaries,
acceptable to IDA. IDA will undertake sample checking of such transactions. In addition a locally hired
assistant will visit sites where activities financed under the SAF are being carried out to ensure adequate use
of the funds. He will also monitor the consistency of the procurement procedures agreed. The Social Action
Fund will be financed entirely under the IDA credit. Items or groups of items not exceeding US$15,000; up
to an aggregate of US$0.4 million will be financed under the Social Action Fund.
4.17          Procurement Status of Ongoing Projects in Guinea-Bissau. IDA has made 21 credits to
Guinea-Bissau totalling US$188.1 million equivalent as of June 30, 1992, using SDR/US dollar rate at the
date of credit approval. Although Guinea-Bissau's institutional and technical capacity is limited, ongoing
projects in the country have not been severely hampered and disbursements on investment lending have taken
place as originally planned. However, three common implementation issues remain: (a) poor budget
management and lack of counterpart funds; (b) limited institutional capacity; and (c) limited aid coordination.
Actions to improve performance are being taken, including: (i) improving budgetary programming and
monitoring; (ii) establishment of a Public Investment Program executing unit; (iii) strengthening controls on
the ways counterpart funds are being generated which are mainly provided through the sale of food aid
received from donors; (iv) intensifying dialogue on procurement issues through specific missions and
seminars; (v) using the services of a procurement specialist and a consultant, on a case by case basis for
major contracts exceeding US$100,000; (vi) as part of terms-of-reference, requiring that all technical
assistants and project coordinators take specific actions on training and transfer of technology; (vii) increasing
use of mid-term review to address major problems and, if necessary, redesign project components; (viii)
strengthening training components; and (ix) increasing dialogue among the donor community and
Government. For the proposed project, a number actions are planned to minimize the problems that could
occur during implementation:
(a)    One PCU Project Director and one SAFU Managing Director have been locally recruited
under PPF financing and thereafter under the project to manage the Social Sector Project and
the Social Action Fund, respectively. Because of her experience in handling a Bank-financed
project, the current project manager for the ongoing Social and Infrastructure Relief Project
(SIRP, Cr. 2020-GUB) was offered the coordination of the preparation activities, on a part-
time basis, of the Social Sector Project until SIRP's closing date (June 30, 1993). At that
time she will assume project director activities for the Social Sector Project on a full-time
basis. Past experience in project management and procurement was taken into consideration
by Government for the selection of this candidate. Similarly, for the recruitment of the
SAFU Managing Director, special attention was given to the experience of the candidate
selected in dealing or working with NGOs;
(b)    The PCU Project Director has the responsibility for heading the PCU and the routine
administration, management and day-to-day coordination of unit for the Social Sector Project.
In addition, the PCU Project Director will work closely with the Project Implementation



- 30 -
Committee in coordinating the various aspects of the project's implementation and would, in
particular, handle all administrative and contractual procedures necessary for the
implementation of project activities. She will be assisted by a locally recruited Training and
Management Technical Director, Procurement/ Architectural Specialist, and project
accountant who will have the direct responsibility for coordinating and implementing the
activities related to the Training and IEC subprojects, the Rehabilitation/Equipping
subproject, and establishing and monitoring the accounting system for the PCU, respectively.
In addition, a Project Implementation Committee consisting of the PCU Project Director, the
Training and Management Technical Director, the Procurement/Architectural Specialist, and
MINPH Director of Planning, and the Director of Primary Health Care has been created in
order to provide policy guidance and facilitate implementation;
(c)    The SAFU Managing Director will manage and control the funds of the SAF as well as
administer the daily activities of the unit. He is to be assisted by a locally hired assistant who
will also assist beneficiaries and national NGOs in preparing project proposals as well as
visiting sites where activities financed under the SAF are being carried out to supervise and
monitor project activities. A full-time accountant will be locally hired to establish and
monitor finances for the SAF.
(d)    In order to minimize delays in project implementation, a detailed implementation schedule for
works, goods and services to be procured under the project was prepared at the time of
appraisal (Annex 4-5; During implementation, all bid evaluation reports transmitted to IDA
for review will contain an updated copy of the implementation schedule; and
(e)    A procurement/disbursement workshop organized by IDA, with the assistance of the PCU,
will take place upon credit effectiveness for all project staff concerned.
4.18          Procurement Arrangements Under the Proposed Project. The PCU Project Director will be
responsible for procurement for the Social Sector Project, including the SAFU. She will be periodically
supported by an internationally-recruited procurement/architectural specialist, as necessary (i.e., two person
months before credit effectiveness, and three person months per year during the first three years of the
project). At negotiations, the Project Director and the locally recruited procurement/architectural specialist
submitted to IDA in draft form the bidding documents for civil works.
4.19          The PCU Project Director assisted by the procurement/architectural specialists (foreign and
local) will develop a simple monitoring system to help collect and record procurement information as follows:
(a) prompt reporting of contract award information based on the agreed implementation schedule; and (b)
comprehensive semi-annual reports to IDA, indicating: (i) revised cost estimates for individual contracts and
the total project, including best estimates of allowances for physical and price contingencies; (ii) revised
timing of procurement actions, including advertising, bidding, contract award, and completion time for
individual contracts; and (iii) compliance with aggregate limits on specified methods of procurement.
4.20          Bank Review. Prior review by IDA would be required for procurement of packages of
works, goods and services which exceed US$100,000. The review process would cover about 80% of the
total value of the amount contracted for works, goods and services financed by IDA. Selective post-review of
awarded contracts below the threshold levels would apply to about one in three works contracts, and one in
six goods and services contracts. In all cases of ICB procurement, the draft bidding documents and proposed
contract awards would also require IDA's prior review. LCB procedures will include: (a) explicit statement
to bidders of the evaluation and award criteria; (b) local advertising with public bid opening; (c) no
preference to state-owned enterprises; (d) award to lowest bidder; and (e) foreign bidders would not be



- 31 -
precluded from participating in LCB. IDA's prior concurrence would be sought with regards to the terms-of-
reference, qualifications and estimated cost of consultants to be recruited under the project.
4.21             During negotiations, agreement was reached on the proper monitoring system for
procurement (para. 4.19). The Government gave assurances that it will apply the procurement procedures
and arrangements outlined above.
H.        Disbursements
4.22             The proposed credit is expected to be completed over a four-year period, and the IDA credit
would be disbursed over a four and one-half year period, compared to Guinea-Bissau's standard disbursement
profile of six and one-half years. The fact that an operational PCU with an experienced project director is
already in place and is administering project activities under a PPF, should further facilitate the project's
start-up activities upon credit effectiveness. The estimated schedule of disbursements is shown in Annex 46,
and is compared to the standard country disbursement profile for all sectors in Guinea-Bissau.
4.23             The table below gives the categories and amounts to be financed out of the IDA credit, and
the percentage to be financed in each category.
Altocation and Disbursement of the IDA Credit
Amount of the Credit
Allocated                    Percent of Expenditures
Category of Expenditures                    tUSS Miltion)                to be Financed by IDA
1.   CiviL Works                                 0.50                           100X  Foreign exp.
70X Local exp.
2.   Equipment, Furniture,
MateriaLs, Vehicles,
Solar Panels, and
Consumable Goods for
Community Participation                     3.00                           100X
3.   Teaching Allowance for
Trainers and Training
Materials for Training
Within Guinea-Bissau                        0.13                           100X
4.   Training Within the African
Region, with the Exception
of Guinea-Bissau                            0.07                           100X
5.   Specialist Services and
Service Contract for WeLls                  2.20                           100X
5.   SAF Funding                                 0.40                           100X
6.   Incremental Recurrent
Costs jj                                    1.40                           100X
7.   PPF Refinancing                             0.30
8.   Unallocated                                 0.80
Total Credit ANmout                         8.80
4.24             All withdrawal applications will be fully documented except for: (a) payments under
contracts of less than $20,000; (b) local training-related costs; and (c) incremental recurrent costs,
which will be done on the basis of Statement of Expenditures (SOEs). Documentation for
withdrawals under SOEs would be retained at the PCU for review by IDA staff during supervision
missions and for regular audits.
1/   Excluding salaries of support staff under PCU and SAFU which will be financed entirely
by the Government.



- 32 -
4.25          Special Account. To facilitate disbursements of eligible expenditures for goods and
services, the Government would open a Special Account at a commercial bank to cover IDA's share
of eligible expenditures to be managed and administered exclusively by the PCU. The authorized
allocation for the Special Account would be US$500,000; IDA would make an initial deposit for that
amount from the proposed credit immediately upon credit effectiveness. IDA would replenish the
Special Account on a monthly basis upon receipt of satisfactory proof of incurred eligible
expenditures. Replenishment requests would be accompanied by up-to-date bank statements and
reconciliations of the Special Account. All payments under $50,000 equivalent must be made through
the Special Account; payments above that amount may be made by the direct payment or special
commitment procedure.
4.26          Proiect Account. The establishment of a Project Account in pesos, in a local
commercial bank, for counterpart funds and an initial deposit of US$60,000 equivalent to cover
sufficiently Government's share for initiating project activities would be a condition of effectiveness.
This account would be administered by the PCU Project Director. The Government would be
required to make semi-annually deposits of local counterpart funds in advance.
4.27          Disbursement Monitoring. Locally hired accountants will be appointed to establish
and monitor an accounting system for the Social Sector Project, including the Social Action Fund.
They will be assisted by a foreign accountant as necessary. During project implementation, the PCU
project accountant, assisted by the SAFU accountant, will have the responsibility for consolidating the
Social Sector Project and Social Action Fund transactions for the purpose of the annual audit as well
as preparing yearly budgetary projections for the duration of the project.
I.    Accounting. Auditing, and Reporting
4.28          Overall responsibility for the Social Sector Project's, including the SAF, financial
management would rest with the PCU, which would maintain the consolidated project accounts for
the entire project and detailed accounts for each subproject. Under the overall responsibility of the
PCU Director, the PCU would prepare and submit to IDA, covering the entire project, inclusive of
each subproject, and the SAF with input provided by the SAFU Director: (a) quarterly progress
reports on project implementation; (b) annual financial statements on project expenditures; (c) annual
work programs and budgets for the following year; and (d) a project completion report within six
months of the credit closing date. Project accounts, including the Special Account and disbursements
under SOEs, would be audited annually by independent auditors acceptable to IDA. This includes a
separate annual audit of the SAF, also carried out by independent auditors acceptable to IDA. The
audit reports would be submitted to IDA within six months of the end of each fiscal year. During
negotiations, the Government gave assurances that it would submit to IDA an annual audit report, of
reasonable scope and detail, within six months of the end of the Government's fiscal year.
4.29          No later than six months after the closing date of the project the Borrower will
prepare a Project Completion Report (PCR) in a form satisfactory to IDA.



- 33 -
V. PROJECT BENEFITS AND RISKS
5.1            The main benefit of the project would be to improve the delivery and quality of
primary health care for a greater proportion of the population, particularly the most vulnerable groups
at the periphery, and, thereby, have a positive effect on the social indicators. Direct benefits of the
proposed project will be the physical and human capital improvements resulting from the subprojects,
and strengthening the capacity of some institutions charged with delivering social services. In health
the project will include comprehensive training programs for health workers, physically improving
and equipping selected health facilities, creating better links between health centers and village health
posts, and improving the coordination and delivery of health information, education and
communications messages to the general population for critical topics such as AIDS, nutrition, and
family planning. Through the SAF the project would improve coordination among the various entities
working in the social sectors, including social sector ministries, donors and NGOs, and community
groups, while promoting greater regional and local participation. The SAF is designed to reach those
at the grassroots level and the poor by providing support for micro-social sector projects including
income generating activities for women, health and nutrition, maternal and child health programs,
family planning activities, and literacy and skills development, among others.
5.2           The proposed operation has two significant risks. The first risk involves the limited
managerial and implementation capabilities of the Government and the primary institutions involved.
This risk is being minimized by keeping the subprojects simple in design. It is also being minimized
by establishing a Project Implementation Committee, under the Ministry of Public Health, with
technical representatives and coordinators responsible for implementing the health sector subprojects,
and a SAF Technical Committee reporting to the SAFU Management/Technical Director who will
implement the SAF subproject. A strong and experienced Project Coordinating Unit, located within
the Ministry of Foreign Affairs and Cooperation will assist both ministries in the implementation of
project activities. The PCU will be strengthened and derive a number of benefits from being
converted from an existing project management unit for an IDA project that will be completed in June
1993. The new project will take advantage of the experience of some existing staff, including a
national coordinator who is now familiar with IDA procedures. Further, the PCU, which now has
the Project Director in place and is operational with PPF funds, will not experience delays in start-up
activities once the project becomes effective. In addition, technical assistance and in-service training
will be provided to PCU staff and key implementing departments throughout the project period.
Further, an award system will be developed for PCU staff. This will consist of a competitive yearly
merit review of PCU staff against measurable performance criteria based on an implementation
schedule and measurable indicators for key project activities. The second risk is the lack of sufficient
counterpart funds and the overall financial sustainability of the project. These risks will be addressed
by setting targets for increases in central budget allocations to the social sectors and monitoring social
spending as part of the project conditionality; and, to ensure sufficient counterpart funds local labor
and materials, through the community participation element built into the project, will count towards
part of the counterpart contribution, as will grant money from donors for the SAF.



- 34 -
VI. AGREEMENTS REACHED AND RECOMMENDATION
6.1           Prior to negotiations, the Government: (a) submitted a draft health policy
implementation plan, including an operational plan, related costs, and timetable for implementing the
strategy; a health financing plan integrating cost recovery measures and the planned expansion of
these measures, as well as a time-bound action program to open-up and regulate private health
practice; including a budget increase for the Ministry of Public Health for each year (1993-97); (b)
submitted a detailed framework to implement the Social Action Fund, with the main features of the
Fund agreed during negotiations (paras. 3.21-3.22); (c) submitted draft standard bidding documents
for construction/rehabilitation (para. 4.18); (d) held the first meeting of the Social Sector Project's
Project Implementation Committee (para. 4.2); (e) made proposals for specific incentives and a plan
and timetable to implement such proposals, within the context of the Government's wage
policy/compensation system, to correct the urban/rural imbalance and attract health care workers to
move from Bissau to the regions (paras. 2.24-2.25, 3-15).
6.2           As agreed during negotiations, the Government has: (a) established a project
coordination unit staffed with experienced and qualified personnel (paras. 4.2-4.3, and 4.17 (a)-(b));
(b) established a social action fund unit staffed with experienced and qualified persornel (para. 4.5);
(c) issued an official resolution creating the SAF and adopted an operational framework for
administering the Fund; and (d) issued a health policy implementation plan (para. 2.32).
6.3           During negotiations, the Government gave assurances that it will:
(a)    deposit counterpart funds semi-annually in advance in the project account (para.
4.26);
(b)    allocate and make available in a timely manner the national budgetary resources for
the health sector annually as agreed with IDA (para. 3.27);
(c)   submit by October 31 of each year, the proposed budget and its composition for the
health sector for the next year for review with IDA, and that the allocations will be
made in agreed amounts (para. 3.27);
(d)   review the training programs carried out each year under the project with IDA, and
submit to IDA for review by the Ministry of Public Health, in collaboration with the
Project's Training and Management Technical Director, by October 31 of each year,
the proposed training programs to be implemented under the project for the next year
(paras. 4.8-4.9);
(e)   submit quarterly progress reports by the PCU to IDA for review and comments (para.
4.8);
(f)   submit annual audits for the project of reasonable scope and detail, within six months
of the end of the Government's fiscal year, which include separate opinions of the
auditors on the Special Account and SOEs; and, annual audits of the SAF (para.
4.28);
(g)    assign exclusive responsibility for management and administration of the Special
Account with the PCU (para. 4.25);



- 35 -
(h)    carry out a mid-term review by July 1995, which focuses on implementation of the
health sector policy implementation plan including an analysis of key monitorable
indicators, progress of the training programs, rehabilitation of health facilities, and
status of progress of private health practice (para. 4.9);
(i)    maintain the Social Sector Project's Project Implementation Committee during the
project which would meet on a regular basis (para. 4.2);
(j)    organize, in coordination with IDA, every year of project implementation a donors'
meeting to review progress in social programs and implementation of the plan
according to the agreed schedule (paras. 3.1 and 4.6); and
(k)    use procurement procedures and arrangements as outlined in the project documents
and implement a proper monitoring system for procurement (para. 4.21).
Conditions for Credit Effectiveness
6.4           The following would be conditions for Credit Effectiveness:
(a)   the Government would have established a Project Account in Pesos in a local
commercial bank for counterpart funds and make an initial deposit of US$60,000
equivalent (4.26);
(b)   the Government would have appointed a project accountant and a
procurement/architectural specialist satisfactory to IDA (paras. 4.3 and 4.17 (b));
(c)   the Ministry of Public Health would have adopted a health sector budget for 1993
with a composition of expenditures satisfactory to IDA (para. 3.27); and
(d)   the Government would have sought expert assistance to develop indicators to assess
the effectiveness and formulate a detailed plan to regularly coordinate, supervise and
monitor the progress of the health training programs and rehabilitation of health
facilities under the project, satisfactory to IDA (paras. 4.4 and 4.8).
6.5           Subject to the agreements to the above, the proposed project is suitable for an IDA
credit of SDR 6.4 million (US$8.8 million equivalent) to the Republic of Guinea-Bissau on standard
IDA terms with a maturity of 40 years.
Population and Human Resources Division
Western Africa Department
Africa Region






- 36 -
ANNEX 2-1
Page 1 of 3
REPUBLIC OF GUINEA-BISSAU
SOCIAL SECTOR PROJECT
Basic Data Sheet and Comparative Indicators
A. Basic Data Sheet (1990) 1/
GNP Per Capita Income                            180 US$
Total Population                                 0.98 million
Land Area                                      36,000 km2
Population Density                                27 /km2
Life Expectancy at Birth (Overall)               38.8 years old
Population Growth Rate                            2.2  %
Crude Birth Rate                                 45.0  %
Total Fertility Rate                              6.0  %
Crude Death Rate                                24.7  %
Infant Mortality Rate                           148.4  %
Under 5 Mortality Rate                         250.8  %
B. Number of Health Facilities (May 1992) 2/:
Basic Health Units (USBs)                     569
Health Centers (HCs)                          115
Reference Centers a/                            6
Sectoral Hospitals                             13
Regional Hospitals (10 regions)                 5
National Hospital                               2
1/ The World Bank. "Social Indicators of Development, 1991". The John Hopkins
University Press, 1992. In a number of cases these figures differ from those used in the
text which were taken from the Social Sector Strategy Review, September 1991, and
based on Government's official estimates.
2/ Ministry of Public Health, General Directorate for Studies and Planning. 1992
3/ Bissau: National Laboratory of Public Health, Rehabilitation Center, Mental Hospital and
Maternal Child Care/Family Planning; Biombo: Cumura Leprosy Center; Gabu: Maternal
Child Protection Center.



- 37 -
ANNEX 2-1
Page 2 of 3
C. Number of Health Personnel (May 1992) 2/:
National Doctors                               70
Pharmacists                                     9
Nurses                                        320
Mid-wives                                       14
Pharm. Technicians                             15
Lab. Technicians                                6
X-Ray Technicians                               12
Anesthesis Technicians                          11
Environmental Sanitory Technicians              0
Hyg.lEpidemiologist Technicians                 5
Social Technicians                              5
Statistics Technicians                          2
Aux. Nurses                                  1,053
Aux. Mid-wives                                143
Aux. Pharmacists                                0
Aux. Laboratory Tech.                         178
Aux. Env. Sanitory                             25
Aux. Social Tech.                               5
Total Health Personnel                       1,873
Population per 2/:
Physician                                    7,262  inhabitants
Nurse                                        3,063  inhabitants
Basic Health Units                           1,835  inhabitants
Health Centers                               9,703  inhabitants
D. Percentare of national budget allocated
to the Health Sector:                        7.7  % (in FY92)
11.3  % (in FY86)



- 38 -
ANNEX 2-1
Page 3 of 3
E. Comparative Indicators (1990) 4/
GNP Per Total      Life       Population  Crude  Total      Crude Infant
Capita  Population  Expectancy  Growth    Birth   Fertility   Death  Mortality
Country       Income  (Million)   at Birth   RteRt Rate              Rate         Rate
Guinea-Bissau        180       0.98      38.8        2.2    45.0       6.00    24.7    148.4
Burkina Faso         330       9.02      47.7        2.7    46.7       6.50    17.9    134.3
Cape Verde           890       0.37      66.3        2.7    42.9       5.42     7.8      40.8
Equatorial Guinea    330       0.42      46.8        2.2    41.2       5.50    18.8    120.4
The Gambia           260       0.88      44.2         3.1    47.2      6.50    20.1    136.2
Ghana                390      14.87      56.5         3.0    44.4      6.22    12.7      84.7
Mali                 270       8.46      47.9        2.7    50.1       7.06    18.7    166.0
Nigeria              290     115.00      53.8        2.9    43.3       5.98    14.3      98.5
Sao Tome & Principe   400      0.12      66.7        2.5    35.0       5.12     8.4      69.0
Low-Income Countries  350   3,058.00     62.1         2.0    29.4      3.72     9.7      66.9
Sub-Saharan Africa   340     495.00      50.6         3.0    45.9      6.46    15.6    107.3
B: annexl  aa3l-b)
_/   The World Bank, "Social Indicators of Development, 1991". The John Hopkins
University Press, 1992. In a number of cases these figures differ from those used in
the text for Guinea-Bissau, which were taken from the Social Sector Strategy Review,
September 1991, and based on Govermnent's official estimates.



Mlnistry of Public He!thh
Organizatlon Chart
Nat Ional 
Council of 
Minister of Pubilc Health                                    Health       |
Dlracting 
Councl I
| National 
Healtth Inp.
uIlC                     Pln8ul                 _            un|                          Admin.|
Health Gen.  al                        Coop.                    o Rn. Gen. Dlr-               General Dlr.      |
Pubi               Plan/S~tudesoHPubli
Hygiene                       Plan./Studies                  Human                          Admn.
and Epid. Dlv.                Dlv.                          -Ren. Trg. Dlv.                 A Potrlm. Div.
Pharm.                        Tech.                          Human                          Finance
Berv. Div.                    Plan. Comm.                    Rea. Mgt. Dlv.                 Div.
Prim.                         Intll.
-Health Care Dlv.               Cooperation
Hospi tal                     Documen tation/i nform.
Servicee Dlv.
Sitmia              liesARMEDI                               Noll.              sohool              Persone
Mendel  Lo lttl  Agooto HfPIIn. o                                       l|h        of Medlolne     |     g |onool
Rei tonal |
Health Dii.



- 40 -
ANNEX 2-3
REPUBLIC OF GUINEA-BISSAU
S =IAL SECTOR PROJECT
Distribution of Health Facilities by Region
---------------------------------------------------------------------__-----__-
HOSPITAL                                        BASIC
---------------------------  REFERENCE   HEALTH   HEALTH
REGIONS              NATIONAL REGIONAL SECTORAL   CENTERS 1/  CENTERS  UNITS
--------------------------------------------------------------__------------__-
BISSAU                       2          0         0                4          6          0
BIOMBO                       0          0         2                1          6        25 2/
BAFATA                       0          1          1               0         12        67
BOLAMA/BIJAGOS               0          1          1               0         13        30
CACHEU                       0          1          1               0       '17          78
GABU                         0          1          1               1         15       120
OIO                          0          0          2               0         15         76
QUINARA                      0          0          3               0         11        55
TOMBALI                      0          1         2                0         20       118
---------------------------------------------------------------------__-----__-
TOTAL                      2          5        13                6       115        569
--------------------------------------------------------------------__------__-
1/ Bissau: National Laboratory of Public Health, Rehabilitation Center,
Mental Hospital and Maternal Child Care/Family Planning; Biombo: Cumura
Leprosy Centerl Gabum Maternal Child Protection Center.
2/ At present, Biombo region does not have USBc, however it is expected
that 25 USBc will have been constructed by 1995.
a:fac (ja3l-b)



- 41 
ANNEX 2-4
Page 1 of 36
REPUBLIC OF GYINEA-BISSAU
SOCIAL SECTOR PROJECT
Health Policy implementation Plan
Rep6btici da    -        C Ac Ri>u
MINISTERIC  DA  SAUDE PUk311CA
GAIHNtTE DO MINIiW((
Dissau, Jdauary 28, 1993
N° 22/JABLM/O-10/93
SUBJECT: GUINEA-3ISSAU - Social Sactor Prolect
Health Policy Implementation Plan/Sca-
temenc. on The Narional Hcalth Policy
Dear Mr. Jaycox,
I'am Writing to you in connection wich che proposed Social Sector Projecc, par
ticularly to iniform you about policy decisions and mcnsures that the Government has
taken or is about to take, to improve the health situation of the people of Guinsa
Biesau. Itn connection with this, and as a follow-up to che project negotiations
which cook place in Washington from I - 4, 1992, 1 am pleasad to submit, as an
actached anaex to this lecter, the Health Policy Implementation Plan which includes
a StatKm.nt on the National Health Policy for Guinea-Bisau. This finll  version of
the Plan reflects revisions made in the drsft which war brought Co negotiations by
the Covernuenf. and discussed with IDA during negotiactions.
It is understood that the Government's policy paper will be included as an annex
In the Staff Appraisal Report.
niise  oa   o)urs,
Mrsh
Mini6e   of   bUt  Heal
Mr. EDWARD V. K. Jaycox
Vice Presidenc/Africa Region
The Word bank
1818 K Screet, N. W.
Washington, D.C.
C/C t Minister of Foreign Affairs and Cooperation,
5ER.NARDrNO CADUuSO
M Minister of Finance,
Sr. YVES TENCALLA, word bank Res, Rep.
. M3. CAROL HOPPY. AF4ptl



- 42 -                          ANNEX 2-4
Pagp 2 of 36
REPUBLIC OF GUINEA-BISSAU
SOCIAL SECTOR PROJECT
Health Policy Implementation Plan
Statement on the National Health Policy
I.    Introduction
The health situation is subordinated to the economic and financial crisis the country is undergoing
and to the structural adjustment that the Government is implementing jointly with multilateral and bilateral
cooperation agencies in order to stabilize the economy.
The predominant public health problems continue to be malaria, acute diarrheal diseases, acute
respiratory infections, tuberculosis, leprosy, onchocerciasis, bilharziasis, measles, malnutrition, and
tetanus neonatorum. The AIDS pandemic has also become worrisome among sexually transmitted
diseases. The main indicators that characterize the country's health situation are:
- Infant mortality: 140 per 1,000 live births;
- Maternal mortality: 914 per 100,000 live births;
- Vaccine coverage of children 12 to 23 months:
3 BCG 94%
3 DPT3 54%
e Polio 54%
3 Measles 65%
* 1T2 38.8%
- Life expectancy at birth: 47.1 years
- Coverage of drinking water supply: 22.5% of population
- Sanitation: 30% in urban areas
18% in rural areas.
Agriculture is an essential component of the national economy, accounting for approximately
three-fourths of export earnings and employing approximately 80% of the country's economically active
population. The other principal sectors of production are fisheries and silviculture. The social sectors
are largely dependent on external cooperation. For example the health sector is financed approximately
90% by multi-bilateral cooperation. The share of the general state budget earmarked to the health sector
is approximately 8% in 1992, despite the priority attributed to this important sector.
The guiding principles of national health policy are based on primary health care, with the
objective of health for all the people of Guinea-Bissau. The essential elements of the policy of health
development from now to the year 2000 are: strengthening the national health system at the central,
regional, and local levels; decentralizing the national health service; strengthening the capacity for
management of health services, programs, and units; judicious census and redistribution of personnel;
ongoing activities for technical and professional training and improvement; rehabilitating and equipping
the health infrastructures; the supply, management, and rational use of essential drugs; community
participation; and mobilization of internal and external resources.



- 43 -
ANNEX 2-4
Page 3 of 36
II.    Health Sector Policy
The policy of the health sector is an integral part of Government policy for overall socioeconomic
development of the country. In this context the objective is to implement the essential components of
primary health care nationwide. The principal strategy is based on strengthening the national health
system, with sound articulation among the central, regional, and local levels, with functioning structures
and institutions, using appropriate scientific and technological knowledge, and responding to the needs
of the population for preventive and curative health care. In this area intersectoral collaboration is key.
The capacity of the sector to collect, analyze, and use health information will have to be
strengthened in order to create an adequate base for the management of health programs and services.
Strengthening the management capacity at the central, regional, and local levels will make it possible to
improve the preparation, implementation, monitoring, and evaluation of the national health policy, the
strategic plan for health development, the annual plans of action, and the operational plans of the
country's health regions, with a view to attaining the social objective of "health for all."
Research in the health sector should come to play a more effective role in the development of the
national health system, and especially at the operational level it will seek to identify the approaches,
strategies, and technologies appropriate for the geographic, economic, and sociocultural context of
Guinea-Bissau. Valuation of the positive aspects of traditional medicine and pharmacopoeia of Guinea-
Bissau and also taking into account the context of the national health policy.
In the context of reviewing its strategic plan for health development in 1991 the Government set
forth the following operational objectives, to be attained by 1996:
a) to decentralize health services, strengthen health institutions, and restore and equip the health
structures regionally and locally, guaranteeing preferential allocation of resources for these levels;
b) to introduce the process of management for health development in all the Regions and
strengthen the operation of the health system in 90% of the country's administrative sectors;
c) to develop a program for the training and recycling of personnel, and correct the distortions
in the distribution of personnel, taking into account the specific needs and general objectives of
the sector;
d) to establish and implement an incentives systems that facilitates keeping staff in rural areas,
with special emphasis on the areas relatively more isolated from the capital city;
e) to strengthen coordination of the different elements of the national health system at the central
level and integrate the primary health care activities at the local level;
f) to develop a national system of health information, including epidemiological surveillance;
g) to place absolute priority on the Maternal and Child Health programs, including Family
Planning, Drinking Water Supply and Environmental Sanitation, and Disease Prevention and
Control; promote mechanisms of intersectoral collaboration for health development;
h) to develop the private sector of medicine without detriment to the public sector;
i) to prepare an up-to-date study on the financing of health services; determine the costs of the
medical services provided in hospital institutions, define and apply a strategy for cost recovery;
expand the Bamako Initiative in the framework of the national drug policy to all Regions of the
country;



- 44 -
ANNEX 2-4
P'age 4 of 36
j) to strengthen coordination among the different cooperation agencies in the area of health with
a view to optimizing technical and financial assistance; progressively increase the State budget
for the health sector;
k) to pass health legislation to support implementation of the health policy;
1) to pay special attention to mental health, the health of schoolage children, and oral-dental health
in the context of primary health care;
m) to develop, together with related agencies, a system for warning and intervention in disaster
situations, ensuring the material and human resources needed for emergency medicine in disaster
situations;
n) to reorient and improve coordination of the scarce resources available for research in public
health; the various dispersed initiatives should be concentrated in a single national institution for
public health research;
o) to establish the mechanisms for coordinating the activities of information, education, and
communication among the health programs, and promote intersectoral collaboration in this area.
p) to develop a policy for the rehabilitation and maintenance of infrastructure and equipment, for
which it will be necessary to establish a technical capacity at the central and regional levels,
making possible intervention in all health units nationwide. This plan will no doubt make it
possible to improve the delivery of health care.
III.   Priority Programs
MATERNAL AND CHILD HEALTH/FAMILY PLANNING (MCH/FP)
This program has the objective of promoting the progressive improvement of maternal and child
health, considering mother and child as individuals, family members, and members of the community,
thanks to the implementation of integrated MCH/FP activities at every level. Concretely, through this
program an effort is underway to reduce infant mortality by 30% and to reduce the current rate of
maternal mortality by 50% by the year 2000. The principal strategies of this Program will be:
a) coordination at the central level, among the various parties intervening in management and
financing;
b) preparation of operational plans for each Region integrated into the primary health care
activities and with active community involvement;
c) formulation, revision, and dissemination of technical standards and management of the
program, through seminars, meetings, or joint supervisory visits of MCH personnel at the
maternal and child health centers, maternity units, and health centers;
d) supervision and evaluation of the operational plans for the health sectors, including the
selection, recycling, supervision, and support for the traditional birth attendants.
The initiatives for risk-free maternity and child survival activities will be encouraged in the
communities where the health system has the minimum elements needed for its functioning. This major
program is a priority. Its main components will be the following:
* Prenatal and delivery health care
* Expanded Program on Immunization



- 45 -                   ~~~aNNEX 2-t
i'age 5 of f6
 Promotion of Food and Nutrition
* Prevention and control of Acute Diarrheal Diseases
* Prevention and control of Acute Respiratory Infections
* Family Planning
* Health Information and Education in the Schools
* Monitoring Growth from 0 to 12 months.
Thus the objectives to be attained by the year 2000 are:
* To reduce infant mortality from 140 per 1,000 live births to 98 per 1,000;
* To reduce maternal mortality from 914 per 100,000 live births to 457 per 100,000;
* To promote spacing between births of at least two years, reaching 70% of new mothers;
* To increase by 70% prenatal care coverage to term;
* To promote institutional delivery or delivery attended by health personnel with technical
training, increasing coverage from 10% to 50%;
* To reduce the prevalence of moderate protein-calorie malnutrition from 40% to 20% and to
eliminate the current prevalence (2.4%) of severe malnutrition;
* To reduce by 50% the rate of mortality due to diarrheal diseases in children under 5 years of
age;
* To provide oral rehydration salts to 80% of children under 5 years of age with diarrheal
diseases;
* To analyze the risk factors of Acute Respiratory Infections and to develop as a result a strategy
to control them with a view to reducing by 50% current mortality due to acute respiratory
infections;
* To increase vaccine coverage (EPI) from 60% to 90%; and for women of reproductive age,
from 43.8% to 70%;
* To eradicate poliomyelitis and to eliminate tetanus neonatorum;
* To promote information, education, and communication (IEC) activities based on the technical
guidelines of WHO and taking into account the country's socio-cultural context.
2.    THE SUPPLY OF POTABLE WATER, AND ENVIRONMENTAL SANITATION
Diseases associated with deficiencies in the supply of potable water and environmental sanitation
services are among the principal reasons why people consult clinics, dispensaries, and hospitals in this
country. These waterborne diseases and others that result from unhealthful environmental conditions not
only constitute a health problem; they have an effect on the economy because of the lengthy periods of
worker disability that they often cause. In this context, the supply of potable water and environmental
sanitation services is considered an integral component of preventive medicine. The Ministry of Public
Health bases its principal strategy for increasing the coverage of these services and improving the health



- 46 -
Page 6 of 36
of the general public on intersectorial cooperation with the Ministry of Public Works, the Ministry of
Natural Resources, the Ministry of Rural Development and Agriculture, the State Tourism Secretariat,
the City Council of Bissau, and Regional Government Committees.
Available data indicate that the rate of coverage of water supply services in urban areas is 48
percent, but only 30 percent for sanitation services. In rural areas, we have 18 percent coverage for
water supply and 19 percent for sanitation. Considering that the latest assessment of services coverage
was done more than ten years ago, the Ministry of Public Health is giving priority to a new national
appraisal to update these indicators.
Considering the results of the appraisal, the Ministry of Public Health has set the following as
its priorities and objectives for the year 2000:
(a)    Enhancing the Department of Hygiene and Sanitation by strengthening its
institutional capacity and its spheres of authority through personnel training and
technical/materials supply activities; also, ensuring a decentralization of this
department;
(b)   Increasing sanitation services in rural areas and on the outskirts of Bissau by 30
percent, and in urban areas by 40%;
(c)    Increasing water supply in the urban and rural environments by 100 percent;
(d)    Making quality controls on water intended for human consumption operational
in urban and rural zones, aiming at a minimum 30 percent coverage;
(e)    Supplying 50 percent of health centers with potable water by using solar energy;
(f)    Intensifying public information and education activities on the subjects of water
use and consumption, sanitation services, and environmental protection.
3.    DISEASE PREVENTION AND CONTROL
13.1  Malaria Prevention and Control
Malaria is the main cause of general mortality and morbidity in this country. It is one of the
principal factors in the high rates of infant and maternal mortality. The bulk of the absences from work
and school are likewise attributable to this disease. Available epidemiological data are not reliable, or
even indicative, of the magnitude of the problem. However, a general idea can be gleaned from the
figures supplied by the Pediatrics Department of the Simao Mendes National Hospital. In 1991, 3,060
children were hospitalized there with malaria; 300 of them died, which reflects a high death rate, about
10 percent.
Malaria is also blamed for low birth weights, for which the average estimate for both sexes is
12.4 percent. With technical assistance from the WHO, the Government has developed an Anti-Malaria
Plan of Action with a time horizon through 1997, budgeted at US$3.5 million. This plan of action, now
in the process of obtaining Government approval, will later be submitted to the donors.
Objectives
*     Increase to 100 percent coverage and improve public access to early and correct
diagnosis and treatment, in the context of primary health care;
*     Reduce the incidence of serious and complicated cases of malaria, as well as the
high rates of mortality caused by the disease, especially in the under-five age
group and in pregnant women;
*     Train or 'recycle" the technical personnel working at health centers, teaching
them methods of clinical and laboratory diagnosis, epidemiological treatment and
monitoring, including drug-resistant cases.



- 47 -
ANNEX 2-4
3.2    Campaign Against Tuberculosis and Leprosy                 Page 7 of 36
Tuberculosis is one of the main causes of morbidity in this country.  The number of reported
cases rose from 752 in 1987 to 1,246 in 1991. Since 1980, the country has had a Program to Control
Tuberculosis and Leprosy (TUB/LEP), which operates under the supervision and with the support of the
central government. The general objectives of this program are:
(a)    Reducing human suffering and preventing death and disability caused by
tuberculosis;
(b)    Curbing the transmission of tuberculosis and leprosy, and significantly reducing
the social problems they cause;
(c)    Increase ability to track, treat, and monitor cases at 70 percent of the health
centers;
(d)    Reduce the rate of abandonment of treatment to less than 25 percent;
(e)    Expand coverage of the health center services to 70 percent.
Infection with the HIV virus is a risk factor.  A study on the prevalence of HIV among
tuberculosis patients, done by the National TUB/LEP Program, showed that about 20 percent of these
patients are seropositive.
3.3    Program to Control Onchocerciasis
This is an endemic disease that is restricted to the eastern regions of this country, and most
prevalent in the region of Gabd. The country has a Program to Control Onchocerciasis, with assistance
from WHO/OCP. However it is in the process of being returned to national authorities since the
prevalence of the disease is less than 5 percent, which satisfies the return criteria established by the OCP
and the JPC. A plan for the return of this program was drafted and submitted to the donors. Under this
program, the program to control onchocerciasis is being integrated into primary health care and linked
to the program to control malaria and schistosomiasis. Provision is also made for components pertaining
to management, training, and reinforcement/equipment of the sanitation infrastructures in the regions of
Gabd and BafatA. This is an integrated program of great interest to the socioeconomic development of
the eastern regions of this country.
13.4   Campaign Against AIDS and other Sexually-Transmitted Diseases
The STD are, in general, endemic to this country. HIV and AIDS infections are a source of
concern, given the upward trend that began with the identification of the first seropositive cases and of
the disease itself. The predominant virus is HIV-2, but rare cases of HIV-1, and even mixed infections,
have been observed. Heterosexual contact is the most common means of transmission; the male/female
ratio is 1:1. In 1989, rates of serum prevalence found during office visits by pregnant women and among
blood donors ranged between 5 and 9 percent in the Autonomous Sector of Bissau. A National Campaign
Against AIDS is being carried out with technical and financial assistance from WHO, ASDI, and other
donors. The chief components of the program are: management, resource mobilization, information,
education and use of the media, epidemiological monitoring, quality assurance for transfused blood,
clinical support, nursing advice and care. The Ministry of Public Health will develop a single common
strategy for the campaign against STD and AIDS.
Objectives
*      Inform, increase awareness, and educate the public as to the existence, means of
transmission, and ways to prevent infection and illness;
*      Prevention of transmission by transfusion;
*      Counseling for persons who have undergone HIV testing;



- 48 -                          ANNEX  2-4
*     Counseling for family members of AIDS patients;    Page 8 of 36
*     Integration of the battle against STD and AIDS into the realm of primary health
care down to the local level (the individual, the family, and the community);
*     Improvements in knowledge as to the epidemiological status of the disease.
3.5   INFORMATION, EDUCATION, AND COMMUNICATION (IEC)
This country benefits from a variety of information, education, and media activities. Prominent
among them is the strengthening of coordination among the parties involved in this area, and the
consequent development of the productivity of the available equipment and human resources. To that
end, an inter-sectorial structure or mechanism for coordinating IEC activities needs to be created. With
such an initiative, educational messages will reach the public at more regular intervals and contribute
more effectively to the transmission of knowledge, and to promoting attitudes and practices more
beneficial to health. All health programs should have an IEC component.
3.6   POLICIES ON MATTERS OF ESSENTIAL DRUGS. In 1976, the Ministry of Public Health
drafted a National Health Plan in which objectives and strategies in the pharmaceutical field were defined.
The intent was to make high-quality drugs available nationwide and accessible to the entire population.
In 1978, pharmaceutical policy was oriented toward the Essential Medicines Program, which was financed
mainly by UNICEF, ASDI, and also by the WHO. To implement this strategy and improve the
organization of the purchasing process, government importation of medicines was nationalized and
entrusted to one company-FARMEDI--which was awarded exclusive rights to import for the private and
public sectors. In 1987, the Government opted for a policy of economic liberalization, which helped spur
the opening of new private pharmacies; however legislation to regulate both the licensing process and the
procedures for importing drugs and similar products had to be enacted and published. In 1989, the
pharmaceutical legislation was approved by the Council of Ministers. The Ministry of Public Health,
with the support of foreign assistance and with contributions equivalent to US$70,000 (5 percent of the
total spending on medicines) from the Government Budget, has endeavored to assure the population--even
those on its most distant fringes--access to essential medicines. These are distributed judiciously
according to the needs and areas of responsibility of the different levels of the national health service.
The extension of the Bamako Initiative to the entire country (starting in 1993), the recovery of costs of
hospital services, and the ABOTA system will permit improving the system for maintaining the supply
of medicines and the quality of the medical services rendered. Other factors--such as improvement of
management and controls regarding drugs, training and advanced skills mastery by personnel in this field-
-will contribute decisively to the most rational use of the drugs, and consequently benefit the pursuit of
'health for everyone."
IV.   Organization of the National Health System based on Primary Health Care
The Ministry of Public Health is the State agency that sets the direction for national health policy,
to which all elements of the health system should consider as the point of reference for developing their
activities nationwide. The national health system is structured on three levels: Central (national),
Regional, and Local (administrative sector).
IV. 1 - CENTRAL LEVEL
The main role of this level is to formulate policies and strategies and to translate them into master
plans and programs to guide the health actions of the Regions. The Ministry of Public Health is currently
being strengthened. This effort is reflected in:
a) organization of an administrative and technical-scientific staff to mobilize and use resources
for primary, secondary, and tertiary health care by order of priority;



- 49 -
ANNEX 2-4
Page 9 of 36
b) coordination of the activities and services in charge of managing the health programs, stacction
of appropriate health technologies, and establishment of standards;
c) improvement of management of the entire system through the departments in charge of
planning, evaluation, supervision, information, documentation, and operations research;
d) intersectoral coordination for interministerial and multidisciplinary interventions linked to
health development;
e) approval and publication of the Organic Law of the Ministry of Public Health.
IV.2 - REGIONAL LEVEL
This level generally coincides with the country's political-administrative Regions, and has as its
principal function transforming the strategic plans, national programs, and master plans of the central
level into operational plans and activities. The regional structures in charge of implementing the health
system are the Committees of State of the Regions (representatives of the Central Government in the
Regions), the Regional Health Offices (and the Regional Health Commissions to be created). The
Regional Health Offices will act in three fundamental areas: hospital care, public health, and intersectoral
collaboration for the health of populations.
IV.2.1. Regional HosDjtal
In the regions hospital care will be provided in regional hospitals which may be public or
religious, with a management team including at least one physician-director, one chief nurse, and one
administrator. The regional hospital will provide at least the following services: outpatient consultations
by generalists, stomatology, and nursing care; a pharmacy, a laboratory, a radiology unit, and other
services; and care for hospitalized patients in the areas of general medicine, pediatrics, surgery, and
obstetrics.
IV.2.2. Regional Center for Primary Health Care
The principal function of these regional structures is to provide technical support for the
implementation of primary health care in the Health Centers. The articulation between the network of
health centers and the regional hospital and vice versa, and the horizontal linkage with other health-related
sectors (education, agriculture, natural resources, public works, and urban development) shall also be
done at this level. Here the Regional Health Teams operate under the leadership of the Regional Health
Directors, who represent the Ministry of Public Health in the Regions.
IV.3 - LOCAL LEVEL
This level coincides with the political-administrative sectors of the country, which have the
following characteristics:
a) they are clearly-defined administrative zones made up of a population and a local government
that acts by delegation of the Regional State Committee;
b) it is the level closest to the community;
c) it is the operational level of primary health care, in the health centers.
The structures for implementation of the health system at this level are the Sector State Committee
(highest political-administrative authority), the Sector Health Team, and the Sector Health Commission
to be created. The principal attributes at this level are the development and management of the health
system, preparation of the commnunity health plans, organization of the community health activities, and



- 50 -
ANNEX  2-4
Page 10 of 36
support for and monitoring of health activities at the community, family, and individual levels. The
community structures of reference at this level are the Grass-roots Health Units, built and operating at
the initiative of the communities, with support from the State.
IV.4 OTHER ELEMENTS OF THE NATIONAL HEALTH SYSTEM
This chapter will consider the private network of medical offices, nursing posts, pharmacies,
dental offices, Religious and Military Hospitals and Health Centers, health NGOs, institutions offering
medical and technical-medical education, national and foreign research institutions including single entities
or sub-systems of traditional medicine/pharmacopoeia, and the organs or agencies for multisectoral
cooperation for health development.
V.  HEALTH HUMAN RESOURCES DEVELOPMENT
At present, and in general, there is an unequal distribution of human resources, with a tendency
to concentrate in the capital city, there is also a second salient feature, which has to do with the need for
constant technical improvement of the existing technical personnel. At present there is one physician per
8,000 population. There are 250 general nurses, 714 auxiliary nurses, 50 midwives, 85 auxiliary
midwives, 149 laboratory technicians (including auxiliaries). The Government in this special chapter is
formulating a strategy for the development of human resources in health, which will include in detail the
following aspects:
a) updated repertory of personnel, by categories and locales where placed;
b) definition of the staff, based on the needs of the health development process;
c) establishing goals for medical and technical-medical training in function of needs;
d) instituting permanent training for technical and administrative personnel to facilitate technical
and professional improvement and implementation of a policy of promoting, stimulating, and
delegating responsibilities to national staff;
e) correction as soon as possible of the distortions between the central and regional levels and
among the regions themselves, with respect to the distribution of staff;
f) short-term training of physicians with specialties in general surgery, internal medicine,
gynecology and obstetrics, pediatrics, and public health, placing priority on in-country training,
where the conditions should be created for this purpose; proceed in the same direction in relation
to specialized training in nursing and other technical-medical specialties;
g) development of the combination of care-teaching-research in the medical and paramedical
programs of study;
h) creation of a directing staff, staff of the administrative structures, and staff for implementing
national health policy, developing their competences, and provide the material basis for carrying
out their functions.
V. 1   Incentives Policy
One of the difficulties in retaining Ministry of Public Health personnel in the regions is the
remoteness of and difficult access to some zones of the interior.
To retain personnel, incentives must be created so as to make it possible not only for health staff
to remain in those locales, but also to induce spontaneous requests for transfer to the interior. This will
make it possible to reduce the over-concentration of health personnel in the Autonomous Sector of Bissau.
The incentive could take various forms, such as a bonus equal to a certain percentage of the
salary (subsidy for working in remote areas) and provision of adequate housing.



- 51 -                           ANNEX  2-4
Page 11 of 36
To provide such housing, the Ministry of Public Health has been building health units with
housing for the head nurse and midwife. At this time there are 50 health centers with lodging facilities,
of which 13 are new and distributed in three regions of the country.
To come up with the subsidy for working in remote areas, a three-tier system was designed based
on degree of remoteness, to be given a bonus of 200,000, 100,000, and 50,000 Guinea-Bissau pesos
respectively (see annex). Beginning in March of this year this policy will be implemented on a small
scale, i.e. 50,000 and 35,000 respectively for the most remote and intermediate zones, which will make
it possible to progressively keep nurses, midwives, and other mid-level and auxiliary personnel in the
rural areas, while awaiting approval of greater amounts to proceed to implementation of this plan as of
July 1993.
VI. HEALTH CARE FINANCING SYSTEM
14.    Health services are financed almost entirely by funds from the Government Budget, of
which the health sector has been given an average of 8 percent in the past five years, and from
international cooperation (multilateral assistance - 58.7 percent; bilateral assistance - 19.2 percent; and
foreign NGO's, 22.1 percent), representing about 90 percent of the total financing of the sector. Per
capita virtual spending on health is about US$12.00/per annum.
The scarcity of funds available for health from the Government Budget obviously has disastrous
effects on the categories of expenses that must be defrayed by the State, particularly employee
compensation, minor maintenance expenses, travel, and other outlays essential to the normal functioning
of a country's health administration structure. As a result, we experience low productivity among poorly-
motivated personnel, and we witness a constant deterioration in the condition of the sanitation
infrastructure, equipment, vehicles, etc.
The Structural Adjustment Program now underway in this country demands financial austerity,
and that has had a negative impact on the budget for the social sector. The health sector has been heavily
penalized (note the 27.4 percent decline in the government budget for health, from US$3,748,300 in 1986
to US$1,737,800 in 1990). This has further exacerbated the existing imbalance between the categories
of expenditures that are financed by foreign assistance and the categories of expenses financed by the
Government Budget, making availability of counterpart funds difficult, even impossible.
Furthermore, continuity of the entire investment program effort for the sector that results from
foreign aid may be at risk. Therefore, to sum up, the main sources of health services financing are: the
Government Budget, (about 13 percent), community participation and social security (about 2 percent),
and international cooperation (about 85 percent).
VI. 1   Contribution by the Government
The Government earmarks about 8 percent of the General State Budget for the health sector; this
covers 13 percent of the total of health expenditures. Recurring expenses are financed via the Ministry
of Public Health and investment expenses via the State Secretariat of Planning.
VI.1.1 Recurring expenses
About 84 percent of the recurring expenses of the Ministry of Public Health fall under three
principal headings: employee compensation (60 percent), travel (13 percent), and hospital meals (11
percent). Drugs represent 5 percent and maintenance of infrastructures and equipment 1 percent. This
distribution by the various expense categories is unbalanced, and has obvious consequences as regards
the need for maintenance and repair of the infrastructure and equipment.



- 52 -
ANNEX 2-4
Page 12 of 36
The problem is less serious as regards drugs since the domestic share of the total annual estimated
needs of US$1.5 million is only US$70,000.
With a view to correcting these distortions, the Ministry of Public Health will redistribute funds
among the various categories of recurring expenses, but that action will not be sufficient by itself. It will
also be important to find ways to increase the total package of financial resources allocated to the sector.
Three lines of action are anticipated in this regard: (a) redistribution of the General State Budget to
benefit the health sector to a greater extent; (b) immediate implementation of a system for recovering the
costs of hospital services and drugs; (c) channeling of part of the foreign assistance into expenditure
categories that are somewhat neglected in the Ministry of Public Health's budget. We must particularly
face up to the infrastructure and equipment rehabilitation plans, including operation, maintenance, and
repair expenses.
VI. 1.2 Investment expenses
These depend almost entirely on foreign assistance. The Government provided only 4 percent
of this kind of outlay in 1989; this contribution was made via a counterpart budget, nourished irregularly
by the National Development Fund managed by what was then the Ministry of Planning. In order to
overcome this situation, a political decision was made to make recovery of costs an essential component
of the Financial Plan of the Ministry of Public Health, since it constituted the most credible solution for
financing health services.
From this standpoint: (a) the Bamako Initiative, successfully launched on an experimental basis
in two regions of the country, will be implemented nationwide; (b) recovery of the costs of hospital
services will be practiced throughout the country, with the proviso that services are to be rationalized and
optimal use made of qualified personnel to provide those services; (c) voluntary participation by the
community, traditionally known as ABOTA, will be encouraged. Although small community health funds
administered by the communities themselves presently account for less than 1 percent of total financing
for the sector, ABOTA actions are important because they fuel the health system at the community level.
VI.2   Contributions from External Cooperation
T he Ministry of Public Health benefits from an international assistance program whose use is still
rather significantly influenced by the philosophy of the donors, and which impacts particularly on project
financing that covers about 75 percent of the recurring expenses (personnel, nondurables, other kinds of
goods and services) and about 25 percent of the investment expenses. About 60 percent of foreign
assistance is comprised of donations; the rest usually takes the form of loans under favorable and
acceptable conditions.
The leading multilateral cooperation agencies in the health field are WHO, UNICEF, UNDP,
World Bank, EC, UNFPA, UNCDF, and the ADB. Major bilateral sources are Sweden, The Republic
of China, The Netherlands, Denmark, France, Cuba, and Portugal. Principal NGO sources include
CUAMM, DCA, Radda Barnen, ASCOM, CECI, AIFO, GVC, MANITESE, the Calouste Gulbenkian
Foundation, the Catholic Church, the Evangelical Churches, and others.
In this context, the Ministry of Public Health drew up a Financial Plan for the Health Sector,
whose main guidelines are:
*     Implementation of costs recovery;
*     Increasing the Government Budget's contribution to health;
*     Expanding the Bamako initiative throughout the country;
*     Redistributing financial resources among the different categories of recurring
expenses;



-53 -ANNEX  2-4
Page 13 of 36
*      Increasing the percentage of foreign aid allocated to recurring expenses,
particularly to categories of expenses less favorably treated by current budgetary
appropriations;
*      Creation of truly effective means of coordinating, controlling, and optimizing the
execution of foreign aid for the health sector.
Given the present conditions of financial austerity, the financial plan for the health sector is
limited to priority projects and areas of intervention that have a direct impact on raising the quality of
services rendered and expanding the coverage of sanitation services, with a view to bettering the state of
the nation's health and, consequently, improving the current health indicators.
VI.3   Policy of Cost Recovery
Attaining the objectives defined by the national health policy depends on two principal sources
of financing, the Ministry of Public Health budget and international assistance. But in the context of
implementing the primary health care program, whose strategy requires future participation of the
beneficiaries, the Ministry has formulated new guidelines, not only for the policy of developing primary
health care, but also with a view to recovering part of the cost of such services. In this context, there
are two cost recovery systems, a financial contribution from the "Abota" system and the Bamako
Initiative. These can be defined in the following terms:
1)    Financial Contribution from the 'Abota" System
Abota is the fee paid by a group of people from a community in exchange for access to a given
service. This contribution is earmarked for the purchase of drugs to ensure supply at the Basic Health
Units.
The form of the contribution varies from one community to the next. In certain places the elderly
pay, while in other places all of the population five years of age and over participates in financing the
system in order to be able to benefit from the services. Those who do not pay this contribution pay the
full cost of treatment when they use the Basic Health Units.
Unfortunately, these contributions cover only 10% of the costs for drugs incurred by these units.
The strategy seeks not only financial participation, but more importantly encourages the population to
participate in improving its health conditions. Thus in some regions the population contributes more than
is necessary, which shows that people are willing to pay more. In this system patients transferred from
one level to another are exempt from additional payments.
2.     Bamako Initiative
The Bamako Initiative is a strategy to get populations to participate in financing health services.
Its objective is first to create an effective primary health care system, and also to win credibility in the
eyes of the local populations, ensuring them quality health care and getting them to participate in this new
system for financing services.
This project has been in an experimental phase in the Gabu region since 1989. But the shortage
of qualified personnel and degradation of the health facilities and equipment have made it impossible to
expand it to the other regions of the country.
The revenues from this initiative are divided as follows:
-      50% is used to replenish the stock of drugs;
-      25% remains at the regional office to ensure part of current expenditures for supervision;
-      20%  returns to the local level to support possible expenses at the initiative of the
population in the health area served;



- 54 -                       ANNEX 2-4
Page 14 of 36
5% is used as an incentive for the technical personnel.
The 50% used to replenish the stock of drugs is deposited in a bank account to be converted to
foreign exchange so as to ensure the supply of drugs.
This policy made possible the following gains in the Gabd region:
1) Improvement of the quality of care, preventing the stock of drugs from becoming depleted;
2) Improvement of the system for maintenance of the equipment, in particular means of
transportation;
3) Improvement of the quality of continuing training through permanent supervision;
4) Testing the capacity of the populations to participate in the financing of health services;
5) Creation and adequate operation of the regional health management team.
It has been found that the population is willing to pay more if necessary, so long as the variety
and quality of services is increased.
In practice the Government decided to include cost recovery in all health units in the country,
including the regional hospitals and National Hospital.
In effect, the calendar provides for the implementing decrees relating to expansion of the Bamako
Initiative and to cost recovery and hospital services--such as clinical analyses, specialized services in the
regional hospitals, National Hospital, and Center for Tropical Medicine-to be promulgated during the
first quarter of 1993. Implementation should begin soon thereafter (second quarter of 1993). An
evaluation will be undertaken at the end of 1993.
VI.3  BUDGET OF THE MINISTRY OF PUBLIC HEALTH
In 1982, the Ministry of Public Health was allocated a budget in the amount of PG
8,625,700,000.00, including the increments, which represents 11.7% of the national budget
(73,527,000,000.00).
Considering the social sector (health) as priority, for 1993 the National People's Assembly approved a
health sector budget of PG 15,373,410,000.00, which represents 9% of the national budget.
V.5   Nonetheless, as a general policy based on cost recovery, the Ministry of Public Health this year
will take in funds that will be allocated primarily to maintenance of infrastructure and equipment, to
strengthening essential drugs, and to workers' incentives, especially in the remote areas.
b:hpolicy.trs0z23)



SD0WDAS FNbU4A
IEON  DA (XYnU E ORAMNO
ORCAWTO OERAL DO ESTADO: DESPSS wf3
o       a67FI DASACE PtULC
(SW I 000 000 PG)
cod             D*~*&                   Total                                      _        DSTFUE          AL_
__~~~~~~~~~~~a                 *V      mm,      Ab.  , i         I-        JA      A~-    se         O5I     NOV.    Do
1     AS    E CADDWWO               9364.8   7g57   771 57   77BL5    77RS7   7?Lt57   779.57   779L 7   779L57   7717   w7a57   7M795         77R67
l.t.       PE55OAL DO QLAMDR             3C@  td    .S   -7.W  -2is7.W-  2R0.W   25MY.W    2s7FW   2 . 2S7.W  S715M- -NW   -2s7.W   2
P.Z     OAL EYDnuAL                 30Ta0   29s1 9-n 2W28 M      t      2sze    2K1       2ss    2zt    s           2OZ8    2s2 t   2Wa8a   2sE
* 31      OUM  DES"S CCi PMOL            Z71XL0    220A17   22NL1 7   22atI7   223L17   22S.17   229.17   22OLt7   229.17   22!.17   221L17   228L1 7   22OL I7
1.3,1       R_Drraf pOtCdha              ISSE54   I SOL48   1 M46   I aO.4  146   1 GQi   160.4e        t9O4d 1644   I M46   180,46   te44   16M46   16046
1.32        GOMir- ewa a pwwL     6      07.12 4Z20         216    42.28    4I28    42.28    42201  42ae8   422         42-2B    42.2    42.a      4:2S2
1.:33       Abmdwso                       302-34    25S9      5IS    2&I1 269 2519    25,10      &1 9     &19 19  2&I9    2519    MIS       259    2&1 
1.3,4       D6010                          I fi00    1. as    1.21S   1-2f     125      1.25     1.2tS    1.21S    1.25    12       1-2      1.2      1 .25
Z        wei I su:05                      0S"       4222   452.92   4OZ92   477.17   477.17   477.17   53t3   603tM 031           lEm3  31.49   631.4S   "3.49
21.        am D61L   OLIM                C-O aoo     wW      a        a- Kr     oo5a7 --aWW               ow&7   7aODd --W          aooU     aooW  -aW
Z2     I      ID MMO UADOU       U e      8 7       M7       a7b    alk =^    6493    "33    64.3        O2        o4     O4    74&3    74,53    74,6
22-1.        Coblae                       2*1M4     2t.18    2t.18    21.1 6  22-73    2273    2> 73    24 30    24.39    2439    MIS9   21I9    2OL19
ZZ1.1         S_AP         _    ,         2t7."  641ZO 1t1OS    la    GW      21.41    21.41    21.41    23,07    23L07    2307    2487    24.87    24.87
2.21.2        1Wiiribm                     1 se4  .1.32      1 .32  t    A2    1 .32    1.32     1.32     1t3      1.32     1.32  t  1.32    1.32     1.32    1
22-2         Ar                           eaahs t   t     30L60    36,00:v0 4t.6t    41 .8t    4 .6t    44sF    44.85    44s05    4&34    4a34    4&34
22121        C&rsm  db 1mk                 4OL54     &0      3LO       10   sa2         3. 2-4  S24       &GO      350   SG         a7       &77      177   Ln 
2-2.2         Ak  *Lp                     412-82    .30LO    3L3      3OL03    310     310      3&0      3&aO    3&0       3LM    3M        M3       3&3
2.223        06S02                           .0     4S       4.90     4."      534      &34    t&34       &7       &74      S76     42        &t        t
2A        AOlS;O  DE MG6 E sElAff        2M9z4   2t L4t   21&48   21&44    Zll"   22Xa    224,5    2M.11   231.11   231.11   23S1S   23Lts   2XIWS
ZZA     1 a    e*                        1317.00eo so   I oL Soo   1 0We    OLB         mo 1a180  101KbO   I0.8 lOOk8IOO   losotaso   109-00   I zO tava
2-11.2        rmin&s                        Qo.o    acoO    CLoD       aoo     QOO      ao4      CLOD     aoo      aoo0    aoo      GOO      aoo      aOLO
z2sl1.3       akw                           CL        ooOOD   aoo              aoo LO  aoo  oLO  Ooo      aoo      0.oo     aoo      voO     aLoo     aoo
z.A2        CA6A3016    31.70    31 70    31.70  3t.79    3 .70    31.79    M. "    3t.09    3ltX 3200    32.00    32.00
21,t          L c t  de bo                3M.22z     O2 3z 5al2       Ma2  3L52 3OL 52a6z         L2 asz     Ja2    3oLe2    3afi2   3CLS2    3ffi0e    3ao2
13:AS.1.        S-k                        41.a0     SAD     a4s       &49  3 40        14       &40      &40       A   a 4s        &49      19  a 4s
13A1:2          Fnrdi                     32434    27.0S    Z7.03    27'.03    27.03    27.03    z7-03    27.03    27.03    27.03    27.03    2r-03    27.03
zaz2          Tra          *               I&        16 . t.8  I    18  1.l81           1 -')  tZ2        1.39     1 l.SO  1.38     1.46     1.4      14
Z3I2Z1.        s lt-I# &                             I.l8  t.lb        1.18    1.2      1.28     t.2      1.30  tJO         1.3a    1.48     1.49     1.40
2-3LZ22         u=r*lm                      oLoo     CLO      QOD  a oo        aoo  aLoo  aLoo  a 00               0o  aLoo    (LoD  a oooo aoo
z-L3         06W-90                      103tle.1   MW       7s&e    74L90    azZ      6A       ease    821L e42  8a42  oa42    M.30        Sa    3    39
Z4 J.   r  -W    AuroM        - EoF      18"9s3  14C57   14Q57   14aX7   1it6Z 1.62   1tt.52   1515   a 3    1            1 "3s2  IMD 174L          17vsLwos
Z1 >   VIS. E AfrT. PBS96-* 163     Z       M8   t .17  t.l7          1.17     1Z27  t .27  t   27        1.36  t   M       1.36    1.7      1t47     1.47
2a        DESLOCA#                        4490,    MN        3284    32|14 S2SO        340    35.00    3O2        35eo    3&V    41-2    4tM2    41.25
261.        Ed-ii                         30ass     2GO3 Q2I2        2k       3t.O0    31t5     31.50    33W       &M      S98     aaa       Mat   360tO
262I   ;     ADr                           Gaoo an           a7t  a .71        400      CD       to       4.00 00V         4.       4.5      ASS      4.05z 
Z7.       ounlVs OESPE5.^S COR1D11          aoo      aoo     atoo      ooo     CLOD     aoo      aLoD     aoo     Wo)o     0.0      aLoo     ao       aLoo
zaL         ESMN6                           aoo      aoo     aoo      acoO     CLoD     aoo      ooo      QLoo     CLoD     DOO    aoo       aoo      aLoo
&1       T     URAf EeraLatS 1297                   1Q2      1         : xL2    I=s    1032lQ 32t   IOLa  0. 32tC         1a OL2        Q2    I as2    IO3
311.1.       Abro de 114,                 123.at    1032    1as Q     Qa2     s   law  O32    10,32    10.  t32 10.32    1          a32 I   taIO32    10-32
S1.2    r     mw! DO Saooe         aoo               Qoo  aoo  ao0             OOO      aoo  ooo          OLOO  _LO   acoO  _ aoO            aoo      aoo
4                    TOTAL              153341   12428t  12ae28    1stl  1267AX          1297.06   12s708   126a2t  IMa    12t3  i32t.30   132i.3     l=i .30 
OQ 
o 
a-    -



POLICY/           OBJECTIVES                EXPECTED                 MEANS TO                TIME IN   PROGRESS                   SOURCE
PROGRAMS                                    RESULTS                  IMPLEMENT                              INDICATORS            OF
l_______________          ______________                                              FINANCING
1.TO DECREASE            I.Decrease of            -Reinforcement of                      -Vaccines Coverage   MINPH
INFANT MORTALITY    malnourished children;    vaccines;                   IN             of children 0-1 year
FROM  140 TO 110                                                          PROGRESS    old:
PER 1000 LIVE            2.Greater coordination   -Identification of high
BIRTHS;                  and integration from     obstetrical group in                   -TT3 coverage of      POPULATION
central to the peripheral  order to educate them                women of
MATERNAL          2.TO DIMINISH             level;                   for adequate health                   reproductive age and
MATERNAL                                          services;                              pregnant women;       RAADA
MORTALITY FROM           3.Trained human                                                                       BARNEN
914/1000 TO              resources from the        -Reinforcemt of staff                 -Utilization of ORS;
AND               550/100.000 LIVE          central to the to        responsible for         1993-97
BIRTHS;                  peripheral level;        management of the                      -Percentage of        UNICEF
national family                       contraceptive use in
3.TO STRENGTHEN          4.Greater use of         plannign program and                   urban and rural
Ct1LD             THE FAMILY                contraceptives,          fallow up with                         areas;               UNFPA               .
PLANNING                                          statistical services;                                                           0,
PROGRAM TO                                                                1993-97        -Number of
HEALTH  AND   OBTAIN                                                 -Gradual                               personnel trained    WHO
15%COVERAGE OF                                    reinforcement of                       and distributede;
CONTRACEPTIVES IN                                 health structural staff
FAMILY            URBAN AREAS AND                                    for family planning                    -Maternal mortality;  WFP
7% IN RURAL                                       services all over the
AREAS;                                            country;                               -Infant mortality
IN
PLANNING          4.TO MAKE THE                                      -Rationalization of     PROGRESS
GENERAL                                           formation of local staff
(MCH/FP)          POPULATION                                         in family Planning;
UNDERSTAND AND
ACCEPT THE                                         -Integration of family   IN
CONCEPT FAMILY                                    planning in the C.V.    PROGRESS
PLANNING FOR                                      of every structure of
MATERNAL AND                                      professional studies;
CHILD SURVIVAL
-Education for health:
individual, family and   IN
l____________________                               community.             PROGRESS
0 lI
a:Planning.MTR
0i



POLICY/           OBJECTIVES                EXPECTED                  MEANS TO               TIME IN        PROGRESS                 SOURCE
PROGRAMS                                    RESULTS                  IMPLEMENT                             INDICATORS                OF
FINANCING
TO PREVENT AND           DECREASE OF               I.Development of                      Prevention/Reduction     MINPH
REDUCE MORTALITY   MORTALITY AND                   control effort against    1993-94     of mortality:
AND MORBIDITY            MORBIDITY CAUSED   Malaria as integrated
DUE TO MALARIA           BY MALARIA               part of CPS system;                    -Infant mortality;
TO THE LOWEST                                                                                                     WHO
MALARIA           LEVEL POSSIBLE.                                    2.Protection of                        -Mortality in children
pregnant women         1993-97        under five years;
throug chemical
prophylexis;                          -Percentage of severe    ASDI
CONTROL                                                                                                     cases of malaria by age
3.Training of health                  and sex;
staff at all levels in  1993-97
recognition of                        -Death rate;
symptoms and signs of
the different clinical                -Number of cases
aspects;                              hospitalized by age/sex;                 u.
Percentage of cases that
4.Training of                         do not respond to
laboratory technical   1993-97        treatment with
staff at all levels                   cloroquine or other anti-
(central, regional and                malaria medicine;
peripheral) and
equitable distribution                -Protection of pregnant
of said staff;                        women;
5.Experience with the   IN            -Percentage of children
technique of           PROGRESS    with low birth weight
impregnated mosquito                  (2500 Kg);
netting.
-Percentage of pregnant
6.Prevention or                       women with malaria;
reduction of the       1993-97
man/vector contact.                   -Maternal mortality.
0
a:Malaria.



POLICY/           OBJECTIVES               EXPECTED                 MEANS OF              TIME LINE   PROGRESS                SOURCE
PROGRAMS                                   RESULTS                  IMPLEMENTATION                       INDICATORS           OF
FINANCING
CAMPAING          -TO ELIMINATE AND   -National Devolution          I.Implementation of    1993-97       I.National            MINPH
REDUCE RATE OF          Committee                National Devolution                   Devolution
OCULAR LESSIONS                                  Committee;                            Committee
AGAINST           AND BLINDNESS            -Elimination or                                               implemented
DUE TO                  reduction of morbidity    2.Information,        1993-97
ONCHOCERCIASIS          due to onchocerciasis    Education and                         2.Number of          WHO
Communication                        specific activities
ONCHOCERCI   -TO ELIMINATE AND   -Raising technical and                                                  related to IEC (TV
ASIS              REDUCE MORBIDITY   professional level of         3.Training and          1993-97       and Radio)
DUE TO                  staff                    refresher courses
ONCHOCERCIASIS                                                                         3.Percentage of staff
-Reduction of mortality    4.Treatment with    1993-97        with training and
-TO INTERRUPT, IF       due to onchocerciasis    MECTIZAM                              refresher courses
POSSIBLE,
TRANSMISSION OF                                  5.Epidemiological      1993 and 97   4.Number of
THE DISEASE                                      Evaluation                           treatment done with
THROUG                                                                                 MECTIZAM,
CHEMOTHERAPY                                     6.Entomological        1993-97        number of                              00
evaluation                           MECTIZAM pills
used, number of
people with
onchocerciasis
treated with
MECTIZAM
S.Number of
villages visited and
prevalence/incidence
6.Number of
_______________   _____________________   _____________________analyses     done
m
a:oncho.MTR



POLICY/           OBJECTIVES              EXPECTED                MEANS TO              TIME IN       PROGRESS            SOURCE
PROGRAMS                                  RESULTS                 IMPLEMENT                           INDICATORS          OF
FINANCING
NATIONAL          -TO IMPROVE EARLY   -Highier rate of            I.Training of 1 or 2    IN          -Deformity rate
DETECTION OF            'despistagem'          nurses from each      PROGRESS                          MINPH
PATIENT                                        Health Center;                      -Cases of patients
PROGRAM                                   -Regularity of treatment                                    under than 15 years
-TO TREAT                                      2.Integration of      IN            old
PROPERLY IN ORDER   -Complete treatment of   program in the          PROGRESS
TO CONTROL    TO INTERRUPT THE    all registered patients         National Health                     -Prevalence and     AIFO
CHAIN OF                                       Policy;                             incidence
TRANSMISSION           -Better control of
contacts/companions    3.Health Education:    IN           -Percentage of
TUBERCULOSIS  -TO PROGRESSIVELY                                   patients, family      PROGRESS   patients that finished
REDUCE THE                                     members and                         treatment within the   CATHOLIC
PROBLEM OF BOTH                                community;                          defined time period   MISSION
AND LEPROSY    ENDEMICS AND                                                             IN
PREVENT                                        4.Compulsory control   PROGRESS   -Percentage of
DISABILITIES                                   of contacts and                     patientes detected in                V
companions.                        relation to estimated
-TO OBTAIN 90%                                                                     number
REGULARITY
-TO COMPLETELY
AND ADEQUATELY
TREAT REGISTERED
PATIENTS
-TO DETECT 60% OF
ESTIMATED
PATIENTS
a:leprosy.MTR 
o I_
'C



POLICY/            OBJECTIVES              EXPECTED                MEANS TO IMPLEMENT  TIME IN               PROGRESS        SOURCE
PROGRAMS                                   RESULTS                                                           INDICATORS   OF
FINANCING
CAMPAIGN           I.TO INFORM THE         I.More information      I.Health Education and     IN             I .Number of    MINPH
POPULATION ABOUT        about aspects of the    fostering public awareness:   PROGRESS    activities linked
AIDS:TRANSMISSION,      AIDS pandemia, and      Regionalization of the                   with Education
METHODS OF              consequently change of   information program about               for Health       WHO
AGAINST            BEHAVIOR,               population behavior,   the use of condomns; Socio                (posters, TV,
knowledge of            cultural motivation                      radio, etc);     CE
2.TO INFORM AND         epidemiological
EDUCATE YOUNG PEOPLE  situation;                2.Training of              IN            2.1ncidence      ASDI
AIDS AND           AND TARGET GROUPS;                              Trainers,colaboration with    PROGRESS   rate/seroprevale
3.TO DETERMINE          2.Guarantee the minimal  Ministry of Education;                  nce;             UNDP
EPIDEMIOLOGICAL         conditions of hygiene
SEXUALLY           SITUATION AND           and safety for blood    3. sero-epidemiologic      IN             3.Number of     ASCOM
SEROPREVALENCE FOR      banks and Health Units;  Inquiry of AIDS cases;    PROGRESS    AIDS cases
EACH REGION AND                                                                          diagnosed and    WORLD
TRANSMITD    NUMBER OF AIDS CASES    3.Properly trained staff.   4.Strengthening and safety    IN            declared;       BANK
DIAGNOSED;                                      for blood bank, hospital   PROGRESS
hygiene, training and                    4.Number of
DISEASES           4.To PREVENT                                    counseling;                               staff trained and
TRANSMISSION BLOOD TO                                                                     with courses on
BLOOD AND IN-HOSPITAL                           5.Structured hospital      IN            AIDS;
CONTAMINATION;
facilities equipped with   PROGRESS
5.To IMPROVE MEANS OP                           therapeutic resources.                    5.Number of
BACTERIOLOGICAL,                                Treatment of patients.                    counseling
SEROLOGICAL,                                                                              activities;
CYTOL)LGICAL AND
IMMUNOLOGICAL
DIAGNOSIS;                                                                               6.Number of
condonms
6.TO IMPROVE                                                                              distributed;
CONDMONS OP SUPPORT
FOR AND TRE/ATMENT OF
PATIENTS                                                                                 7.Patients
admitted, costs
average length
hospitalization,
average length
life and lethality
rate.                        es >4
a:aids. MTR                                                                                   -                                               *
o l



POLICY/          OBJECTIVES             EXPECTED               MEANS OF             TIMELINE   PROGRESS             SOURCE
PROGRAMS                                RESULTS                IMPLEMENTATION                    INDICATORS         OF
FINANCING
PROMOTION       - TO IMPROVE CARE   - Obtain greater          - Theoretical and    IN            - Evaluate the ETQS  MINPH
OF AUXILIARY   DELIVERY;               efficiency and efficacy    practical courses, with  PROGRESS   curriculum;
NURSES TO                              in care delivery       emphasis on the latter;                               WORLD
GENERAL         - TO PARTICIPATE IN                                                              - Test the number of  BANK
NURSES          THE TRAINING OF                                                                  staff trained.
HEALTH                - Reduction of maternal   Theoretical and    IN
PROMOTION       PERSONNEL;             and infant morbidity and  practical courses, with  PROGRESS
OF AUXILIARY                           mortality              emphasis on the latter.            - Evaluate the ETQS  MINPH
MIDWIVES TO   - TO PARTICIPATE IN                                                                curriculum;
MIDWIVES        RESEARCH;                                                                                           WORLD
- Test the number of  BANK
- TO IMPROVE THE                                                                staff trained.
DELIVERY OF
HEALTH CARE IN
MCH;
- TO PARTICIPATE IN
THE TRAINING AND
SUPERVISION OF
MIDWIVES.
XM
o 4



POLICY/          OBJECTIVES              EXPECTED                MEANS OF              TIMELINE   PROGRESS               SOURCE
PROGRAMS                                 RESULTS                 IMPLEMENTATION                      INDICATORS          OF
FINANCING
STATISTICS       - TO PROVIDE A LIST   - Increased knowledge of  - Program 7 seminars   1994         - 25 participants   MINPH
FOR HEALTH    OF STATISTICAL             statistical terms on the    with a duration of two          trained;
CARE NURSES   DATA AND                   part of nursing staff at    weeks each;                                         WORLD
INFORMATION ON         the health centers;                                         - Report from the   BANK
THE HEALTH                                                                         seminar;
SYSTEM, INCLUDING
ANALYSIS OF DATA;
INFORMATION   - TO OBTAIN                - Greater operational use  - Identify and select            - Technical         MINPH
AND              STATISTICAL DATA    of statistical data.        technical personnel in   1994       personnel selected;
STATISTICAL    AND DRAW                                          statistics;                                             WORLD
SYSTEM FOR       CONCLUSIONS AT                                                                      - 25 technical staff    BANK
TECHNICAL        THE OPERATIONAL                                 - Prepare and carry                 trained;
PERSONNEL IN  LEVEL.                                             out a two-week
STATISTICS                                                       seminar.                            - Report from the
seminar.
x
o l;
a'



POLICY/          OBJECTIVES             EXPECTED               MEANS OF             TIMELINE   PROGRESS               SOURCE
PROGRAMS                                RESULTS                IMPLEMENTATION                     INDICATORS          OF
FINANCING
TRAINING OF    - TO ESTABLISH A         - Extension,           - Recruit consultant;    1994-1995                     MINPH
TRAINERS;        NATIONAL               standardization, and
NETWORK OF             monitoring of the      - Recruit participants;                                WORLD
TRAINERS;              Program for Continuing                                                        BANK
Training;              - Prepare curriculum;
- Approval and
implementation;
FINANCING OF  - TO REPORT ON THE  - Greater capacity for       - Prepare a 6-day     1995         - 50 staff members    MINPH
HEALTH CARE   FINANCIAL                 financial management of  seminar for central              from the central and
SITUATION OF THE    health.                   and regional level                 regional levels;    WORLD
HEALTH SECTOR;                                staff.                                                 BANK
- Report from
seminar.
- TO PROPOSE
STRATEGIES AND                                                                                                       L
TIMELINE FOR
IMPLEMENTATION
OF THE FINANCIAL
POLICY OF THE
HEALTH SERVICES
OQ z
x
o 1
oJ



POLICY/           OBJECTIVES             EXPECTED               MEANS OF              TIMELINE   PROGRESS              SOURCE
PROGRAMS                                 RESULTS                IMPLEMENTATION                     INDICATORS          OF
FINANCING
MANAGEMENT   - TO DESCRIBE THE    - Greater efficiency and   - A one-week seminar  IN              - Reports from the    MINPH
OF HEALTH         HEALTH SITUATION    efficacy in the           applying methods for   PROGRESS   seminars;
SERVICES;         OF ITS AREA;           management of health    adult education;                                      WHO
services;                                                 - Supervision of the
TO PREPARE,                                                                      Regional team;      WORLD
IMPLEMENT, AND                                                                                       BANK
EVALUATE THE                                                                     - 108 members of
PLAN OF                                                                          the Regional team
ACTIVITIES,                                                                      trained;
INDICATING
PRIORITIES AND
BOTTLENECKS;
SUPERVISION       - TO SUPERVISE         - Greater efficiency and   - Program practical    IN      - Reports from      MINPH
OF HEALTH         MANAGEMENT OF          efficacy in the        seminars;             PROGRESS   supervisory visits;
SERVICES;         THE HEALTH             management of health                                                          WHO
SERVICES;              services;              - Program supervisory              - 108 members of
visits;                            the Regional team  WORLD
trained in         BANK
- Computerization of the                                  supervision;
INFORMATICS    - TO CREATE A             National Health System.
DATA BANK AT THE                              - Recruit the         1993-1994                        MINPH
CENTRAL AND                                   participants;                      - Participants
REGIONAL LEVELS;                                                                 recruited;          WHO
- Identify and select
- TO USE THE                                  locale for training;               - Locale chosen;    WORLD
INFORMATION                                                                                          BANK
SYSTEM OF THE                                 -Training.                         - 20 people trained
HEALTH SERVICES.                                                                 in computers.
(D
4x
"3



POLICY/            OBJECTIVES              EXPECTED                 MEANS OF              TIMELINE    PROGRESS               SOURCE
PROGRAMS                                   RESULTS                  IMPLEMENTATION                       INDICATORS          OF
FINANCING
MANAGEMENT    - TO PLAN AND                - Greater management of  - Prepare and         1994           - 15 pharmacy       MINPH
OF DRUGS FOR    MANAGE THE                 drugs;                   implement a 10-day                   technical personnel
AUXILIARY          REGIONAL STOCK OF                                seminar for pharmacy                trained;             WORLD
NURSES;            DRUGS IN A SIMPLE                                technical personnel;                                     BANK
AND TRANSPARENT                                                                      - Report;
MANNER;
- TO COLLABORATE    - Greater efficiency and   - Prepare a             1995          - Curriculum done;   MINPH
IN THE                  efficacy in disease     curriculum;
MANAGEMENT AND    treatment and drug                                                 - Participants       WORLD
STREAMLINING OF         consumption;            - Select participants;               selected;            BANK
THE NATIONAL
TECHNICAL          DRUG POLICY;                                     - Implementation;                    - 50 auxiliary
PERSONNEL IN                                                                                             nurses;                               a
HEALTH
Report.
- TO PLAN,              - Improve the country's   - Prepare and        1995          -20 technical staff    MINPH
IMPLEMENT, AND          health and hygiene.     implement a 14-day                   in sanitation trained.
EVALUATE                                        seminar.                                                  WORLD
ACTIVITIES                                                                                                BANK
RELATED TO THE
ENVIRONMENT.
~t 1
a.'z
{D>
o lr
Fh



POLICY/          OBJECTIVES             EXPECTED                MEANS OF              TIMELINE   PROGRESS              SOURCE
PROGRAMS                                RESULTS                 IMPLEMENTATION                     INDICATORS          OF
FINANCING
PROMOTION        - TO COLLABORATE    - Greater efficiency and   - Prepare a           1993-1995    - Curriculum done;   MINPH
OF NURSING       IN THE                 efficacy in the         curriculum.
AUXILIARIES    IDENTIFICATION           management of                                              - Curriculum        WORLD
TO               AND RESOLUTION         pharmaceutical services;   - Approval;                     approved;           BANK
PHARMACY         OF PROBLEMS IN
TECHNICAL        THE USE AND                                    - Implementation of                - 50 nursing
PERSONNEL;    CONSUMPTION OF                                    the course;                        auxiliaries promoted
DRUGS;                                                                            to pharmacy
technical personnel;
- TO COLLABORATE
IN THE
MANAGEMENT OF
PHARMACEUTICAL
SERVICES;
PROMOTION        - TO PLAN,             - Improve health and    - Prepare a           1993-1995    - Curriculum done;   MINPH
OF NURSING       IMPLEMENT, AND         hygiene conditions in the  curriculum.
AUXILIARIES    EVALUATE                 country.                                                   - Curriculum
TO               ACTIVITIES                                     - Approval;                        approved;           WORLD
TECHNICAL        RELATED TO THE                                                                                        BANK
PERSONNEL IN  ENVIRONMENT                                       - Implementation of                - 20 nursing
SANITATION                                                      the course.                        auxiliaries promoted
to sanitation
technical personnel;
0% t'3
0'



POLICY/           OBJECTIVES              EXPECTED                MEANS OF               TIMNELINE    PROGRESS              SOURCE
PROGRAMS                                  RESULTS                 IMPLEMENTATION                       INDICATORS           OF
FINANCING
PROMOTION         - TO IDENTIFY THE       - Channelling of all    - Preparation of a     1993-1995     - Curriculum done;   MINPH
OF NURSING        SOCIAL CASES,           social cases in the     curriculum;
AUXILIARIES    MONITOR THEM,              different health units;                                      - Curriculum         WORLD
TO SOCIAL         AND DIRECT THEM                                  - Approval;                         approved;            BANK
TECHNICAL         TO THE MOST
PERSONNEL;    VIABLE SOLUTIONS;                                   - Implementation of                  - 30 social technical
the course.                         personnel trained;
PROMOTION         - TO PLAN,              - Extension of coverage   - Preparation of a   1993-1995     - Curriculum done;   MINPH
OF NURSING        IMPLEMENT, AND          in the operating rooms    curriculum;
AUXILIARIES    EVALUATE                   of the country.                                              - Curriculum         WORLD
TO                ACTIVITIES                                      - Approval;                          approved;            BANK
ANESTHESIA        RELATED TO
TECHNICIANS   ANESTHESIA.                                         - Implementation.                    - 20 auxiliary nurses
promoted to
anesthesia
technicians.
l~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
N')
O 4
o .1
o'



POLICY/              OBJECTIVES             EXPECTED               MEANS OF              TIMELINE    PROGRESS              SOURCE
PROGRAMS                                    RESULTS                IMPLEMENTATION                      INDICATORS          OF FINANCING
PROMOTION OF         1. TO PREPARE A PLAN    - Have quadrennial    - Evaluate and identify  1993       - The program       MINPH
HYGIENE AND          FOR IMPLEMENTATION    planning, defining the   the priority needs and             document
ENVIRONMENTAL   OF THE PROGRAm FOR    priority activities, costs  define specific                      prepared,           POPULATION
SANITAION IN    ENVIRLONMENTAL 
SANITATION IN        HYGIENE AND            of implementation, and   objectives, anticipated           providing details of
RURAL AND            SANrrATION IN RURAL   timeline for execution    results, activities to be         the program;        UNDP
URBAN AREAS          AND URBAN AREAS.       of the program;        undertaken; the       1993
indicators should be a             - Evaluation of the   FENU
RESOURCES NEEDED TO   - Have the funds       basis for evaluating                 people needed for
IMPLFMENT THE         needed for             program costs;                       implementation of   NETHERLANDS
PROGRAM ACTIVITIES    implementation of the                                       the program
PLANNED.              program;               - Select the           1993          activities;        WORLD BANK
HaveO aNtrainingM    development partners
STONIFICANnY            Have a training      that are willing to                  - Number of
STRENanHEN THE        progran in the area of   cooperate with the                 technical staff in
CAPACrrY FOR          management and have    Ministry of Public                   sanitation and
MANAGEMENT AND        80 technical personnel   Health in            1993-1996     management
AND ENMIRONMENTAL    in that discipline, and    implementation of the             located at the local                 X
SANITARON             also in the planning,  program and request                  level to involve the
programming,           assistance from the                 population in the
4. TO INCREASE AND    implementation and     partners who express a               villages;
STMENGarEN THE        evaluation of the      willingness;
CAPACITY OF THE       principal activities of                                     - Number of
TECHNIAL SERVICES
AT TESECTOR LEVEL   the program;             - Prepare a program                  family latrines
WrTH A VIEW TO                               for management                       built in the villages
INVOLVING THE         - Have 200 family      training and proceed                 of the program
POPULATION AT THE     latrines in the cities,    to train 80 technical            zone and in the
LOCAL LEVEL IN        public bathrooms in the  personnel in                       schools, health
IMPLEMENTATInON OF
IMPLEMTATION WOR.     schools, markets, and    programming,                       units, and markets.
health units;         implementation, and
evaluation of the
- Have 40% coverage    principal project
of hygiene and        activities;
sanitation; have 200
family latrines in the  - Build 20 latrines in
sectors.              each sector; and build                                                   >X
bathrooms in the                                                       a "
markets and health                                                     0
units.



POLICY/              OBJECTIVES            EXPECTED                 MEANS OF              TIMELINE    PROGRESS              SOURCE
PROGRAMS                                   RESULTS                  IMPLEMENTATION                       INDICATORS         OF FINANCING
PROMOTION OF         - TO REDUCE           - Have 60% of the urban  - Divide the urban     1993-1996     - Number of urban   MINPH
HYGIENE AND          SIGNIFICANTLY THE     centers with refuse      agglomerations into                  agglomerations
ENVIRONMENTAL   PROBLEMS OF                disposal services        two types of                        benefitting from    WORLD BANK
SANITATION IN        CONDITIONS CAUSED    coverage greater than     neighborhoods, the                  the activities of
RURAL AND            BY THE ANARCHIC       50%;                     first type of which   1993          collection and      POPULATION
URBAN AREAS          AND DISORDERLY                                 would benefit from                   disposal of refuse,
(continued)          DISPOSAL OF TRASH IN   - In 4 regions have     household refuse                    whose accessibility   UNDP
URBAN AREAS;         services that apply the  collection and the                   or coverage is
- TO MAKE            surveillance and quality   second type would be               50%;               FENU
OPERATIONAL THE       control of potable water   served by the       1994-1996
ACTIVrITES OF         activities with a view to   provision of public              - Number of        NETHERLANDS
SURVEILLANCE AND     preventing water-borne    facilities; implement               sectors whose
QUALITY CONTROL OF   diseases and epidemics;   the work of collection              technical personnel
FOUR REGIONS AND                              and transport of                     benefitted from
APPLY CORRECTIVE      - Reduce the population   refuse;                            training,
MEASURES IF          or number of the                                              equipment,
NECESSARY;           principal vector         - Provide refresher                  reagents, and
- TO REDUCE THE       (mosquito) in 500       training to technical                where the activities
INCIDENCE OF          villages where malaria is  personnel in 26 sectors           of surveillance and                   a
MALARIA BY 30% BY     endemic.                on control and                       control of water
ADOPTING A CONTROL                            surveillance of water                quality were
PROGRAM USING                                 quality, provide the                 undertaken;
MECHANICAL MEANS.                             equipment and
reagents needed;                    - Number of
undertake operations                villages that
of analysis and                     benefitted from
surveillance of water               this treatment;
quality;
- Incidence of
- Provide the                       malaria per sector
equipment and                       in relation to prior
insecticide appropriate             situation.
for organizing                                                            z
chemical control of the                                                   x
vector in 200 houses
per sector twice                                                        0
_____________________                      yearly.                                              _  _



POLICY/               OBJECTIVES             EXPECTED                 MEANS OF               TIMELINE    PROGRESS               SOURCE
PROGRAMS                                     RESULTS                  IMPLEMENTATION                        INDICATORS          OF
FINANCING
INFORMATION,          1. TO ESTABLISH        1. Greater coordination   1. Strengthening      1993          - Installation and   WORLD
EDUCATION AND    THE NATIONAL                of the IEC activities by    institutional capability;         operation of the     BANK
COMMUNICATION   COUNCIL ON                   the MINPH;                                                     intersectoral
(IEC)                 INFORMATION,                                    2. Training of         1993-1997     coordination entities
EDUCATION, AND         2. Changes in the       technical personnel;                  on IEC for health;    CECI/
COMMUNICATION.   knowledge, attitudes,                                                                    CANADA
and practices that have a   3. Technical       1993-1997      - Number of
2. TO DEVELOP          positive impact on health  assistance;                        technical personnel   WHO
THE IEC                promotion and disease                                         trained in the areas
CAMPAIGNS              prevention.              4. Concept of coherent  1994-1997    of IEC;              CESTAS
DIRECTED TO                                     educational messages;
TARGET GROUPS                                                                        - Programming of    EC
OF THE                                          5. Production and      1994-1997     the national IEC
POPULATION IN A                                 dissemination of                     strategies;
COORDINATED                                     audio-visual messages
MANNER.                                         for specific groups of               - Number of
the population;                      audiovisual
materials produced,
6. Development of      1994-1997     pre-tested, and
teaching materials to                distributed;
support health
promotion and disease                - Number of
prevention;                          manuals, brochures,
and others MEPS
7. Use of the          1994-1997     produced and
communications media                 distributed to the
(radio, TV,                          various teaching
newspapers) to                       institutions;
transmit the
educational messages.                - Frequency of
publicationl
broadcast of the                  o
education messages
in the                              1
communications 
media.



POLICY/              OBJECTIVES               EXPECTED                 MEANS OF               TIMELINE    PROGRESS                SOURCE
PROGRAMS                                      RESULTS                  IMPLEMENTATION                        INDICATORS           OF
FINANCING
STRENGTHENING   - TO DECENTRALIZE    - Decentralization of the   - Establishment of a         1993           - Number of human   MINPH
THE NATIONAL    THE MANAGEMENT    Health Service to the               team for technical                     resources existing
SYSTEM OF            OF HEALTH                regions;                 support and                           and their            WORLD
MANAGEMENT           SERVICES TO THE                                   management in the                     distribution;        BANK
DIFFERENT REGIONS   - New count of health         regions;
OF THE COUNTRY;          personnel;                                                     - Existing standards   ASDI
- Updating of          1993-1997     and criteria for
- TO CORRECT THE                                  information on                        distribution;        BAD/FAD
DISTORTIONS IN THE   - Correction of the          existing resources and
DISTRIBUTION OF          distortions in the      their distribution;                    - Permanence of
HUMAN RESOURCES   distribution of personnel;                                           human resources in
IN ACCORDANCE                                     - Re-definition of the    1993        the rural areas.
WITH NEEDS;                                       standards and criteria
- Improved coordination   for distribution and
- TO IMPROVE THE         and integration;         allocation of human
COORDINATION AND                                  resources;
INTEGRATION OF
THE DIFFERENT            - Computerization of the   - Establishment of   1993
ELEMENTS OF THE          management system.       incentives to improve
NATIONAL HEALTH                                  the socioeconomic
SYSTEM.                                           conditions of the
human resources in
rural areas.
x ¢
o I >
I-.



POLICY/    OBJECTIVES                    EXPECTED                 MEANS OF               TIMELINE  PROGRESS                 SOURCE
PROGRAMS                                 RESULTS                  IMPLEMENTATION                        INDICATORS    OF FINANCING
ESSENTIAL    1. TO ENSURE THE            1. Technical personnel    1. Training of        1993-1997      1. Number of        MINPH
DRUGS          AVAILABILITY OF           trained in the          technical personnel                    technical personnel
QUALITY DRUGS            management and control   necessary for meeting                 trained;            WHO
THROUGHOUT THE           of drugs.                the objective;
COUNTRY THAT ARE                                                                        2. Number of        UNICEF
ACCESSIBLE TO THE   2. Construction of            2. Creating storage    1993-1994      Regional deposits
ENTIRE                   deposits for storage     conditions at the                     built;              NETHERLANDS
POPULATION;              progressively in all     regional level;
regions of the country;                                        3. Number of        FRANCE
2. TO EXPAND THE                                  3. Standardization and   1993-1997    manuals distributed
BAMAKO INITIATIVE   3. Implementation of the   use of the treatment                     and their use;      ASDI
PROGRESSIVELY            Bamako Initiative        manual;
THROUGHOUT THE           progressively to the                                           4. Percentage
COUNTRY;                 entire country.          4. Implementation of                  recovery from the
the cost-recovery                     Bamako Initiative
3. TO IMPROVE THE                                 system based on                       in relation to the
MANAGEMENT AND                                    payment for drugs (BI)  1993-1997     anticipated
CONTROL OF DRUGS                                  to the entire country;                amount;
SO AS TO
CONTRIBUTE TO                                     5. Establishment of                   5. Number of
THEIR RATIONAL                                    management checks in                  management units
USE.                                              the health             1994-1997      established and
establishments to                     operating;
monitor revenues;
6. Rate of use of
6. Introduction of the                health services by
accounting system for   1994-1997     the population.
financial management
of the costs recovered;
7. Financial incentive
to the health personnel
working in the         1994-1997
structures where the
cost-recovery policy is                                                         x
implemented.                                                                 r'-
o 4



POLICY/           OBJECTIVES               EXPECTED                 MEANS OF               TIMELINE    PROGRESS                SOURCE
PROGRAMS                                   RESULTS                  IMPLEMENTATION                        INDICATORS           OF
FINANCING
INCENTIVES        - TO HELP KEEP           - Equitable coverage of    - Provision of        1993          - Number of health    MINPH
FOR HEALTH        TECHNICAL                personnel for all the    adequate housing;                     centers with lodging
PERSONNEL         PERSONNEL IN             peripheral health units.                                       facilities;          WFP
HEALTH IN THE                                     - Construction of more  1993-1994
AREAS CONSIDERED                                  housing;                              - Number of          WHO
TO BE REMOTE.                                                                           housing facilities
- Implementation of    March 1993    built;
subsidy for working in
remote areas.                        - Payrolls;
- Number of health
personnel sent to
work in remote
areas.
01
Lol
Y-t 4:-
0



POLICY/             OBJECTIVES                EXPECTED                 MEANS OF               TIMELINE  PROGRESS                  SOURCE
PROGRAMS                                      RESULTS                  IMPLEMENTATION                        INDICATORS           OF
FINANCING
SPECIALIZATION   - TO TRAIN                   - Improved distribution    - Technical assistance    1993-1997  - Number of         MINPH
OF PHYSICIANS       SPECIALISTS IN THE    of specialists throughout  to prepare local                        specialists trained
IN FIVE             AREAS OF                  the country;             curriculum;                           per area;            WORLD
DIFFERENT           PEDIATRICS,                                                               1993-1997                           BANK
AREAS               OBSTETRICS AND            - Reduced dependency     - Begin training;                     - Capacity of the
GYNECOLOGY,              on medical specialists                                         services to respond.   WHO
SURGERY, INTERNAL   from abroad.                  - Lecture classes,     1993-1997
MEDICINE, AND                                     practical sessions, case
PUBLIC HEALTH.                                    studies, group
discussion;            1993-1997
- Periodic evaluation
and exams.
X 4
ho l 



POLICY/             OBJECTIVES            EXPECTED                MEANS OF              TIMELINE    PROGRESS               SOURCE
PROGRAMS                                  RESULTS                 IMPLEMENTATION                      INDICATORS           OF FINANCING
PROGRAM FOR         - PREPARE AN          - Updated information   - Based on levels and    1993-1997  - Updated plan that   MINPH
REHABILITATION   OPERATIONAL PLAN        on the functions and     category of health                  defines the attributes
AND EQUIPPING    OF ACTON ON THE         attributes of the different  training, take                  of each             WORLD BANK
SrRENGTrHENING,
OF                  REHABILITATION, AND   decentralized levels of    inventory of and                 decentralized level
INFRASTRUCTUR   EQUIPPING OF THE         the health units based on  evaluate the priority             of health unit and  FENU
ES                  HEALTH               the categories of        needs in terms of                   having a standard
INFRAS1RUCrURES,    personnel assigned to    strengthening,                       equipment list for  UNICEF
BASED ON THE         each level and type of    rehabilitation, and                each type or
EFFICACY OF
DECENTRALIZATION     equipment;              equipping of the health              category of health    JAPAN
infrastructures;                    unit;
- UPDATE THE         - Health units with                                                              UNDP
NATIONAL POLICY ON   permanent autonomous    - Standardize the                    - Number of health
INFRASTRUCTURE       power supply to         infrastructure plan at               centers             NETHERLANDS
NEEDS FOR EACH       guarantee proper        the different levels;  1994-1995     strengthened,
LEVEL OF             operation of the cold   strengthen 26 health                 number of hospitals   FRANCE
DECENTRALIZAT[ON     chain and install a     centers; rehabilitate 9              rehabilitated;
AND DETERMINE THE   pump;                    health centers and S                                     DCA/DANIDA
NUMBER OE  UNIL S TO                         regional hospitals;                  - Number of health
AND EQUIPPED;        - Health units at the                                        centers equipment    GVC
different decentralized  - Provide the needed               with a solar power
- UPDATE THE UST OF  levels that match the   equipment at each                    system;             CUAMM
EQUIPMENT NEEDS      standards and conditions  level;
FOR EACH TYE AND    for care delivery;-                                           - Number of health    CECI
CATEGORY OF          foUcrNdlvey
AT EACH LEE OF                                - Provide and install               centers with
DECENTRALIZATION;   - Health units that are    the power equipment    1993-1997   communications      MANITESE
EQUIP HEALTH UNn'S.  operational from the    needed for each health               equipment;
standpoint of care      unit selected;
delivery;                                                   - Number of
- Equip the health                  reference hospitals
- Improvement of the    centers with means of               outfitted with
mechanism of health     communication and                   communication
evacuation in case of   also equip the                      equipment and
emergency.              hospitals with means                ambulance.
of conununication and
ambulance.
AX
i I



POLICY/          OBJECTIVES             EXPECTED              MEANS OF              TIMELINE   PROGRESS              SOURCE
PROGRAMS                                RESULTS               IMPLEMENTATION                     INDICATORS          OF
FINANCING
COURSE FOR    - TO PROGRAM,             - Greater response    - Theoretical and    IN            - Evaluate          MINPH
AUXILIARY        IMPLEMENT, AND        capability on the part of   practice courses, with   PROGRESS   curriculum of the
LABORATORY   EVALUATE THE              the diagnostic services;   emphasis on the latter;        ETQS;
TECHNIIANS;TECHNIQUES OF
- The number of
COURSE FOR    - TO coLLABORATE IN                                                                staff trained;
MIDWIVES;       THE IDENTIFICATION OF
COMMUNITY PROBLEMS
PROMOTION        IN THE CLINIC AND     - Reduction of matenal
OF AUXILIARY                           and infant morbidity and  - Theoretical and  IN           - Evaluate the
LABORATORY   - TO IMPROVE CARE         mortality;             practical courses, with  PROGRESS   curriculum of the  RADDA
TECHNICIANS   DELIVERY IN MCH;                                emphasis on the latter;            ETQS;               BARNEN
TO               - TO PARCIPATE IN 7H
LABORATORY   TRINING AND                                                                         - Number of staff
TECHNICIANS   SUPERVLSION OP                                                                     trained;
MllDWIVES;
- TO PROGRAM,                                - Preparation of a    LAST
IMPLEMENT, AND
EVALUATE TECHNIQU     - Greater response     curriculum;           QUARTER    - Curriculum          WORLD
OP ANALYSIS;           capability on the part of                   1993-1994    prepared;           BANK
the diagnostic services.   - Approval of the
- TO COLAORATE IN                            curriculum;                        - Curriculum
THE IDENTIFICATION OF                                                           approved;
CONMUNITY PROBLEMS
IN THE CLINIC AND                            - Implementation of
PUBLIC HEALTH;                               the course.                        - 40 auxiliary
laboratory
- TO PARTICIPATE IN                                                             technicians
LABORATORY TRAINING                                                             promoted to
AND RESEARCH.prmtdo
AM  MEARCH.                                               ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~laboratory
technician.
lb
c:,
a r






REPULIC Of WIINEA-IISSAU
SOCIAL SECTOT PROJECT
oranlurm  of the Prole Coordination Unit mid Social Action fund Unit
MINISTRY OF PUIICI                                                    NINISTRY Of FOREIGN
EALTN                                                         AFFAIRS AND COOPERATION
-A
SOCIAL  ECTOR PIOJECT  EINABIENT                                                          S OCIAL ACTION FUND UIIT  WNACUT
S                                                   s~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~'
Project 1lmmn ntation                       PFOECT/.
c<mittoo (for Health Sector                  COORDINATING
Subprojects):                                UNIT (PCU)
- Training md N11ta.m_
Tachnical DIr.cterzI_      _
- Prrcurnt/Archittturatl Spt.               Project Director      _ 
*NINPI Dir.of Plton                      -o Accounitant
* NIWNP Nati. Dir. of Pc;                   Cl rk                         'S-
- FCU Dlrrece                                Secretory
tar                                  -Serietry'
RiAINING SWB-P3O"CT                                                      -LocaEo.R.SA As,tth   nangir
"Nane,ir1ctor                 rlwA    Rep.                                                               -Secretary
-Tech. Ninistrie  Rep.        -Driver
Is IEC   -PJC      1
Trainine *nd   Ngt.                                                                                                         SAMk ae m"  Pt
; IEC  UO-P-£JECT                                                                           g^^~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~oi tde A*fi go"  >
P neging Director                                                                                                           VAOM Dop'm, of a"" aDAd  - _        Z
I _  - A *  " "o.                m
R*IENABILITATION/                                                                                                            fW  Ah . ^ ws 
EOOlPlINO 51J-PROJECT                                                                                                          DA  rooms"  ml_     D
Procuriwmnt/Archi tecturl                                                                                                        __     m  _  1I11ow
eSpelalist                                                                                                            VAui . a -* .                       _.
bz.rg.1                                                                                                    ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~F." do A#in a  msa



r0



Distribtijtof  sidsting~d   od Heslth Prolessionast
REGIONS
N(AL1N FACILIFIES: 1/                               2 SN        2 SN *      I SN       I so        2 SN       2 so        I SN
4 C       iN K        14Hlc       13 P       16NPC       IIU         11IIHC     19 NC      I1I7Hc
Ilevel aGM  Type of                                                                                                               S.MbtotaI  Regioali National   Reaference  Central           TOTAL
Hecalth prulessiou.els      Bissau     Riama        Ole       Eodema       Gaba        Waslt     Quinara    Tomb~all    Cache.    ltegions   Ack In.    Nospital   Centers    Services           MINSAS
ExisHedw     aseed ExsN*  xslaHeecl Exisece  Need ExissHeed ExsssHeed Eass.     Need Wsisgeed ExI.ec   zsleNeed    Needs   ExisleHed  ERIS.Heed  EislaHeed   Eals.3/ Heed
Nigh level lfthn.
Doctors  21                   I    '.     1    2     2    6      3    2      3    S     4    5      1    2     3    6      3    3    21   37           9    35   715     S    a     '    6         70  135
Pharmecast.                   0    0      0    S     a    0      a    0     0    0      I    0      0    0     0    a      0    0      0    a         9      3    3      I    I     5    5          9 Is
"46total              I    1.     1    2     2    6      3    2      3    5     A.   3      1    2      3          3    5    21 37            la    38 78        9    9    Il   11         79153s
NlidSle-i.vei Iecdn.
W'wrSeS                      28    a    Is1 I       1IIS26    12  17    27  26    21 21    161Is    21 31    24  27   179 182                        27 101 293          II   8    32 32          320 542
Nid-wives                     0    1.     0    2     0    6      8    2      2    S     I   5       0    2     0    6      0    3      3  37           9     9  33       2    0     0    0         14179
Phawmi. Ichn.                 a    4      6    2     0    4      0    2     0    3      0    3      S    2     0    &      0    3      a027           1a     0    6      0    0     01             156Is
Iabcortory 1echn.             0    4     0    2      0    4      0    2     0    3      0    3      0    2     a    4      0    3      0  2?          9      6  10       0  19      0    1          66A.
HRaiy lecbn.                  a    0     0    0      0    2      8    0     0    2      0    2      0    0     0    2      2    2      2  10          0    1010a         0    0     0    0         12  20
Anwsthesia Iechn.             0    0    .0    a      0    2      0    0     0    2      0    2      0    a     0    2      S    2      0   t0         0      0   12      0    0     0    0         It   22
Envlermmt Smn..Teckn.         0    0      S    0     0    0      0    0     0    0      0    a      0    0     0    0      a    0      a    a          9     0    0      0    0     0    0          0    9
Nygiene/Epld. Iechnl.         0    0     0    0      0    0      0    0     0    0      0    0      0    0     0    0      0    0      0    0          0     0    0      0    0     0    0          5    0
Social lechn.                 0    4     0    2      0    3      0    2      1    2     0    2      a    2     a    3      I    2      2   22         9      0    3      2    2     1    1          5   37
Statlstlcit anlchn.          0    0      a    0      0    1      0    0     0    I      0    1      S    0     0    I      0    I     0    5           9     0    2      0    0     2    2          218
Subtotal             28  24      15 19      is548       12  25      30  44    22 39    16  23    21353    27 45   186 320                     90   126 369      12 29    3351S            390859
Auxiliary lweve lechn.
AIM -.Hkwa:S                67 24    37  26    96 56    76  38             78  58    92 48    78  341037 To                7?60  716414               0  303 152    26  26          a    a       1053 600
Aux.NMid'wle.                11    S     4  11      14 28       10  17      3  28       9  23      1015s    12 33    19  29    92 192                 0      .5 25       0    0     6    6        143 223
Aux. Pherimoclts              0    0     0    0      0    0      0    0     0    0      0    0      0    0     0    0      0    0     0    0          0      0    0     0    0      0    0          0    0
Aux. aboralorylechn.        20    4     2    9      7   18      a   15    20   19      9   14    t0   13    12   23    13   20   101  135            0    40    6    37   37       0    0        178  178
Aus. Enw. snit.               0    0     0    7      0   14      0   13     0   16      0   II     0   II      0   19      0   17     0 108           0      0    0     0    0      0    3         25  III
AUK.SoCil,t                  0    0      a    a      I    I      0    0     I    I         II      0    0      1    I      1    1     3    5s         0      0    0      0    0     0    0          3    5
S.total              96   36    43   33   120  11?    94   83   102  122   III  97    98   T3   128  146   120  127   914  854                 0   388  183    63   63    14   17        1404 1117
tOtAL             127  6U    59   74   137  171   109  110   135  171   137  141   115   98   152  205   ISO  177  1121 1211               108   352  630    84  101    60   79        1873 2129
J/ NC: Nlimath Center; RNB: Regiomio  Noapita; SM: S.ctoral NicePitbtl.                                                                                                                                ~
2/ NationaL DoctOrs.                                                                                                                                                                            O
3/ The following rov.ber of existirng health professionast  was not provided by regions or by institutions: 
Pharmacist Techrn.: 15; An,sthesfs Technl.: 11; Myglene/Epid. Techn.: 5; arx Aux. Env. Sanit.: 25.
0
Source: NINPIB. Directorate for Generat Studies ond Plamning. 1992.                                                                                                                              m"
tai
b:prof.WA (gubear)



- 80 -
ANNEX 3-2
Page 2 -of 2
REPU8LIC OF CUIhEA- ISSAU
SOCIAL SECTOR PtOJECT
Situation of Existiru/Neodc of Health Professionalc after Completion of the Training Prograoc
TOTAL NWMER
TOTAL NUMER          TOTAL NUMER   OF HEALTH                   TOTAL  USUSER
OF HEALTH            OF HEALTH       PROFESSIOKALS             OF HEALTH
LEVEL AND TYPE OF                PROFESSIONALS        PROFESSIONALS  KING ADDED OR              PROFESSIONALS
HEALTH PROFESSIONALS               (IN 1992)          LACKING (-) OR KING REDUCED                  (IN 1996)
IN EXCESS (+) THNRON TRAINING-
Existing       Noeds         (IN 1992)       (1992-1996)        Existing        Needs 1/
High Levet Techn.             (1)           (2)        (1)-C2) * (3)         (4)         (1) (4) * (5)  (5)-(2) * (6)
National Doctors                  70            135              -65               109              179             44
Pharmacists                        9             18               -9                 0                9             -9
Subtotal                   79            153              -74               109              188            35
Middle-Level Techn.
Nurses                           320            542             -222               150              470            -72
Mid-wives                          14            79              -65                50               64            -15
Phcr-. Techn.                      15             6              -51                50               65             -1
Laboratory Techn.                  6              6              -60                40               46            -20
X-Ray Techn.                       12            20               -8                 0               12             -8
Anesthesia Techn.                  11            22              -11                20               31              9
Enviroruent Sn. Techn.             0              9               -9                20               20             11
Hygiene/Epid. Techn.               5              0                5                 0                5              5
Socll Techn.                      5             37              -32                30               35             -2
Statisticifn Techn.                2             18              -16                 0                2            -16
SubtotaL                  390            859             -469               360             750           -109
Auxiliory Level Techn.
......................
Aux. Nurses                     1053            600              453              -270              783            183
Aux. Hid-wives                   143            223              -80               -50               93           -130
Aux. PharwAcists                   0              0                0                 0                0              0
Aux. Laboratory Techn.            178           178                0               -40              138            -40
Aux. Env. Snit.                   25            il1              -86                 0               25            -86
Aux  Social                        5              5                0                 0                5              0
Subtotal                 1404           1117              287              -360             1044           -73
TOTAL                  1873           2129             -256               552            1982           -147
....................... ................ ........... ..... ............. ...... ...............  ....... ......... ...... ...... ... ..... ..
1/  Positive sign * needs are fulfilled or in excess; negatfve sign a needs remain to be fuLfilled.
Source: NINPH. Directorate for GCnerol Studios and Pltrming. 19.
b:future.wkl (gubear)
21-Dec-92



- 81 -
ANNEX 3-3
Page 1 of 10
REPUBLIC OF GUINEA BISSAU
SOCIAL SECTOR PROJECT
In - Service Training Refresher Courses
1.    IDENTIFICATION
Program No.:                         IST-1
Name:                                Management of Health Services Seminars
Total Number of participants:        9 x 12 = 108
Number of participants per Seminar:  12
Number of Weeks for the Entire Program: 30
Number of hours per week:            35
Number of weeks per Seminar:         I
Teachers/Consultants involved:       Foreign: 1; Local: 3
Location:                            Bissau and all regions (8)
Requirements:                        Participants should be member of the Regional Health Teams as
defined by the district teams in WHO documents.
Prerequisite:                        Participation in all three seminars
2.    DESCRIION
Brief Description. During a period of three (3) years, each region with groups of twelve participants will
attend three (3) seminars on management and planning of health services. These seminars will be prepared with
the assistance of one foreign consultant financed by WHO. The consultant will be staying in Bissau for a period
of six weeks and will return thereafter to monitor (4 weeks) and evaluate (2 weeks) the ongoing program.
Between seminars, the participants will be asked to implement the planned activities in their own work
environment. This will be subject of periodic supervision under the seminar on Management in Health Services
(see IST I-A).
Educational Objectives: At the end of the seminar, the participant will be able to: (a)describe the situation
of the health services in their regions and assess its functional capacity. (b) Elaborate an annual workplan for
the region indication priorities and how to overcome some of the major bottlenecks. (c)lmprove general
management (personnel/material/equipment and money) both at regional level as in the Health Centers and in the
USBs.
Methods: Practical teaching methods will be emphasized, starting by analyzing the daily work situation
through exercises, case-studies, presentation and group discussion). Although the cognitive aspect is important,
practical skills and behavioral changes will be strengthened, so that maximal application is guarantee. The
curriculum will be prepared with the assistance of the foreign consultant provide through WHO.
3.    SPECIFIC NEEDS
Didactic Equipment:  Portable equipment: projectors, screens
Other Equipment:    Computer; photocopiers; typewriters; calculators
Consumables:        Standard (paper, pens, etc.)
4.   PROPOSAL FOR PROGRAM CONTENTS
The final curriculum should be provided to the Bank.



- 82 -
ANNEX 3-3
Page 2 of 10
1.   IDENTIFICATION
Program No.:                          IST-1 A
Name:                                 Management in Health Services: Supervision
Total Number of participants:
Number of hours per week:
Number of participants:               9 x 12 =108
Number of Weeks for the Entire Programn:
Number of Site Visits:                48
Number of days per Visit:             3
Number of days for the entire program:   144
Teachers/Consultants involved:        Foreign: 1; Local: 3
Location:                             Bissau and all regions
Requirements:                         Participants should be trainees of the IST Seminars.
Prerequisite:                         Participation in all three seminars
2.    DESCRIPTION
Brief Description. During a period of three years, each region with groups of twelve participants will
attend three seminars on management and planning of health services (see IST 1). These seminars will be
prepared with the assistance of one foreign consultant financed by WHO. The consultant will be staying in Bissau
for a period of six weeks and will return thereafter to monitor (4 weeks) and evaluate (2 weeks) the ongoing
program. Between seminars, the participants will be asked to implement the planned activities in their own work
environment. IST 1 (supervision) is meant to indicate the monitoring and supervisory process of the Management
in Health Services I (see above). For educational objectives and teaching methods see IST I (above).
3.    SPECIFIC NEEDS
See IST-I
4.    PROPOSAL FOR PROGRAM CONTENTS
The final curriculum should be provided to the Bank.



- 83 -
ANNEX 3-3
Page 3 of 10
1.   IDENTIFICATION
Program No.:                       IST-2
Name:                              Computer Training
Total Number of Students:          20
Nuniber of hours per week:         35
Number of participants:            20
Number of Seminars:                I
Number of days for the entire program: 25
Teachers/Consultants involved:     Foreign: 1; Local: 2 or 3
Location:                          Bissau
Requirements:                      Minimal 9 years of formal education, responsible at regional or
national level for health information systems and maintenance of data
bases.
Prerequisite:                      Application and use of the information acquired during the course.
2.    DESCRIPTI1ON
Brief Description. A group of 20 participants will attend basic computer skills training for a period of
four (4) weeks (DOS, WordPerfect/WordStar, LOTUS 123, DBASE).
Educational Objectives: At the end of the course, the participant will be able to: (a)Create a simple
database for daily use at regional and central level. (b) Use basic software programs (WP5. 1/LOTUS 123) to
monitor health information systems at regional and national level (utilization of services/epidemiological
data/health manpower planning and basic writing skills).  (c)  Apply these skills in their own working
environment.
Methods: Based on the existing collection systems, simple databases should be created by the participants
that will enable them to monitor the health situation in their areas. Practical use of the computer must be
emphasized. The curriculum furnished is specifically to the health services and should be elaborated by 2
consultants, one with specific experience in computer training, the other in the specific area of health and health
information systems.
3.    SPECIFIC NEEDS
Didactic Equipment: Portable computers and printers (including software) for use at regional and national
levels, technical details to be specified.
Other Equipment:    Photocopiers
Consumables:        Standard (computer paper, printers, etc).
4.    PROPOSAL FOR PROGRAM CONTENTS
The final curriculum should be provided to the Bank.



- 84 -
ANNEX 3-3
Page 4 of 10
1.   IDENTIFICATION
Program No.:                          IST-3
Name:                                 Statistics for Health Center Nurses
Total Number of Students:             175
Number of hours per week              35
Number of participants:              25/class
Number of Seminars:                  7
Number of weeks per Seminar:          2
Number of days for the entire program:   90
Teachers/Consultants involved:        Foreign: 0; Local: 2
Location:                             Bissau and all regions
Requirements:                         Participants should be Health Center Nurses in charge of statistics.
Prerequisite:                         None
2.    DESCRIPTION
Brief Description: During a period of two (2) weeks, a group of 25 participants will attend in the region
where they work a seminar on simple statistics and health information systems (HIS).
Education Objectives: At the end of the seminar the HD-nurses should be able to: (a) draw a map of
the area where they work, indicating the villages, distances, roads etc.; (b) Elaborate simple indicators for their
HC (coverage, attendance, waiting time etc); (c)Provide a list of all health statistics and HIS that they provide
to the regional levels, indicating its purpose and use; (d)Indicate how they could apply this information in order
to improve health center performance; (e)Analyze and use HC data for internal monitoring and eventual
corrective action.
Methods: Practical teaching methods from daily reality should be emphasized (exercises, case-studies,
presentation and group discussions).
The curriculum will be prepared by a local consultant together with the Training director.
3.    SPECIFIC NEEDS
Didactic Equipment:  Portable equipment: projectors, screens
Other Equipment:    Calculators
Consumables:       Standard (paper, pens, etc)
4.    PROPOSAL FOR PROGRAM CONTENTS
Special Request. The final curriculum should be provided to the Bank.



- 85 -
ANNEX 3-3
Page 5 of 10
1.   IDENTIFICATION
Program No.:                          IST-4
Name:                                 Statistics and Health Information Systems for RegionalNational
Technical Staff
Total Number of participants:         25
Number of hours per week              35
Number of participants:              25
Number of Weeks per Seminar:         2
Number of Seminars:                   1
Number of days for the entire Program:   20 (incI. preparations)
Teachers/Consultants involved:        Foreign: 0; Local: 2
Location:                             Bissau
Requirements:                         Participants should all have responsibility in statistics.
Prerequisite:                         9 years of formal education
2.    DESCRIPON
Brief Description. A group of 25 technicians will review statistics and information systems for health
services.
Educational Objectives. At the end of the course, participants will be able to: (a)analyze data from the
regions and draw operational conclusions; (b)Analyze weaknesses in actual health and management information
systems and basic statistics for the health services; (c)Propose simplification in the existing data collection
systems.
Methods. The existing HIS is starting point for the course. Practical teaching methods must be
emphasized (exercises, case-studies, presentations) in order to develop remedial action and if possible a program
to improve the existing HIS.
The curriculum will be prepared under the supervision of the Training Director, eventually by a foreign
consultant assisted by local consultants.
3.    SPECIFIC NEEDS
Didactic Equipment: to be defined by TA
Other Equipment:    calculators
Consumables:        standard (paper, pens, etc)
4.    PROPOSAL FOR PROGRAM CONTENTS
Special Request. The final curriculum should be provided to the Bank.



- 86 -
ANNEX3-3-
Page 6 of 10
1.   IDENTIFICATION
Program No.:                         IST-S
Name:                                Training of Trainers Seminar (1TO) for PHC
Total Number of Students:            25
Number of hours per week             35
Number of participants:              25
Number of Seminars:                  1
Number of days per Visit:            3
Number of days for the entire program:   30 (mcl. preparations)
Teachers/Consultants involved:       Foreign:
Location:                            Bissau
Requirements:                        Participants should all have responsibility in CPS at regional levels
and/or in the training of nurses in training ASB's and Matronas
2.    DESCRIPON
Brief Description. A group of 25 CPS responsible/trainers for the supervision and implementation of the
CPS program from all the regions of the country will attend one (1) seminar for a period of three weeks, covering
"training of trainers (TOT) issues'. The seminar will be prepared and provided by 2 foreign consultants who X
will spend a one week in Bissau to prepare the program.
Educational Objectives: At the end of the course participants wiJl be able to: (a)Develop training
objectives for TOT courses to HC nurses, based on their observed performance criteria; (b)conduct training
sessions for nurses, that have to train ASB's and Matronas.
Methods: The curriculum that is to be provided to the hc Nurses will be prepared by the consultants
together with the participants. Practical exercises and role plays to improve skills and performances will be
included as well as attention for general pedagogical issues.
3.    SPECIFIC NEEDS
Didactic Equipment: to be defined by TA
Consumables:       Standard (paper, pens, etc)
4.    PROPOSAL FOR PROGRAM CONTENTS
The final curriculum should be provided to the Bank. The foreign consultants must have direct working
experience in Africa in TOT and knowledge of the portuguese language.



- 87 -
ANNEX 3-3
Page 7 of 10
1.   IDENTIFICATION
Program No.:                          IST-6
Name:                                 Financing Health Systems
Total Number of participants:         50
Number of hours per week              35
Number of participants:               50
Number of Seminars:                   I
Number of days for the entire program:   6
Teachers/Consultants involved:        Foreign: 2; Local: 0
Location:                             Bissau
Requirements:                         Regional and National Staff
2.    DESCRIPTION
Brief Description. In an effort of the MINSAS to define a health financing policy, that will include issues
of cost-recovery and regional management of funds, a health economist and a public health consultant familiar
with the country will be provided. Their findings and suggestions have to be discussed together with national
and regional directors in order to elaborate a national financing policy. This will be done in a one week seminar
in Bissau.
Educational Objectives: The objectives of the seminar will be: (a)To inform participants about the health
financing situation of the country; (b)To share information and experiences elsewhere in Africa; (c)To propose
a strategy and a timetable to implement a national health financing policy for the whole country, including the
capital.
Methods: Participative discussions in working groups together with plenaries will enable the seminar to
reach the objectives mentioned. New experiences and information will be shared.
3.    SPECIFIC NEEDS
Didactic Equipment:  OHP/Flannelgraphs and other material to conduct sessions
Consumables:        Standard (computer paper, printers, etc).
4.    PROPOSAL FOR PROGRAM CONTENTS
Special Request. The final curriculum should be provided to the Bank.
The foreign consultants must have direct working experience in financing problems in the African context
and knowledge of the Portuguese language.



- 88 -
ANNEX 3-3
Page 8 of 10
1.   IDENTIFICATION
Program No.:                          IST-7
Name:                                 Management of Essential Drugs
Total Number of Students:             15
Number of hours per week              35
Number of participants:               15
Number of Seminars:                   1
Number of days for the entire program:   10
Teachers/Consultants involved:        Foreign: 0; Local: 2
Location:                             Bissau
Requirements:
Prerequisite:                         Pharmacist Technicians
2.    DESCRIPTION
Brief Description. Refresher course for auxiliary pharmaceutical staff that are currently working to plan
and manage regional medical stores.
Educational Objectives: At the end of the seminar, the participants will be able to: (a)Plan, organize and
manage their regional medical stores; (b)Administer drugs and money in a simple and transparent way.
Methods: Theoretical sessions and discussions will be supported by practical work in the national medical
store.
3.    SPECIFIC NEEDS
Didactic Equipment: to be defined by TA
Other Equipment:    Scales, glass pestle, test tubes, glass funils, glass flask
Consumables:        Standard
4.    PROPOSAL FOR PROGRAM CONTENTS
The final curriculum  should be provided to the Bank.  (Organization and management of
pharmacies/financial issues in drug management/National drug policy and Pharmaceutical legislation/Planning for
drugs/Drug-technology/Med-Chirurgical instruments/Hygiene.



- 89 -
ANNEX 3-3
Page 9 of 10
I.   IDENTIFICATION
Program No.:                         IST-8
Name:                                Introduction of auxiliary nurses in drug management
Total Number of Students:            50
Number of hours per week             35
Number of participants:              25
Number of Weeks Per Seminar:         6
Number of Seminars:                  2 x 25
Number of days for the entire program:   60
Teachers/Consultants involved:       Foreign: 0; Local: 2
Location:                            Bissau
Requirements:                        Auxiliary nurse to be trained in drug management.
Prerequisite:                        Proportional from the regions
2.   DESCRIPTION
Brief Description. Two groups of 25 participants each will attend training in drugs management.
Educational Objectives: At the end of the course the participants will be able to: (a)Plan, manage and
organize drug stores at regional level; (b)Understand the national policy relating to the essential drugs concept;
(c)Administer a regional medical store financially and technically.
Methods: Practical teaching methods must be emphasized (exercises). The students will have short
theoretical sessions and practical work in the central medical store under supervision from the national staff. The
curriculum will be prepared by the nationals and cooperants at the Central Medical Store, that will be coordinated
by ETQS.
3.    SPECIFIC NEEDS
Didactic Equipment: to be defined by TA
Consumables:       Standard
4.    PROPOSAL FOR PROGRAM CONTENTS
The final curriculum should be provided to the Bank.
(Organization and management of pharmacies/National drug policy and Pharmaceutical legislation/Med-
Chirurgical instruments/Hygiene).



- 90 -
ANNEX 3-3
Page 10 of 10
1.   IDENTIFICATION
Program No.:                         IST - 9
Name:                                Refresher cowse In Environmental Sanitation
Total Number of Students:            25
Number of hours per week             35
Number of participants:              25
Number of Seminars:                  1
Number of days for the entire program:   14
Teachers/Consultants involved:       Foreign: 1; Local: 2
Location:                            Bissau
Requirements:                        Sanitaria Staff from regions and Bissau.
Prerequisite:                        Auxiliary in environmental sanitation
2.    DESCRIPTION
Brief Description. A group of 25 participants will attend training on environmental sanitation. The
program will be prepared by a foreign consultant suggested by WHO.
Educational Objectives: At the end of the course, participants wi1l be able to: (a)Perfbrm activities related
to environmental sanitation.
Methods: Practical teaching methods will be used (field visits, exercises, case-studies). The Curriculum
will be prepared by the foreign staff from WHO assisted by local resource persons.
3.    SPECIFIC NEEDS
Specific Equipment:  pulverization manual equipment (Hudson type); electrical pulverization equipment
(Microsois type); pulverization equipment type Foger IOOE; pesticides (Matalhion,
propoxur, baygon, diptezex, sumicidin, and respectives for sanitation; protection
equipment (gloves, masks, boots, heats.
Consumables:       Specific
4.    PROPOSAL FOR PROGRAM CONTENTS
The final curriculum should be provided to the Bank (to be elaborated by WHO).
b:IST1 azl)



- 91 -
ANNEX3
Page 1 of 7
REPUBLIC OF GUINEA-BISSAU
SOCIAL SECTOR PROJECT
In-Service Training Ungrading Program
1.    IDENTIFICATION
Program No.:                         IST-10
Name:                                Upgrading Auiliary Nurses to Nurses
Total Number of Students:            150 (25 x 6)
Number of hours per week             35
Number of Weeks for the Entire Program: 252
Teachers/Consultants involved:       Foreign: 0; Local: 10
Location:                            Bissau
Entree Requirements/Professional Status:  Auxiliary Nurse
Prerequisite:                        9 class and proportional from regions
2.    DESCRIPTION
Brief Description. Auxiliary nurses will be trained to become nurses during a period of
one (1) year.
Educational Objectives: At the end of the course the participants will be able to:
(a)Organize, implement and evaluate nursery work; (b)Perform triage correctly according to
established guidelines; (c)Promote and implement the community health work; (d)Supervise in
a team spirit the auxiliary staff; (e)Administer correctly the statistical (HIS) work; (f)Participate
in training sessions, supervisions and on the job training.
Methods: Practical teaching methods must be emphasized (exercises, case-studies,
presentation, work with patients). The curriculum will be prepared by the local consultants.
3.    SPECIFIC NEEDS
Specific Materials:   Stethoscope (2); sphygmometer (2); thermometer (50); syringes and
disposable needles (5000); tweezers (20); needle holder (5); needle P/pot
(50); scissors (20) curved scissors (20); trays (5); tina reniform (10);
colunas para pincas (10); arrastadeira (1); sonda naso gastrica (20); sonda
visical (20); gloves (50); box for iron material (4); irrigator (1); sheets
(30).
4.    PROPOSAL FOR PROGRAM CONTENTS
The final curriculum should be provided to the Bank.



- 92 -
ANNEX34
Page 2 of 7
1.   IDENTIFICATION
Program No.:                          IST-1I
Name:                                 Upgrading Auxiliary Midwives to Midwives
Total Number of Students:             50
Number of Classes:                    2 x 25
Number of Hours per week:             35
Number of Weeks for the Entire Program: 84
Teachers/Consultants involved:        Foreign: 0; Local: 10
Location:                             Bissau
Entree requirements/professional status:   Aux. midwives with 9 years of schooling
Prerequisite:                         9 years of schooling, proportional from regions and
Bissau
2.    DESCRflON
Brief Description. Auxiliary Midwives will be trained to become Midwives during a
period of one (1) year
Educational Objectives: At the end of the course the participant will be able to:
(a)Supervise the normal delivery and detect eventual complications early; (b)Plan and perform
correctly all tasks related to SMI; (c)Perform correctly the administrative work; (d)Train and
supervise the auxiliary staff and the members of the community (Matrona).
Methods: Practical teaching methods will be emphasized (exercises, case-studies).
The curriculum will be prepared by the local consultants.
3.    SPECIFIC NEEDS
Specific Equipment:  Marquise (1); obstetric basin (2); tweezers (20); curved tweezers (20;
scissor (40) curved scissors (40); tetoscopio de pinard (10); pelvimeter
(2); obstetric disc (2); pregnancy scales (1); children scales (1); aspirador
de secrecao (1); pera para aspirar secressao (5); catheter (20); irrigator
(2); sheets (30); stethoscope (2); sphygmometer (2); dummy (1);
arratadeira (2); bistoury (2); blades for bistoury (20); fios de setura
(100); needle holder (5); agulhas para sutura (100); gloves (500); masks
(500); batas (100); plastic aprons (50); heats (100); gauntlet (100); plastic
syringe (5000); plastic needles (10000).
Consumables:        Standard
4.    PROPOSAL FOR PROGRAM CONTENTS
The final curriculum should be provided to the Bank.



- 93 -
ANNEX 3-4
Page 3 of 7
1.   IDENTIFICATION
Program No.:                         IST-12
Name:                                Upgrading Auxiliary Nurses to Social Technicians
Total Number of Students:            30
Number of Classes:                   1
Number of hours per week:            35
Number of Weeks for the Entire Program: 63 (1,5 year)
Teachers/Consultants involved:       Foreign: 1/2; Local: 6
Location:                            Bissau
Entree requirements/professional status:   Auxiliary Nurse
Prerequisite:                        9 years of schooling and proportional from regions
2.    DESCRIPTION
Brief Description. Auxiliary nurses will be trained to become technical social workers
during a period a period of 1,5 year.
Educational Objectives: At the end of the course, the participants will be able to work
as Social Technicians following a role/job description that must be approved by MINSAS before
the curriculum preparation. The role/job description and the curriculum will be prepared also
by foreign or local consultants under the Training and Managing Technical Director supervision.
Methods:  Practical teaching methods will be emphasized (exercises, case-studies,
presentations).
3.    SPECIFIC NEEDS
Didactic Equipment: to be defined by TA
Consumables:        Standard
4.    PROPOSAL FOR PROGRAM CONTENTS
The final curriculum should be provided to the Bank.



- 94 -
ANNEX 34
Page 4 of 7
1.   IDENTIFICATION
Program No.:                         IST-13
Name:                                Upgrading Audliary Laboratory personnel to
IAb. Twchnsazu
Total Number of Students:            40
Number of Classes:                   2 x 20
Number of Hours per week:            35
Number of Weeks for the Entire Program: 84
Teachers/Consultants involved:       Foreign: 1/2; Local: 6
Location:                            Bissau
Entree requirements/professional status:   Auxiliary lab personnel
Prerequisite:                        9 years of schooling proportional from the regions
2.    DESCRIPTION
Brief Description. Auxiliary laboratory personnel will be trained to Lab-technicians
during a period of one (1) year.
Educational Objectives: At the end of the course, the participants will be able to work
as Lab-technicians, following a role/job description that must be approved by MINSAS before
the curriculum preparation. The role/job description and the curriculum will be prepared also
by foreign or local consultants under the Training and Managing Technical Director supervision.
They must be able also to: (a)Perform correctly technical laboratory work and explain the results
to the patients; (b)Participate in the training of ASB's and Matronas; (c)Perform small
epidemiological investigations.
Methods: Practical teaching methods will be emphasized (practical, presentations). The
curriculum will be prepared by local consultants.
3.    SPECIFIC NEEDS
Didactic Equipment: Well equipped laboratory
Consumables:       Standard
4.    PROPOSAL FOR PROGRAM CONTENTS
The final curriculum should be provided to the Bank.



- 95 -
ANNEX 3-4
Page 5 of 7
1.   IDENTIFICATION
Program No.:                         IST-14
Name:                                Upgading Auxilary Nurses to Pharmaceutical
Technicians
Total Number of Students:            50
Number of Classes:                   2 x 25
Number of Hours per week:            35
Number of Weeks for the Entire Program: 126
Teachers/Consultants involved:       Foreign: 0; Local: 10
Location:                            Bissau
Entree requirements/professional status:   Auxiliary Nurse
Prerequisite:                        9 years of schooling and proportional from the
regions.
2.    DESCRIPEON
Brief Description. Auxiliary nurses will be trained to become Pharmaceutical Technicians
during a period of 1,5 year.
Educational Objectives: At the end of the course the participants will be able to work as
Pharmaceutical Technicians, following a role/job description that must be approved by MINSAS
before the curriculum preparation. The role/job description and the curriculum will be prepared
by local consultants under the Training and Managing Technical Director supervision.
Methods: Practical teaching methods will be emphasized (exercises, presentations).
The Curriculum will be prepared by the local consultants.
3.    SPECIFIC NEEDS
Didactic Equipment: to be defined by TA
Other Equipment:    See IST-7
4.  PRQPOSAL FOR PROGRAM CONTENTzS
The final curriculum should be provided to the Bank.



- 96 -
ANNEX 3
Page 6 of 7
1.   IDENTIFICATION
Program No.:                         IST-15
Name:                                Upgrading  Auxiliary  Nurses  to  Sanitaria
Technicians
Total Number of Students:            20
Number of Classes:                   1 x 20
Number of Hours per week:            35
Number of Weeks for the Entire Program: 63 (1,5 year)
Teachers/Consultants involved:       Foreign: ?; Local: 10
Location:                            Bissau
Entree requirements/professional status:   Auxiliary nurse
Prerequisite:                        9 years of schooling and proportional from the
regions.
2.    DESCRIPON
Brief Description. Auxiliary nurses will be trained to become sanitaria technicians during
a period of 1,5 year. The curriculum will be prepared by the consultants to be provided through
WHO.
Educational Objectives: At the end of the course, the participants will be able to work
as Sanitarian Technicians, following a role/job description that must be approved by MINSAS
before the curriculum preparation. The role/job description and the curriculum will be prepared
also by foreign (WHO) or local consultants under the Training and Managing Technical Director
supervision.
Methods: Practical teaching method will be emphasized (exercises, presentations).
3.    SPECIFIC NEEDS
Specific Material:    Scales; porcelain pestle; glass pestle; test tubes varetas de esmalte; glass
funils; glass flask.
Other Equipment:    See IST-9
4.    PROPOSAL FOR PROGRAM CONTENTS
Special Request. The final curriculum should be provided to the Bank.



- 97 -
ANNEX 34
Page 7 of 7
1.   IDENTIFICATION
Program No.:                          IST-16
Name:                                 Upgrading  Auxiliary  Nurses  to  Anesthesia
Technicians
Total Number of Students:             20
Number of Classes:                    1 x 20
Number of Hours per week:             35
Number of Weeks for the Entire Program: 63 (1,5 years)
Teachers/Consultants involved:        Foreign: 1/2; Local: 10
Location:                             Bissau
Entree requirements/professional status:   Auxiliary nurse
Prerequisite:                         9 years of schooling and proportional from the
regions.
2.    DESCRIPTION
Brief Description. Auxiliary nurses will be trained to become anesthesia technicians
during a period of 1,5 year.
Educational Objectives: At the end of the course, the participants will be able to work
as Anesthesia Technicians, following a role/job description that must be approved by MINSAS
before the curriculum preparation. The role/job description and the curriculum will be prepared
also by foreign (WHO) or local consultants under the training and Managing Technical director
supervision.
Methods: Practical teaching methods must be emphasized (exercises, case-studies,
presentations). The curriculum will be prepared by consultants.
3.    SPECIFIC NEEDS
Didactic Equipment:  Anesthesia equipment and general equipment
4.    PROPOSAL FOR PROGRAM CONTENTS
The final curriculum should be provided to the Bank.
b:IST1O (JZ1)



- 98 -
ANNEX 3-5
Page 1 of 5
REPUBLIC OF GUINEA-BISSAU
SOCIAL SECTOR PROJECT
In-Service Training for Medical Specialization
1.    IDENTIFICATION
Program No.:                          IST-17
Name:                                 Postgraduate training for doctors in pediatrics
Total Number of Students:             10
Number of Classes:                    3 years 3 persons by year
Number of Hours per week:             35
Number of years for the entire Program:  3 years
Teachers/Consultants involved:        Foreign: 2/3; Local: 1
Location:                             Bissau
Entree requirements/professional status:   Medical doctor with at least three years of clinical
experience in the field.
Prerequisite:                         Ability to read and to understand English and or
French
2.    DESCRIPTION
Brief Description. The curriculum will be developed by the short therm foreign technical
assistance under the supervision of the Training and Management Technical Director and the
program will be monitored and supervised by a long term foreign technical assistance expert.
3.    SPECIFIC NEEDS
Didactic Equipment: To be defined by TA
Other Equipment:    X-Ray; Obstetric Ecography; Labs
Consumables:        Standard (paper, pens, etc)
4.    PROPOSAL FOR PROGRAM CONTENTS
The final curriculum should be provided to the Bank.



- 99 -
ANNEX 3-5
Page 2 of 5
1.   IDENT1IFICATION
Program No.:                          IST-18
Name:                                Postgraduate training progrm  for doctors in
obstetrics/nweloag
Total Number of Students:             10
Number of Classes:                    3 yeas 3 persons by year
Number of Hours per week:             35
Number of years for the Entire Program:  3 years
Teachers/Consultants involved:        Foreign: 2/3; Local: I
Location:                             Bissau
Entree requirements/professional status:   Medical doctor with at least three years of clinical
experience in the field
Prerequisite:                         Ability to read and to understand English and or
French
2.    DESCRElON
Brief Description. The curriculum will be developed by the short term foreign technical
assistance under the supervision of the training nd Management Technical director and the
program will be monitored and supervised by a long term forein technical assistance expert.
3.    SPECIFIC NEEDS
Didactic Equipment: to be defined by TA
Other Equipment:    See IST-17
Consumables:        Standard (paper, pens, etc)
4.    PROPOSAL FOR PROGRAM CONTENTS
The final curriculum should be provided to the Bank.



- 100 -
ANNEX 3-5
Page 3 of 5
1.   IDENTFICATION
Program No.:                          IST-19
Name:                                 Postgraduate training for doctors in the field of
surgery
Total Number of Students:             10
Number of Classes:                    3 years 3 persons by year
Number of Hours per week:             35
Number of years for the Entire Program:  3 years
Teachers/Consultants involved:        Foreign: 2/3; Local: 1
Location:                             Bissau
Entree requirements/professional status:   Medical doctor with at least three years of clinical
experience in the field
Prerequisite:                         Ability to read and write English and or French
2.    DESCRIMON
Brief Description. The curriculum will be developed by the short term foreign technical
assistance under the supervision of the Training and Management Technical director and the
program will be monitored and supervised by a long term foreign technical assistance expert.
3.    SPECIFIC NEEDS
Didactic Equipment: to be defined by TA
Other Equipment:    See IST-17
Consumables:      Standard
4.    PROPOSAL FOR PROGRAM CONTENTS
The final curriculum should be provided to the Bank.



- 101 -
ANNEX 3-5
Page 4 of 5
1.   IDENTIFICATION
Program No.:                         IST-20
Name:                                Postgraduate training for doctors In the field of
internal medicine
Total Number of Students:            10
Number of Classes:                   3 years 3 persons by year
Number of Hours per week:            35
Number of years for the Entire Program:  3 years
Teachers/Consultants involved:       Foreign: 2/3; Local: I
Location:                            Bissau
Entree requirements/professional status:   medical doctor with at least three years of clinical
experience in the field
Prerequisite:                        Ability to read and writ English and or French
2.    DESCRIPIN
Brief Description. The curriculum will be developed by the short term foreign technical
assistance under the supervision of the Training and Management Technical director and the
program will be monitored and supervised by a long term fbreign technical assistance expert.
3.    SPECIFIC NEEDS
Didactic Equipment: to be defined by TA
Other Equipment:    See IST-17
Consumables:        Standard
4.    PROPOSAL FOR PROGRAM CONTENTS
The final curriculum should be provided to the Bank.



- 102 -
ANNEX 3-S5
Page 5 of 5
1.   IDENTIFICATION
Program No.:                        IST-21
Name:                                -stgraduate Tining programmer for medical
doctors In tropical public health
Total Number of Students:           20
Number of Classes:                  I
Number of Hours per week:           35
Number of years for the Entire Program:  I year
Teachers/Consultants involved:      Foreign: 3; Local: 2
Location:                           Bissau
Entree requirements/professional stats:   Medical doctor with at least three years of clinical
experience in the field
Prerequisite:                       Ability to read and understand English and or
French
2.    DESCRIPOQN
Brief Description. The cutriculum will be developed by a Public Health School with the
collaboration of the Training and Management Technical director and the program will be
monitorized and supervised by the same Public Health School. An intensive program for a period
of six months, must be prepared to make the participants able for their future Public health work
in Guinea-Bissau. Tbe Foreign consultants will return for a second phase of the program for a
period of three (3) months. They will focus on new reas and look into the work realized in his
absence. They will evaluate the work developed and performed by the participants during his
absence. It is important that at least one foreign consultant (the program leader) return the
second time.
Educational Objectives: At the end of the course, the participants will be able to work
as public health doctors, following a role/job description that must be approved by MINSAS
before the curriculum preparation. The role/job description and the curriculum will be prepared
also by foreign consultants under the Training and Managing Technical Director supervision.
Methods:  Practical teaching methods will be emphasized (exercises, case-studies,
presentation, group discussion).
3.    SPECIFC NEDS
Didactic Equipment: to be defined by TA
Consumables:       Standard (paper, pens, etc)
4.    PROPOSAL FOR PROGRAM CONTENTS
The final curriculum should be provided to the Bank. Support must come from one Public
Health Schools, with experience in lusophone countries.
A:IST17 (JZl)



- 103 -
ANNEX 3-6
REPUBLIC OF GUINEA-BISSAU
SOCIAL SECTOR PROJECT
Training Subproject - ImpLementation ScheduLes
Implementation Schedule - In-S*rvic- Refresher Courses
Group
No    G Nou               Course Title                  1993/94      1994/9S       1995/96      1996/97
JrMAMJJASOND JFMAMJJJASOND JFAHJ JASOND JTMAMJJA SOID
IST-1         Management in Health Services                   x xxxo xxxxxxx xxxo xxxxxxx xxxo xxxxxxx xxxo
IST-2         Computer Trainlng                                x
IST-3      1  statistics for Hca Nurses                       o
IST-3      2                                                   °°
IST-3      3
IST-3      4  I
IST-3      5           o
IST-3      6      n
IST-3      7              o
IST-3      a                                                         o
IST-3      9o
IST-4         Infor-ation Systems and Statixtixx a
IST-5         Training of Trainr                                        x
IST-S         Fincn  of Health Care                        1
IST-7         Managenient of Drugs                            a
IST-S      1  Intro, of M6gt. of Drugs for Aux. Nurses          xo
IST-8      2                                                     'xo
IST-9           nvrnetlSanitation                                    xxx
Implementation Schedule -In-Service Upgrading Programs
Group
No.    No.                Course Title                  1993/94      1994/95       199S/96      1996/97
JFNTAMJASOND JFMAMJJASOND JFMAMJJASOND JFMAKJJASOND
IST-10     1 Auxiliary Nurses to Nurses                         xxxo xxxoxxx
IST-10     2                                                    xxxo xxxoxxx
IST-10     4                                                                      xxxcxxx xxxo
IST-10     s                                                                                    xxxoxxx xxx
IST-10     6                                                                                    xxxoxxx xxxo
IST-l1     1  Auxiliary Midwives to Midwives                                       xxxxxxx xxxo
1ST-1l     2                                                                                    XXXOXXX xxxo
IST-12        Auxiliary Nurses to Social Technicians                              xxxxxxx xxxo xxxoxx
IST-13     1 Auxiliary Lab. Tnchn. to Lab. TSchn.                    xxxoxxx xxxo
IST-13     2                                                                      Xxxxxx0x xxxo
IST-14     1 Auxiliary Nur-se  to TSchn. Phazmacy               xxxo xxxoxxx xxxo
IST-14     2                                                                       rxxxxxxx xxxo xxxxcxxx XXXO
IST-IS        Auxiliary Nurses to TSchn. Sanitary                                  xxxxxxx xxxo
IST-16        AuxilLary Nurses to TSchn. Anesthetics                                            xxxxxxx xxxo
Implementation Schedule - In-ServLce Training for Medical Sp cializations
No.   Noup                Course Title                  1993/94       1994/95      1995/96      1996/97
J3NAKJJASOND JYfANJJASOND JFMAKJJASOND JTMAMJJASOND
IST-17        PediAtrics                                  oxxx  xxxo xxxoxxx xxxO XxxxxXxX xxxxoxxx xxxo
IST-18        Obstetrics/Gynecology                                   xxo xoxxx xxxX xxxo  xxxoxxx xxxo
IST-19        surgery                                           xxxo xxxoxxx xx   xxxxx  xxo xxxoxxx xxxo
IST-20        Intern1 Medicine                                 xxzc xxxoxxx xxxo xxxxxxx xxxo xxxoxxv -xxo
IST-21        PublLc Health                                     xx   xxxoxxx Cxxo
Legend: x - four-week
o - two-week
1 - one-week
bsimpl (guboar)



- 104 -
REPUBLIC OF GUINEA-BISSAU                 ANNEX 3-7
Page 1 of 22
SOCIAL SECTOR PROJECT
Information, Education, and Communication Overview
Os problemas sanitarios deste Pais nio se resolvem somente nos
hospitais ou nos centros de sadde.
um imperativo reconverter as mentalidades e ir mais alem
para o elevar do nivel de sadde das populagces reforgando a sua
disponibilidade para a conservacao da sua sadde e prevengco das
doengas atraves das medidas que advem da educag&o sanitaria.
Partindo deste pressuposto, 6 facil notar que a real solug&o
dos problemas da sadde da Guin6-Bissau nao podem depender
exclusivamente da acgco do Ministerio da Sadde. Esta solu,ao deve
vir sim duma acgao concertada dos v&rios departamentos do Estado,
das organizagces internacionais e das ONG firmemente interessados
no elevar da vida das populag8es, base essenciasl da promogio da
sadde das mesmas.
Dai, ultimam6nite, a insistente manifestagco do Ministsrio da
sadde da necessidade urgente de uma coordenacgcio inter-sectorial
para o estudo, concepg&o e consecuqao de uma politica nacional de
Informagao, Educagio * Comunicagio(IEC) com incidencia directa ou
nao sobre a qualidade da vida das populag8es.
A educagao para a promogao da sadde e prevenglo dasu,doeuqas 6
o fundamento para o sxito de qualquer programa no imbito dos
Cuidados Primirios de Sadde (CPS).
2 preciso que a informac,ao e a educagao suscitem actividades
conducentes As mudangas de comportamentos e atitudes incompativeis
com a conservagiao da sadde e prevengiao das doengas.



- 105 -
ANNEX 3-7
Page 2 of 22
1.   PRINCIPAIS INTURVENIENTES NA EDUCA&AO SANITIRIA NO PAIS
1.1 FungAo do Minist6rio da Sadd. * Assuntos Sociais
0 Ministerio da Sadde e Assuntos Sociais 6 a autoridade
nacional responsavel pela politica e estrat6gias da saude.
Criou uima estrutura - a Diviszo da Educaq&o Sanithria- a quem
cabe conceber e produzir material tecnico para syr utilizado pelas
diferentes entidades empenhadas na educacao e informagco das
populag5es (servigos e programas sanitarios, Escolas e outras
instituicoes de beneficencia actuantes directa ou indirectamente no
dominio da Saude).
Esta estrutura nao se limita nas suas atribuig8es apenau a
conceber  e  a  produzir  material  t6cnico.    Ela  deve  tamb6m
administrar formagAo a todos os professionais que interactuam com
a populacao a varios niveis do sistema sanit&rio e do
desenvolvimento comunitario.
N&o obstantea clareza destas fung6es confiadas ao M1inist6rio
da Sadde, grandes- obst&culos de ordem financeira e t6cnica
estiveram na base de nunca conseguir assumir este papel na sua
totalidade ao longo da sua existencia na qualidade do Departamento
de Educacao Sanitaria.
Nesta impossibilidade de "abastecer" os intermidi&rios com
informag8es t6cnicas pertinentes, comeqaram obviamente a surgir
formas de substituir este Minist6rio em mat6ria de concepg&o,
desenvolvimento e produg&o de materiNr (erm a sua participg&ao  i/ou
controlo) t6cnico para IEC em sadde. 
Houve, contudo, tentativas, por part. do Minist6rio, em evitar
ser substituido desta forma recorrendo muitas vezes a cooperagco



- 106 -
ANNEX 3-7
Page 3 of 22
com os palses amigos para a obtenq&o de apoio financeiro o t6cnico
(Canada, Holanda, OHS, ASDI, UNICEF, FNUAP, etc). E quando este
apoio 6 concedido, ele circunscreve-se apenas ao ambito limitado de
alguns programas, direta ,pu indirectamente relacionados a sadde
(vacinagco, SNI, Aguas).
As actividades de IEC tornaran-se assim tao difuas,
sobrepostas e limitadas a cumprir ou planos destes programas quo
ji nso se reconhecia a autoridade central do Minist6rio da Sadde.
Alem disso, ficaram de fora, as Areas extremamente importantes como
as doengas sexualmente transmitidas, a nutrigao, saneamento b&sico,
higiene e educag&o sanitAria nas escolas.
Esta dispersao de   meios tamb6m nao permitiu a formaq&o
adequada dos profissionais de saidde em IEC por nao existirem
materiais de ensino (MEPS) apropriados para apoiar a sua formaqlo
tanto a nivel da Escola Tecnica dos Quadros do Sadde como apoiar as
sua actividades no terreno junto is comunidados.
Alem disso, com a concentragio dos escassos recursos humanos
e financeiros no diagn6stico e tratamento dos que j& se oncontran
doentes, segue-se quo a educag&o sanitAria ueja dispensada m.inimA
e desproporcionalmente aos doentes que aparecem nos Bospitai. e
Centros de Sadde. u-Unidades de Sadde de Base.
Embora contribuindo t6cnicamente para a educaq&o sanitAria, o
Ministerio da Sadde n&o precisa ser o maior educador *anit&rio no
Pais.  Precisa aim do fazer para que os 'outros intervenientes
adoptem as estratdgias definidas e recebam apoio em matdrial
t4cnico para a informacao e formag&o.  Por outro lado, para as
actividades de IEC em sadde, o Ministdtio necessita de apoio dos
outros sectores nomeadamente a camunkJoago social, Zducaclko, OWO'.
o outras associag6os para a formaq&o e produg-o dos ditos materiai"
t4cnicos   (boletins,   cartazes,   programas   radioffnicos,   e
televisivos, formagao dos profissionais 4o sadde em t6nicas de
comunicag&o etc).



- 107 -
ANNEX 3-7
Page 4 of 22
Para isso e imprescendivel'uma concertaq&o e coordenagao com
todos os sectores intervonientes (Projecto de Comunicagao Social,
Ministerio da Educa9io, o Departamento da Informraqco e Comunicagcao
do UNICEF, a OMS, as ONG's e outros meios de comunicagio social) no
sentido de se conseguir uma melhor integra9&o entre as estruturas
internas do Ministerio da sadde * estas distintas entidades que
intervem no dominio da Educaqio Sanitiria viabilizando, desta
forma, a conjugag&o de esforqos de todos nesta Area.
12. Orranizag&o Mundial de sadde
DA apoio tecnico e financeiro a varioe programas de Saude.
No &mbito da IEC a Representaq&o da OMS em Bissau constitui unma
fonte indispensavel de muitas informaq6es sanitArias tanto de nivel
mundial  como  regional  ou  sub-regional.    Apoia,  tamb6m,  o
Departamento da Educagio Sanitaria com materiais audio-visuais.
A OMS criou um Programa Mundial dos Materiais de Ensino para
a  Saude  -  MEPS  (Health  Learming  Material  Programme)  e,  em
colaboragio com outras AgAncias das Nagoes Unidas (PNUD, UNICEF) e
outros organismos de cooperac,o bilateral e ONG's, fornece
assistencia tecnica e financeira para o desenvolvimento, produgco
e avaliag&o deste materiais necessArios & formagao do pessoal
sanitario e A protoq&o sanitaria das populag6es.
1.3 UNICEF
Assegura o seu apoio A comunicaglo social na Guin6-Bissau.
Para alem do Projecto de Comunicaq&o Social da Secretaria de
Estado de Informagco criou uma outra estrutura - o Departamento do
Inforuaglo * Comunicagco Social (DICS).
Estas estruturas concebem e produz a diferentes,materiais de
informagco (boletins, brochuras, cart8es etc) para o pdblico em
vArios assuntos nomeadamente sadde, agricultura, saneamento, Agua,
nutrigao etc.



- 108 -
ANNEX 3-7
Page 5 of 22
0 DICS est& em condigces de produzir material pedag6gico e tem
acesso a v&rios org&os de comunicagco social no Pais (radio,
televisao   e   jornal)   que   utiliza   para   diferentes   fins
(sensibilizacAo e mobilizagAo da populagio para a vacinagao,
animaqao rural etc).
1.4. Ministdrio da Educagao (Instituto Nacional Rara 0
Des-nvolvimento de Ensino, INDE)
Este Ministerio, atraves do INDE, elabora programas e
curricula para diferentes niveis de ensino.
A componente saCide faz parte do conteudo das materias de
ciencias naturais onde vArios assuntos s&o tratados: nutrigao,
higiene individual, algumas doengas transmisiveis etc.
Existe uma preocupagAo deste Instituto em relag,o a educagio
sanitaria nas escolas e est& a implementar, neste momento, o
projecto conjunto FNUAP/UNESCO sobre "Educag&o a Vida Familharm com
urma componente de educagio sexual.
Al6m disso tem uma editora escolar completamente equipada para
a produg&o de materiais-did&cticos.
0 INDE pretende, atrav4s do seu departamento de Programas,
empreender acgoes conjuntas com o Departamento de EducagAo
Sanitaria nos seguintes dominios:
1.   Curso de formagio para os professores de ciencias
naturais.
2.   An&lise  conjunta  do..conteudo doe ,pregrzma-w-de
ciancias  naturais para os diferentes, niveis de
ensino.



- 109 -
ANNEX 3-7
Page 6 of 22
3.   Desenvolvimento e produc&o de material de apoio
(texto e brochuras).
4.   organizaa,o, de palestras com os encontros sobre
diferentes temas (sexualidade, prevenc,es das
doenc,as transmisiveis, higiene etc).
1.5  Direcgao-Geral dos Rocursos Hldricos. MRN
0 projecto de aguas rurais nesse M*ist6rio tem uma
componente de Animacio Rural. Os animadores- s&o formados para os
trabalhas de sensibilizagao na utilizagao e manutenc,o das bombas.
A higiene 6 um dos pontos importantes do conteudo de formac,o
para os Animadores Rurais.
Produzem alguns materiais de informacao sobretudo cartazes em
colaboragRo com o UNICEF e alguns materiais policopiados.  Recorrem
tamb6m aos servigos privados para impressoes de material de
informag&o.
1.6 Criagco do Centro de Comunicag9c o de Produgia do
Materiais d- EnZino para a Safide (CECOXES) no
quadro do PNLS
Com o advento da epidemia da SIDA que 6 uma doenca evitavel
somente atrav6s de educagio e de informagio das populagoes, houve
a necessidade imperiosa de criar facilidades no Minist6rio da Sadde
que permitissem dar resposta a esta epidemia. A entao iivisao de
Educagco Sanitaria nao dispunha de m&aos materiais nem h"nmanos iara
o desenvolvimento da campanha de IEC que a pr6pria ep4demia axigia.
Foi nesta ausencia de facilidades que se decidiu criar o
Centro de Comunicacao e de Produgco de Materiais de Ensino para a



- 110 -
r~ ANNEX 3-7
Page 7 of 22
Sadde - CECOMES.
o seu objectivo primario d disponibilizar materiais de
educagao e de informrgi.o,, a formac&o do pessoal  sanitario e
realizagao dos estudos s6cio-antropol6gicos para o conhecimento das
atitudes, pr&ticas e costum.seu da populagio face As doengas
incluindo a SIDA.
O PNLS beneficiou de uma assistencia tecnica e financeira
importante da CEE e, por isso, foi conseguida a edificacao do
referido Centro. Ele dispoe de facilidades par4 qualquer tipo de
produgco: tipografia off-set, serigrafia (a-dnica no Pais) para a
produgAo de cartazes de qualquer tamanho, um estddio de gravagco de
programas radiof6nicos e um atelier de artes graficas.  Takib6m tem
meios para trabalhos fotograficos.
Embora parte da *ua produgao seja para o apoio a campanha de
luta e controle da SIDA, ele dove poder servir outros programas de
sadde para a elaboragAo de materiaij  de promogao sanitAria.  Para
isso,  O  CECOMES  deve,   primeiramente,  crescer  t4cnica  e
institucionalmente para atingir parAmetros qualitativos desejaveis.
1.7. 11l0o. do Educado para a SaCd-
Esta nova denominagao surgiu em consequencia da reestruturagao
ocorrida nos dltimo. ano. no Minist6rio da Sadde. Ela substitui a
antiga Divisao de Educag&o para a Sadde embora mantendo as mesmas
atribuigoes anteriores no &mbito dos CPS e da Direcg&o-Geral de
Sadde Pdblica.     o 6rg&o nacional de coordenagao de todas as
actividades que dizem respeito £ educaqAo sanitAria.
Esta funcao e.t& long. de aer desempenhada devido.a falta de
recursos tanto humano. como materiais.
Neste momento conta com a assistincia tecnica de uma ONG



- 111 -
ANNEX 3-7
Page 8 of 22
Canadiana (CECI) a dispoe de urm estddio para a produgia  audio-
visual (video), publica uma revista trimestral e participa nas
virias  actividades  de  formag,o  (siminarios)   e  inqu6ritos
sanitarion.
Para poder desempenhar o seu papel de coordenador e de
integracao das acc6es de IEC em saude, esta estrutura precisa,
antes de tudo, ser revista e redimensionada nos aspectos de
recursos humano, material e financeiro.
2.   PERSPE;TIVAS PARA 0 FUTURO
As diferentes actividades de educac&o sanitaria devem ser
identificadas e abordadas a partir das 8 componentes dos Cuidados
Prim&rios de Sadde:
2.1 Educacao sabre as Rroblemas da *add* o as mdtedos
de orevenglc * de luta contra as doa.nas
Principais actividades desta components:
1.1  Promoc,ao da Sadde
1.2  PrxvenqAo das doengas * conservaqao da sadde
1.3  Educaq&o preparando para fazer face a doenga
2.   Proocglo   de   boas   condig6os   alimentares   e
nut,dcionais
Principals actividades desta componente:
2.1 Promoq&o de boas condiq8es ailimentarep.



- 112 -
ANNEX 3-7
Page 9 of 22
2.2 Promogao da nutrigia e preven,cAo das carencias
nutricionais nas criangas de idade inferior a cinco
anos.
2.3 Tratamento e readaptagio das pessoas atingidas
pelas car8ncias nuticionais.
2.4   Tratamento  e  prevengia  da  anemia  de  origem
nutricional nas gravidas.
2.5  Promocao e protecc,io da nutric,ap nas gravidas e
maes.
3.  ARrovisionaanto  fufic&Out*  em  AQA  Rothvel *
medidas do san-amento b6sico
Principais actividades desta components:
3.1 Promogao da higiene pessoal e colectiva
3.2 Aprovisionamento em agua pot&vel
3.3  Eljminag&o dos excretas
3.4  Protagco  das   fontes   de   aprovisionamento   e
vigilancia da qualidade de agua.
3.5 Ligagiao com os outros sectores (Agricultura, Obras
Pdblicas e Camaras Municipais).
4.   Protecg&o materno-infantil e Rlaneamento familhar
Principais actividados d sta compon-nte:



-113 -
ANNEX 3-7
Page 10 of 22
4.1  Diagn6stico  de  gravidez  num est&dio  precoce  e
despistagem dos casos de risco.
4.2 Educagcao paKa a saude assegurada durante a gravidez
4.3 Cuidados pre-natais b&sicos
4.4  Deteccao das complicagces da gravidez e utilizagcao
das medidas apropriadas
4.5  Pratica  de  partos  normais  ,e  detecgco  das
complicac,es
4.6 Aplicagco de medidas apropriadas no momento de
trabalho quando se trata de casos de risco ou
quando 6 presente uma complicaqao.
4.7  Cuidados a ter com os rec6m-nascidos
4.8 Cuidados b6sicos ao recem-nascido e & mAe durante o
perlJo pos-parto;
4.9 Cuidados-de base para com as criangas: vigilancia
do,crescimento e desenvolvimento, despistagem dos
casos de risco, medidas apropriadas em casos da
doenga ou de anomalia de crescimento
4.10 PrevencAo das principais causas de mortalidade nas
criangas
4. 11 Descobrir  e  atacar-.-os  problemas .sociais- .das
criangas  (doenga na  familia,  abusq ,de  Alcool,
hibitos alimentares, maus tratamentos &s criangas,
etc).



- 114 -
ANNEX 3-7
Page 11 of 22
4.12 Informagia sobre as vantagens dos m6todos de
planeamento familiar e os servigos disponiveis.
4.13 Identificac,o  dos  casos  e  ac,co apropriada  em
mat6ria de planeamento familiar (espagamento de
nascimentos ou limitagco do seu numero, tratamento
de esterilidade) educac&o das gravidas, das maes a
dos outros membros da familia.
5.   Vacinaglo contra as Rrincipais doengas infecciosas
Principais actividad-s desta-component.:
5.1  MotivagAo/educagio das gravidas, das maes o
dos outros membros da familia.
5.2  Vacinag&o da gravidas e das criangas.
5.3 Fornecimento de vacinas.
6.   Prevenglo . controlo dam *ndemias locais
P9i.cipais actividades desta components:
PALUDISMO
6.1  Despistagem  precoce  de  casos   suspoitos,
tratamento e orientagiao.
6.2  Tratamento do gzipo de grnade ri,sce(gx&v-idha,"-
cringas de 0-4 anos e adultos nas comunidades
com importancia econ6mica particular).
6.3 Redugco da prevalencia do paludismo.



- 115 -
ANNEX 3-7
6.4  Reduqic da longividad* do vector.      Page 12 of 22
6.5 R.duq&o da fr*qu&ncia dos contactos sores
humaoy/voctor.
6.6 Reduglo da pQpulaq&o dos vectores.
6.7  Interrup$o da transziss&o do paludismo
IIpERTENIACO
6.8  Diagn6stico precoce * caidados especiais.
7 *  Tratamnto !Jam doengas o 1esbes corKeates
Principals activldades dteta caonaeate:
7.1 Prevenq&o das doengas diarreicas
7.2 Prevenqlo dos acidentes dom6stico correntes.
8.   Fornc cimnto &. Nedcamtow Remenais
PrJncipais actividadeX d eta coopon nt-s
8.1 Aquisiq&o,   armazenagem,   distribuigko   e
utilizaq&o dos aedicamentos.



- 116 -
ANNEX 3-7
Page 13 of 22
2.2 IXCESxpIDADE DO RZFORgo DA COLABORAAO INTER-SECTORIAL NO
W NIEXO DE EDUCA(A0 SANITARIA
2.2.1     Coiteed  d'eIZC on relagao as 8 compononuts dos CPS
Os conteddos para uma educacao sanitaria coerente devem ser
elaborados a partir das oito componentes dos CPS. E isto 6 uma
necessidade dado que a politica nacional de sadde se baseia nos
CPS.
Os diferentes organismos intervem exactamente ao nivel destas
oito componentes a saber:
I.   0 UNICEF:
-Aprovisionamento em agua potAvel
-Sadde da mAe e da crianga
-Vacinacao
-Paludismo
-Medicamentos Essenciais
II. 0 Minist6r±o da Zduca,Io(INDE):
-Abrange,  nos programas  escolares-as' oito
componentes dos CPS.



- 117 -
ANNEX 3-7
Page 14 of 22
II.  A 0HS:
-Disponibiliza informae,oes referentes is oito
componentes.
III. Recursos Naturais:
-Aprovisionamento em agua potavel.
IV. Minist6rio da Saud- * Assuntos Sociais:
(a)  Ndcleo de Educacio para a Sadde
(b) Centro de Comunicac&o e de ProduqAo de Materiais de
Ensino para a Saude(CECOMES).
(c)  Escola T6cnica dos Quadros de Sadde
(d) Faculdade de Medicina
2.2.2     Criagao do Cons-lho Naclonal do Inforza,co, Educagao
* Comunicag&o Rara a Sa6de(CNIEC8)
Este Conselho funcionar& junto ao Departamento de Educag&o
Sanit&ria na depend&ncia da Direc,o-Geral de Sadde Pdblica e ser&
constituido por seguintes representantes:
(a) Minist6rio da Sadde e Assuntos Sociais:
-Ndcleo de Educaq&o para a Sadde
-CECOMES
-ETQS
-Faculdade do Medicina
-Centro de DocumentagAo o de Informagao



- 118 -
ANNEX 3-7
Page 15 of 22
(a)  Ninist6rio da Edtcaq&o(INDE * INEP)
(b) Minist6rio do Informaqio(RDN, Jornal, TVE-GD)
.    .,
(c)  Minist6rio da Agricultura(Centro de Documsntqa&o)
(d)  Hinistdrio dos Recursos Naturais(Recursou Hidricos)
(a) OHS
(f)  UNICEF.
(g) UNESCO
(h) PNUD
As atribui6o.s a coupet6ncias deste 6rg&o inter-s&ctorial
nio as limitarlo aponas aos aspoctos consultivos. Devem, tamb4a d4r
apoio t6cnico visando os poguintos objectivos:
1.   Instituir processo educacional de acordo con as
condiq6ea s6cio-culturais do Pais;
2.  Criar. condiq8ms  para  a  boa  aceitaq&o  das
actividadss de *atids pdblica a serem desenvolvidas
na Area;
3.  Fortal-c-r a *strutura oporacional dos prograsas do
sadde,   dotando-os   de  t6cnicos   *   rocursos
proporcionados polo programa de educaglo sanitAria,
para tornar aceitAvo4.a as populaq6s.. kw acqftrV d-
sadde a oxecutar;
4.,



- 119 -
ANNEX 3-7
Page 16 of 22
0 Conselho Nacional de IEC para a Saude assistira, doutro
lado, o Ndcleo de Educag&o para a Saude em:
1.   Diagnosticar as condig6es e os recursos existentes;
2.   Programar e especificar as normas e metodologias;
3.   Racionalizar a utilizag&o dos recursos disponiveis
e sua mobilizagio coordenada;
4.   Elaborar  normas  para  a supervisiao e  avaliagio
concorrente e final dos programas;
5.   Redefinir as responsabilidades, fungoes e tarefas
dos diferentes intervenientes na execucao das
actividades de educagia para a sadde;
3. PRINCIPAIS ESTRATtGIAS
3.1 Formagco
A habilitagio -para promover e transmitir ensinamentos, de
maneira eficienfe, impoe, ao educador, aprendizagem e treinamento
criteriosos. e necessario dominar suficientemente o que devera ser
ensinado para, entao, cuidar da forma pela qual o ensinamento
poder& ser transmitido de acordo com o pdblico a que se destina,
diligenciando ir ao encontro de seus anseios e interesse, ja
manifestados pelo. individuos, mediant- t6cnicas e metodos bem
seleccionados.
3.2  Dofiniqao da politiqp_de d ducaq&o para.a ,safid* a
adoptar am consonancia coa a polftica sectorial da
sadde;



- 120 -
ANNFX213-7
Page 17 of 22
3.3  DesenvolvyimntO   das   ihfra-estruturas   para   a
Departamento de Educa9Io para a 8aCde visando a
capacita-la a desempenhar, com 6xito, seu pap-l de
lid-ranca on matdria de *ducac,o sanitlria.
3.4 Fomento de estudos portinontes ao comportamento das
comunidados   co0   diforontos   condi6o.s   *6cio-
culturais, mobre as rosultados a a *fici4ncia dos
recursos o material oducativo utilizados na
*ducagio sanitAria.
3.5  Promo9ao a dinaaiza9&o da colaborag&o con todos os
organismos nacionais ou *strangoiros interessados
na *ducagao para a sagd-.
3.5  Reforgo do Centro de Documentagao * de Inforuagao
do Hinist6rio da SaCde * Assuntos sociais.
3.6  Desonvolvinento dos materiais de ensino para a
saCde(HEZPS).



- 121 -
ANNEX 3-7
Page 18 of 22
3.   PRINCIPAIS ACTIVIDADES
A habilitagio para promover e transmitir ensinamentos, de
maneira eficiente, impoe, ao educador, aprendizagem e treinamento
criteriosos. A necessario dominar suficientemente o que devera ser
ensinado para, ent&ao cuidar da forma pela qual o ensinamento poder&
ser transmitido, de acordo com o publico a que se destina,
dIligenciando ir ao encontro dOS seus anseios e interesses, ja
manifestados pelos seus lideres, mediante tecnicas e metodos bem
seleccionados.
Somente t6cnicos especializados estar&o em condig5es de
despertar no publico a necess&ria motivagao que prepara o terreno
e sua consolidagao para as actividades de Saude Publica,
mobilizando as v&rios grupos profissionais qde integram a equipa da
saude,   assim   como   sensibilizando   os   diversos   escaloes
administrativos que determ o poder de proporcionar recursos e
condig5es eficientes de acgao.
1.   Redefinir a politica de educacao para a sadde a adoptar,
em consonancia com a politica sectorial da sadde;
2    Reforgar a infraestrutura do Nucleo de Educagao para a
Saude visando capacit&-la a desempenhar com ixito seu
papel de lideranga em educagao para a saude e formar
pessoal (educadores sanit&rios);
3    Fomentar  estudos  e  investigagces  pertinentes   ao
comportamento das comunidades, apresentando diferentes
condig6es s6cio-culturais, sobre os resultados e a
eficiencia dos recursos e material educativo utilizado na
educag*o sanitiria.
4    Promover  a  dinamizar  a  cooperagia  com  o0  outros
Ministerios nomeadamente nas-&reas rurais, para obter
acgao coordenada e mais eficiente que os m6todos
associados produzem.



- 122 -
ANNEX 3-7
Page 19 of 22
4.   PAPEL DOS MEIOS DE COgWZ1O SOCIAL
Nao se pode abordar o problema da comunicagao, no nosso
contexto,  fora do principio cultural.   Na area cultural bem
caracteristica da nossa sociedade devem ser inseridos os mdltiplos
aspectos de comunicagco.
HA que insistir sempre na questlo de adaptacio ao conjunto de
cultura que e veiculada polo. usoe, costumes, leis, estruturas e
instituic,es. E no &mbito de educagao para a sadde a comunicagio
deve, pois, inserir-se no cultural com uma expressio pr6pria.
Os meios de comunicagao social no nonso pals sao escassos e
para a sua expansio havera ainda muito a fazer. E a superagio do
nosso sub-desenvolvimento econ6mico * social ter& que assentar
essencialmente na valorizagio educacional dai populac,es e nesta os
meios de comunicagao social podem * devem desempenhar um papel
fundamental, como instrumentom do distribuigao de bens espirituais,
capazes de facilitar e favorecer, em grande eucala, a educaqao, a
solidariedade, a compreonsmo no. esforgo. colectivos no sentido da
participagao psicol6gica indispensavel ao bom rendimento de todo o
nosso eaforgo.
S6 com a colaboragio simultanea a coordenada do fornecedor e
do receptor da informagao, e conduzida * utilizada no sentido da
conquista dos auteinticou valores desej&veis quo a informagico poder&
servir valiosamente a sa4de e lovando o nivel de conhecimento das
comunidades em como manter-se saudavel lutando contra as doengas.
Dal irA derivar a necessidade da solugio e hierarquizagio dos
temas sem prejuizo de uma indispensivel diversificagio, ma. sem
esquecer que o excesso da informagao impossibilita a formagao.
Ao mesmo tempo que se dosenvolverA a campanha de informagio
intensiva virada ao, pdblico tamb6m nio se devera doscurar de
comunicagao e o seu desenvolvimento dentro dos servigo. de sadde.
5.   PAPEL DOS CZNTS  DE DOCUXENITA"QA   DE INFORK4&AGO
Decididamente  virado.  para  a  viabilizagao  de  promogio
sanitAria atraves da IEC a uma vez analisado o papel importante da
comunicagco social, esta descriqlo seria incompleta se nao se
fizesse uma breve referencia ao papel do suporte quo caber& aos
Centros de Documentagco e de Informagao dos varios Departamentos e
/ ou instituigces quo inevitavelmente, intervirio na Area,.de
educagco para a saddeo.                              4 '
Estes_centros vao servir do apoio A formagco e as actividades
dos educadores sanitarios, poim alo n-les que se encontram a
colecgio e conservagao de documentos. Por isso, devem ser dotados
de meios que os tornem reposit6rios do informagces uteis & IEC para
a saude.



-123-
ANNEX 3-7
Page 20 of 22
A tendencia actualmente observada entre n6s, sdlvo raras
excepcoes,  e  para  ignorar  a  actividade  dos  documentalistas
abandonando-os a sua sorts. Deseja-se, pois, que estes Centros nao
sejam organismos passivos, onde a informacio potencial se acumula
sem proveito para ninguem.   Pelo contr&rio: devem ser centros
activos e dinamicos de tratamento de informacao, nos quais gragas
a aplicagco de t6cnicas coerentes de organizagco documental, se
possa encontrar um suporte informativo racional capaz de preencher
as lacunas do saber individual.
Todos os intervenientes na educagio sanitaria devem esforgar-
se para que os seus Centros de Documentaq&o e de Informac&o
disponham de espago fisico suficientemente amplo e bem dividido,
que o pessoal tenha boa qulificacao t6cnica e cultural e que os
instrumentos de apoio (fotocopiadoras, ficheirosI etc.) estejam, a
todo o momento, em condig6es de fornecer a ajuda que se lhes pede.
6.DESENVOLVIMENTO DOS XATZRIASI DE ENSINO PARA A SAf)DE
i MEPS )
A prestac&o eficaz dos cuidados de sadde depende da formacao
do pessoal sanitario de todas as categorias: m6dicos, enfermeiros,
parteiras, agentes de sadde do base, auxiliares de laborat6rio e
gestores regionais de saude.
Esta formagco para ser oficaz deve ser apoiada nos materiais
do ensino e de aprendizagem (textos, manuais, guias dos professores
o audio-visuais). Estes materiais denominados, genericamente, por
M2PS (materiais de ensino para a sadde) devem ser desenhados
especialmente  para  responderem  as  reais  necessidades  dos
professores, estudantes eopessoal sanitario em servigo assim como
As comunidades gue-servem.
Um estudo do Banco Mundial intitulado "Publishing for Schools:
Textbooks and the Less Developed Countries publicado em 1980 (Wa-
shnigton DC, Staff Working Paper nQ 398) conclui t '0 livro do texto
(definido aqui como todos as =ateriais impressos utilizados na
*ducacao) A o Cinico instrumento mais potent, * mais oficaz para
olevar a manter padr8os acad6ticos". Levando isto em consideragio,
o problema da falta de meteriais de treinamento do pessoal da saude
nao pode ser solucionado simplesmente atrav6s de envio, atrav6s dos
correios, dos textos, manuais e ouro. livros de referindia.
Isto porque as necessidades s&ort&o grandes, em- qifantidiade e
variedade do conteudo, linguagem e nivel que os tornam insufcientes
para cobrir as nossas necessidades.
Alem disso, os materiais de formaglo nao podem nunca ser
apropriados ou inteiramente relevantes is necessidades e costumes
locais se sao produzidos, fora deste contexto, num pais



- 124 -
ANNEX 3-7
Page 21 of 22
desenvolvido.   Estes materiais sao melhores quando concebidos e
desenvolvidos no pals porque exprimem a lingua e cultura locais e
as necessidades sanitirias.
A unica resposta a este desafio e assistir o Ministerio da
Saude a produzir os materiais que precisa para o seu pessoal
concebendo-os especificamentes para a sua utilizagao nas condig,es
locais.
Os materiais devem ser adaptados nao somente por causa do
problema das diferengas linguisticas ou culturais,  mas tambem
porque o nivel de educagco do pessoal e suas tarefas diferem
grandemente de pais para pals.
Para tornar isto eficaz um esforgo nacionat genuino deve ser
promovido com o empenhamento dos professbres e estudantes da
Faculdade de Medicina, dos Monitores da Escola Tecnica dos Quadros
da Saude, dos supervisores do pessoal e do outro pessoal
experiente.   Isto 4 extremamente indispensavel por envolver os
principais utilizadores dos MEPS que se comprometerao a utiliza-los
de uma forma mais eficaz.
A neste espirito que se criou o CECOMES como base para a
edificagao de uma instituigco nacional para a produ,ao local dos
MEPS a partir da qual as competencias locais e outras facilidades
poderiam ser desenvolvidas e mantidas a longo prazo.
Apesar de ser indispensavel uma assistencia financeira externa
na fase inicial do establecimento do projecto MEPS a fim principal
desta assistencia deveria ser o de promover a autosuficiencia da
instituigco nacional.
E esta auto-suficigncia 6 possivel somente na base de
desenvolvimento, -a longo prazo, da capacidade dos nacionais em
continuamente  produzir e fornecer o8 MEPS tao  necessirios  a
formac,o e educagao continua e para responder as inevitaveis
mudangas nas prioridades do sector da saude.   Isto segnifica
maximizar as competencias para conceber, produzir e avaliar os
materiais adequados com recursos locais.
Uma assistencia de curta duragao nao 6 vihvel dado que as
referidas competencias e recursos locais nao aguentarao ap6s a
retirada desta assistencia.  Por isso, a enfase deve ser posta,
desde o inicio, na promogco, a longo prazo, da auto-suflciencia e
do reforgo institucional.
0 investimento na capacitagao do pessoal local e um elemento
vital. Competencias muito especiais sao necessirias nomeadamente
na redaccao e edigao de materiais de formagao e de comunicagao, no
desenho e na ilustragao dos textos educacionais e auxiliares audio-
visuais.



- 125 -
ANNEX 3-7
Page 22 of 22
Devem  ser  realizados  localmente  cursos  de  formag&o  qua
garantam a relevancia e a adequagio da formag&o as necessidades do
pessoal e ao contexto local de prestagao de servigos.
Para racionalizar os escassos recursos disponiveis varios
cursos de formac,ao podem s,F feitos reunindo pessoal de varios pals
lus6fanos.
A primeira experiencia deste genero ser& feita este ano em
colaboragao com AFRICARE, uma Organizagao n&o Governamental dos
EUA,com muita experiencia em formagao. Tambem participarao nela a
OMS-Geneve e o Instituto Superiori di Sanita de Roma.   Os seus
esforgos conjuntos proporcionarao a realizagco de um curso sobre
Metodologia do Ensino, Desenvolvimento Curricular, Educagio
Continua * A DistAncia como primeiro fase de   preparagAo dos
professores que s&o potenciais utilizadores dos MEPS. 0 referido
curso reunira em Bissau, no pr6ximo mes de Margd os participantes
de Angola, Mogambique, Cabo-Verde e Sao Tome-e Principe. Da parte
guineense participarao os tecnicos de formagia do Ministerio da
Saude (ETQS) e do Ministerio da Educagco (INDE).
Resumindo, pode-se dizer que existe realmente uma necessidade
em materiais de ensino em lingua portuguesa adaptados as
necessidades e condigces do pals.
E esta solugia podera ser viavel apenas com a implementagia do
projecto "materiais de ensino para a saude " (MEPS).
18



- 126 -
ANNEX 3-8
Page 1 of 6
REPUBLIC OF GUINEA-BISSAU
SOCIAL SECTOR PROJECT
Detailed Description of Civil Works (includins Solar Panels and Wells)
to be Undertaken Under the Project
HEALTH CENTERS
(a)    Baf3a
Bafata                Rebabilitation/Extension         80m2/45m2
Cambaju               Substitution                          125m2
Geba                : Rehabilitation                  4    125m2
(b)    Biombo
Ilonde                Substitution                 :        125m2
Ondame              : Rebabilitation               :         80m2
(c)    Oio
Ga-Sanima             RehabDlitation/Extension         80nm2/45m2
Portogole             Rehabilitation/Extension          80m2/45m2
Binar                 Rehabilitation/Extension         80rm2/45m2
Lendem              : Substitudon                           125m2
(d)    Bissau
Bairrao de Ajuda      Repair
(e)    Total
Rehabilitation                                      .2
Rehabilitation/Extension                            :4
Substitution                                        .3
Repair                                              .I
10 Centers
2.    REGIONAL CENTERS
(a)    Bafata, Bafata      : Center to be expanded        :         20m2
(b)    Biombo, Quinhamel    Center, new.                  :        100rm2
3.    DRUG STORAGE UNITS
Drug Storage Area          : 30 m2
Director's Office          :10 m2
Area for delivery of Medicine  16 m2
Toilets                    : 4  2
TOTAL                      : 60 m2
(a)    Bafata, Bafata      : Drug storage unit, new        :        60m2
(b)    Biombo, Quinhamel   : Drug storage unit, new        :        60m2
(c)    Oio, Mansoa         : Drug storage unit, new        :        60m2



- 127 -
ANNEX 3-8
Page 2 of 6
Draft Architectural Briefs
CENTROS DE SAUDE (Health Centers)
CONSULTORIO CLINICO                                             12 m2
ENFERMARIA                                                      12 m2
SALA DE OBSERVACAO.                                              9 m2
SALAS DE MATERNIDADE (2)                                        16 m2
LABORATORIO E FARMACIA                                          12 m2
HALL DE ESPERA                                   :12 m2
DEPOSITO MEDICAMENTOS                                            6 m2
SANITARIOS                                                       6 m2
Subtotal                                         :85 m2
CIR.\MUROS + VARANDA                                            40 m2
TOTAL                                                          125 m2
SEDE REGIONAL (Regional Center)
SALA DE SEMINARIOS                                              30 m2
GABINETE DIRECTOR REGIONAL                                      10 m2
GABINETE RESPONS. SACDE                                         10 m2
SALA DE SECRETARIA                                              12 m2
DORMITORIO COLECTIVO (sP.)                                      24 m2
TOILETTES                                                        4 m2
Subtotal                                                        80 m2
CIR.\MUROS                                                      20 m2
TOTAL                                                          100 m2
CASAS PARA ENFERMEIROS (Houses for Nurses)
Casas para enfermeiros tem dols quartos e uma area total do approximadamente 80m2.



- 128 -
ANNEX 3-8
Page 3 of 6
Staff Houses
BAEAIA                              .    REHABILITA D
Contuboel                              4
Fajunquito                             2                                 l
Cambaju                                 1                    1
Sare-Bakar                             2                                 l
Cosse                                                       2
Banbadinca                     __2
SUB TOTAL                      7                    5
BOMBO                      NlREHABILEEAE
Quinhamel                              2
Ilonde                                  1
Ondarne                                 2
SUB TOTAL                   .5 
-   010                  NEW           ~~~~~REHABILITATED
Farim                                  2           _
Ga-Sanima                              2           _
Portogole                              2                              X
Bissora                                2   
Binar                                  2           _
Lendem                                 2           _
SUB TOTAL                      12                   -
IIT AL                      24         1          S
24 New Houses
5 Houses to be Repaired -
Ms/House = 70Qm2



- 129 -
ANNBX 3-8
Page 4 of 6
Staff Houses Construction  Techniques
The house
Mahogany is also usd lo the pnmay support-
The proposd houses constitute the first              ing structure wthin the rool, the secondary
phase of 50 housas, grouped around a com-              structure is of pam te, and the coverng oonu-
mon grJen. The lots are beten 500 and 600              gatea steel plate.
squar metros.                                             The saves jut out more on the long sides of
The indoor area, 104,5 rn2 is cv,ded into            the house, prtecting the vindows and the
live rooms and a- kitcten, with  larg central          verandahs. The window on the gable facade
livingroom ventilated by opanings both towards          has its own smal root for proteon against the
the street and the g n. The house has two               sun. The roof supports serve chielly to secure
verandaha. The one facing the stret wofks as a         the rool against gusts ot wind that might other-
semi-pubic ante-oom whtil tht one Iaong ths            wise lft it
garden is really an extension  of the kitchen.            To give the house a good indoor climate,
The house is built on a 60 cm high pod-              also forduring the hot mtie of the yer. they atr
amnent. to protea it against floodng dunng the         built with rather high ceiirngs plastered from the
rainy season. The pedarnent consts of a wall           undesde. 3etween eiling and roof there is a
of concroto biocks on a foundaon of reinforced         large space, ventilated by inlets under the
concrete. Ths is filled wth compacted  anth,            eaves and outlets on the gables. Thus thermal
and then the floor, a thin layer of concrete, is       circulation is created. remong the hot air.
Wd on top. The walls above rts level ae built             The walls indoor as weU as outoor, will be
of sbi ized sanh btocM.                                whitewashed. Floors are to be paintod with
Ooors and windows are made of local t'r-             oil-based floor paint and the woodwoi1 o wilt be
mite-proof wood as for example mahogany.               oiled.
Source:  Johansson and Gotheborg,  Bjorn Siesjo.  "Dwellings  for Medical  Staff  in Guinea-Bissau".
Sweden.



- 130 -
ANNEX 3-8
Page 5 of 6
should b. kept moist to reach maximum
at\ength beko  they au  alowd to dry.
A tem ot five work s Can make 100-150    (       J
blocks an hour. and make enough bOwckS br a
house in 1-i weeks. Coff bdcty made UN W\
can beome as ttng    concrt blocksl wln
five to six tines les" use of the oxpansv
imported comet Even with payed laour the
bloc\k  wilU be claper than other alte v. g
They can be left unpiastared on the outsie.
since they am very resstant to rain.
Choice of ntrtlts
Much of the kfmitur wood is exported, and has
therefore bcome quite expensive even in
Guinea-lsau, but there are no better after-
natives. Simpler woods a,e quickly eaten by
etmotes.
BLOCX-MA     MAE                                        Cibe. palm tre, is doUvered in lengths of
about six metres. ft is choap and termite re-
sistant b  bed seasiy and is quite coare.
The roof covering. a very thin qualty of
corrugated zink plate, is perhaps not ideal in
Stabhod *         bUcks                                this climate, but the traditional grass roofs.
having to be relaid every third year. are not
The stabitized eath DOCkS will be made on            economical In urban areas where trans-_
the btuilng site with a hand driven Pssst that         ponraon o0 the material has to be paid for.
can be either purcthase  of wlde togeher kn            Other ilportd materials *e much more Ox-
*  atl mechanical workshop.                            pensive and demaind a sturdier roof structurS.
The earth is taken beneath the IoP humi.               Whitwashing with ime has great advan-
tayer, finey ground and moistened and then 5          tages in the hot and humid cimate of the
to 10 % of cernnt or IIme is added. Most sIale       tropecs Organically bued paints mould even
ue possible to use. Ths rddsh bron  let               under European condtions. and in Bisau the 
soil that is very comn on in Guinea4iu is             mouid on th houses is a very sntking fean,_ I
excellent for mis purpose. After pressing thW         dunng a-d afte the rainy season. Furthemmore
gblcks canbe hao n tte  t once. Afnd ro   us          the very alic  ime forms an environment
for caunng for 1-2 wes. during which time they        hostile to bugs



- 131 -
ANNEX 3-8
Page 6 of 6
L,0aion of Solar Panels and Wells
DAEaA                    SOL AER                        WELLS
Bafata                                    1
Contuboel                                              _
Fajunquito                                 1
Cambaju                                                              1
Sare-Baar                                 1
Tendinto                                   1
Cosse                                      1 1/
Banbadinca                                 1 I
Ga-Ture                                    I             _
Ponta Ingles                               1 1
Ga-mamudu                                  I
Geba                                       1 I
Xitolo                                     I
slI.QTOTAL                        13                        4
_ _ _ _BO                QLA PANE                        ELLS
Quinhamel                                  I
Bijimita                                                             1
Ronde                                      I                         1
Ondamne                                    1
SLTJUTOTAAL                       4                         3
QIQ                   SOLAR PANEL                    WEL
Canjambari                                 I                         1
Ga-Sanima                                  1                         1
Portogole                                  I                         I
Binar                                      1                         1
Lindem                                     I                         I
________                                                    ___
TOTA2L                          2                         12
1/ To be Repaired.



- 132 -
ANNEX 3-9
Page 1 of 3
REPUBLIC OF GUINEA-BISSAU
SOCIAL SECTOR PROJECT
Description of Past Experiences in Community Participation
1.    Following the proposal agreed in the last Aide-Memoire (Feb. 6, 1992, Par. ii.(D). The
Govermment carried out a research in the regions of Bafata and Oio. Consulting community social
and religious leaders.                                              a
2.    In Bafata, communities are generally receptive to cooperate with the construction of nurses
houses. But in Oio, they said that at present, a gratuity cooperation is impossible. Which reinforce
the project policy of providing some basic incentives (food, bicycles, radios, etc...) to compensate
their efforts. It was stressed the importance of adapting the implementation schedule of this
component to the raining season and cycles of demands for workers in rural areas.
REPORT:
A MINPH/B.M. Mission went to Bafata, with the objective of touching the local ancients,
traditional chiefs and committee to involve and participate in the construction of houses for the Health
Technical Staff at CS and Hospital levels. The Mission, according to instruction received from
MINPH contcted the following places:
Bambadinga. Sector's headquarter. The contacted people were:
* Amara Camara - Sector's President
* El-Madji Abdu Sanha - 'Regulo'
* Queba Camara - Counsel
 Malam Nharia - Committee's Member
* Malam Fati -
Situation of the houses for the Health Staff: The sector headquarters holds infrastructure for the
houses of the Health Technical Staff in the ex houses of 'sono' (there are 4 houses, and each one has
2 bedrooms). The roofs are in good condition, however, a general renovation is necessary (doors,
windows, ceiling, bathrooms, kitchens, electrical installation and sealing).
The population and specially the traditional Chiefs are willing to build one more house near
the CS to lessen the journey of the technical staff specially at night a during the rainy season, for the
houses mentioned above are more than 500 meters away from the CS.
Solicitation/Request: 200 liters empty metal barrel for water during the construction.



- 133 -
ANNEX 3-9
Page 2 of 3
Health Center of Fa6onquito and Cambaiu: The contacted people were:
* Carlito - Sector's President
* Sega Balde - Traditional "Regulo'
* Tcherno Coroa Balde - Mussulman Priest
* Bambo Silla - Division Chief
* Midja Balde - Chief of Fojonquito's 'Babanca"
* Sandji Balde
After the explanation of the Mission's objective the contacted people expressed their wish to
materialize the initiative to build houses for the Health Staff to alleviate the difficulties the staftfs
residential problems. It was unanimously agreed that the population would participate in the
construction of those houses.
Solicitation/Reguest: Shovel, Hoe, empty metal barrel for water, rope and bucket.
Contuboe: Sector's headquarter. Contacted people were:
* El-Hadji Braima Sisse - Contuboel Mussulman Priest
* Djenabu Balde - Responsible of UDEMU
* Sassau Sisse - Brother of the Mussulman Priest
The meeting took place at the principal Mohammedan temple of Contuboel and after brief
explanation the Mussulman Priest made public the idea of start the job as soon as he is allowed. On
the other hand, at the Mission's point o view, there is an old house in contuboel that belongs to
MINPH, where the head of the nurses is residing. This house needs some general repairs. It has the
same problems with distance as the ones encountered in Banbadinca.
Cos: Contacted people:
* Bacar Balde - Traditional "Regulo"
* El-Hadji Sori Djale - Sector's President
After the explanation of the Mission's objective, the traditional 'Regulo' said that the
population will build one more house for the health staff to satisfy the number of staff that the
hospital has.
The situation of the houses in Cosse are identical to the situation of the houses in Bambadica
(there are four old houses that need general repairs).
Sare Baca: These Health Centers have houses for its staff (4 Health expert), therefore, there is no
need to build more houses.
Conclusions: Send a technician to survey the repairs needed for the Health Centers in Bambadinca,
Contuboel and Cosse. The contacted population are aware of the philosophy presented.
Mission Delegate
El-Hadji laia Embalo-Enfo.
(Temporary CPS Director)



- 134 -
ANNEX 3-9
Page 3 of 3
Contact Mission with Politic/Administrative authorities of the Oio Remion
Objective: Inquire about the possibility of community participation on the construction of buildings (shelter) for
the health staff.
On may 7, 1992, according to instructions rwceived from MINPH's magement, I went to Oio region
to contact (for the 10th. time) the Regional Chief, Mr. Domingos da Silva, and his adviser, cooperative doctor
of the ONG D.C.A.
After the exposure of the subject and tho idea of MINPH's mangement about the probable location
for the construction, it was discussed tho real noocesities to conclude that:
* 3 buildings of 2 dwelling in Bissor;
* 1 building of 2 dwelling in Binar;
* 2 buildings of 2 dwelling in Mansoa;
* 2 buildings of 2 dwelling in Farim;
* 1 building of 2 dwelling in Guidadge;
* 1 building of 2 dwelling in Mansaba.
We visited the president of the state committee of Bissora region and in the presence of his staff we
stated the problem and received the following reply:
* For Binar region it will b easy to mobilize the population for voluntar work of this nature; for Bissor, it
will be a ittle difficult without counting with the people from the tabncas  outside the city. It will be
necessary to gurantee trnsportation, food, some drinks and tobacco for these people that would be coming
from the tabancas.
* Conceming the land, the president of the Chamber could answer for the necessities. The president Bacar
Djalan talked about the need to set up a starting date for the civil work because the time for the land cultivation
is arriving, therefore, it will not be possible to find avaiable population.
* We contacted Mrs. Stu Djassi, president of the Committee, in Mansa and explained the issue. She
appeared favorable, however, apprhensive about the strting time of the civil work.
* In Mansoa we contacted Mr. Wagnatchuda, President of the Sector's Committee, who believed it possible the
participation of the people, however, it would be necesry to know the starting date of the job in order to
mobilize the people that, at the moment, it in't usy to do.
* In Farim, we contacted Mr. Jaime Sampa, President of the Sector's Committee of Oia region, who after the
knowledge of the subject, said that voluntary and costless population participation for government services, at
this moment, would not be possible. He also explained that voluntary and costless pnctices has long been
banished in Farim, and for them (Farim's people), nobody does anything for the government for free, even with
the knowledge that it is for your own benefit.
* In the region of Biombo, it was not possible to contact anyone so far for the Region's principal and Health
principal were not present this week.
In general, both people appeared hesitant about a voluntary work with the population in the situation
that the country is at the moment.
A:A8ENG(JZ1)



- 135 -
ANNEX 3-10
REPUBLIC OF GUINEA-BISSAU
SOCIAL SECTOR PROJECT
Incentive Schemes - (Houses for Nurses and Roofing for USBs)
(a) Number of house new and to be remodeled:          (a) 29 units
(b) Number of USBs to be roofed:                      (bl) 474 USBs
(a) Number of estimated workers to be involved in the  (a) 8 workers per house
construction of one house:
(b) Number of estimated workers to be involved in the  (b) 3 workers per USBs
roofing of USBs:
(a) Estimated time to be devoted per worker and house  (a) 3 months per worker
(average):                                            per house
(b) Estimated time to be devoted per worker and USB   (b) 1 month per worker per
(average):                                            USB
Estimated cost (in US$) for a typical package of one sac of   US$ 30 per package
rice, oil, sardines and sugar (only for houses)                                 l
Number of packages to be provided                     one package per worker per
month
Total number of packages                              lx 29 x 8 x 3 = 696
Total cost of packages                                696 x $30 = US$ 20,880
(Subtotal A)
T-Shirts to be provided to each worker at the start of  29 x 8 = 232 T-Shirts
construction of each house (29)
Estimated cost per T-Shirt                            US$ 10
Total Cost of T-Shirts                                232 x $10 = USS 2,320
(Subtotal B)
Radio to be provided to each worker upon completion of    (29 x 8 workers = 232) +
each house (29); one to each Health Center (115); and one -  (115 HCs x 1 = 115)  +
to each USB (569)                                     (569 USBs x 1 = 569) =
950
Estimates cost per Radio                              US$ 15
Total cost of Radios                                  950 x $15 = US$ 14,250
(Subtotal C)
Total cost (A + B + C)                                Approx. US$ 37,450 (excl.
contingencies)
A6(zl)



- 136 -
ANNEX 3-11
REPUBLIC OF GUINEA-BISSAU           Page 1 of 10
SOCIAL SECTOR PROJECT
Detailed Proposal from Government on Basic Health Units
1. Introduction.
Le projet "santd de Base" a comnmeenc en 197'7 comme projet
pilote de sante communautaire dans 2 regions du pays, Tombali
et Cacheu. Aujourdhui, on compte un total de 544 Unites de
Sante de Base, distribuees sur toute l'etendue du territoire
de la Guine-Bissau.
A la suite d'un processus de sensibilisation des villages
sur leurs probl6mes de sante, des cases de sante ( Unidades de
Sadde de Base ) ont ete construites par les villageois eux,
m6mes, des comites de sante ont etd formes et des villageois
ont ete sdlectionnes afin d'etre formes commO Agent de Sante
de Base ou Matrone. En grande partie, ce projet reposait sur.
l'initiative des populations locales: le Ministbre de la Santd
Publique fournissait quelques materiaux de construction (
fermetures, portes, equipements et parfois aussi du zinc pour
la couverture de la case) et a mis & la disposition des
r6gions des infirmiers-superviseurs/animateurs pour la suivi
du projet.
Les agents villageois ne sont pas remundrds, meme pas
pendant leur piriode de formation ou recyclage, oti co sont les
villages qui les prennent en charge. II est & noter qu'en
moyenne, il y a environ 3 agents de sante et 3 matrones formes
pour chaque unite de sante de base, donc par village
(tabanca), ainsi evitant que leur charge soit trop lourde.
Au plan curatif, les agents de santd de base sont formes
pour traiter les affections plus communes: le paludisme, la
c9njunctivite, la toux, les diarrhees, les plaies et des
douleurs. Pour d'autres maladies, qui depassent leur niveau de
competence, ils jouent un role intermediaire important dans
l'Avacuation aux echelons superieurs. Bien que l'attraction
pour le curatif et la dispensation de medicaments soit un
fact-ur tr&s important dans la motivation des agents de santA
de base, & partir d'ici ils gagnent aussi la confiance des
villageois pour mener & bien d'autres actions dans le domaine
-preventif: ddpistage des personnes avec un toux persistante,
conseils pour prevenir les piqures de moustiques,
rassemblement des enfants et femmes cibles pour le PEV lors
des visites de l'infirmier au village, education & l'hygiene
et des bonnes pratiques nutritionnelles, etc.
Les matrones, de leur c6te, sont formees pour accompagner
les accouchements dans des conditions hygieniqtes. A travers
des pictogrammes, developpees & cet effet, elles suivent. les
femmes enceintes dans la periode prenatale, dispensant
systematiquement du fer et de la chloroquine comme mesure



- 137 -
ANNEX 3-11
prdventive antiandmique et antipaludique, at identifiant        Page 2 of 10
quelques indicateurs de haute risque obstetrique.
L'exp$rience du "Abota", un systene & paiement pr6alable
qui fonctionne comme une assurance collective, a fait l'objet
de plusieurs etudes dans la literature de santd publique
tropicale.- Ces fonds sont totalement autogeres (comit6 de
sante). Les medicaments sont vendus aux USB & des prix
subventionnes, ce qui fait que le niveau net de recouvrement
des codts est modeste, encore accentue par les d6valuations du
peso guineen des dernibres annees. Entretemps, il est claire
que les villageois sont prets & payer beaucoup plus, pourvu
qu'un approvisionnement regulier en m6dicaments soit garanti.
Sur le total des coits recurrents, difficile & estimer, la
partie des medicaments ne semble neammoins pas preponderante.
2. Description et -ustification du groiet.
Le projet proposd a trois objectifs:
(a) Rendre les Unites de Sante de Base plus
solide et plus durable quant a leur
construction ohysicue.
Les USB sont normalement erig4es avec du materiel local:
murs de terre, et couverture de paille. Ni pour le pavement,
ni pour crepir les murs, on n'utilise du ciment, di aux frais
supplementairs que cela engendre. Les consequences pour la
maintenance et la proprete des locaux est evident, surtout en
saison pluvieuse.
On a estimA qu'avec 25 sacs de ciment par case da sant4,
on serait capable de crepir leas murs et de construire un
pavement cinente au dessus du sol, ainsi rendant la
construction plus durable et facilitant l'hygiene des locaux.
La paille, utilisee comme couverture, doit etre
renouvel6e chaque annee; quand ce ne sont pas les termites,
clest le feu qui est a la base d'un fin precoce de la case. IA
od les moyens le permettent, le zinc est utilise comme
couverture, mais , autant prefere, ce matiriel est aussi plus
cher. En plus, dans certains parties du pays la paille n'est
pas facile a trouver. Le nombre de feuilles necessaire pour
couvrir une USB a ete estimn a 100.
Dans le tableau 1, le nombre de USB necessitant d'un toit
en tole de zinc a iti indiqud pour chaque region; il en est de
mime pour les USB necessitant d'un pavement cimenti. La
tableau 2 donne une recapitulations de cas donnees:
* Il y a un'total de 474 tUSB qui ne disposent pas d'un
toit en t6le de zinc; de ce total, il y en a 128 dans les
regions considiries prioritaires dans le projet (Bafata, Oio e
Biombo). Restent 346 dans les autres regions, et comme le
present projet s'itend sur une periode de 4 & 5 ans, iI y aura
des nouvelles USB aussi bien dans les regions prioritaires que



- 138 -
ANNEX 3-11
Page 3 of 10
dans les autres rdgions. Etant donni le caract&re national du
programme de sante couzunautaire, un- tells priorisation pose
des problbues & la Direction National do SSP, confrontie & des
requetes pour ces ressources Amanantes de tous les coins du
pays. Pour cette raison, et en accord avec les discussions
tenues &-ce sujet avec le chef de mission de la Banque
Mondiale, nous proposons un fonds supplduentair pouvant servir
un nombre de-lSO USB avoc des t6les de zinc. (voire tableaux 2
et 4).
* En ce qui concerns les pavements cimentde, il y a un
total de 345 USB n'on disposant pan dans l pays entier, dont
un nombre de 108 dans les regions prioritaires sous co projet
Banque Mondiale. Pour les raisons discutdes ci-dessus, nous
proposons egalement un fonds suppl6mentair pouvant servir un
nombre de 150 USB avec du ciment. (voire tableaux?2 et 4).
(b) Fournir un maven de tranmoort aux unitda
do santA de Base.
Dans la planification des USB, on a toujours pris on
compte la distance jusqu'au centre do sant& plus proche,
priorisant les villages isol4s. En cas d'une maladie grave ou
un accouchement prolong&, la communication avec les 6ch-lons
supdrieurs dans le systbme de sant6 & partir de ces villaqos
n'est pas facile. Un contact rqgulier avec los infirmiers dans
les centres de santd, indispensable pour un bon fonctionnement
des USB et une motivation soutenue des agents villageois,
pourrait Atre facilit6 par le fournissnment d'un noyen do
transport aux USB. C'est une condition pour quo lea agents
villageois et les comitds de sant6 villageoises puissent jouer
pleinement leur role interu6diair, coume "interface", entre l1
syst&me national-do sant6 at les communautds.
Le coit d'une bicyclett-, CIF Bissau, serait d'environ
1200 & 1400 FF la piuce; dans l budget (voire tableau 3 at
4), on est parti d'un prix unitaire par USB de 1500 FF, ainsi
incluant une pourcentage pour la cr6ation d'un stock de pihces
d'echange.
A ce moment-ci, aucune des USB dispose d'une bicyclette;
ainsi le nombre de USB n4cossitant d'uns bicyclette indiqud
dans le tableau 1 correspond au nombre total d'USB existent
dans chaque r6gion. Los bicyclettes seraient destin4os a
toutes les USB dans le pays, actuellement en noibre de 544,
auquel nombro lon a ajouti lxs 25 USB progra-u4es jusqu'&
1995 dans la rdqion de Biombo.
Suivant la proposition de la Banque Mondials, les Centres
de Sante eux-aussi iront regovoir une bicyclette; il y a
actuellement un nombre de 115 Centras do Santd au niveau du
pays..
Comme il existent d'autres projets au niveau des r6gions
(bilaterales) qui pr6voient fournir des bicyclettes soit aux
USB, soit aux Centres de Santd, le nombre total de bicyclettes
sollicitees dans le cadre de co projet Banque Mondiale a dt6
fixe A 600. (voire tableaux 2 et 4).



- 139 -
ANNEX 3-11.
Page 4 of 10
(c) Renforcer la capacits d'autoagestio  des villages.
comme cela a dt6 rdf6rd dans l'introduction, le projet de
sante de base slest repos6 d6s le debut sur un haut niveau
d'initiative de la part des villageois. C'est ainsi quo nous
nous proposons de solliciter une contrepartie des villages
aussi bien pour les matdriaux de construction (sous a) que
pour les bicyclettes (b); & travers le systbue coutunier de
1'Abota (prepaiement collectif) une participation de 25 a 30 %
des codts reels sera demand4e des villages pour obt-nir soit
les materiaux de construction, soit la bicyclette. Ces fonds
seront gdr4s par les comitAs de sant6 eux-mAzes, dans ie but
de les utiliser pour l'entretien do la case et do la
bicyclette (les pieces d'Xchange pour les bicyclettes seront
egalement mis a leur disposition & des prix abordatles, ayant
ete compris dans le budget total du pr6sent projet). Ces fonds
pourront egalement etre utilis6s pour d'autres initiatives au
niveau des villages visant am6liorer l'6tat de sants de ses
populations.
(d) Suivant une proposition de la Banque Mondiale, ie
present projet fournira 6galement de radio-transistors aux
USB sur toute l'etendue du pays. Ces radios devraient
permettre une meilleure couverture des ftissions de la radio
nationale dans les villages, surtout od ces ftissions touchent
des problemes et des informations concernant la sante
publique..
3. Gestion du proret  distribution des matFriaux.
La gestion du projet sera confii & la Direction National.
des Soins de Sant6 Primaires, gui assurera los achats, le
magasinage et la distribution. La Direction Nationale de SSP
dispose d'un magasin grand. & Bissau pour le stockage des
mat6riaux et bicyclettes prevus dans le projet. Le programme
dispose aussi d'un camion.
La distribution aux villages so fera & travers les
Directions Regionales de Sant6 Publiques: la plupart de
celles-ci disposent egalement d'un ddp6t pour le magasinage;
celles gui n'en disposent pas seront 6quip6es avec un
conteneur (33 metres cubiques; prix environ 5200 FF), qui
pourra plus tard servir d'atelier de r6paration pour les
bicyclettes et stockage de piaces d'echange.
La Direction Nationale do SSP fournira tous les supports
logistiques necessaires aux Directions RAgionales, qui sont
tenues & executer et suivre le projet au niveau des villages.
Dans le tableau 4, une rubrique "imprAvus, y compris
frais de gestion du projet" a ete inclue, ostimoe & 15% du
budget total. Ces frais de gestion comprennent carburant (au
niveau national et regional), l'achat de conteneurs pour les



- 140 -
ANNEX 3-11
Page 5 of 10
regions (stockage), d6douanement des mat6riaux importes, frais
de bureau, etc. I east & noter que la Direction National des
soins de Sante Primaires dispose egalement des fonds
bilaterales venant des Pays Bas pour son fonctionnement
normal.
Dana le-tableau 5, finalement, nous avons propose une
r4partition des budgets sur les 4 ans du projet; compte tenu
des retards probables dans l'approbation du projet par la
Banque Mondiale, le prezibre ann6e deviendra plut6t 1994 et le
projet s'etendra dans ce cas jusqu'& 1997 au lieu de 1996.
Augus    d Silva,                      Dr. Yne van den Berg,
Directeur National SSP.                Conseiller technique SSP.
Annexes: Tableaux 1 & 5.



- 141 -
ANNEX 3-11
Page 6 of 10
Tableau 1. Nombre d'Unites de Santd de Base fonctionnelles en
---1992 ; Dispositions actuelles des USB en ce qui
concerne la nicessit4/manque d'un toit en zinc,
d'un pavement ciment6 et disponibilit6 d'une
bicyclette.
Region:       Nombre de USB  Dont no. de USB necessitant de:
existents:
Toit en       Pavement en  Bicyclette.
t6le- 
________   de zinc.     ciment.
Regions prioritaires dans le projet Banque Mondiale.          _
Bafata               67            67              57            67
Oio                  76            36              26            76
Biombo               25 *          25              25            25
SUBTOTAL:           168           128             108           168
RMg.priorit
Autres regions (reste du pays).
Gabu                120           120              85           120
Cacheu               78            31              18            78
Bolama/              30            22              13            30
Bijagos
Tombali             118           118              76           118
Quinara              55            55              45            55
SUBTOTAL:           401           346             237           401
Autr.region
TOTAL:              569           474             345           569
Pays entier
*La rg.on de Biombo no dispose actuellesent pas Re USB;
le num4ro de 25 rdflte la pr6vision jusqu'& 1995.



- 142 -
ANNEX 3-11
Page 7 of 10
Il4affigL.L.   Recapitulation des ressources sollicitees dans
le cadre du projet "Social Sector II" de la
Banque Mondiale au profit du programme Sante
Communautaire.
Ressource:      No de USB ou CS ndcessitant la ressource:
Regions         Autres          Total du
prioritaires:   rdgions.        pays.
Bafata, Oio
e Biombo.
Toit en t6le
de zinc pour         128            346 *1           474
US E.                          _ _ _ _  _ _ _
Pavement
ciUentS   pour       108            237 *1           345
Biecyclette
plus pihces          168            401              569 *2
pour USB
Bicyclette
plus pieces           32             83             i15 *2
pour CS.
Radio
transistor           168            401              569
pour USE.
observations:
*1:  Pour le calcul du budget (voire tableau 4),
seulement les r6gions prioritaires dans le cadre de
ce projet ont 4td prises en compte en ce qui
concerne la couverture en t6le de zinc et le
pavement cimentd. Un fonds suppldmentair a dt4
propose pour soit lea USB existents dans les autres
regions, soit des USB nouvelles desirant une
couverture en zinc et/ou un pavement cimente. Le
montant de ce fonds suppldmentair est bas6 sur un
noubre de 150 USB potentiellement servis d'un toit
en zinc et pavement ciment6.
*2:  Le total de bicyclette quo sera fourni dans le cadre
de ce projet est de 600: c'est-& dire les 569 pour
lea USB (pays entier), plus 115 pour les Centres de
Sante, avec un ajustement fait pour des bicyclettes
prevues dans le cadre d'autres projets
(bilaterales).



- 143 -
ANNEX 3-11
Page 8 of 10
lA1bgaui a_.R6capitulation des budgets par Unit6 de Santd de
Base et par ressource sollicit6e ( Tole de zinc;
Ciment;Bicyclettes, y compris pihces d'^change).
Type de ressources      Prix         Quantit6      Coats
sollicit6es:            unitaire    n6cessaire   par USB.
par USB
( FF )                     ( FF
T6le de zinc;
Feuilles,                   30           100          3000
2,50a*0,65n
Sacs de ciment,             40            25          1000
50 kgs.
Bicyclette, y
coupris 20 % de ea
valour pour la            1500             1          1500
creation d'un stock
do pihces d'ichange.
Observation:
Los radios transistors, propou6s par la Banque Mondials
et destin4s & tous lea USB du pays, n'ont pan ete inclus
dans cc tableau.



- 144 -
ANNEX 3-11
Page 9 of 10
b1gau 4L Calculation du budget par ressource et le budget
total.
Ressource:       Budget par ressource (francs francais).
- Voire tableaux 2 et 3 -
Regions        Autres         Total du
prioritaires:  regions.       pays.
Bafata, Oio
et Biombo.
Toit en       (122a-0M)       (1S00300)
t6le de 
zinc (USB).       384.000         450.000       834.000
Pavement      (2.00100)       (13001000)
ciment(           108.000         150.000       258.000
Bicyclettes    (W10X)     . (400X            (*00010)
plus pieces       300.000         600.000       900.000
(USE_+_CS).   __   _ _ _  _ _
Radio                         (401  )        (3490 .*..
transistor                              ??
(USB).    ?__      __ __  _?
SUBTOTAL:         792.000       1.200.000    1.992.000
Imprdvus, y
compris frais
de gestion                                      298.800
(15% du
subtotal).
TOTAL:                                        2.290.800
Obsevto 
La proposition pour les radios etant de la Banque
Mondiale, on n'a pas pu donner le prix unitaire pour
cette ressource.



- 145 -
ANNEX 3-11
Page 10 of 10
TahimAn S. R6partition des budgets sur les 4 ans du projet.
Toous montants en francs francais.
Ressource:   Budget       1993        1994      1995         1996
total.     ( 40% )    ( 20% )    ( 20% )    ( 20% )
______ _____ (FF)__     _  _ __                         _ _ _ _ _
Zinc. 
834.000     333.600   166.800    166.800    166.800
Cimunt        258.000    103.200    51.600      51.600     51.600
Bicyclettee   900.000    360.000   180.000    180.000    180.000
Impr6vus.    298.800    119.520    59.760      59.760     59.760
1 rAL:     2.290.800   916.320   458.160    458.160    458.160



- 146 -
ANNEX 3-12
Page 1 of 3
REPUBLIC OF GUINEA-BISSAU
SOCIAL SECTOR II
List of Equipment and Furniture
MEDICAL EQUIPMENT                                         QUANTITY
Trousse Infirmier en boite metallique                                                       1
Pince a dissequer droite sans griffes Inox 14 cm                                            3
Ciseaux de mayo droits Inox 16 cm                                                           3
Coseaix a pansements de vezien Inox                                                         3
Pince hemastatique de pean Inox 14 cm                                                       3
Pince de kocher Inox 14 cm                                                                  3
Necessaires agrafes de michel complet                                                       I
Apparcil a tension de vaquez avec stethoscope sacoche plastique                             2
Bascule pese personnes avec toise force 120 kg                                              1
Bouilleur a instruments (poissonniere) Inox 30 cm                                           1
Cuvettre Inox diametre 30 cm                                                                3
Haricot Inox                                                                                4
Bock Inox 2 litres                                                                          1
Seau a pedale                                                                               2
Plateau Inox 28 x 15                                                                        2
Plateau Inox 22 x 14                                                                        2
Stethoscope obstetrical de pinard                                                           I
Ruban metrique tissu plastifie                                                              1
Pese bebe force 1- kg type seca                                                             I
Aiguilles Hypodermiques assorties (Paquet de 12)                                           50
Seringues nylon 2 cc                                                                       20
Seringues nylon 5 cc                                                                       20
Seringues nylon 10 cc                                                                      S0      -
Seringues nylon 20 cc                                                                       10



- 147 -
ANNEX 3-12
Page 2 of 3
MEDICAL EQUIPMENT                                         QUANTITY
Trousse Infirmier en boite metallique                                                       1
Pince a dissequer droite sans griffes Inox 14 cm                                            3
Lampe a alcool                                                                              1
Tubes a essai                                                                               1
Supports tubes a essai                                                                      1
Pince bois pour tubes a eIai                                                                1
Aiguilles a pontion lombaire                                                                5
Thermometre                                                                                 3
Sondes vesicales homme et femme                                                             5
Sondes gastriques                                                                           5
Boite d'urgence                                                                             1
Pissettes                                                                                   5
.Abaisse langue metallique                                                                  3
Otoscopes a piles                                                                           I
Boite a gants                                                                               1
Garrot                                                                                     50 ci
Jeu de gouttieres                                                                           1
Tambour (differentes dimensions)                                                            2
Potence + panier                                                                            1
MEDICAL FURNrilE                                          QUANTITY
Table d'examen a tetiere reglablo avoc matela                                                I
Escabeau 2 marches                                                                          1
Guiridon de soins                                                                           2
Tabouret bauteur variable                                                                   3
Table de soins                                                                               1
Lit d'Hopital largeur 0,80                                                                  I
Matelas mouse largeur 0,80 avec housse plastique                                            I
Traversain largeur 0,80 recouvert aleze blancbe                                              1



- 148 -
ANNEX3-12
Page 3 of 3
MEDICAL FURNITURE                                         QUANTTrY
Table d'examen a tedere reglable avec matelas                                                1
Table de Chevet                                                                              1
Plaque porte feuille temperature                                                             1
Table metallique 100 x 60 hauteur 76 cm                                                     2
Armoire metallique 190 x 100 x 45                                                           2
OFFICE FURNITURE
Bureau metallique 2 tiroirs                                                                 2
Fauteuil de bureau                                                                          2
Chaise metallique                                                                           6
Banc metallique 2 tiroirs                                                                   2
Calculatrice                                                                                 1
OTHER EQUIPMENT AND FURNITURE
Lit 2 places largeur 140                                                                    1
Matelas largeur 140                                                                          1
Traversin largeur 140                                                                        1
Lit I place largeur 0,90                                                                    2
Tracersain largeur 0,90                                                                     2
Armoire penderie 2 porta                                                                    2
Table salle a manger                                                                         1
Buffet salle a manger                                                                        1
Chaise salle a manger                                                                       6
Table basse de salon                                                                         I
Fauteuil salon                                                                              4
Refrigerateur 280 litres )petole, gaz electrique-                                            I
Cuisiniere a gaz 4 feux
A:A7(jsl)



- 149 -
ANNEX 3-13
Page 1 of 5
REPUBLIC OF GUINEA-BISSAU
SOCIAL SECTOR PROJECT
Lista das ONG's Estrangeiras e Nacionais na Guin6-Bissau
A.      ONG's Estrangeiras
A.D.P.P.:               Ajuda ao Desenvolvimnento do Povo pam Pove,
(Dinamarca)             Bissau C.P. 353
Tel. 214648
A.D.R.A:                Agencia Adventis  pam o Desenvolvimento dos Povos,
(Intern.)               Rua Marien N'Gouabi, C.P.397, Apaxtado 97 1031 Biauu CODEX, Te. 213414
AFRICARE:               Melhoramento da Qualidade de Vida cm Africa,
(U.S.A.)                C.P. 203 Bissau
Tel. 201066
A.P.V.P.:               Associaqio dos voluntarios Frauce pam o Prograo,
(Franqa)                Apartado 05 1011 Bissau CODEX
Te. 214938
A.I.F.O.:               Amigos de Raoul Folicreau Amici di R.P.,
(Italia)                Hospital 3 do Agosto C.P. 315 Biusau
Tel. 215292
A.MI.:                  Assistencia M6dica Intemacional
(Portugal)              A. Pansu na Isna C.P. 1150 Bissau
Tel. 211575
APPOBI:                 Apoio ao Povo dos Bijagos, (scm repreacntagio local).
(Sui&a)
A.R.O.:                 Organizaqio do Recrutamento dos Grupos Aficanos na Sudcia
(Su6cia)                Tel. 215296/215405
ASCOM:                  Associaqio pam a Coopersqio MissionLria
(ItLlia)                A/C Dioce  do Bissau, C.P. 20
Tel. 251058
A.S.W.:                 Agio Mundo Solidariededc (scm represcAo bocal)
(Alfanha)
A.V.G.B.:               Associaqin Ver'ocrgs - Guin6-Bissau (san rcprem ataqlo local)
(Sud6i1)
B.D.:                   Comparticipaio Fratenal (som repreataqio loca
(B6lgica)
B.P.D.W.:               Pio pam o Mundo (sam repreaentagAo local)
(Abmanha)
CARITAS:                A/C Caritas da Guin6-Bissau
(Holandesa)             C.P. 20
Tel. 251058



- 150 -
ANNEX 3-13
Page 2 of 5
CARITAS:               A/C Caitau da Guin6 Bisau
(Italiana)             C.P. 20
Tel. 251058
CARITAS:               A/C Caritas da Guin6-Bisau
(Portuguesa)           C.P. 20
Tic. 251058
C.C.F.D.:              Comait Cat6olio Contra a Pome . pan o DesenvoMvimeno
(Fran0)                (san representagio loca
CEBEMO:                O 0ganaqc Cat61i pam a Co-F Fanaonent de Progmas
(Alemanha)             de Descavolvito,
A/C SEDEPRU, C,P. 20
Tel. 251058
C.E.C.I.:              Centro Canadiano de E1tudoo  Coopaaio  _       ,rnaciona,
(Canada)               Apaitado 39. CODEX 1031, B_mu
Tel. 201553
C.l.D.A.C.:            Cntro do Informagio c DocnUglo Amikw Cabrl (mn
(Portugal)             reprewnk local)
C.[.E.P.A.C.:          Centro Intornc_onal pan a Educe   Per_maent. a
(Fran4a)               Aproveitnto Concertado
A/C Projto dc Emblgean dc Produtgo Alment   an Co-PDRI4
CIMADE:                Servigo O 0uenio do Aijud Mdta
(Fran9a)               A/C S.E.C.L.P.
Tel. 215914
C.O.E.:                Conwlho Oecun&iioo du Igreju (van rprmtaa local)
(Internac.)
C.O.E.:                Centro do Orientamato Eduatiovo
(lutAia)               A/C Dioces de Bimu, C.P. 20
Tel. 211058
C.R.I.A.A:             Centro de Pequisa Internqiona (rm repre qo loeal)
(Franga)
C.U.A.M.M.:            Coldgio Univro Aqpnrt Medico o Misionuio
(ltiia)               A/C Dioces do Biau, C.P. 20
Tel. 251058
C.V.G.B.:              Cuz Vemelha da Guin6Buimu
Rua Dr. Seveaino Gomes do Pina
Tel. 215536
C.W.S.:                Servigo Mundial du Igr4q  (wan repraito loca)
(E.U.A.)
D.C.A.:                Apono da Irja dnamaqum
(Dirmnarca)            Bairro do Bd.em, tb.
DEV. PAIX:             Desenvolvinto c Paz (ram rp_e bao bcal)
(Franqa)
D.U.:                  ComiM du iu Protestat. AlnAs pn a Serviqo do
(Alemanha)             Ulamar, (scm represe       locl)



- 151 -
ANNEX 3-13
Page 3 of 5
D.W.H.H.:               Agro A9io Alemi (sem representa9Jo local)
(Alemanha)
ENDA T.M.:              Meio Ambiente e Desenvolvimento do Terceiro Mundo
(Senegal)               C.P. 175, BXO
Tel. 311203-Mansoa
F.C.D/S.S.:             Fundo de Cooperamao ao Desenvolvirnento/Solidarite Socialiste
(Belgica)               A/C SOLIDAMI Bairro de Cobumel, C.P. 505
Tel. 215609/211644
F.M.:                   Innaos dos Homens (sem representacio local)
(Franca)
F.E.:                   Fundacio Esperanea (sem reprmsentacio local)
(Brazil)
G.V.C.:                 Grupo Civil dos Voluntarios, C.P.S - Gabu
(itilia)                Tel. 511127/511157, Bissau 214622
l.C.C.O.:                Comite Intereclesiatico de Coordenaqio pam os projetos de
(Holanda)               Desenvolvimento (sem representagio local)
ILHAS DE PAZ:           llus de Piz de Bolama,
(B,lgica)               C.P.364 Bissau
Tel. 201457/811159 Bolama
I.M.C.C.:               Comite Intemacional pam Cooperacao Medica
(Dinamarca)             A/C Danchurch Aid, Bairro de Belem
Tel. 215536
INTERPARES:             A/C C.E.C.I., Apartado 39 1031 Bissau CODEX
(Canadf)                Tel. 201353
I.P.P.F.:               Federacio Internacional pam o Planeamento Familiar
(Internac.)             A/C AGUIBEF
Tel. 213582
IRFED/EDI:              Educacio e Desenvolvimento Intercultural (semn represenafaqo
(Fraqa)                 local)
I.S.C.O.S.:             Instituto Sindical para Coordena io e Desenvolvimento (sem
representa9io local)
JOCUM:                  Jovens com Uma Misso
(Brazil)                A/C Missao Evangelica, C.P. 49
Tel. 212758
K.P.J.:                 Organizaqio Cat6lica dos Jovens do Campo (sem
(Holanda)               representacqo local)
L.V.I.A.:               Associacio Internacional dos Leigos Voluntirios
(OtUlia)                A/C Diocese de Bissau, C.P. 20
Tel. 251058
MANITESE'76:            Maos Estendidas, Organizagio Contra a Fome e pam o
(ltilia)                Deacnvolvimento dos Povos
A/C C.P.S Bubaque
Tel. 821157



- 152 -
ANNEX 3-13
Page 4 of 5
MISEREOR:               Ajuda da Organiza9io dos Bispos da Igreja Catolica
(Alemanha)              A/C SEDEPRU, C.P. 20
Tel. 251058
NOVIB:                  Organizaqio Holandesa pan a Coopeaqio Internacional c
(Holanda)               Desenvolvimento, (sem representacao local)
OXFAM:                  A/C Projeto Integrado de Caboxanque
(Belgica)
OXPAM UK:               Oxfam Ingraterra (sem representaqio local)
OXFAM USA:              Oxfam Amdrica (sem representaiao local)
RADDA BARNEN:           Largo do Combatente Desconhecido
(Su6cia)                C.P. 262
Tel. 201442
R.A.D.I.:               Rede Africana para o Dcsenvolvimento Integrado
(Senegal)               Parim, Tel. 351206
S. QUAKER:              Comite de Servigo dos Amigos Americanos
(E.U.A)                 C.P. 167 Bissau
Tel. 215899
S.N.V.:                 Serviro Holandes de Cooperaqio Internacional
(Holanda)               Rua Dr. Severino Pina, 38 apartado 68 1031 Bissu
Tel. 212086
SWISSAID:               Fundaqio Suica para a Cooperaqio ao Dsccnvolvimento
(Suiqa)                 C.P. 3
Tel. 211183
TEAR FUND:              Fundo de Alianqa Evangclica par as Calamidades e
(Inglaterm)             Desenvolvimento
A/C M.E.G.B., C.P. 49
Tel. 212758
U.M.M.I.:               Uniao dos M6dicos Missionarios da It6lia
(Itilia)                A/C Diocese de Bisuau, C.P. 20
Tcl.251058
V.S.O.:                 Serviqo dos Voluntarios Britanicos do Ultamnar
(Inglaterm)             Estrada de Caracol, apartado 98 1041 Bisu
CODEX Tel. 201477
WILDE GANZEN:           Gansos Selvagens, Organizaqio Oecum&ia das Igreja
(Holanda)               Holandesas (sem representasio local)
W.F.D.:                 Scrvigo Comunitario da Piz (sam rcprantaqio local)
(Akmanha)



- 153 -
ANNEX 3-13
Page 5 of 5
B. ONG's Nado
A.B.P.:                   Associaqio Bartlomeu Pemrim,
Eng. Vicentc Poungoum,
Tel. 201154
A.D.:                     Asio ao Desavolvimento
A/C D.E.P.A, C.P.,
Eng. Isabel, Mianda Presidente
Tel. 214438
AGUIBEF:                  Associauio da G.B. par  Bem-Eatar Familiar
Bairro de Cupelom de Cima
Tel. 213582
ALTERNAG:                 Alemnativa Guineensc: Associaqio Guincense de Estudos c Altenativas A/C Ministdrio dam
Finanqaa, C.P.,
Eng. Adelino Handern - Presidente
Tel. 201037
AMIC:                     Ausociacio dos Amigos das Criaa
Anita Sani - Presidente
Tel. 212193
CARITAS:                  A/C Caritas da Guin6-Bimsau, C.P. 20,
G.B.                      Tel. 251058
F.A.C.:                   Fundagio Amilcar Cabral
C.P., Tel.
Luis Anibal Pereim - Presidente
I.C.A.P.:                Igreja de Creito Agriculkul c Projoctos,
C.P. 12
Manadi Jaitch - Presidente
Tel. 351206
I.O.G.T.:                 Associaqio dos Bons TempUrios
C.P. 10029 1601 Biuau CODEX
Nalet Maria - Presidente
NAFA-GONAL:               Apoio I Populaqio
A/C Departamento do Apicultura/MDRA
C.P.,
Eng. Djarga Seidi - Presidente
Tel. 211816
SOL-BOE:                  Solidariedade com Boc
A/C I.N.E.P., C.P.,
Samba Tenemn Camaa - President.
Tel. 211301
TINIGUENA:                Esa Terra 6 Nos": Asaocaio do Pronmoqo do Desenvolvimento Participetivo na Base 
Gestio Durivel dos Recur os Naturais
Apartado 667
Maria Augusta Hnriques - Secretda Gral
Tel. 212674
A:NGO (JZI)



- 154 -
ANNEX 3-14
Page I of S
REPUBLIC OF GUINEA-BISSAU
SOCIAL SECTOR PROJECT
Detailed Descri_tiog of the Social Action Fund Sub2roiec
Including Terms of Reference of Kiey Technical Assistance
1.    Introduction
1.    In February 1992, the Governent approved and recognized the legal position of NGOs and
formulated a law that regulates this sector (Decreto Lei dos ONG's Nacionais). This was the official
recognition of a process that had started in the middle of the 80s and that gained considerable
momentum since. In 1991, there were some 11 national NGOs and about 62 international NGOs
registered in Guinea-Bissau. They were working in a variety of sectors, both social (health, education
and training, culture and food support programs) and productive (agriculture, fishing, industry,
commerce and cooperatives). A recent list of these NGOs and their various activities per region nd
per sector has been elaborated by SOLIDAMI (SOLMDariedade and AMIzade).
2.    SOLIDAMI was created in 1986 as a public institution under the auspices of the Ministry of
Foreign Affairs and Cooperation (MINFAC). Its main objective is to act as an umbrella to coordinate
NGO activities in the country and to identify and support new initiatives in the different regions and
sectors. The organization is composed of four departments that promote, support, document and
administer the various projects and NGOS in the country. SOLIDAMI is supported by a variety of
donors. It disposes of a 'Fund to support small inidatives (FAPI)", that was created by a consortium
of some international NGOs (OXFAM, Solidariedade Socialista, NOVIB, and ICCO). Criteria
established to obtain FAPI's funds are in the area of production and credit, while they are only
available for local groups and national NGOs. However, internadonal NGOs have no access to these
funds.
3.    An evaluation by this consortium in the beginning of 1992 showed a moderate increase over
time of new initiatives to be financed by the FAPI-fund, while at the same time pointing to the limited
absorption capacity of SOLIDAMI to identify, elaborate and initiate new projects in the country. In
fact, during the first year FAPI used onle ECU 12.000 of which 3/4 in the rural areas. As
experience points towards the necessity to start slowly and prudently, so as to permit the organizations
working in the field to grow and keop control over eventual new initiatives. A period of several
years is probable necessary to permit a social action programme to develop from the bottom upwards
and to permit local control and community participation to take place.
II.    Obiectives
4.    The general objective of the Social Action Fund (SAF) is to support those initatives within
the social sector, that alleviate or diminiso poverty of the most vulnerable groups in the society.
Specific objectives of the Social Action Fund Unit (SAFU), that will be responsible for the exaction
of the programme are suggested as follows:
(a)    Define a Social Sector policy within the specific economic and socio-political context
of Guinea-Bissau together with other actor in this field (governmnt/
multilateral/bilateral/NGO'S);
(b)    Manage and control the Social Action Fund (SAF);



- 155 -
ANNEX 3-14
Page 2 of 5
(c)    Initiate and elaborate project proposals together with beneficiaries;
(d)    Provide technical and financial support for implementation and follow-up after
approval;
(e)    Provide financial and technical support both to grass-roots organizations in the
society, as well as to national and international NGO'S that are involved in the social
sectors;
(f)    Strengthen the participation of the beneficiaries in design and overall implementation
of the activities;
(g)    Monitor follow-up and progress through a pre-determined set of well-defined social
welfare indicators; and
(h)    Initiate as part of the general policy development some practical studies that help to
define the target population (For example a Household food security study to assess
purchasing power among low-income households or a study to develop practical and
simple indicators).
III.    Criteria and beneficiaries
5.    In principle the following criteria will apply when submitting proposals to be financed through
SAF. The proposals should be:
(a)    Linked to social problems and poverty alleviation;
(b)    Supportive to high risk groups in the society that gre directly affected by the actual
Economic Reform programme; and
(c)    Directed to groups of people that show interest and initiative and that are willing/able
to manage the funds adequately. The SAF cannot be used by groups that already have
a privileged position in the country (ponteiros/political parties).
6.    The most important beneficiaries of the SAF will be households below the poverty-line, that
are unable to assure sufficient revenue for their basic needs nor the access to essential services (health
and education). One could more specifically mention amongst others:
- Women (Single Headed Households/Widows/Prostitutes/Others);
- Children (orphans/streetboys/juvenile delinquents/others);
- Elderly people without family support;
- Handicapped persons both physically and mentally. A more detailed inventory of the various
organizations already working in this field should be made by an external consultant. He/she should
make a proper needs assessment and a more detailed definition of the target
population that has been most affected by the economic reform programme.
7.    Both grassroot groups as well as national and international NGOS can apply for the SAF.
Efforts to enhance collaboration between them will be considered positively.
8.    Detailed criteria and procedures for the approval of projects will need to be defined later by
the external consultant within the framework given in this annex. lbese criteria should clearly
delineate the difference between the FAPI funds (productively oriented and only for national NGOS)
and the SAF - funds (socially oriented and available for both types of NGOS). Overlap and ambiguity
in this area should be avoided.



- 156 -
ANNEX 3-14
Page 3 of 5
IV.   Organization and management
9.    In discussion with the Minister of Foreign Affairs and Cooperation, an organizational
structure for the SAF has been defined that allows for coordination, exchange of experience and
information,while at the same time it will assure relative autonomy in order to respond rapidly and
with flexibility to the needs of the target groups. To this end a Social Action Fund Unit (SAFU) will
be created within the premises of SOLIDAMI. This department will manage and control the funds of
the Social Action Fund (SAF). It will have an executive role. The SAFU will be headed by a
Manager/Technical Director for which task description and professional requirements are defined
below. The SAFU will be further provided with a locally hired assistant and the necessary support
materials under project financing. Detailed expenditure estimates have been worked out. A SAF
Technical Committee of the SAF headed by the Managing Director will meet regularly to analyze and
review proposals and decide on action and initiatives to be taken. The committee will be a permanent
structure that will assess priorities and progress. It is constituted by representatives from:
- MINPH and MINNE;
- National and International NGOS (on a rotating basis);
- SOLIDAMI Representative;
- SAFU Assistant to the Managing Director.
The Committee will meet regularly (every two-three months) in order to:
(a)    Review the proposals for new projects and activities;
(b)    Assess progress of the SAFU in responding to the needs of the deprived and
marginalised population.
10.   During annual review of the Social Sector Project, specific attention will also be given to
assess progress for the Social Action Fund . To this end annual reports (including budgetary
spending and forecasting) should be prepared and discussed, including the evolution of the pre-defined
indicators. At the same meeting an annual workplan with budget should be presented and analyzed.
In the third year of the project a short independent external evaluation is envisaged, if possible by the
same external consultant (on a two-month period).
V.    Personnel
11.   Within the SAFU, there will be a Managing Director, an assistant to the Managing Director
and support staff (accountant, secretary and driver). The bureau will be equipped with the necessary
materials (photocopier, computer, consumables, etc). It will be in the premises of SOLIDAMI so as
to allow exchange of knowledge and mutual sharing of experiences.



- 157 -
ANNEX 3-14
Page 4 of S
Ap,oendix
Managine Director
Terms of Reference
Responsibilities
- Administer and manage the SAFU as well as the SAF;
- Participate in the formulation, together with other actors in this field of a Social Sector policy;
- Stimulate promotion and divulgation of the SAF;
- Initiate and prepare projects and activities in the social sector;
- Support implementation, follow-up and evaluation of these projects both technically and financially;
- Participate in the training of staff in project preparation and implementation.
Reguirements
- Academic training in the social or agricultural field (sociologist, agronomist or other development
oriented training);
- Experience in the work with grass-roots organization and the NGO sector;
- Experience with the formulation of project proposals, their implementation and evaluation;
- Activate and dynamic character with good social communication capacities.
Assistant to the Managing Director
Terms of Reference
ResDonsibilitie
- Assist the Managing Director in daily activities;
- Identify felt needs among vulnerable groups in the society;
- Give technical support to grass-roots organizations and national NGOS in the formulation and
preparation of their proposals;
- Give technical advice, support and training in the implementation and follow up of these activities;
- Identify additional resources and support from other persons and/or organizations when necessary;
- Monitor and visit sites when activities financed under the SAF are being carried on to ensure
adequate use of the funds.



- 158 -
ANNEX 3-14
Page 5 of 5
Requirements
- Mid-level technical training in the development field, social and/or more productive-oriented;
- Experience with work with NGOS and grass-roots organizations in the country;
- Experience with project formulation and project implementation procedures;
- Good social relations and respect for marginalized and deprived groups.
SAE External Consultant
Terms of Reference
Res2onsibil ities
- Elaborate a detailed inventory of the various organizations working in the social fields in Guinea-
Bissau, multilaterally (UNICEF, ILO), bilaterally (Sweden, Denmark, etc) and NGOS (SNV, CECI,
etc);
- Elaborate a needs assessment of those most affected by the economic reform and suggest priorities
of actions to be developed.
- Elaborate a realistic work programme for the first year of the Social Action Fund Unit. Propose
social indicators that can realistically be included as measures of performance of the Social Action
Fund;
- Elaborate detailed criteria and procedures for the approval of projects within the framework of this
report.
Rauirements
- The consultant should have extensive work experience in the NGO-sector of Guinea-Bissau.
Preferably he should be acquainted with the social sectors and effects of the Economic reform
programs on the vulnerable groups. The consultant should speak and write Portuguese and preferably
should be able to speak Creolo.
SAFU Accountant
Terms of Reference
Job Description. In close collaboration with the PCU Project Accountant, the SAFU
Accountant will have primary responsibility in keeping financial accounts for the Social Action Fund,
preparing expenditures accounts, quarterly progress reports, and annual financial plans and
submission of accounts for audit. The SAFU Accountant shall also provide other necessary financial
assistance to the Managing Director nd the PCU Project Accountant.
Duration. Full-time employment during project implementation.
b:saf azi)



- 15 9 -                                         ANNEX 3 -15
UtLIC oW GUJISA-UStUA
~1AL meme NRoJE
rdmsm of th Swisll ActI Pn
INItl OF FORIG
SOCIAL ACTIX FtUM MtlT
SAP.
D. 4j                     '      .
JOImAM   ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~WUbldA -PdU
.?~~~~~~~~~~~~ ~~~~~~~~im  ~~~~~~                           ~4im& S t
_Di.~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~d A. 8s
&%a  -.om  &wp e h6s.
4_ Mo UAb d fX _D
-   SAP  d4 tA&W1-n
b    T. _oi                                                                                       W 4uid
V*os VW  o qm iwm .m*
k ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~  ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~       ~      ~      ~      ~      ~    ~     .~~ui, Ap i a *
PAf tlb.I   -_ '_ t



REPUBLIC OF WUINEA-SISSAU
PROPOSED SOCIAL SECTOR PROJECT
Project Cost Summary
G. PESOS                               uss                               X Total
---------------------------------------    ..........................-     S ForeIgn         SBe
Local      Foreign        Total      Local Foreign   Total          Exchange        Costs
-------- ---- -- ----------          .. ... ... ... ... .......... .  ................. ... ... ..
A . HEALTH SECTOR COMPONENT
1. REFRESHER COURSES              5860S5.6   2542934.0   3128969.6          68.1    295.7   363.8             81.3         4.3
2. UPGRADIN PROGRAMS             1286947.0   4220880.0   5507827.0         149.6   490.8   640.4              76.6         7.6
3. IEDICAL SPECIALIZATIONS       1409796.0  15789600.0  17199396.0         163.9  1836.0  1999.9              91.8        23.7
4. IEC COMPONEHT                  131580.0   2525820.0   2657400.0          15.3   293.7   309.0              95.0         3.7
5. REHASILITATION/EWUIPPING      4901140.0  21113000.0  26014140.0         569.9  2455.0  3024.9              81.2        35.8
Sub-Total                            8315520.6  46192234.0  54507754.6         966.9  5371.2  6338.1             84.7         75.0 0
* . SOCIAL ACTION FMUD              1645782.0   4633250.0   6279032.0         191.4   538.7   730.1              73.8         8.6
C . PROJECT COORDIHATION tHIT       2407396.0   3513874.0   5921272.0         279.9   408.6   688.5              59.3         8.1 
0 . PPF REFINACiNG                       0.0   2580000.0   2580000.0           0.0   300.0   300.0             100.0          3.5
E . TAXES AMD DUTIES                3435700.0          0.0   3435700.0        399.5      0.0   399.5              0.0         4.7                         0    C,
--.--.--- ---- ---- ----- ---- ---- --  - ---- ----- ---- ---- ---- ----- ---- ---- ---- ---- .
Totat BASELINE COSTS                15804400.6  56919358.0  7273758.6         1837.7  6618.5  8456.3              78.3        100.0
Physical ContIngunc el            1105470.7   4619017.0   s724487.7         128.5   537.1   665.6              80.7          7.9               0
Price Conting ncIes               5596793.1   17797907.6  23396700.7        136.3   406.2   542.5              74.9         6.4                        E
Total PPOJECTS COSTS                22506664.4  79336282.6  101844947 0       2102.6  7561.8  9664.4              78.2        114.3 i                     O    C
11/11/1992  14:01                                                                                                                                         P    :>.
o     I
In~~~~t
rt      0'   CA
CA
rt
m~~
En~~~~>
c,u
x 
I-



REPULLIC OF CUINA-BISSAU
PROPOSED SOCIAL SECTOR PItOJECT
Summry Account by Project Cponhent
0. PE
MEDICAL               RENAILITAT                PROJECT
REFRESHER   UPGRADING  SPECIALIZAT     IEC     ION/ECUIPPI    SOCIAL   COORDINATIO     WF       TAXES AID
C0URSES     PROGRAJtS    IOINS     COMPONENT      MG      ACTION FUND    N UNIT   REFINAUCING    DUTIES
1. INVSTNENT COSTS
....................
A. CIVIL WoRKS                         0.0         0.0         0.0         0.0   5725450.0         0.0         0.0         0.0         0.0
B. R0OFING MATERIALS FOR USB           0.0         0.0         0.0         0.0   245840.0          0.0         0.0         0.0         0.0
C. FLOORING NATERIALS-CEMENT           0.0         0.0         0.0         0.0    593400.0         0.0         0.0         0.0         0.0
0. I"NCETIVE SCEMS                     0.0         0.0         0.0         0.0    322070.0         0.0         0.0         0.0         0.0
E. LOCAL LASIR                         0.0         0.0         0.0         0.0    904720.0         0.0         0.0         0.0         0.0
F. EQUIPMENT                           0.0         0.0         0.0   1075000.0   1462000.0         0.0         0.0         0.0         0.0
C. OFFICE EWUIP1ENT               662630.0         0.0         0.0         0.0         0.0     86000.0    210700.0         0.0         0.0
H. MEDICAL EQUIPMENT              172000.0    946000.0   4300000.0         0.0   4321500.0         0.0         0.0         0.0         0.0
1. FURNI TURE                     223600.0    404200.0    946000.0         0.0   1462000. 0        0.0     U500.0          0.0         0.0
J. VEHICLES                            0.0         0.0         0.0    172000.0   3741000.0         0.0    3UO00.0          0.0         0.0
K. TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE
1. FOREIGN TECHNICAL ASSIST.    1135200.0   2580000.0   8668800.0         0.0         0.0    412800.0   1651200.0         0.0         0.0
2. LOCAL TECHNICAL ASSIST.        24768.0    123840.0         0.0         0.0         0.0   1362240.0   1981U0.0          0.0         0.0
Sub-totet                       11599".0   2703840.0   8668800.0          0.0         0.0   1775040.0   3632640.0         0.0         0.0
L. TRAINING
1. LOCAL TRAINING                418011.6    989387.0    704596.0         0.0         0.0         0.0     51600.0         0.0         0.0
2. TRAINING WITHIN AFRICA             0.0         0.0         0.0    533200.0         0.0         0.0         0.0         0.0         0.0
Sui-total                        418011.6    989387.0    704598.0    533200.0         0.0         0.0     516O00.0        0.0         0.0
H. PPF REFINWCING                      0.0         0.0         0.0         0.0         0.0         0.0         0.0   2580000.0         0.0
N. TAXES AND DUTIES                    0.0         0.0         0.0         0.0         0.0         0.0         0.0         0.0   3435700.0
0. SUPPORT FUNDS FOR SAf               0.0         0.0         0.0         0.0         0.0   3440000.0         0.0         0.0         0.0
Total INVESTMENT COSTS           2636Z09.6   5043427.0  14619398.0   1710200.0  20977980.0   5301040.0   4303440.0   2580000.0   3435700.0
II. RECMRENT C0STS
A. SALARIES FOR PCU/SAFU               0.0         0.0         0.0         0.0         0.0    160992.0    264192.0         0.0         0.0
S. AINITENANCE                         0.0         0.0         0.0         0.0         0.0         0.0         0.0         0.0         0.0
C. OPERATING COSTS                4927W0.0    464400.0   2580000.0    87720.0   5036160.0    817000.0   1353640.0          0.0         0.0
Total RECLIRRENT COSTS            4927W0.0    464400.0   2580000.0    177200.0   5036160.0    977992.0   1617832.0         0.0         0.0
Total ASELINE COSTS              31289.6   5507827.0  17199398.0   2657400.0  26014140.0   6279032.0   5921272.0   2580000.0   3435700.0                  M
Physical Continr4incis,         288260.0    527562.7   1590939.6    221880.0   2349606.0    235003.6    511235.6          0.0         0.0 °
Price Ccntlng.nc"e              831671.6   2472428.3   5909608.3    552733.0   8448814.9   1970527.7   2163140.4    206460.0    841316.4                  W
Total PROJECT COSTS              4248921.2   8507D18.0  2469996.1   3432013.0  36812560.9   848563.3   8595648. 0   2786460.0   4277016.4 
.S=asssSS_.SS-..SSW..S.SS.... lU=SSZ                    ..SS SDSSSSSaS - Wn=.Sfl....asSSSSS .SSSSSSS. .  ...SS. SSS
Tax*                                 0.0         0.0         0.0         0.0   1388639.6         0.0         0.0         0.0          0.0
foreign aLEchwno               3409695.4   6517037.1  22590715.4   3244362.0  297091U.9   6043451.1   5035414.8   2786460.0           0.0
.............  1--------------------------------------------------4:01.-           -- -- -- --- -- -- -- . .. -- -- -. ...- --- -- --......
1t/11/1992  14:01



REPUBLIC OF GUINEA-SISSAU
PROPOSED SOCIAL SECTOR PROJECT
Summary Account by Project Component
G. PESOS
PhysIcal              Price
Contir,nmIes          Contingances
Total         I         0o0mt        X      Amount
1. INESTMENT COSTS
A. CIVIL MORKS                    572S450.0        10.0   S5545.0        32.7   1870473.5
S. ROOFIlG MATERIALS FOR USS      2445840.0        10.0    244584.0      33.7      23450.2
C. FLOORING MATERIALS-CENT         593400.0        10.0     59340.0      33.6    199266.7
D. INCENTIVE SCHEMES               322070.0        10.0     32207.0      35.5    114272.9
E. LOCAL LABOR                     904720.0        10.0     90472.0      39.3    355537.1
F. EWUIPMENT                      2537000.0        10.0    253700.0      15.6    395905.5
C. OFFICE EQUIPNENT                959330.0        10.0     95933.0      11.0    105530.2
N. NEDICAL EQUIPMENT              9739500.0        10.0    973950.0      23.3   22677n.7
1. FURNtITUE                      3100300.0        10.0    310030.0      33.8   1047071.0
J. VEHICLES                       4257000.0        10.0    425700.0      20.1    855968.4
K. TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE
1. FOREIGN TECNIICAL ASSIST.    14448000.0        10.0   1444800.0      43.7   631986.2
2. LOCAL TECHNICAL ASSIST.       34922U8.0        10.0    349228.8      39.7   1388010.2
Su- total                       1940288.O         10.0   1794028.8      43.0   7707356.4                                                                         '
L. TRAINING
1. LOCAL TItAINING               2163596.6        10.0    216359.7      42.9    929096.1
2. TRAINING WITHIN AFRICA         533200.0        10.0     53320.0       16.1     85613.8
St-total                        269676.6         10.0    269679.7      37.6   1014711.9
H. PPF REFINACING                 2580000.0         0.0         0.0       8.0    206460.0
N. TAXES AID DUTIES               3435700.0         0.0         0.0      24.5    841316.4
0. SLWIPT FtuSS FOR SAF           3440000.0         0.0         0.0      25.7      83M20.0
,,,,,..............,,  .......  ,,   . J ... . . .. . . . .. . . . . . . .
Total INVESTMENT COSTS           606m94.6           8.4   5122169.5      30.5  1868937.5
11. RECURERET COSTS
A. SALMIES FoR PCU/SAFU            425184.0         5.0      21259.2      37.6    159927.1
B. MAINTENANCE                          0.0         0.0         0.0       0.0          0.0
C. OPERATING COSTS               11621180.0         5.0    581059.0      39.1   454335.8
.,,,,...........___......   __..... . . ._. . ._. _ .__. . .. . . .. . . .
Total IECLENT COSTS              12046364.0         5.0    602318.2      39.1   4707262.9
Total  SEELINE COSTS             723758.6           7.9   5724487.7      32.2  23396700.7
Physical ContinrwcIex           5724487.7
Price Contfn encles            23396700.7         7.5   1747595.5         . 
..............----------  ................................. ............  .....0.........O 
Total PROJECT COSTS             101844947.0         7.3   7472083.2      23.0  23396700.7                                                                   M
Taxes                           13639.6           9.1    126240.0                                                                                         0  1
ForeIgn Exche                  79336282.6         7.5   5978933.6
11/11/1992  14:01



fmiU IC if wUI"A.6l1
lP00   OCUIA SCI  PFJCT
ummmy Accounts Cost umew 
*. PESO                              uns                              K Total
............................  ...................           Foreign       so"
Local     Foreign        Totl       Lwota Foreign   Total        EachuW          Cotst
1. I1T1T COTO
........ .................
A. CIVIL LIltM                   2290100.0   3435270.0   5725450.0       266.3   399.4   665.7             60.0         7.9
0. OWIfl10 NATEMIALS fOR               0.0   2445040.0   2445040.0         0.0   234.4   264.4            100.0         3.4
C. PLOIN NAITESIALS-=T                 0.0    593400.0    595C46.6         0.0    0.0    69.0             100.0         0.E
0. INCENTIVE SCNEESS              179S6 .0    142562.0    32207S.0        20.9    16.6    37.4             44.2         0.4
E. LOCAL LAMR                     904720.0         0.0    904726.6       105.2      0.0   105.2             0.0         1.2
F. EMIPNEUT                       103200.0   2433600.0   2537000.6        12.0   23.0   295.6              95.9         3.5
S. OFFICE EWIFIINfT                    0.0    959330.0    95330. 0         0.6   111.5   111.5            100.0         1.3
U. UEIcL E UIPFET                     0.0   9739500.0   973956 .0         0.0  1132.5  1132.5            100.0        13.4
1. fUITUl                         60740.0   2493140.0   310300.6          70.6   236.9   360.5             60.4         4.3
J. WUICLES                             6.6   425700.0   4257066.0          0.0   495.0   495.6            100.0         5.9
K. T1Ct ICAL ASSISTAnCE
1. ftOEIOL TECICAL ASSIST.          0.0  14U1.0  144a0o6100             0.0  1u60.0  16a0.0            100.0        19.9
2. LOCAL tECrICAL ASSIST.     349Z .0             .0   34922006.6     4.1        0.0   406.1             0.0         4.8
9nb-rTteL                        349.0  14441000.0  1794606.6            406.1  1660.6  2010.1             60.5        24.?
L. TrAINIS
1. LOCAL TUAININ              216350.6          0.0   2163M59.6       251.6      0.0   251.6             0.0         3.0
2. TAININ VITNIN AFRICA             6.0    533200.0    533206.0         0.0    e2.0    62.0            100.0         0.7
Sub-Total                        216350.6    533200.0   26996.6          Z51.6    62.0   313.6             19.8         3.7
P. FPF REFIWACINS                      0.0   25O0000.0   2530000.0         0.0   300.0   300.0            100.0         3.5
H. TAXES AND DUTlES              343570.0           0.0   3435700.0      399.5      0.0   399.5             0.0         4.7
0. OUPPUT FUlSM FOR SAF                0.0   3440000.0   3440000.6         0.0   400.0   400.0            100.0         4.7
Totat I  _ET  CnTS              13174412.6  475009o .0  6067394.6        1532.1  55n.4   m5.5              73.3        63.4
11. - tI ewTS
...................
A. SALAIES fO PCU/APFU            4251U4.0          0.0    4G164.0        49.4      0.0    49.4             0.0         0.6
B. MInTEKE                             0.0          0.0         0.6        0.0      0.0     0.0             0.0         0.0
C. WEMlIN COSTS                 2202554.0   9418376.0  11621160.6        256.1  10M5.2  1351.3            81.0        16.0
Total QfCUQEUT COST                     .0   941376.0  124 364.0        305.6  t109 2   1400 7            73.2        16.6
Totnt LAMIiW COSTS              158044 0.6  5619356.0  72723756.6        1037.7  6618.5  8456.3            78.3       100.0
Psica l Contlo -ncpes          1105470.7   4619017.0   5724487.7       12B.5   537.1   665.6            o0.7         7.9
Prie Cmntitu-nclfs            5596g3. 1  177977.6  23396700.7          136.3   406.2   542.5            74.9         6.4
Total PROJICTS COSTS            2250364.4  79336282.6  101844947.0      2102.6  7361.8  9f66.4             7e.2       114.3
... ... ... ... .. ... ... ... ... .. .....  _..._.  ........ . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . p- - -- - -- - -- -
11/11/1992  14s02
0 
0%



REPURLIC OF UINEA-EISSAU
PROPOSED SOCIAL SECTOR PROJECT
Summnry Accoumts bY Year
Totals IncludIng Contilsmncefe                                     Totals Includin Contirnencl"
0. PESOS                                                               USS
.. .......... ................... ..... ..... ... ... ...... ....... . .....  ...... .... ................... ..... ....... ............ ....................
1994        1995         1996         1997        Total           1994         1995         1996        1997        Total
__*_=_-*-....tia SllS .mn.sna                  m.ss.s.n saulasnf.an u.nsa s...  __=SS_ _
1. INVESTMENT COSTS
A. CIVIL MORES                     1651956.5   3514567.9   3001944.0            0.0   8161468.5           177.9        334.6       263.8          0.0        776.3
S. ROFING MATEtIALS FOR USI        1180044.4    702912.7    789551.7    841365.5   3513874.2              127.0        66.9         69.4         69.7        333.1
C. FLOORING MATERIALS-CENENT        287206.6    170846.8    191904.9    202048.3    852006.7               30.9         16.3        16.9         16.7         80.8
0. INCENTIVE SCNEPES                 24142.0    301301.2    143106.7            0.0    468549.9             2.6         28.7        12.6          0.0         43.9
E. LOCAL LANOR                       62436.0    646780.2    551043.1        99469.8   1350729.1             6.7         61.6        48.4          7.5        124.2
F. EWUIPMENT                       2393387.8    793217.7           0.0          0.0   3186605.5           257.7        75.5          0.0          0.0        333.2
G. OFFICE EQUIPMENT                1160793.2          0.0          0.0          0.0   1160793.2           125.0         0.0          0.0          0.0        125.0
N. NEDICAL EQUIPMENT               6893996.1   3661003.7   1370749.4   1055476.4  12961227.7              742.2        348.5       120.5         87.5       1296.7
1. FtRNITtDE                        96572.7   1616944.8   1535240.4    316643.2   4457401.0               106.4       153.9        134.9         26.2        421.5
J. VENICLES                        3619014.8     63387.4    493469.8    542816.4   55386,1.4              411.2        65.1         43.4         45.0        564.6
K. TECUEICAL ASSISTANCE
1. FOREISS TECNHICAL ASSIST.    1873066.3   6rs6246.9   6906577.2   6694735.9  2221246.2               201.7       641.3        607.2        554.7       2004.9
2. LOCAL TECHNICAL ASSIST.      1032067.1   1197153.5   1480414.3   1519692.0   5229527.0              111.1        114.0       130.1        125.9        "I.1
54h-Total                          2905153.4   7933400.4   8388991.5   8214627.9  27442173.2              312.8        755.3       73n.3        680.7       2486.1
L. TRAINING
1. LOCAL TRAINING                314969.6    9f5294.4   1178779.9    859990.5   3309054.4               33.9        90.9        103.6         71.3        299.7
2. TRAINING WITHIN AFRICA        49063.6    183050.2            0.0          0.0    672133.8            52.7         17.4          0.0         0.0         70.1      >
Sdb-Total                           804073.3   1138344.5   1178779.9    859990.5   3961188.2               86.6        108.4        103.6        71.3        369.8       1
N. PPF REFINANCING                 2786460.0          0.0          0.0          0.0   2786460.0           300.0          0.0          0.0         0.0        300.0
N. TAXES AND DUTIES                1793616.0   1336827.0    788806.6    357766.8   4277016.4              1"9.1        127.3         69.3        29.6        419.4
0. SUPPORT FIMDS FOR SAF            928820.0   1050380.0   1137750.0   1206870.0   4323820.0              100.0        100.0        100.0        100.0       400.0
Total INVESTNENT COSTS            27679674.6  235499114.5  19571338.1   13686074.8  84489001.9           2980.1       2242.0       1720.2      1134.2       8076.5
nasaaa.ssinnss~ss..as...~..nu....s.sSMAM.Sa.-as,   SM n   .. as*...SSS sfus.0SUSAMA-SS&MASa.fn,         ala.Slf
I. RECURRENT COSTS
A. SALARIES FOR PCU/SAFU            122771.9    143977.9    161724.0    177896.5    606370.3               13.2         13.7         14.2        14.7         55.9
B. MAINTENANCE                           0.0          0.0          0.0          0.0         0.0             0.0          0.0          0.0         0.0          0.0
C. OPERATING COSTS                 2904417.2   3938411.3   4676377.0   5230369.3  16749574.8              312.7        375.0        411.0       433.4       1532.1
Total RECURRENT COSTS              3027189.1   4082389.2   4838101.1   5408265.7  17355945.1              325.9        388.7        425.2       448.1       1587.9
S- -      SflflSSS---.....mass ........  --- S .S........an. .van...... .    a       nS  SU...... gas ... 1  ...*S-an     SS ..... as'n-summsa......
Total PROJECT COSTS               30706863.7   27632303.7  24409439.2   19096340.5  101844947.0          3306.0       2630.7       2145.4      1582.3       9664.4
---------------------------- -- g--------------- --s-------------g-- ---- =--8--8--   -------t -- -----------------------------8--- g------------8-- 8  =-- gl--88----
___.. _____......... _______________ .............................. ______________............................ ___ ...... _______.............._____.____________________________________ ........................ _____ ____
11/11/1992 14:02
>Q
0%
-Jf



REEPLLIC OF UJINEA-8ISSAU
PROPOSED SOCIAL SECTOR PROJECT
Projects Cospornnts b Ye ar
Totale Including Continganeles                                                   Totals InctudIrg Contingenies
G. PESOS                                                                              USS
.............................................................................................-------------------------------..------------............---------------------.-- _.......
1994           1995           1996            1997          Total               1994           1995            1996           1997          Totat
B........                                 ..       ..          ................... -  - - sost ............ ------------ ...........
A. HEALTH SECTOR COMPONENT
1. REFRESHER COJRSES                    185514.5       1332840.5        508797.8       552138.3    4248921.2                 199.7          126.9            44.7           45.7          417.1
2. UPGRADING PROGRAMS                    800237.7      1567760.0    3833266.6         2306553.6    8507818.0                  86.2          149.3           336.9          191.1           763.4
3. MEDICAL SPECIALIZATIONS              7113470.1      6398899.5    5485273.9         5702302.7   24699946.1                 765.9          609.2           482.1          472.5         2329.7
4. IEC COMPONENT                        2251250.9        480090.9       333653.0       367018.1      3432013.0               242.4           45.7            29.3           30.4           347.8
5. REHASILITATION/EQUIPPING            10159853.6   12394383.2    9147005.8           5111318.3   36812560.9                1093.8         1180.0           804.0          423.5         3501.3
Sub-Totat                                   22179956.8    22173974.1    9307997.3    14039331.0   M01259.3                       2388.0         2111.0         1697.0          1163.3         7359.3
S. SOCIAL ACTION FUND                       1824910.4      2014158.5    2233404.7         2412089.8    8484563.3                 196.5          191.8          196.3           199.9          784.4
C. PROJECT COORDINATION UNIT                2121920.4      2107344.1      2079230.6       2287152.9    8595648.0                 228.5          200.6          182.7           189.5          801.3
D. PPF REFINANCING                          2786460.0             0.0            0.0             0.0     2786460.0               300.0            0.0             0.0            0.0          300.0
E. TAXES AND DUTIES                         1793616.0      1336827.0       78806.6         357766.8    4277016.4                 193.1          127.3           69.3            29.6          419.4
Total PROJECTS COSTS                       30706863.7   27632303.7   2409439.2    19096340.5  10184947.0                        3306.0          2630.7         2145.4          1582.3         9664.4
.s.u.nssnannsaansflaasufasnusnflunasannsnsn.su              w     ...USllS..........SSSSSsUUS                                      sl        I
-----------------------_ -..-.-.-.-- ...-------. -------------l     ----.-. ------...    t -.... -------. . ------------------------_-*---------...--..----------- ......-........----.-..  t   _
11/11/1992  14:02                                                                                                                                                                                        0%
n
0Q
0I
0%_
-D



REPULIC OF CUIINEA-ISSAI
P6OPOS SOCIAL SECTOR PROJECT
C. PEWS
Project Comimnts bV 1tr
s   Costs                                Total
1994        1995        199W        199    C.ffSOS      US
A. HEALTN SECn  CIT
1. REFRESM  COUSMS             1S37961.0    945148.6    32506.0    320780.0   3128909.6        363.8
2. UPC .AIfb POORAh             664479.0   1109529.0   2411612.0   1322207.0   5507027.0       640.4
3. DICAL SPECIALIZATIUm        590U200.0   4536779.0   3470745.0   3281674.0  17199396.0       1999.9
4. IEC    OIIT                  1670500.0    348300.0    219300.0    219300.0   2657400.0      309.0
S. EUIIILITATION/EQUIPPIN      8"41502.0   6791694.0   5001044.0   2979900.0  26014140.0      3024.9
. .. .. . . . . . .  ... . . . . . . . . . . .. . . . . . . . . ..................... . .
eb tetat                         1"82662.0  1573S30.6  122M21.0   5123661.0  54507754.6          6m.1
S. SOCIAL ACTIM1 R               1610606.0   1550406.0   1559006.0   1559006.0   6279032.0       730.1
C. PSECT COIIaTIM UNIT           1770566.0   1503961.0   1366.0   1323361.0   592122.0           686.5
D. PF REFINANCIN                 2S604000.6        0.0         0.0         0.0   2510ooo.0       300.0
E. TAXES AM  DUTIES              160560.0   1036300.0    544310.0    224460.0   3435700.0        399.5
... .. -... ... ....... ............ ......... ................ .......... .................  
Tott AUIIE coTS                  26014396.0  19624126.6  15454537.0  11230697.0   2m7751.6       656.3
PT.lcal Contieuufte             133m3.O    142064.9   126016.9   85306.9   S724467.7          "6.6
Price Cntin--is*               27N22.7   6166M092.2   7486.3   7012S96.6  23394700.7           542.5
. .. .. .. .. .. . ... . . . ..... . ... ...  . ..... ................
Total PSOJECT CWSTS              307063.7  2 303.7  2           9.2  1901630.5  1044947.0        964.4
Turns                           2632.6    s97476.s    510330.5           0.0   13863.6         132.0
Foreoin Exchuu                25944606.8   20699.0  176130.0  1507617.1  73362.6              7561.5
....... ............. . .. . .. . ... . .. ...... .... . .        ...._ .. ... . .. ....... .
11/1l/UVa 14:42
-
-~~~~~~~~-
0 0



REPUALIC OF GJINEA-IISSAU
SOCIAL SECTOR PROJECT
Oromiara_ of the Prolect Coordination Unit
HINISTRY OF PULIC                                                       HINISTRY OF FOREIGN
HEALTNHA AFFAIRS AND COOPERATION
I                                            -
SOCIAL SECTOR PROJECT MHANAGE0ET-
I                           PhROJECT COMROINAITON
4,         a         i 
SociaL Sector Project                 PROJECT/COORDINATING 
lepl m_ntetion Coe ittee:             UNIT (PCU)
-PCU Director                        -Project Director
-Training ond Nt.                    -Accountant
Technical Director                  -Clerk                                                                  Socel  Action
-Proc /Architectural Spec.           -Secretary                 -  -  -                      Fund Unit
-IMIPH Repr.(Dir. of Pten)           -Driver                                                                     SAFU
-NINPN R pr.MDr. of PHC)
NEALT HSECTgR StH-PROJECTS
HEALTH WORKE
TRAINING SIX-PROJECT
Training *nd n 9t.
Technical Director
IEC SWU-PROJECT
Training wnd Nagt.
Technical Director                                                                                                                             m
* REHABILITATION/
fOUJIPPING SUH-PROJECT
Procurement/Architectural
Specialist
a:org2. jz7



- 168 -
ANNEX! 42
Page I of 3
REPUBLIC OF GUINEA-BISSAU
SOCIAL SECTOR PROJECT
Terms of Reference of Proiect Coordinating Unit Key Staff
A.    Training and Management Technical Director
1.            The Training and Management Technical Director (the Director) will be responsible
for the planning and implementation of the Training component of the Social Sector Project, that
contains specifically the following types of courses:
(a)    In-service training refresher courses;
(b)    In-service training upgrading courses; and
(c)    In-service training medical professionals.
2.            The candidate will assume the following tasks based on available data:
(a)    assess health manpower needs of MINPH for each of the proposed upgrading courses.
(b)    assure the fulfillment of the various entree requirements of the candidates for the
promotion courses as summerized in the Aide Memoire of the Appraisal mission.
(c)    define competency skills of MINPH personnel at the various levels for the various
categories.
(d)    based on approved job descriptions and standard competency profiles of MINPH,
define the learning objectives for the various upgrading courses.
(e)    develop together with the Guinean staff the curriculum and the teaching skills
necessary for the execution of these programmes.
(f)    assure the official recognition of the courses at national and international level.
(g)    invite other institutions and personalities to participate in the various training
programmes.
(h)    assure correct working conditions for trainers and participants of the various training
programmes.
(i)    participate as trainer/facilitator in the various training sessions and seminars.
(k)    assess the impact and the effect of the courses provided in responding to the objective
of MlNPH to improve the quality of care dispensed by the health staff.
(I)    coordinate with the Director of the Plan/Studies and Cooperation Department of
MINPH the activities of the EEC component to assure EEC relevance with health
messages.
(m)   responsible for managing, monitoring and controlling the project funds allocated to the
Training component, and will work through the PCU Project Director on elaborating



- 169 -
ANNEX 42
Page 2 of 3
contracts and procurement (in line with World Bank's Guidelines) for equipment and
supplies necessary to carry out various training activities.
Rquiremqents
-      Medical Doctor, if possible with specialisation in Public Health and knowledge of the
health situation in Guinea-Bissau is a requisite.
-      Experience with the methodology in the elaboration of training programmes.
-     Interest in a wide range of issues related to public health and health services
development.
-      Experience in the management of multilateral projects.
-      Fluent in Portuguese and French, if possible in Creolo.
-      Good social relations with health personnel at the various levels. Active and dynamic
character with capacity to facilitate group activities.
Organizational features
The Training and Management Technical Director will be contracted by WHO at the request of the
government to execute the Training component and will be financed by the project funds.
He will be physically located in the premises of the WHO and have full access to its resources and
expertise, specifically in order to assure the contact with other persons and institutions and to promote
the exchange of experiences and knowledge.
Detailed financial and working arrangements will be elaborated between WHO and the Government,
subject to IDA's approval.
Financially and administratively, the Director will have the autonomy to propose annually a work
program subject to IDA's review and approval at the annual review prior to its implementation.
The Director will report to the Director of the Project Coordination Unit (PCU). However, he will
have full responsiblity for the technical implementation of the programme within the limits of the
agreed work plan.
B.    Procurement/Architectural Specialist (National)
1.     jbectiv:    Assure efficient supervision of the equipment and the project's structure; (1)
Verify adequate equipment for the projects's units; (2) Implement efficiently
the activities related to the structure of the project; (3) Support responsible
administration in the aspects related to the physical infrastructure of the
project.
2.    Functions:    To assist PCU Project Director in planning, organizing, programming,
supervision and control of equipment and structure to obtain the goals and
objectives mentioned in the document of Credit Agreement.
3.     Supervise the execution of specific functions of the structure and equipments.



- 170 -
ANNEX 4^-2
Page 3 of 3
4.     Manage the execution of the operational outline and presett the written report to tho directos
responsible for the project.
5.     Coordinate the execution of projects and establish adequate relations with the differet
jurisdiction, in the Ministry of Public Health as well as in the International Agency of Development
(IDA) with previous authorization of the director.
6.     Whenever necessary, select new locations for new construction, making sure that it is the
correct location with adequate conditions Cropography).
7.    Elaborate architectural programs for each one of the Health Units and Houses for Nurses.
8.    Elaborate preliminary architectural sketch (esdmate) for Health Units and Houses for Nurses
intended to be built.
9.     Select the professionals to hire for the execution of the planes of structure, electrical, sanitary
and details for the construction.
10.   Complete the books of duties to proceed with the opening of competition for construcdto
companies.
11.   Prepare budget to each one of the work to be executed (rehabilitation, substitution and
external work).
12.   Elaborate a methodology to select contracting firm to perform the construction job.
13.   Prepare terms of reference for the responsible person (manager, leader) to direcdy supervise
the work.
14.   Select the candidates and define the tasks related to supervision (execution control, staed
time, flow of work, price agreement, etc.).
15.   Control and fallow up on the contracts of supervision of the work.
16.   Maintain a permanent updated information of the project's activities.
17.   Any other task defined by the PCU Director.
Professional Profile:
* University degree in Architecture or Civil Engineing, validated ad recognized
internationally;
* Ten years or more of experience in adminision of Human Resources, architectural
drawing, construction administration and budget;
* Knowledge of the English and Portuguese langes.
Characteristics of the Position:
* Full time employment;
 Assignment will be terminated upon project closing date.
A: A4ENG(JZ1)



- 171 -
REPUBLIC OF WUINEA-8ISSAU                                 AMhEX 4-3
SOCIAL SECTOR PROJECT                                 Page 1 of 2
Procuremant Implementation Schedule
Estimted Annual Contractual and Other Payments
(USS Million Equivalent)
Project Year
Pre-    ---------------------------------------------  Total
Project ELement      Project   FY94      FY95      FY96     FY97      FY98    Payment      Rem_rks
Credit Timing
Sign/Effec/CLose           * *       *                                     * *
1. Works
1.1 Rehabilitation/
Construction/Extension
Prequal/Bid/Award                 xxxxxx
a) HeaLth Centers                     0.06      0.13     0.09                         0.30        LCB
b) Staff Houses                                 0.24     0.20                         044.  LCD/Direct
Shopping
c) Regional Center                    0.04                                            0.04        LC8
d) Drug Storage Units                 0.06                                            0.06        LCS
Subtotal 1                      0.18     0.37      0.29     0.00      0.00      0.84
xxx  _xxxxxxxxx
2. Goods
2.1 Roofing and Flooring
Materials                           0.16     0.11      0.10      0.09               0.47        ICB
2.2 Vehicles, Notorcycles,
nd Bicycles                         0.41     0.07      0.04     0.05                0.56        ICD
__xxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxx
2.3 Furniture                             0.11      0.15     0.13      0.03               0.42        LCD
2.4 Nedical Equipment and
Solar Panels                        0.82     0.40      0.12     0.09                1.42        ICB
_xxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxx
2.5 Office and Audio-visual
Equipment                           0.27                                            0.27     Direct
xxxxxxxxx                                                   Shopping
2.6 Consurable Goods a/                   0.00      0.03     0.01                         0.04      Direct
_UM  VUM  MMMMMMMMMUUUMMMM                                  Shopping
Subtotal 2                      1.77     0.75      0.41     0.25      0.00     3.18
3. Service Contracts
3.1 Wells                                 0.04      0.03                                  0.07      Direct
Shopping
Subtotal 3                      0.04     0.03      0.00     0.00      0.00      0.07
4. Consultancies
4.1 Project preparation and
implementation support                0.18     0.18      0.19      0.19     0.01      0.74      Other
4.2 Institutional Development
(capacity building)                   0.14     0.57      0.54      0.49               1.74      Other
Subtotal 4                     0.31      0.75      0.73     0.68      0.01     2.48
*/ Conaunable goods refer to it    to be procured such as transistor radios,
T-shirts,  nd food packages under an incentive schm  for coumunity participation.



- 172 -
ANNEX 4-3
Page 2 of 2
Project Year
Pre-   ---------------------------------------------   Total
Project Element       Project   FY94       FY95     FY96      FY97      FY98    Payment       Remarks
5. Miscellaneous
5.1 Training Costs                          0.09     0.11      0.10      0.07                0.37
xxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxx
5.2 Social Action Fund                      0.10     0.10      0.10      0.10                0.40       Other
xxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxx
5.3 Incremental Recurrent Costs:
a) Salaries for Contract Staff         0.01      0.01      0.01      0.01                0.06       Other
xxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxx
b) Operating Costs                     0.31      0.38      0.41      0.34      0.09      1.53       Other
xxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxx
5.4 PPF Refinancing                         0.30                                             0.30       Other
xxxxxxxxx
5.5 Taxes and Duties                        0.19     0.13      0.07      0.03                0.42       Other
XXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXX)XXXXXXXXXXXXXx
Subtotal 5                       1.01     0.72      0.69      0.56      0.09      3.08
TOTAL                        3.31      2.62      2.13      1.49      0.10      9.65
IDA-financing                   (3.05)   (2.34)   (1.93)   (1.38)   (0.10)   (8.80)
Note: Totals may not add up due to rounding.
b:proc.wkl (ja28)
27-Jan-93



- 173 -
ANNEX 4-4
REPUBLIC OF GUINEA-BISSAU
SOCIAL SECTOR PROJECT
Specialist Services included in the Proiect
and the Social Action Fund
PersontMonth I
National     Intneational
A. Social Sector Proiect
1. Training Component
- In-Service Training Refresher
Courses                                             1               11
- In-Service Upgrading Programs                      5                25
- In-Service Training for Medical
Specializations                                     -               84
2. E  Component
- IEC Specialist Zl                                   -                6
3. Proiect Coordination and Management
- PCU Project Director                              48                 -
- Training and Management Technical
Director                                           48                 -
- Procurement/Architectural Specialist               48               12
- PCU Project Accountant                             48                -
- Project External Auditors                           -                4
4. Social Action Fund
- SAF External Consultant                             -                4
- SAFU Managing Director                             48                -
- SAF Assistant to the Managing Director             48
- SAF Accountant                                     48                -
Total                                         342               146
b:ta (jzl)
I/    National consultants will be given preference over international consultants provided
that they are qualified to undertake the assigned tasks, as outlined in the terms of
reference.
_I    Financed under PPF.



-1 74 -                      ANNEX 4-5
_ ____ _
;             7    ~ ~;}          I  
^ .7_ _            ___
Xr     a       --a  
U5A1E   



-175                                         ANNEX 4-5
Page 2 of 2
1                         ~~~~10
I 1
6          IL                                      ; ~~      
IL~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~I



REPL.IiC OF WJiNA-IISSAU
SOCIAL SECTOR P"OJC7
I sbursmnt  Prof Ile 
Di.bursemnsfts                   Profite
Regional
IDA Fiscal                                                          Sector
Years wrd        Bly Ssmter         cumulative           Project  Proffile
Semesters        CUSS Million)  (USS Million)                (2         CX
1994  1                        1.0               1.0          11.42       0.02                        0U6   ilo
2                      2.1                3.1         35.22        6.02                       1
1995  1                        1.1               4.2          47.72      18.02
2                       1.2               5.4         61.42      34.02                               .. ...............
1996  1                        1.0               6.4          72. 72     50.02
2                      0.9                7.3         83.02      62.02
1997   1                       0.7               6.0          90.92      74.02                                                  .......                        ...................................
2                      0.7                6.7         96.921    82.02
1996   1                       0.1               6.3         100.02      90.02
2                                                                90.02                                                     ...............       ..............................................
1999 1                                                                   94.02
2                                                                96.02
s:dIsb.mik1   CJe3l-b)                                                                                     I__   _  __  _  _  __I__       __  _  _ __   _ _  __  _  _  _ __  _  _  __  _  _ __   _ _  _
12-Nov-92                                                                                            1994             190             1o96            1907            1998            1099             200
Fisoal 'Were
Project Profie          -4   Regional Profile
a%



- 177 -
REPW LIC OF WUINEA-SISSAU                                  ANNEX 4-7
SOCIAL SECTOR PROJECT                                  Page I of 2
Key Performance Indicators
Project Year
Pre-
Project Component          Project   FY94      FY95      FY96      FY97     FY96      Totat       Remarks
I. HEALTH SECTOR SUSPROJECTS
1.     Comprehenwive Trainlng
Health Workers
A.     In-Service Trainlng
Refresher Courses:
IST-1/ Management in Health
IST-1A   Services                                      40        40        40                          120  Participants
IST-2  Computer Training                               20                                               20  Participants
IST-3  Statistics for Health
Center Nurses                                100        75                                    175  Participants
IST-4  InformAtion System  wnd
Statistics for Tech.                          25                                               25  Participants
IST-5  Training of Trairnrs                                      25                                     25  Participants
IST-6  Financing of Health Care                         50                                              50  Participants
IST-7  Management of Drugs                              15                                              15  Participants
IST-8  Intro, to Drug Mgt. for
AuxiLiary Nurses                              50                                               50  Participants
IST-9  EnvironrmentaL Sanitation                        25                                              25  Participants
Subtotat A                          325       140        40         0                505  Participants
B.     In-Service Training
Upgrading Program:
IST-10 Auxiliary Nurses to Nurses                      25        75        50                          150  Participants
IST-11 AuxiLiary Mid-wives to Mid-wIves                                    25        25                 50  Participants
IST-12 Auxiliary Nurses to SociaL
Technicians                                                      20        10                  30  Participants
IST-13 Auxiliary Laboratory Tech.
Laboratory Tech.                                        20       20                            40  Participants
IST-14 Auxiliary Nurses to
Pharmaceutical Tech.                                    25       25                            50  Participants
IST-15 Auxiliery Nurses to
EnvirarneentaL Sanitation Tech.                                  20                            20  Perticipents
IST-16 Auxiliary Nurses to Anesthetic
Technicians                                                                20                  20  Participents
Subtotal B                           25       120       160       55                 360  Participants
C.     In-Service Training for
Medical Specializations:
IST-17 Pediatrics                                                 3         3        4                  10  Participants
IST-1S Obstetrics/Gynecology                                      3         3         4                 10  Participants
IST-19 GeneraL Surgery                                            3         3         4                 10  Participants
IST-20 Internal Medicine                                          3         3         4                 10  Participants
IST-21 Pubilc Health                                             20                                     20  Participants
SubtotaL C                            0        32        12       16                  60  Participants
2.     Informtion, Education, and
Communications (IEC)
a)     Production and Distribution
of mrnuals adapted from two
serials albums:
Heelth in the Tabencas" and
"NaternaL and Child Health"        544                                                        544      usas
b)     Submission to IDA of an IEC
Framework within the context
of the country                                 1                                                1      Study
C)     Training and Seminars on IEC
for Health Persormel                           15        15                                     30  Participants
d)     Training and Seminars for
IEC Persomel on:
- Graphic Arts, Illustration,
Layout  ndi Design                            20                                              20  Participants
- Audio-Visual                                  12                                               12  Participants



- 178 -
ANNEX 4-7
Page 2 of 2
Project Year
P re              -
Project Component         Project   FY94       FY95     FY96      FY97      FY98     Total       Remarks
3.     Strengthening Delivery of
Health Services through
Improvement of HeaLth Facilities
a)     Rehabilitation-Bafata
- Health Centers                                          2         1                            3      Unit
- Staff Houses                                            7         5                           12      Unit
- Regional Center                                1                                               1      Uilit
- Drug Storage Unit                              1                                               1      Unit
b)     Rehabilitation-Biombo
- HeaLth Centers                                          1         1                            2      Unit
- Staff Houses                                            3         2                            5      Unit
- Regional Center                                1                                               1      Unit
- Drug Storage Unit                              1                                               1      Unit
c)     Rehabilitation-Oio
- Health Centers                                          2         2                            4      Unit
- Staff Houses                                            6         6                           12      Unit
- Drug Storage Unit                              I                                               1      LiUnit
d)     Repair-Bissau
- Health Center                                  1                                               1      Unit
e)     Roofing of USBs in the
Three Regions                                51        26        26       25                 128      US8s
f)     Flooring of USBs in the
Three Regions                                43        22        22       21                 108      USBs
g)     Distribution of Bicycles
to USBs and HCs                             240       120       120      120                600    Bicycles
II. SOCIAL ACTION FUND SUBPROJECT 1/
1.     Number of Proposals Selected:                   10        10       10        10                 40    Proposals
2.     NI.Number of Selected Micro-projects
in the Field of:                                                                                Micro-projects
a) Nutrition                                                                                     Micro-projects
b) Family Planning                                                                               Micro-projects
c) Literacy                                                                                      Micro-projects
d) Income-generating Activities                                                                  Micro-projects
e) AIDS/STDs                                                                                     Micro-projects
aimed at Beneficiaires such as:                                                                  Micro-projects
a) Women, Elderly, and Orphans                                                                   Micro-projects
b) Handicapped                                                                                   Micro-projects
c) rural popuLation                                                                              Micro-projects
d) urban population                                                                              Micro-projects
3.     Number of Signed Contracts:                                                                            Contracts
4.     Number of Micro-projects Under
Implementation:                                                                                  Micro-projects
5.     Number of Micro-projects Completed:                                                                Micro-projects
1/  Number and Type of Proposals to be filled in during project Impltemntation.
(Estimated at about 10 proposals per year). An assessment of the SAF and
projects suported by the Fund will be mad  for the mid-term review   nd If
necessary corrective actfons will be taken at that tim, with periodic reviews
of the Fund to follow.
a:key (je31-b)
30-Jan-93



- 179 -
ANNEX 4-8
Page 1 of 2
REPUBLIC OF GUINEA-BISSAU
SOCIAL SECTOR PROJ
Sureision Plan ad Mid-Term Evaluat_on Criteria
1.           Bank supervision input. Regular supervision needs re described in the table below.
In addition, specific tasks such as review of progress reports, procurement and disbursement actions,
awdit reviews, etc., are estimated to require a total of four staffweeks of various specialists per
annum.
2.           Borrower's Contribution to Supervision
(a)    Progress reports wDI be submitted on a quarterly basis (in October, January, April,
and July of each year). They wDi comprise a summary of implementation for each
project component and financial tables, including revised cost estimates and revised
timing of procurement actions. The Project Coordinatig Unit (PCU) will collect
iniormation from the implementing staff (namely, the Training and Management
Technical Director, the Procurement/Architectural Specialist, and the Project
Accountants and the SAFU Managing Director) and prepare the reports.
(b)    Project coordinating, monitoring and evaluation will be the responsibility of the PCU.
(c)    Once a year, a joint Government/donors review covering all aspects of the project
would be held on the basis of a report prepared one month earlier by the PCU. The
joint annual reviews would be chaired by the Minister of Public Health. A
comprehensive review of the progress of project implementation will be held 18
months after credit effectiveness.
(d)    The PCU will be responsible for coordinating arrangements for IDA supervision
missions and for providing information to them. Officials from the concerned
agencies will accompany the missions on field trips; and
(e)    Mission briefing meetings on arrival and wrap-up meetings on the project will be
chaired by the Minister of Foreign Affairs and Cooperation with the participation of
the Minister of Public Health, and the representatives of the Social Sector Project
Implementation Committee.
(f)    Mission briefing meetings on arrival and wrap-up meetings on the Social Action Fund
(SAF) will be chaired by the Minister of Foreign Affairs and Cooperation with the
participation of the representatives of the SAF Technical Committee.
3.           Cofinanciers' Contribution to Supervision. [IF ANY] Cofinanciers will be consulted
on, and invited to participate in supervision activities, and will be kept filly informed regarding
TORs, Wido-memoires and results of IDA supervision missions. It is expected that cofinanciers will
paicipate in the mid-term review mission and bring complementary skills to the supervision
missions.



- 180 -
ANNEX 4-8
Page 2 of 2
Bank Supervision Input Into Key Activities
Approx.                                              Skill                             Staff Input
Dates fM/Y)               Activity                   Requirements                      Staffweek
06/93              Project launch workshop,          Project Officer                       10
and first supervision            Training Spec.
mission to review project        Architect/Impl. Spec.
start-up and procurement         Social Fund Spec.
Disbursement Officer
10/93              Supervision Mission              Project Officer                         3
03/94              Supervision Mission               Project Officer                        5
Training Spec.
10/94              Supervision MIssion              Project Officer                         5
Architect/Impl. Spec.
02/95              Mid-Term Review                   Project Officer                       10
Training Spec.
Architect/Impl. Spec.
Public Health Spec.
Social Fund Spec.
10/95             Supervision Mission               Project Officer                         5
Public Health Spec.
03/96              Supervision Mission               Project Officer                        5
Training Spec.
10/97             Completion Mission                Project Officer                        10
Training Spec.
Architect/Impl. Spec.
Public Health Spec.
Social Fund Spec.
b:spn azl)



- 181 -
SOCIAL SECTwOR PROJE:T
Documents in the Project File
Angers, Johanne. Social Sector Project: Detailed Project Cost Tables. Working Papers. (PC-
Costab, File: GUB3). May 1992.
Chabot, Dr. Jarl. Social Action Fund Suborolect. Working Papes. Consultant, Appraisal
Mission, May/June 1992.
List of Non-Governmental Organizations Activities in Guinea-Bissau. 1992.
Ministerio da Saude Publica. Avaliacao do Programa Alargdo de Vacinacao. Dezembro
1990.
Reis, Vasco Pinto dos. Trainingf Surojec: (a) In-Service Traning Refirsher Courses; (b)
In-service Training Upgrading Program; and (c) hi-Serice Training for Modical
Specialization with detailed costs breakdown. Working Papers. Consultant, Appraial Mision.
May 1992
Secco, Luis. RehlabitaioQ aipine Sukroj   . Infrastruclure Working Papers. Consltant,
Appraisal Mission. May 1992.
UNICEF. National ProgMme of Social Communications in Guinea-Bissau. October 1987.
Tbe World Bank. Re_blic of Guinea-Bissau. Social Sectors SUM= Review: Bekft
Poverty's Stranglehold on Development. Sepmber 20, 1991.






MAP SECTION






IBRD 23997
SENEGAL
OCEAN                     BIOMBO X   f NShX                                                                     5 2 AVAdTOMBALI                            v 
I__~~~~~~~~~~~~'                                w         -  b'.V     _    J    b ADv  /     b ¢- CA,EV.VCIA N SECTO PROUJECT-
__    _   __    _   _   __    _   _                                                                                                   t      ,OX4 ,   Tm       ESNCENTPt  NE  EXAND   iHBUA1N FTEBL  7 5bT,7I  EAR
I            H- ~BOLAMA                                                          -- &;                                 0   L     \ mli            aSS   NT
SEEU                             AJ    /                                                                                NUBE J  INESCAOOHE 0DNs;^NETD CRETOHA 3TATED
C k t w.u < ^oow:EX Comp_sC,.,-.                                                                                              -       P9AVED ROACS   *       VOPA eCAPITOW                V
OUV>   .ULV                             ECH  PE R Se+A GO                                                                                         S              - ON  01480. ONDAPES
hSSAU~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
:CC  N      - !bEVE D_ -C ,PQ
__t 5 4 | ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~SVpeV,eROl 1992



