Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFMCIAL USF ONLY
MICROFICHE COPY
Report No. :P- 5902v DUB   Type: (PM)
Title:  SOCIAL SECTOR PROJECT
Author: HOPPY, C                                              ReportNo. P-5902-GUB
L;.t.:.34897 Room:J6-ob4 Dept. :AF11PH
MEMORANDUM AND RECOMMENDATION
OF THE
PRESIDENT OF THE
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
TO THE
EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS
ON A
PROPOSED CREDIT
IN THE AMOUNT EQUIVALENT TO SDR 6.4 MILLION
TO THE
REPUBLIC OF GUINEA-BISSAU
FOR A
SOCIAL SECTOR PROJECT
January 29, 1993
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EOUIVAIETS
(August 1992)
Currency Unit = Guinean Peso (GP)
US$1.00 = 8,600 GP
WEIGHTS AND MEASURE
Metric System
ACRONYMS
CEM          Country Economic Memorandum
GDP          Gross Domestic Product
IDA          International Development Association
IEC          Information, Education and Communication
iFC          International Finance Corporation
IMF          International Monetary Fund
MIGA         Multilateral Iavestment Guarantee Agency
MINPH        Ministry of Public Health
MINFAC       Ministry of Foreign Affairs and Cooperation
NGOs         Non-Governmental Organizations
PCU          Project Coordinating Unit
PHC          Primary Health Care
SAC          Structural Adjustment Credit
SAF          Social Action Fund
SAFU         Social Action Fund Unit
SOLIDAMI   Solidarity and Friendship Institution
UN           United Nations
UNDP         United Nations Development Program
UNICEF       United Nations Children's Fund
USBs         Basic Health Units
WHO          World Health Organization
J Fa SCAL YEAR
January 1 - December 31



FOR OMCIAL USE ONLY
REBLEC OF GUINEA-BISSAU
SOC IL SECTOR PROJEC
CREDIT AND PROJECa SUMMARY
Republic of Guinea-Bissau
Benefi iaries:             Ministry of Foreign AffWirs and Cooperation, and Ministy of Public
Health
Credit Amo t:              SDR 6.4 million (US$8.8 million equivalent)
Terms:                     Standard, with 40 years maturity
Fimacing Plan:
Local        Foreign      Total
- US$ Million
IDA                          1.25        7.55          8.80
Government of Guinea-Bissau/  0.85       0.00          0.85
Community Participation
Total Project Cost           2.10        7.55          9.65
EconomicURa1g
of Retur:                Not applicable
Staff Aprisa
RZoot:                   Report No. 11268-GUB
Mm:                        IBRD 23997
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance
of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



MEMORANDUM AND RECOMMENDATION OF THE PRESIDENT
OF THE INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
TO THE EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS
ON A PROPOSED CREDIT
TO THE REPUBLIC OF GUINEA-BISSAU
FOR A SOCIAL SECrOR PROJECT
1.    I submit for your approval the following report and recommendation on a proposed
development credit to the Republic of Guinea-Bissau for SDR 6.4 million (US$8.8 million
equivalent). The proposed credit would be on standard IDA terms, with a maturity of 40 years, and
finance a social sector project. Part I of the document discusses Guinea-Bissau's development
problems and prospects, the key priorities of the economic reform program at the macroeconomic and
sector levels, and the Bank Group's assistance strategy. Part II of the document describes the
proposed Credit.
I. COUNTRY POLICIES AND BANK GROUP ASSISTANCE STRATEGY
2.    This section assess.s the evolution of Guinea-Bissau's reform efforts since the mid-1980s.
Guinea-Bissau's development issues are discussed first in the context of a fluid macroeconomic
environment and the transition to democratic rule. This is followed by a discussion of the policy
dialogue and the Bank's country assistance strategy. The section concludes with a summary
assessment of key issues and a description of the criteria for assessing progress in key areas.
A.    Trends In Polcies and Pertormance
1.    Background
3.    GuineaBissau is a small country of less ta a million people. It is one of the poorest
countries in the world. Per capita income is US$190, and life expectancy at birth is less than 47
years. After a proaced and economically devastating liberation war, it became independent in
1974. Since independence, Guinea-Bissau has been governed under a one-party political system.
Originally Marxist, the party has supported moves toward a more market-based economic system
since 1983. The first multi-party elections are planned for this year. The international community
has been asked to provide financial and technical assistance to the electoral process.
4.    Real Economy. The economy has a large traditional rural sector, oriented toward subsistence
farming. Agriculture, fisheries, and forestry account for some 90% of total employment, and 50% of
GDP. Marketed output is largely confined to export crops, primarily cashew nuts, groudnuts, and
palm kernels. Cashews account for about 40% of total exports. Earnings from fish exports and
fishing licenses are the second largest source of export revenues. Rice is the main food crop.
Production has increased by more ta 10% per year since 1983, largely reflecting improved
incentives. But rice imports remain high, encouraged until recently by a multiple exchange rate
system
2.    Recnt Developments
a,    Economic
5.    After independence, economic policies neglected agriculture, while large fiscal imbalances
financed by the Cenal Bank fueled inflation. In 1983, faced with a deteriorating situation, the
Government initiated a recovery program with support from the Bank and the IMF. The program lost



-2 -
momentum in 1985. In 1987, the Government renewed its efforts to revitalize the economy, and
began implementing a structural adjustment program. The program aims first, to stabilize the
economy by introducing prudent fiscal, monetary, and exchange rate policies complemented by price
and trade liberalization measures, and second, to improve public sector management. The first phase
of the adjustment program proceeded more or less on schedule, supported by a Structural Adjustment
Credit (SAC I) from IDA. But shortly after the start of the second phase in 1989, recurring
implementation problems emerged, notably with fiscal and credit policies. They have been attributed
to institutional weaknesses, as well as to ambivalence in tackling politically difficult issues in the
period leading up to multi-party elections.
Box 1: Key Economic and FiscIndcatons
1987  1988    1989 19901! l99lLa 19921!  1993Zk
Real growth rates:
GDP (at MP)                          5.6   6.9     4.9    3.4    3.1       3        3
Exports of goods                    28.8  14.4   -10.4   40.3    2.7  -4.3          8
Import of Soods                    -21.8  19.6    12.5   -5.7       1   3.9    -14.9
Debt & debt service (US$ million):
Total DO                             402   416     461    545   53   608         646
Debt servfce                        22.8  23.2    39.7   28.8   46.9  45.9       48.1
DOD/exports 6&S                    14.80 15.70   17.50  10.20  13.90  13.80    13.70
Debt service/export G&S             0.80  0.80    1.50   0.50   1.10  1.05       1.02
Current account (USS million):
Exc. Off. grants                   -50.2 -72.9   -96.9 -66.88  -80.7 -72.05   -75.86
Indicators as percentage of GDP:
Current account (Exc. Off. grants)    -30   -47     -53    -30    -34   -35        33
Overall fiscal balance (cam.)        -33   -44      -4     -33    -34   -27       -19
Agriculture                           52    4       45             45    46        45
Savings                               -8    .5      -10    -12    -13    -5       -10
Inflation                               86    74      82     30      70    60        35
Money supply (2 growth rate)                  85      30      92     33    5sLE    n/a
Comm. as X of exports of cGS:
Cashew                                40    33      27      22     34    36        36
Fishing licenses                      22    20      22      30     40    31        33
Coam. as X of imports of 05S:
Rice                                  13    10       8       9     13    12         9
Exchange rate PG/USS                   559 1,110   1,810  2,185  3,658 6,880    9,587
Source: Data provided by Guinean authorities, and INF and World Bank estinmtes.
Estimates.
IC Forecast.
Ic Data fs for Jamsary-October period.
6.      Phase L  The first phase of the adjustment program made substantial progress in eliminating
price distortions and trade restrictions and in restructuring the public investment program. The
exchange rate moved closer to its market value. Quantitative restrictions were eliminate on 75% of
imports. All prices were liberalized, except for petroleum products and imported rice. The state
monopoly on cereals trade was abolished. However, positive reslts came more slowly than
programmed. Weak adminisrative capacity impeded the Governments ability to control credit and to
reduce the budget deficit. Meanwhile, the debt burden continued to grow rapidly, as the Government
failed to limit new debt and to implement a comprehensive medium-term debt strategy.



7.    Phase M. Uneven macroeconomic performance and slower than envisaged progress in key
structural areas have characterized Phase II performance. These have delayed the release of the third
tranche of SAC II, which is stIll outstanding. Overall macroeconomic performance weakened in 1991
and early 1992. Whereas in 1990 progress was made in controlling the fiscal deficit, in 1991 revenue
shortfals and large expenditure overruns reduced the current budget surplus to 1.2% of GDP.
Although the adverse trends continued in the first half of 1992, expenditure cutbacks introduced in the
second half are now expected to have increased the primary surplus (excluding interest payments on
exteral debt) to an estimated 2.7% of GDP.
8.    Monetary and Exchange Rate Policies. Credit policies have constituted the weakest area of
program implementation Monetary and credit policy remained expansionary throughout most of the
program period and in particular during 1991/92. After decliniag in 1990, the inflation rate reached
60% per annum in 1992. Meanwhile, the Government has managed the exchange rate flexibly. Since
the second half of 1991, discretionary devaluations and an accelerated monthly crawl of the official
exchange rate reduced the spread between the official and parallel market rates to less than 10
percent. Since November 1992, the Government has established a single official exchange rate
pegged to the Portuguese escudo and has taken steps toward unifying exchange rates.
9.    Dude and Price Uberalizaton. Price and trade liberalization has been one of the most
successful areas of program implementation. All prices have now been liberalized except for
petroleum products, whose prices are adjusted regularly to reflect changes in costs. Although there
have been important gains in eliminating trade restrictions, an import and export licensing system
continues to operate. In theory, import licenses are issued automatically, except for goods restricted
for security or health reasons. In practice, the issuance of licenses is still a cumbersome procedure, a
barrier to trade, and a possible source of rent-seeking behavior.
10.   Public Sector Management. Measures to improve public sector management have been
undertaken slowly. Reform of the public enterprise sector has been implemented, although in a less
transparent environment than originally envisaged. Several enterprises have been privatized. Others,
including the electricity and water utility, have been brought under management contracts. After an
encouraging start, civil service reform has slowed in the past two years. The registry of civil servants
has been updated and revised organizational charts are being prepared. A voluntary departure
program has been initiated, but financial constraints have delayed its implementation. Meanwhile,
inappropriate incentives have prevented the Government from retaining qualified staff. Reflecting the
Government's policy of moving away from commercially-oriented invetments, infrastructure,
agriculture, forestry and fisheries now account for more than half of public investment; the social
sectors account for another 20 percent.
11.   Inmpact of the Adjusmnent Program on die Real Economy. The structural adjustment program
has had a positive impact on the economy. GDP has grown steadily, at 3% to 6% per annum, and
the ratio of exports to GDP increased from 8% in 1986 to more than 30% in 1991. Cashew exports
have doubled between 1989 and 1991. This resulted largely from a more flexible exchange rate
policy. There are no official statistics on private sector investment; staff estimates suggest growth at
about 20% per year, albeit from a very small base. Domestic savings rates remain negative, at about
4% of GDP.
b.    Social
12.   Poverty. Most Guineans live in conditions of extreme poverty and social deprivation. 'Me
country has some of the worst social indicators for health, education, and the status of women in the



-4 -
world today. Endemic diseases are widespread. A child born in Guinea-Bissau today has one of the
lowest life expectancies in the world. However, infant mortality could be dramatically reduced with
effective primary health care and essential drugs. Approximately 90% of the demand for health care
is due to a small number of common tropical diseases, such as malaria, respiratory infections, and
diarrhea; up to 10% of Bissau's adult population may be infected with the AIDS (HIV2) virus. The
illiteracy rate is estimated at 70%, and about 60% of school age children do not attend school at all.
The secondary school enrollment rate is about 4% of the relevant age group. Females account for
only one-third of school enrollments.
13.   Women In Gulnea-Blssau. Women in Guinea-Bissau, as in many other African countries,
have a triple role: (i) child bearing and rearing; (ii) faaXily and household management; and (iii)
production/mcome earning activities. While social indicators in general reflect the country's low state
of social and economic development, they are particularly depressed for women. Legal, cultural, and
social barriers limit their access to land, credit, farming inputs, technology, and support services.
That in turn constrains their earning capacity. Water and fuel supply and headloading of farm
produce are among physically demanding activities performed by women. They are often illiterate
and poorly nourished and face extreme health risks because of frequent pregnancies strting at a
young age; on average, women in Guinea-Bissau have six children.
14.   Gowrnment Strategy. The Govermnent's strategy has assigned priority to improving health
and education, and the Government intends to demonstrate its commitment to the social sectors
through policy direction and the reallocation of resources. A medium-term plan for the development
of the education system was discussed with major donors in 1990. The national health plan aims to
provide primary health care for the whole population by the year 2000. However, as a share of
GDP, Guinea-Bissau's spending on health and education is below the average for other countries in
Sub-Saharan Africa. The delivery of health services and basic education is further hampered by the
scarcity of adequately trained teachers and health care personnel, as well as the poor physical state of
most facilities.
Cv    Environmental
15.   Guinea-Bissau's environmental challenges include: (i) deforestation, forest degradation, and
soil degradation, (ii) fishery depletion, (iii) limited water avadlability (due to salt intrusion andlor
aecreased water tables); and (iv) the need for protected areas to maintain ecosystem functions,
particularly in coastal areas. Solid waste management and urban hygiene are also issues. The
underlying problems are linked to inappropriate economic and land tenure policies, inadequate
regulatory frameworks, weak monitoring structures, and natural trends (for example, declining
rainfall). Due to Guinea-Bissau's small geographic size and the relatively small scale of its economy,
activities tend to be closely linked economically, ecologically, and socially. (Te planting of salt-
resistant rice in coastal mangroves and its potential impact on fisheries and agricultura productivity is
a case in point.) Hence, a comprehensive approach to environmental management is needed,
including sectoral initiatives for environmental management, accompanied by institutional support and
measures to increase environmental awareness.
3.    Portforio Performance
16.   Porfolio Profle. Since 1976, Guinea-Bissau has received 21 IDA credits totalling
US$188.05 million as of December 31, 1992. Currendy, the portfolio includes eight ongoing credits
(seven investment projects and one structural adjustment operation), amounting to almost US$90



-5 -
million. Of this amount, about US$47 million was undisbursed as of December 31, 1992. Two of
the projects are for technical assistance and two for infrastucture; the others are single projects in
education, agriculture, and energy.
17.   Deterioraong EnWronent. The overall rating of the Guinean portfolio has remained
unchanged over the last year; however, the environment for implementation has deteriorated.
Worsening macroeconomic performance and uncertainty associated with the upcoming muldti-party
elections have aggravated long-standing problems associated with weak institutional capacity and the
perennial lack of counterpart funds. Disbursements under investment projects in FY92 were lower
than in FY91, in part reflecting a delay in effectiveness of the Energy Project and poor performance
of the Basic Education Project, which has suffered from weak project management. The decline in
disbursements notwithstanding, Guinea-Bissau's disbursement ratio remained in line with the average
for Sub-Saharan Africa. (See Box 2.)
Box 2: Ipkementton ldcatws
FY91        FY92
Overall Portfolio Rating La                   1.90        1.89
Number of Projects                            11          9L9
Problem Projects (percent)                     9X         22X
Supervision Staffweeks per Project           13.7         23.5
Annual Oisbursements (Investment) (USS million)  11.4     6.8
Disbursement Ratio (Investment) (percent)    30.22       16.71
La Based on a 1 to 4 rating scale, in which 1 is the best and 4 is the worst.
Lb Inctuding one project that closed during F9
B.    External Environment
18.   Dependence on Exernd Assitance. Guinea-Bissau's external vulnerability stems largely
from its heavy dependence on external assistance. In recent years, Guinea-Bissau has been receiving
almost US$100 per capita in external financial and technical assistance. In view of the mounting
worldwide demands on limited funds, it has become crucial for G3uinea-Bissau to strengthen domestic
resource mobilization and to create an environment conducive to direct foreign private investment.
Even so, in view of its external debt burden (see below), Guinea-Bissau will remain heavily
dependent on exceptional financing for some time.
19. External Indebtedness. Outstanding external debt is equivalent to nearly twice the level of
GDP, while the debt service ratio is about 150 percent. Ihese ratios illustrate the magnitude of the
debt burden and the scope of Guinea-Bissau's dependence on exceptional financing and debt relief.
Currently, the primary (fiscal) surplus is insufficient to meet debt service obligations even to
multilateral institutions, which amount to 30% of receipts from exports of goods and services. In the
medium term, as the adjustment effort and in particular the fiscal adjustment succeed, the external
outcome may permit annual debt service payments equivalent to about 25% of total export receipts.
20.   Expor Concentration. Cashew earnings, which represent about 40% of export receipts, are
quite variable due to world market fluctuations. However, world demand is expected tO increase in
the short- and medium-term, and prospects for prices are good. Diversification into food exports and
intensification of regional trade, primarily with Cape Verde, will continue to reduce externa
vulnerability. Trade with neighboring countries has mainly involved re-exports of rice, some of



-6-
which is illicit. Regional political developments as well as changes in the trade and exchange rate
policies of neighboring countries will continue to influence this type of activity. Meanwhile, the
Government is starting to develop a strategy to encourage more export diversification: markets are
being sought in other former Portuguese colonies, and, through joint ventures with foreign groups
(mainly Portuguese), in Europe as well.
C.    IDA's Country Assistance Strategy
1.    IDA's Objectives and Strategy
21.   Policy Dialogue. The fundamental objective of IDA's assistance to Guinea-Bissau is to
promote sustainable poverty reduction. To this end, the thrust of the policy dialogue is to support
policies and expenditures that promote efficient and sustainable growth and the provision of basic
social services. The dialogue focuses on: (i) promoting sound public sector management, particularly
in the areas of public enterprise reform, public expenditure management and resource mobilization,
and institution building; (ii) removing distortions in the incentive framework for private sector
development, along with fnancial sector reform, more efficient provision of infrastructure services,
and privatization of public enterprises; (iii) poverty reduction and human resources development; and
(iv) environment protection.
22.   Economic and Sector Work (ESW). ESW provides the analysis to support the policy dialogue
on adjustment, growth, poverty reduction and sustainable development. Past work has helped to
establish the analytical framework for the design of government policies. The following reports were
particularly important: Reform of the Tax Policy and Tax Administration, Private Sector
Development, and the Social Sector Strategy Review. Ongoing and planned ESW will concentrate on
poverty reduction. To deepen our knowledge of the causes and manifestations of poverty in
Guinea-Bissau, and to shape the policy dialogue on poverty reduction, a poverty assessment is under
preparation. It will also assess how the poor are coping with adjustment, and summarize existing data
on the poor, and on the evolving conditions of the urban and rural poor. The emphasis of the
planned public expenditure review will be on the need to protect, to the maximum extent possible,
essential social expenditures during adjustment, while increasing the cost effectiveness of service
delivery. A planned financial sector review would include an assessment of informal credit schemes
and of how the poor, especially in rural areas, have managed in an unstable and distorted financial
environment. This will be followed by a CEM focusing on longer term sustainability and capacity
building. Sector work on water resources is also planned. An Environmental Assessment Report,
designed to assist the Goverument in developing an Environmental Action Plan, is to be completed
this year.
23.   Lending. The size of the lending program is linked to country efforts, particularly in
stabilizing the economy and reducing poverty. The current IDA FY93-95 lending program, which
comprises one investment operation a year, is in line with the US$50 million in new commitments
approved during FY90-92. In addition, progress in bringing the macroeconomic situation under
control could provide the foundations for a higher lending program, which would include a third
adjustment operation. Human resource development and capacity building would remain the primary
focus of the investment operations, focused on the underlying objective of achieving long term
sustainability. To promote environmentally sustainable development, IDA assistance will also support
the management of natural resources, extension services in agriculture, and infrastructure to help
overcome supply bottlenecks. Further adjustment assistance would be developed in tandem with the
IMF's preparation of a macroeconomic framework that could establish the basis for a possible



-7-
Enhanced Structural Adjustment Facility program. Deepening the structural adjustment, and IDA and
IMF assistance, would also help Guinea-Bissau to obtain debt and debt service reduction.
a.    Areas of Special Emphasis
24. Public Sector Management. Reforms undertaken thus far as part of Guinea-Bissau's structural
adjustment program have reduced distortions In the incentive framework. More effort is needed,
however, and reforms in public expenditure management will play a key role. Such reforms would
be supported under a possible SAC HI. Fiscal reform will need to consolidate planning, budgeting,
and accounting procedures to enhance transparency and to make decision-making more responsive to
economic and social criteria. Parallel efforts will be needed to further rationalize the public
investment program. In addition, resource mobilization needs to be strengthened, including the
reform of tax policy and administration. Renewed commitment to public enterprise reform will also
be crucial. Investment lending in all sectors has focused on training and institution-building,
reflecting the widespread need for stronger Institutions. The Technical Assistance II and Economic
Management Projects focus on strengthening analytical and implementation capacity to manage and
monitor economic policy, and on enhancing domestic training capacity.
25.   Private Sector Development. Enhancing the climate for private sector investment would be
the main objective of a possible SAC m. The private sector response will be the key to sustained
growth. That will, in turn, depend largely on increased private investment, as well as on more
efficient and effective public investments. To this end, the Government needs to pursue
macroeconomic stability more consistently, to deepen its reforms of the incentive framework, to
further reduce its involvement in direcdy productive activities, to facilitate a more efficient financial
sector, even as it uses the public expenditure program to remove institutional and infrastructure
botflenecks to economic growth, and to build on the ongoing reform of the legal framework to help
create an enabling environment for private investment.
26.   Poverty Reduction. Efficient public sector management and private sector development should
promote growth, which is a necessary condition for sustained poverty reduction. But public spending
(both quantity and quality) is the main policy instrument for addressing poverty reduction more
directly through human capital development. In addition to spending more on human capital, social
spending needs to be restructured in favor of primary education, health services, and safety nets.
Managerial initiatives, institutional restructuring, and the effective delivery of services will help to
create efficiency gains with unchanged levels of financial resources. The proposed Social Sector
Proiect will support the Government's poverty reduction strategy through its assistance for measures
to (a) improve the delivery and quality of primary health care services for a wider base of the
population, particularly groups at the periphery; (b) strengthen the health sector human resource base;
(c) strengthen and develop institutional capacity; (d) improve the dissemination, content, and
coordination of messages concerning health information, education, and communications to the
general population, with a special focus on common diseases and AIDS education; (e) support NOOs'
development of targeted micro-social programs; and (f) improve donor coordination. As noted above,
the poverty assessment and public expenditure review will provide the basic analysis for the dialogue
on poverty reduction. In addition, in order to further address poverty reduction and women's
constraints in particular, the planned financial sector analysis will examine the provision of
agricultural credit to small farmers. It will focus on female's access to credit in both the fDrmal and
informal sectors, and specifically ways in which women and men exhibit different behavior in the use
and repayment of credit.



-8 -
27.   Susable Dvelopm. The environmenal assesment, "Toward a Strategic Agenda for
Environmental Management," is to be completed In FY93. Tbis report is designed to assist the
Government in developing an Environment Action Plan. IDA is also helping the Government to
formulate an environmental policy statement, and would provide additional institutional support to the
National Environment Commission in the context of a possible Natural Resource Management
Project. ITe latter would lay the foundation for susahiable development in agriculture by
strengtening indigenous and public sector agricultural institutions, thus promoting the
environmentally sound use of resources. In the infrastructure sector, a possible operation woud
address the provision and management of water and sewerage services, in particular to the city of
Bissau.
16.    Portfolio Management
28.   Improvng mplementaion  Resolution of the counterpart funding issue is essential for
improving portfolio performance. The issue has been addressed through a combination of project-
specific actions and the macroeconomic dialogue under SAC n. The Governments Public Investment
Program unit has been strengthened, and the main source of countepart funds (the marketing of food
aid and other extna assisance) is being closely monitored to ensure the recovery of arrears and the
collection of sales proceeds. Cost recovery mechanisms and community participation have been
developed in relevant projects as a means of reducing reliance on public sector fimds. Although
improvements in the availability of counterpart funds are expected, this issue is likely to remain an
implementation constraint for some time. A close watch will be needed to keep it from prevenfting
the realization of the development impact of projects.
29.   Improving Quaiy at Enty. In light of insttutional weaknesses, project design is being kept
simple. Implementation arrangements are taldng into account the human resource constraints and
lessons of experience in Guinea-Bissau. We are seeking to promote broad local participation during
project preparation-in part, through thorough sector work-and to build on existing implementation
capacity. The proposed Social Sector Project is an integra part of the Government's strategy to
address human resource constraints. In addition, the design, implementation arranger, nts, and
communty participation in the financing of counterpart funds for the project address the major
implementation problems that have been identified. Meanwhile, provisions for training and technical
assistance are being included in ongoing projects to strengthen management capacity and to improve
project implementation. We are also working with donors to harmonize procedures and data
requirements, to help simplify the authorities' reporting requirements.
c.    IFC and MIGA
30.   The first IFC equity investment (of US$5.85 million) was approved in December 1989; it
covers energy exploration in association with Pecten/Shell. The second equity investment (of
US$0.20 million) was approved in June 1990; it covers a pilot fishing project. Prospects for ftrther
IFC investments depend on micro-level reforms, especially in land tenure, credit availability, and
business registration. The Bank and IFC consult regularly on issues related to IFC investments and
private sector development. From both headquarters and the Resident Mission, the Bank gives
extensive logisdcal support to IFC activities in Guinea-Bissau. Guinea-Bissau is in the process of
ratifying the agreement to join MIGA, which was signed on September 27, 1990.



-9
d.    Multiateral and Donors
31.   IME. lbe IMF has support  the Government's adjustent efforts with two annual
arragements under the Structural Adjustment Facility, the first of which was approved in October
1987. Due to program slippages, the third Structural Adjustment Facility arrangement was not
negotiated. In April 1987, the Govement prepared a Policy Framework Paper, with assistance from
the IMP and IDA, which was updated in April 1989. The last IMP Article IV consultation took
place in October 1992. Following recent discussions with the iuinean authorities on a fiscal package
for 1993, an IMP mission is planned for early 1993 to discuss the macroeconomic framework.
Provided that policies are agreed and successfully implemented, an Enhanced Structural Adjustment
Facility-supported program could be negotiated after mid-year.
32.   Mulateral Agencies. Guinea-Bissau has received generous external assistance from
multilateral instiutions and bilateral donors. Ito African Development Bank has cofinanced the
SACs and financed several projects In infrastucture, health, and education. UNDP has provided
considerable technical assistance to improve social and economic statistics as well as sectoral policies.
It has also organized round tables to gather additional donor support. Under the LOME IV
Convention, the European Community has provided structural adjustment support coupled with
project finance and food aid. UNICEF, WHO, and other agencies are active in Bsa, SUpporting
specific programs such as school lunch programs, training, the creation of a blood bank, and AIDS
testing.
33.   Aid Coordinton. Since the Guinean Government embarked on the adjustment program, IDA
has been the focal point of aid coordination and cofinancing operations. Effective coordination of
external aid has been a major priority for the Bank's Resident Mission and for task managers. Two
generic issues have been addressed:  ) harmonization of procedures; and (ii) agreement on the use of
unterpart finds in the context of improved management of the Public Investment Program. A
Round Table Meeting is tentatively scheduled for late 1993 aimed at increasing donor financial
assistance for projects and balance of payments suppor, as well as to promote coordination. Recent
IDA-assisted projects have attracted substantial cofinancing; for example, some US$62.3 tLlion in
cofincing has been secured for SAC I and II, and US$10 million for the Social and Infrastruce
Relief Credit. Substantal amount of donor assistance await the release of the final tranche of
SAC IL.
D.    Key  sus for Consideration
1.    Summary Assessment
34.   The reforms implemented under the structural adjustment program have helped to establish a
market-oriented economy. Nevertheless, sustained economic growth depends on the response of the
private sector, which in turn requires a stable macroeconomic environment, firther liberaization of
the incentive and regulatory framework and reduction in government involvement in directly
productive activities, and improved financial intermediation. An improved climate for growth wil
also help set the stage for a reduction in poverty. But progress on poverty reduction will be faster
with an increased share of public resources devoted to basic social services for the poor.
35.   Role oflDA. IDA's strategy aims to maintain the dialogue and assistance regarding the
strucural adjustment program, and to assist the Govemment in implementig its strategy for reducing
poverty and creating the conditions necessary for sustained growth.



- 10-
ESW. Economic and sector work will play a major role by providing the analysis to
support the dialogue on adjustment, growth, poverty reduction, and sustainable
development.
Lending. The lending program will concentrate on operations designed to have a
significant impact on poverty reduction, human resources development, and long-term
sustainability and to deepen the structural reforms. IDA investment financing would
focus on improving the quality and delivery of social services and human resource
development, improving management of natural resources, rehabilitating
infrastructure, and removing institutional botdenecks. Given evidence of sustained
commitmnent to macro-economic stability and structural reform, IDA assistance
through balance of payments support would continue to support Government efforts to
improve public sector management and the climate for private sector development.
Porfolio Management. The priorities for improving implementation are resolving the
counterpart funding issue and strengthening institutional capacity.
Donor Coordination. The core of IDA's aid coordination efforts will be to facilitate
the dialogue between the Government and donors in order to ensure support for the
economic reform program, coupled with a combination of continued highly
concessional debt relief and new money.
2.    Criteria for Assessing Progress
36.   Progress will be judged by performance in three areas: economic management, poverty
reduction, and portfolio performance.
*     Progress on economic management will be measured by the Implementation of
measures to stabilize the fiscal and monetary situation, especially as they affect the
private sector investment response. In making its assessment, IDA will maintain close
collaboration with the IMP.
*     Progress on povery reduction will be judged by efforts to promote efficient growth
and to provide basic social services to the poor. The former will be benchmarked by
the macroeconomic framework and further improvements in incentive and regulatory
framework; the latter by the allocation of public expenditures for basic social services.
*     Progress on Implementation will be judged (inter alia) by the timely availability of
counterpart fimds. Continued efforts to strengthen capacity building and improve
project management will be at the core of supervision missions and mid-term reviews.
II. THE PROPOSED CREDIT
37.   i untySector Background. Most Guineans live in conditions of extreme poverty and social
deprivation. The social indicators in Guinea-Bissau, as measured by available statistics for health,
education and the status of women, are among the worst in Sub-Saharan Africa, and with an average
per capita income of only US$190 in 1991 the country is one of the poorest in the world. Official
data indicate that life expectancy is about 47 years, but information from several UN agencies
estimate it to be several years lower. A child born in Guinea-Bissau today has one of the lowest life
expectancies in the world: at least 140 children in every 1,000 do not survive the first year of life.



- I1 -
The illiteracy rate is estimated at 70%, and the education system is further challenged and
complicated by a society comprising more than 30 ethnolinguistic groups. A joint IDA-Government
and donor supported Social Sectors Strategy Review, September 1991, analyzed the major constraints
in the social sectors including: (a) shortages of trained health personnel and trained teachers; (b) the
poor quality of available primary health care and education, including poor access, particularly in
rural areas, the lack of transportation, and the dilapidated physical condition of schools and health
facilities; (c) inadequate management, planning, monitoring, supervision and evaluation; (d) the
severe lack of essential inputs and basic materials, equipment, supplies, textbooks, drugs and
medicines for health facilities and schools; and (e) inadequate sectoral financing of health and
education, including insufficient recurrent cost financing. In the context of the country's human and
capital limitations, strengthening implementation capacity and developing simpler, more focused
projects will be central to the design of future programs.
38.   Project Obives. The proposed project will focus on health and social services. It will
support the Government's development plans to (a) improve the delivery and quality of primary health
care (PHC) services for a wider base of the population, particularly vulnerable groups at the
periphery, (b) strengthen the health sector human resource base; (c) strengthen and develop
institutional capacity; (d) improve the dissemination, content and coordination of health information,
education and communications messages to the general population, with a special focus on the most
common diseases and AIDS education; (e) support NGOs' development of targeted micro-social
programs; and (t) improve donor coordination. The project would also improve dialogue and create
synergy among the various entities working on social sector issues.
39.   Proiect Description. In health the project would include: (i) support for the Ministry's
sectoral decentralization process underway in Bafata, Oio and Biombo by strengthening regional
health teams through rehabilitating and equipping selected health facilities with furniture, supplies,
health materials and providing means of transportation. Rehabilitation efforts would include provision
for access to potable water, and a community participation component for construction of houses for
nurses and rehabilitating basic health posts (USBs) (US$3.92 million); (ii) support for health training
programs including in-service, local and short-term training programs for health care workers and
professionals to promote the delivery of more effective and widespread PHC (US$3.51 million); (iii)
short-term technical assistance to evaluate and make recommendations for improving the coordination
and targeting of diverse IEC efforts, and proposals for a national program. The project would also
strengthen the Ministry's Health/Education Division, and support some on-going IEC efforts to better
reach the population with health education messages (UJS$0.45 million); (iv) establishment of a 'social
action fund' (SAF) which would link the social sectors and be an additional source of funds for
NOOs to expand or develop micro-social projects in such areas as nutrition, family planning, AIDS
and other sexually transmitted disease prevention, women and child health, literacy and skills training,
and small-scale income generating activities for women, among others (US$0.88 million); and (v)
establishment and management of the project coordination unit (US$0.90 million).
40.   The total project cost of US$9.65 million equivalent, including duties and taxes, covers
US$7.55 million in foreign costs, and US$2.10 million in local costs. The IDA Credit of US$8.8
million equivalent, covers US$7.55 million in foreign costs, and US$1.25 million in local costs, and
would finance 95% of project costs, excluding duties and taxes. Credit funds will be used to finace
civil works (US$0.69 million); roofing and flooring materials (JS$0.41 million); office and audio-
visual equipment (US$0.27 million); medical equipment and solar panels (US$1.42 million); frniture
(US$0.42 million); vehicles (US$0.56 million); consumable goods as part of an incentive scheme for
community participation (US$0.04 million); technical assistance (US$2.48 million); installation of
wells (UJS$0.07 million); training costs (US$0.20 million); support funds for the Social Action Fund



^ 12 -
(US$0.40 million); incremental recurrent costs (US$1.53 million); and PPF refinancing (US$0.30
million). Schedule A summarizes project costs and financing; Schedule B presents tables on
procurement and disbursements; Schedule C presents a timetable of the project's key processing
events; and Schedule D lists Bank Group operations in Guinea-Bissau. A map Is also attached. The
Staff Appraisal Report No. 11268-GUB is being distributed separately.
41.   Proect Implementation. The Project will be implemented by the Ministries of Public Health
(MINPH), and Foreign Affairs and Cooperation (MINFAC). Primary responsibility for implementing
the technical aspects of the health sector subprojects will be with MINPH and involve the General
Directorates of. Planning/Studies and Cooperation; Human Resources; and, Public Health's primary
health care division. A Project Implementation Committee, under MINPH, has been established and
is comprised of MINPH's Director of Planning, who is the chair of the committee, the National
Director of PHC, the project's Training and Management Technical Director, the procurement/
arcuitectural specialist, and the Project Coordinating Unit (PCU) Director, who serves as secretary.
The committee will meet regularly and will provide technical and policy guidance and facilitate the
health sector subprojects' implementation. The SAF was created within the existing structure of the
Solidarity and Friendship Institution (SOLIDAMI), which reports to MINFAC and coordinates and
supports NGO activities in the country. Primary responsibility for implementing the SAF subproject
is with the SAFU Managing Director, with technical input on the viability of project proposals from
the SAFU Technical Committee, consisting of the SAFU's Managing Director, local and international
NGO representatives, a SOLIDAMI representative, and representatives from the technical social
sector ministries. The Social Sector Project's routine administration, management and day-to-day
coordination activities are done through an existing project coordinating unit, presendy responsible for
executing multi-sector projects under the general oversight of MINFAC. The PCU is headed by an
experienced national Project Director, who has been the national director for an IDA financed multi-
sector project.
42.   Proiect Sustainability. The project represents an integral part of the Government's strategy to
address human resource constraints and make essential improvements in the delivery and quality of
primary health care and basic social services. It builds on lessons learned from earlier project
interventions in the health sector. It will also benefit from intensive donor coordination efforts
undertaken during preparation of sector work and a 1992 social sectors donors meeting. These efforts
will be further enhanced through the SAF, which has been created to provide support for micro-social
projects developed by NGOs. It must be recognized, in the context of sustainability, that in Guinea-
Bissau external assistance in the social sectors is going to be needed for the foreseeable fature. The
project's community participation aspects should further contribute to its sustainability and sense of
ownership. The human resource base will be strengthened in the health sector through sectoral
training programs for all levels of staff, which will have the effect of strengthening implementng
institutions. Further, the IEC program will be coordinated and strengthened in an attempt to directly
impact the population with messages for developing self-help and social awareness. A mid-term
review of project achievement will be undertaken to determine project effectiveness and serve as a
basis for any prompt mid-course corrections in the design or implementation methods of some of the
subprojects, including the social action fund. The training subproject will be reviewed each year and
changes made as required for the programs to be implemented in the following year.
43.   Lessons from Previous IDA Involvement. Experience from the Population, Health and
Nutrition (PHN) project (Cr. 1800-GUB), which closed on December 31, 1991, the ongoing Social
and Infrastructure Relief Project (Cr. 2020-GUB) and the Basic Education Development Project (Cr.
1914-GUB) have indicated that close attention must be given to the issues affecting project
implementation including limited institutional capacity, insufficient aid coordination, and lack of



- 13 -
budget management and counterpart funds. These lessons point to simplifying project design, focusing
on selected components, Involving other donors in the process and being realistic about the limited
human and financial resource capabilities of the country. In order to address these issues the project
design has been kept as simple as possible. Close supervision combined with adequate training and
appropriate technical assistance is required. The project unit, which will be staffed mainly by
nationals, will be formed *fom an existing unit which has experience in project administration and
mnnagement.
44.   Ratale for IDA Involvement. IDA's involvement in the proposed project is consistent with
the Bank's sectoral strategy to support the Government to improve the country's social indicators
through improving primary health care and social services. IDA has a comparative advantage, relative
to other donors, in its capacity to take a cross-sectoral perspective through its links to the macro-
economic framework and the adjustment process. The implementation of structural reforms in
Guinea-Bissau's on-going adjustment program should place it in a position to achieve sustained
growth over the longer term once macroeconomic performance is brought under control. This will
require the development of the country's human resources. The project would support Government's
objectives of increasing the emphasis on the social sectors at this stage of the stuctural adjustment
program, and, in particuar, attempt to improve the lives of some of the most vulnerable groups of
the population. Furthermore, it is recognized that long-term human resource development is vital to
sustain the adjustment efforts, and developing a skilled and healthy human resource base is critical to
productivity in all sectors of the economy. The project wIll further the Bank's efforts in building on
the dialogue established with the Goverment in the context of other IDA social sector projects and
provide timely follow-up. Bank involvement is also key in serving to further mobilize a coherent
multi-sector donor effort. In addition, the project will also introduce the concept of a social action
fund for NOOs to tap for developing micro-level social projects.
45.   Agrxe Actions. Satisfactory project administration and management arrangements were
worked out during appraisal and post appraisal, and an incentive scheme for community participation
elaborated. As agreed during negotiations the Government has established a project coordination unit
and a social action fund unit staffed with experienced and qualified personnel. The Government,
through an official resolution, has also created the SAF and developed an operational framework for
the Fund; and, issued a health policy implementation plan. During negotiations the Government gave
assurances that it would: (a) deposit counterpart funds semi-annually in advance in the project
account; (b) allocate and make available in a timely manner the national budgetary resources for the
health sector annually as agreed with IDA; (c) submit by October 31 of each year, the proposed
budget and its composition for the health sector for the next year for review with IDA, and that
allocations will be made in agreed amounts; (d) review training programs each year with IDA and
submit proposed training programs to be implemented during the next year; (e) submit quarterly
progress reports; (t) submit annual audits within six months of the end of the Government's fiscal
year; (g) assign exclusive responsibility for management and administration of the Special Account
with the PCU; (h) carry out a mid-term review by July 1995 focusing on the implementation of the
health sector policy implementation plan, analysis of key monitorable indicators, progress of training
programs, rehabilitation of health facilities, and status of progress of private health practice; (i)
actively maintain the Social Sector Project's Project Implementation Committee during the project; O)
organize, in coordination with IDA, a yearly donors' meeting to review progress in social programs
and implementation of the health plan; and (k) use procurement procedures and arrangements as
outlined in project documents and implement a proper monitoring system for procurement. The
following conditions of credit effectiveness agreed during negotiations are: (a) establishment of a
Project Account in Pesos in a local commercW bank for counterpart funds and make an initial deposit
of US$60,000 equivalent; (b) appointment of a project accountant and a procurement/architectra



- 14-
specialist satisfactory to IDA; (c) adoption by MINPH of a health sector budget with composition of
expenditures satisfactory to IDA; and (d) that the Government would have sought expert assistance to
develop indicators to assess the effectiveness and formulated a detailed plan to regularly coordinate,
a-upervise and monitor the progress of the health training programs and rehabilitation of health
facilities, satisfactory to IDA.
46.   Eniromental Aspects. Proposed project is assigned the environmental category C". There
will be no adverse environmental effects.
47. Program Objectives Categories. The project will contribute to poverty reduction by
improving the quality and delivery of health services, the emphasis through training on human
resource development, and social awareness through health education. The SAF will target the rural
poor and vulnerable groups, especially women and children through micro-social programs.
48. Project Benefits. The project is expected to improve the delivery and quality of primary
health care for a greater proportion of the population, and have a positive impact on the country's
social indicators. Direct benefits will be the physical and human capital improvements, and
strengthening the capacity of several institutions charged with delivering social services. Through the
social action fund, improvement in women's health, education and income potential should bring
additional improvements to the overall status of children and the family, and, hence, to the health,
well-being and productivity of the society as a whole. Through the creation of the SAP, the project
would improve coordination among various entities, including social sector ministries, donors and
NGOs, and community groups, while promoting greater regional and local participation.
49.   Risks. The risks include the weak institutional capacity in the social sectors and the
coordination and logistical problems a program of this nature could involve. Given the basic human
resource limitations in the country, the project design has been simplified and concentrated to
accommodate implementation capacities. In addition, provisions for appropriate technical assistance
has been included to strengthen institutional management capacity and implementation of the project.
Other risks are the lack of sufficient counterpart funds and the financial sustainabiity of the project in
the medium and longer terms. These risks are being addressed by setting targets for increases in
centrl budget allocations to the social sectors and monitoring social spending as part of the project
conditionality. To ensure sufficient counterpart funds, local labor and materials will be provided
through the project's community participation element, and will contribute towards part of the
counterpart contribution.
50.   Recommendation. I am satisfied that the proposed credit would comply with the Articles of
Agreement of the Association and recommend that the Executive Directors approve the proposed
Credit.
Lewis T. Preston
President
Attachments
Washington, D.C.
January 29, 1993



- 15 -
Schedute A
REPUBL1C OF GUINE3A-BlSAU
SOCIAL SECTOR PROJECT
ummav of Priect Cost Esimat
(US$ million)
Load        Forei&Q     Ia
A.  Health Sector
1.  In-Service Training Refresher Courses   0.07         0.29        0.36
2.  In-Service Upgrading Programs            0.15         0.49        0.64
3.  In-Service Training for Medical
Specializations                        0.16         1.84        2.00
4.  Information, Education and
Communication (IEC)                    0.02         0.29        0.31
5.  Strengthening Delivery of Health
Services (including community
participation)                         05           24
Subtotal Health Sector                  0.96         5.36        6.32
B.  Social Action Fund                       0.19         0.54        0.73
C.  Project Coordination and Management      0.28         0.41        0.69
D.  PPF Refinancing                          0.00         0.30        0.30
E.  Taxes and Duties                         Oa           on         0a
Total Base Costs                        1.83         6.61        8.45
Physical Contingencies                       0.13         0.53        0.66
Price Contingencies                          0.14         0.41        0 5
TOTI 1 PROJECT COSTS                    2.10         7.55        9.65
Note: Totals may not add up due to rounding.
Financing Plan (US$ Million)
Loca       Foreign      DAIL
IDA                                     1.25         7.55        8.80
Government of Guinea-Bissau/Community   0.85         0.00        0.85
Participation
TOTAL PROJECT COSTS                     2.10         7.55        9.65



- 16 -
REPUBLIC OF gUt!A-BISSAU
S0CtAL SECTO_ PROJECT
Summaf  of Prooose Pren     UetArneet
WUS& tILLIon equlv ue m 1inctu>l entng C reneles~)
TOTAL
Project Element                      ICe          LC8          OTHER           N.8.F.                COST
1.1 lieu construction                             0.33          0.06            0.11 0               0.50
-         (0.33)        (0.06)             -                  (0.33)
1.2 RehabilitationJ                               0.30           -              0.03 g               0.33
Extension                                    (0.30)                                             (0.30)
2. fCggds
2.1 Roofing and flooring            0.41                                        0.06 SV              0.47
materials                      (0.41)                                                           (0 .41)
2.2 Vehicles, motorcycles,          0.56            -                                                 0.56
nd bicycles                    (0.56) S                                      -                  (0.56)
2.3 Furniture                         -           0.42                            -                  0.42
-         t'CO.42)                                            (0.42)
2.4 Wedical equipment               1.42                  -              -                            1.42
and Solar panel.               (1.42)          -                             -                  (1.42)
2.5 Office and Audio-                 -            -            027                                  0.27
Visual equipment                                           (0.27)            -                  (0.27)
2.6 Consumable Goods q                -                         0.04                                 0.04
-            -(0.04)                      -                  (0.04)
3. Service ContraEts
3.1 etls-                                                       0.07                                 0.07
-            -           o(0.07)                              (0.07)
4. Conuttaneies
4.1 Pro3ect preparation and                  -                  0.74                                 0.74
Ioplementation support                                    (0.74)                                (0.74)
4.2 tnstitutional developnent         -                         1.74                                  1.74
(Cpacity building)                             -1.74)                                           (174)
S. Miscellanezu
5.1 Training costs:
a) Teaching Altowances for
Trainers, naterials,  nd       -            -           0.20                                  0.20
Training within the Region    -             -           (0.20)                               (0.20)
b) Living Allowances for          -            -             -               0.17 sI             0.17
Participants and Travel                     -             -               -                  (0.00)
Allowances for Trainers
5.2 Social Action Fund                -0.40                                                           0.40
*      -         ~~~~~(0.40)         -(0.40)
5.3 Incremental recurrewt
costs:
a) Maintenane and Operating                                 1.53                                 1.53
Costs                                                   (1.53)            0.6U                153)
b) Salaries for Support Staff    -             -             -                                   0.06
under PCU and SAFU             -            -                                                (0.00)
5.4 PPF Refinancing                   -             -           0.30                                  0.30
-      -         ~~~~~(0.30)         -(0.30)
5.5 Taxes and Duties                  -             -            -              0.42 gy               0.42
TOTAL                               2.39          1.18          5.22            0.5                   9.65
IDA F7n cing                       (2.39)        (1.18)        (5.22)            -                   (8.80)
Note:   Totals may not add up due to rounding.
Figures in parentheses are the respective amounts financed by the IDA credit.
N.S.F. * Not 8ank-Financed.
Footnotes indicate amounts financed by Governnent and through cooumnity participation:
/ Cons uable goods refer to items to be procured such as smalt vatue items (i.e., transistor radios, etc.)
gJ Covernment: USQO04 miltion; Casmmnity participation: USSO.07 million.
r Government: U #O.03 million;
Community participation: USSO.06 miltion.
S/ Government: USSO.17 miltion.
G Government: USSO.06 million.
Gf Government: USS0.42 million.



- 17-
Schedule 
Page 2 of 2
Summar Disbursement Schedule
Amount of the Credit
Allocated                 Percent of Expenditures
Cang       of Exnitum              (unS Million)          to be Financed by IDA
1.  Civil Works                        0.50                    100%  Foreign exp.
70% Loca exp.
2. Equipnent, Furniture,
Materials, Vehicles,
Solar Panels, and
Consumable Goods for
Community Participation            3.00                   100%
3.  Teaching Allowances for
Trainers and Training
Materals for Training
Within Guinea-Bissau               0.13                   100%
4. Training Within the African
Region, with the Exception
of Guinea-Bissau                   0.07                   100%
5.  Consultants' Services and
Service Contracts for Wells        2.20                   100%
6.  SAF Funding                        0.40                    100%
7.  Incremental Reurrent
Costs (excluding salaries
of support stff under
PCU and SAFU)                      1.40                   100%
8.  PPF Redinancing                    0.30
9.  Unallocated                        Q
Total Credit Amount                8.80
Esfmtd  Credit Disbursements
(US$ Million)
IDAFiscal Years                                       EM    EPY9    EM    EY8
Annual                                        3.1        2.3        1.9       1.4    0.1
Qimulatlve                                    3.1        5.4        7.3      8.7    8.8



- 18 -
REPUBLIC OF GUINEA-BISSAU
SOCIAL SECTOR PROJECT
Timetable of Key Events
(a)    Time taken to prepare the
project:                          8 months
(b)    Prepared by:                     Government, with IDA assistance
(c)    First IDA mission:                October 1991
(d)    Appraisal mission:                May 1992E1
(e)    Negotiations:                    December 1992
(t)    Planned date of
effectiveness:                    May 1993
(g)    Relevant PCRs and PPARs:         Project Completion Report: Population, Health
and Nutrition Project (Cr. 1800-GUB)
1/ The project was appraised by Mmes/Messrs. Carol Hoppy (Project Officer and mission
leader), J. Angers (Research Analyst), L. Secco (Architect/Consultant), V. Reis (Health
Specialist/Consultant), and J. Chabot (Public Health Specialist/Consultant).



- 19 -                                       SCHE1)ULE D
Page 1 of 3
REPUBLIC OF GUINEA-BISSAU
SOCIAL SECTOR PROJECT
STATUS OF BANK 6ROUP OPERATIONS IN GUINEA-BISSAU
STATEMENT OF IDA CREDiTS
(As of December 31 1992)
Thirteen credits fully disbursed                                98.10         0.00
1799-0-GUB   1987  Guinea-Bissau    Agricultural Services        3.70        0.57
1914-0-GUB   1988  Guinea-Bissau    Education                    4.30        2.31
1935-0-GUB    1988  Guinea-Bissau    Technical Assistance II     9.70        1.56
2019-0-GUB   1989  Guinea-Bissau    SAC II                      23.40        7.47
2074-0-GUB   1990  Guinea-Blssau    Infrastruc Rehabilitation   23.60        11.06
2237-0-GUB   1991  Guinea-Bissau    Energy                      15.15       15.35
2342-0-GUB   1992  Guinea-Bissau    Economic Management          7.20        7.05
2020-1-GUB   1992  Guinea-Bissau    Social and Infra Rehab       2.90         1.48
89.95       46.85
TOTAL                                    188.05
of whlch has been paid                     0.47
TOTAL now held by Bank & IDA             187.58
TOTAL Undisbursed                                      46.85
11 IDA Credits after 1980 and Special Fund Credits are denominated In Special Drawing Rights.
U.S. dollar amounts In table are calculated using exchange rates prevailing at time of credit
negotiations
21 Includes the exchange rate adjustment
* Structural Adjustment Credit



SCHEDULE D
Page 2 of 3
- 20 -
GUINEA-BISSAU: STATEMENT OF IFC INVESTNENTS
(As of December 31, 1992)
~~~     .. ~      ~ ~ A ..               r
1989       Anetibene Petroleum   Guinea-Bissau    Oil          0.00          5.85          5.85
1990       Blssau Pssca (Clearwater)              Fishing Farm                0.20         0.20
Total gross commitments                                        0.00           6.05         6.05
Less repayments and write-offs                                 0.0          0.00          0.00
repayments and sales
Total disbursed                                                0.00          2.05          2.05
Total commitments now held by IFC                              0.00          4.00          4.00



- 21 -
Scbghle P.
Page 3 of 3
Implementation Issues
1.     Although Guinea-Bissau's institutional and technical capacity is limited, project
implementation has not been severely hampered and disbursements on investment lending have
generally been satisfactory. Three common implementation issues remain: (a) poor budget
management and lack of counterpart funds; (b) limited institutional capacity; and (c) limited aid
coordination. Actions to improve performance are being taken, including: (i) improving budgetary
programming and monitoring; (ii) establishment of a Public Investment Program exeting unit; (iii)
strengthening controls on the ways counterpart funds are being generated which are mainly provided
through the sale of food aid received from donors; (iv) intensifying dialogue on procurement issues
through specific missions and seminars; (v) as part of terms-of-reference, requiring that all technical
assistants and project coordinators take specific actions on training and transf-r of skills; (vi)
increasing use of mid-term reviews to address major problems and, if Lecessary, redesign project
components (e.g., Agriculture Services Project); and (vii) strengthening aid coordination, namely
through monthly meetings of the Resident Representative with the donor community and specific
seminars on sector policy and strategy.
2.    Agriculture Services Proiet  MY87). This project has been successfully redesigned at the
mid-term review which took place in mid-1991. There is now increased focus on strengthening the
capacity of the Ministry of Rural Development and Agriculture (MDRA) and developing a significant
local training program. The project is expected to be completed by the end of 1993.
3.    Basic Education Deve_opment Project (FYg8l. This project has suffered from serious
implementaion problems. Weak institutional capacity including limited human resources and
mnanagement deficiencies, and lack of counterpart funds are the main reasons for slow
implementation. A recent supervision mission has begun to address these issues and reassess
priorities among components. In line with the perceived priorities, a mission planned for January
1993 will also recost those project items that have been affected by price increases.



IBRD 23997
SLSENEGAL
2}~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~1   +4
GUINEA  INEAOET                                                                                                                                  -  ~GION BOUNI)AJlIES
AtNIC                       c 6T                                                                                                            o    ''    n    an        n    *n   Oa    OI
OCEAN  IJEEBIA                                                                                                    0        10      Ia      Ia               an01
A}                 |    p          1      ' t~~~~~~~~*         _O                             lO                 A      N WW                            4 7W
AT TLA <;NTIC          lr                                                                            X /         \                          l    o a       lo s       s    m
.   \    t                                                                                                                            ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~September 199:



