Page  1
                                                    CONFORMED COPY
                                            CREDIT NUMBER 2465 GUB
                   Development Credit Agreement
                      (Social Sector Project)
                              between
                     REPUBLIC OF GUINEA-BISSAU
                                and
               INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
                       Dated April 28, 1993
                                            CREDIT NUMBER 2465 GUB
                   DEVELOPMENT CREDIT AGREEMENT
      AGREEMENT, dated April 28, 1993, between REPUBLIC OF GUINEA-
BISSAU (the Borrower) and INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION (the
Association).
      WHEREAS (A) the Borrower, having satisfied itself as to the
feasibility and priority of the Project described in Schedule 2 to
this Agreement, has requested the Association to assist in the
financing of the Project;
      (B)   WHEREAS the Association has received a letter dated
January 28, 1993, from the Borrower describing a program of actions,
together with a timetable designed to implement the Borrower's
strategy in the health sector (hereinafter called the health policy
implementation plan), and declaring the Borrower's commitment to the
execution of such plan; and
Page  2
      WHEREAS the Association has agreed, on the basis, inter alia,
of the foregoing, to extend the Credit to the Borrower upon the
terms and conditions set forth in this Agreement;
      NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
                             ARTICLE I
                  General Conditions; Definitions
      Section 1.01. The "General Conditions Applicable to Develop-
ment Credit Agreements" of the Association, dated January 1, 1985,
with the last sentence of Section 3.02 deleted (the General
Conditions) constitute an integral part of this Agreement.
      Section 1.02. Unless the context otherwise requires, the
several terms defined in the General Conditions and in the Preamble
to this Agreement have the respective meanings therein set forth and
the following additional terms have the following meanings:
      (a)   "Special Account" means the account referred to in
Section 2.02 (b) of this Agreement;
      (b)   "Project Preparation Advance" means the project
preparation advance granted by the Association to the Borrower
pursuant to an exchange of letters dated April 27, 1992 and May 12,
1992 between the Borrower and the Association;
      (c)   "Project Account" means the account referred to in
Section 3.01 (b) of this Agreement;
      (d)   "Beneficiaries" means the individuals deriving benefits
directly or indirectly from small-scale projects in the social
sectors financed under this Project;
      (e)   "IEC" means Information, Education and Communication;
      (f)   "MINPH" means the Borrower's Ministry of Public Health;
      (g)   "MINFAC" means the Borrower's Ministry of Foreign
Affairs and Cooperation;
      (h)   "MINNE" means the Borrower's Ministry of National
Education;
      (i)   "NGOs" means non-governmental organizations;
      (j)   "PCU" means the Project Coordinating Unit established
under the Borrower's Ministry of Foreign Affairs and Cooperation;
      (k)   "SAF" means the Social Action Fund established by a
circular (despacho) No. 01/93, in date of January 27, 1993, of the
Borrower;
      (l)   "SAFU" means the Social Action Fund Unit referred to in
Schedule 4 to this Agreement;
      (m)   "SOLIDAMI" means the Solidarity and Friendship
Institution operating in the territory of the Borrower;
      (n)   "Fiscal Year" means the Borrower's fiscal year which
begins from January 1 and ends December 31 each year; and
      (o)   "Peso" means the currency of the Borrower.
                            ARTICLE II
                            The Credit
      Section 2.01. The Association agrees to lend to the Borrower,
on the terms and conditions set forth or referred to in the
Development Credit Agreement, an amount in various currencies
Page  3
equivalent to six million four hundred thousand Special Drawing
Rights (SDR 6,400,000).
      Section 2.02. (a) The amount of the Credit may be withdrawn
from the Credit Account in accordance with the provisions of
Schedule 1 to this Agreement for expenditures made (or, if the
Association shall so agree, to be made) in respect of the reasonable
cost of goods and services required for the Project and to be
financed out of the proceeds of the Credit.
      (b)   The Borrower shall, for the purposes of the Project,
open and maintain in dollars a special deposit account in a
commercial bank on terms and conditions satisfactory to the
Association, including appropriate protection against set-off,
seizure or attachment. Deposits into, and payments out of, the
Special Account shall be made in accordance with the provisions of
Schedule 5 to this Agreement.
      (c)   Promptly after the Effective Date, the Association
shall, on behalf of the Borrower, withdraw from the Credit Account
and pay to itself the amount required to repay the principal amount
of the Project Preparation Advance withdrawn and outstanding as of
such date and to pay all unpaid charges thereon. The unwithdrawn
balance of the authorized amount of the Project Preparation Advance
shall thereupon be cancelled.
      Section 2.03. The Closing Date shall be December 31, 1997 or
such later date as the Association shall establish. The Association
shall promptly notify the Borrower of such later date.
      Section 2.04. (a) The Borrower shall pay to the Association a
commitment charge on the principal amount of the Credit not
withdrawn from time to time at a rate to be set by the Association
as of June 30 of each year, but not to exceed the rate of one-half
of one percent (1/2 of 1%) per annum.
      (b)   The commitment charge shall accrue: (i) from the date
sixty days after the date of this Agreement (the accrual date) to
the respective dates on which amounts shall be withdrawn by the
Borrower from the Credit Account or cancelled; and (ii) at the rate
set as of the June 30 immediately preceding the accrual date or at
such other rates as may be set from time to time thereafter pursuant
to paragraph (a) above. The rate set as of June 30 in each year
shall be applied from the next payment date in that year specified
in Section 2.06 of this Agreement.
      (c)   The commitment charge shall be paid: (i) at such places
as the Association shall reasonably request; (ii) without
restrictions of any kind imposed by, or in the territory of, the
Borrower; and (iii) in the currency specified in this Agreement for
the purposes of Section 4.02 of the General Conditions or in such
other eligible currency or currencies as may from time to time be
designated or selected pursuant to the provisions of that Section.
      Section 2.05. The Borrower shall pay to the Association a
service charge at the rate of three-fourths of one percent (3/4 of
1%) per annum on the principal amount of the Credit withdrawn and
outstanding from time to time.
      Section 2.06. Commitment charges and service charges shall be
payable semiannually on January 15 and July 15 in each year.
      Section 2.07. (a) Subject to paragraphs (b) and (c) below, the
Borrower shall repay the principal amount of the Credit in semi-
annual installments payable on each January 15 and July 15
commencing July 15, 2003 and ending January 15, 2033. Each
installment to and including the installment payable on January 15,
2013 shall be one percent (1%) of such principal amount, and each
installment thereafter shall be two percent (2%) of such principal
amount.
      (b)   Whenever (i) the Borrower's gross national product per
Page  4
capita, as determined by the Association, shall have exceeded $790
in constant 1985 dollars for five consecutive years, and (ii) the
Bank shall consider the Borrower creditworthy for Bank lending, the
Association may, subsequent to the review and approval thereof by
the Executive Directors of the Association and after due
consideration by them of the development of the Borrower's economy,
modify the terms of repayment of installments under paragraph (a)
above by requiring the Borrower to repay twice the amount of each
such installment not yet due until the principal amount of the
Credit shall have been repaid. If so requested by the Borrower, the
Association may revise such modification to include, in lieu of some
or all of the increase in the amounts of such installments, the
payment of interest at an annual rate agreed with the Association on
the principal amount of the Credit withdrawn and outstanding from
time to time, provided that, in the judgment of the Association,
such revision shall not change the grant element obtained under the
above-mentioned repayment modification.
      (c)   If, at any time after a modification of terms pursuant
to paragraph (b) above, the Association determines that the
Borrower's economic condition has deteriorated significantly, the
Association may, if so requested by the Borrower, further modify the
terms of repayment to conform to the schedule of installments as
provided in paragraph (a) above.
      Section 2.08. The currency of the United States of America is
hereby specified for the purposes of Section 4.02 of the General
Conditions.
                            ARTICLE III
                     Execution of the Project
      Section 3.01. (a) The Borrower declares its commitment to the
objectives of the Project as set forth in Schedule 2 to this
Agreement and, to this end, shall carry out the Project through
MINPH and MINFAC, with due diligence and efficiency and in
conformity with appropriate administrative, financial and public
health practices, and shall provide, promptly as needed, the funds,
facilities, services and other resources required for the Project.
      (b)   Without limitation upon the provisions of paragraph (a)
of this Section and except as the Borrower and the Association shall
otherwise agree, the Borrower shall carry out the Project in
accordance with the Implementation Program set forth in Schedule 4
to this Agreement.
      Section 3.02. Without limitation upon any of its obligations
under Section 3.01 of this Agreement, the Borrower shall:
      (a)   establish and maintain a Project Account in a commercial
bank on terms and conditions satisfactory to the Association to be
used exclusively for the purposes of meeting expenditures for the
Project, which are not externally financed; and
      (b)   in addition to the initial deposit referred to in
Section 6.01 (a) of this Agreement, deposit into the Project
Account, promptly before each fiscal semester starting after the
Effective Date, sufficient funds to pay the Borrower's contribution
to the financing of the Project required for such fiscal semester,
as estimated by the Borrower in consultation with the Association.
      Section 3.03. The Borrower shall take all necessary actions to
implement the health policy implementation plan, referred to in the
preamble of this Agreement.
      Section 3.04. The Borrower shall: (a) submit, not later than
October 31 of each year, starting October 31, 1993, to the
Association for review a proposed budget for the health sector for
the following Fiscal Year in form and substance satisfactory to the
Association; and (b) thereafter shall implement, in a timely manner,
the health sector budget as agreed upon with the Association.
Page  5
      Section 3.05. The Borrower shall: (a) by July 31, 1995, carry
out jointly with the Association a mid-term review of the Project
which shall cover inter alia: (i) the evaluation of the in-service
and multi-oriented training programs for health workers; (ii) the
overall assessment of the implementation of the IEC component of the
Project; (iii) the evaluation of the implementation of the
rehabilitation of health facilities and the construction of nurses'
houses with community participation; (iv) the analysis of SAFU's
operations; and (v) the review of the survey developed by the
Borrower to monitor the measurable indicators to register the impact
of the Project;
      (b)   thereafter carry out such corrective actions as the
Borrower and the Association shall determine in accordance with a
time schedule satisfactory to the Association; and
      (c)   in order to facilitate this review, prepare and submit
to the Association, not later than four weeks before the scheduled
date of this review, a report of Project activities of such scope
and in such detail as the Association shall have reasonably
requested.
      Section 3.06. Except as the Association shall otherwise agree,
procurement of the goods, works and consultants' services required
for the Project and to be financed out of the proceeds of the Credit
shall be governed by the provisions of Schedule 3 to this Agreement.
                            ARTICLE IV
                   Financial and Other Covenants
      Section 4.01. (a) The Borrower shall maintain or cause to be
maintained records and accounts adequate to reflect in accordance
with sound accounting practices the operations, resources and
expenditures in respect of the Project of the departments or
agencies of the Borrower responsible for carrying out the Project or
any part thereof.
      (b)   The Borrower shall:
            (i)   have the records and accounts referred to in
                  paragraph (a) of this Section including those for
                  the Special Account and the Project Account for
                  each fiscal year audited, in accordance with
                  appropriate auditing principles consistently
                  applied, by independent auditors acceptable to
                  the Association;
           (ii)   furnish to the Association as soon as available,
                  but in any case not later than six months after
                  the end of each such year, a certified copy of
                  the report of such audit by said auditors, of
                  such scope and in such detail as the Association
                  shall have reasonably requested; and
          (iii)   furnish to the Association such other information
                  concerning said records, accounts and the audit
                  thereof as the Association shall from time to
                  time reasonably request.
      (c)   For all expenditures with respect to which withdrawals
from the Credit Account were made on the basis of statements of
expenditure, the Borrower shall:
            (i)   maintain or cause to be maintained, in accordance
                  with paragraph (a) of this Section, records and
                  accounts reflecting such expenditures;
           (ii)   retain, until at least one year after the
                  Association has received the audit report for the
                  fiscal year in which the last withdrawal from the
Page  6
                  Credit Account or payment out of the Special
                  Account was made, all records (contracts, orders,
                  invoices, bills, receipts and other documents)
                  evidencing such expenditures;
          (iii)   enable the Association's representatives to
                  examine such records; and
           (iv)   ensure that such records and accounts are
                  included in the annual audit referred to in
                  paragraph (b) of this Section and that the report
                  of such audit contains a separate opinion by said
                  auditors as to whether the statements of
                  expenditure submitted during such fiscal year,
                  together with the procedures and internal
                  controls involved in their preparation, can be
                  relied upon to support the related withdrawals.
      Section 4.02. (a) The Borrower shall cause SAFU to maintain
records and accounts adequate to reflect in accordance with sound
accounting practices the operations and financial condition of SAF.
      (b)   The Borrower shall cause SAF to:
            (i)   have its records, accounts and financial
                  statements (balance sheets, statements of income
                  and expenses and related statements) for each
                  fiscal year audited, in accordance with
                  appropriate auditing principles consistently
                  applied, by independent auditors acceptable to
                  the Association;
           (ii)   furnish to the Association as soon as available,
                  but in any case not later than six months after
                  the end of each such year: (A) certified copies
                  of its financial statements for such year as so
                  audited; and (B) the report of such audit by said
                  auditors of such scope and in such detail as the
                  Association shall have reasonably requested,
                  including a verification that the activities
                  financed meet the agreed eligibility criteria;
                  and
          (iii)   furnish to the Association such other information
                  concerning such records, accounts and financial
                  statements and the audit thereof as the
                  Association shall from time to time reasonably
                  request.
                             ARTICLE V
                    Remedies of the Association
      Section 5.01. Pursuant to Section 6.02 (h) of the General
Conditions, the following additional event is specified, namely,
that the Borrower has failed to implement the health policy
implementation plan in a manner satisfactory to the Association.
      Section 5.02. Pursuant to Section 7.01 (d) of the General
Conditions, the following additional event is specified, namely,
that the event referred to in Section 5.01 of this Agreement shall
occur.
                            ARTICLE VI
                    Effective Date; Termination
      Section 6.01. The following events are specified as additional
conditions to the effectiveness of the Development Credit Agreement
within the meaning of Section 12.01 (b) of the General Conditions:
      (a)   the Borrower has opened the Project Account and has
Page  7
deposited therein the initial deposit in an amount in pesos
equivalent to sixty thousand dollars ($60,000);
      (b)   the Borrower has employed an accountant for the PCU and
a procurement and architectural specialist for the Project
Implementation Committee in accordance with the provisions of
Section II of Schedule 3 to this Agreement;
      (c)   the Borrower has adopted, for the year 1993, a health
sector budget with a composition of expenditures, satisfactory to
the Association; and
      (d)   the Borrower has developed indicators to assess the
effectiveness of the implementation of Parts A and B of the Project
and has formulated consequently a detailed plan, satisfactory to the
Association, to regularly coordinate, supervise and monitor the
progress of such implementation.
      Section 6.02. The date one hundred twenty (120) days after the
date of this Agreement is hereby specified for the purposes of
Section 12.04 of the General Conditions.
                            ARTICLE VII
             Representative of the Borrower; Addresses
      Section 7.01. The Minister of the Borrower at the time
responsible for Finance is designated as representative of the
Borrower for the purposes of Section 11.03 of the General
Conditions.
      Section 7.02. The following addresses are specified for the
purposes of Section 11.01 of the General Conditions:
      For the Borrower:
            Ministerio das Finan£as
            C.P. 67
            Bissau, Guin¶-Bissau
            Cable address:                Telex:
                  MEF                       257 MEF BI
      For the Association:
            International Development Association
            1818 H Street, N.W.
            Washington, D.C. 20433
            United States of America
            Cable address:                Telex:
                  INDEVAS                    197688 (TRT),
                  Washington, D.C.           248423 (RCA),
                                              64145 (WUI) or
                                              82987 (FTCC)
      IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their
duly authorized representatives, have caused this Agreement to be
signed in their respective names in the District of Columbia, United
States of America, as of the day and year first above written.
                  REPUBLIC OF GUINEA BISSAU
                  By /s/ Alfredo Lopes Cabral
                                         Authorized Representative
Page  8
                  INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
                  By /s/ Edward V. K. Jaycox
                                           Regional Vice President
                                                            Africa
                            SCHEDULE 1
             Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the Credit
1.    The table below sets forth the Categories of items to be
financed out of the proceeds of the Credit, the allocation of the
amounts of the Credit to each Category and the percentage of
expenditures for items so to be financed in each Category:
                             Amount of the
                           Credit Allocated          % of
                            (Expressed in        Expenditures
     Category               SDR Equivalent)     to be Financed
(1)   Civil works                360,000        100% of foreign
                                                expenditures and
                                                70% of local
                                                expenditures
(2)   Equipment,               2,160,000        100%
      furniture,
      materials,
      vehicles, solar
      panels, and
      consumable goods
(3)   Teaching allowances         90,000        100%
      for trainers and
      training materials
      for training within
      the Borrower's
      territory
(4)   Training within             50,000        100%
      the African region,
      with the exception
      of Guinea-Bissau
(5)   Specialist               1,590,000        100%
      services and
      service contract
      for wells
      Amount of the
                           Credit Allocated          % of
                            (Expressed in        Expenditures
     Category               SDR Equivalent)     to be Financed
(6)   SAF Funding                290,000        100%
(7)   Incremental              1,010,000        100%
      recurrent costs
(8)   Refunding of               220,000        Amount due pur-
      Project Prepara-                          suant to Section
      tion Advance                              2.02 (c) of this
                                                Agreement
(9)   Unallocated                630,000
                               ---------
           TOTAL               6,400,000
                               =========
Page  9
2.    For the purposes of this Schedule:
      (a)   the term "foreign expenditures" means expenditures in
the currency of any country other than that of the Borrower for
goods or services supplied from the territory of any country other
than that of the Borrower;
      (b)   the term "local expenditures" means expenditures in the
currency of the Borrower or for goods or services supplied from the
territory of the Borrower;
      (c)   the term "consumable goods" means small value items such
as transistor radios and T-shirts.
      (d)   the term "incremental recurrent costs" means the
incremental project related costs incurred for the cost of office
rents, vehicles and equipment maintenance and operations, office
supplies and maintenance of facilities; and
      (e)   the term "SAF Funding" means support funds for
expenditures incurred during the implementation of the small-scale
projects financed under SAF.
3.    The Association may require withdrawals from the Credit
Account to be made on the basis of statements of expenditures for
such expenditures and under such terms and conditions as the
Association shall specify by notice to the Borrower.
                           SCHEDULE 2
                    Description of the Project
      The objectives of the Project are to assist the Borrower to
improve the delivery capacity and quality of primary health care in
its territory and to support and expand the activities of various
entities, such as national NGOs, in the social sectors.
      The Project consists of the following parts, subject to such
modifications thereof as the Borrower and the Association may agree
upon from time to time to achieve such objectives:
Part A:     Human Resource Development
      Improvement of training programs for health personnel through:
      (1)   implementation of in-service training refresher program
            designed to improve the skills and knowledge of health
            personnel in priority health areas;
      (2)   implementation of in-service training upgrading program
            designed to upgrade the skills of health personnel in
            specialized health areas;
      (3)   implementation of in-service training for medical
            specialization designed to support the local development
            of medical specialization and to improve the specialized
            skills of professional medical staff; and
      (4)   acquisition of medical and non-medical equipment,
            supplies and learning materials.
Part B:     Health Facilities
      Implementation of a health facilities revitalizing program,
including:
      (1)   construction, rehabilitation or upgrading of health
            facilities and drug storage units;
      (2)   construction and rehabilitation of housing for nurses;
      (3)   construction of approximately 12 wells, acquisition and
Page  10
            installation of approximately 22 solar panels;
      (4)   acquisition of equipment and furniture;
      (5)   acquisition of vehicles, motorcycles, bicycles, and
            consumable goods for community participation; and
      (6)   acquisition of roofing and flooring materials.
Part C:     Information, Education and Communication
      Improvement of the dissemination of health information to
rural areas in the territory of the Borrower through:
      (1)   the carrying out of a study of the overall IEC
            activities to assist the National Council for Health
            Information, Education and Communication to develop an
            IEC framework;
      (2)   development of a strategy to improve the capacity of
            MINPH Division of Health Education to develop and
            centrally coordinate diverse IEC activities;
      (3)   institutional strengthening of MINPH through the
            acquisition of equipment and supplies for its Division
            of Health, Education and its Information and
            Documentation Center;
      (4)   the carrying out of seminars and training courses on IEC
            for health personnel;
      (5)   the carrying out of seminars and training courses on
            graphic arts, illustration, layout and design, and audio
            visual for personnel involved in IEC delivery; and
      (6)   the editing, adaptation and distribution of two health
            information serial albums namely, "Health in the
            Tabancas" and "Maternal and Child Health".
Part D:     Social Action Fund
      (1)   Establishment and operation of a Social Action Fund to
            provide, after assessment of proposals, funds in support
            of small-scale projects designed by various entities to
            improve the health and social indicators and alleviate
            poverty of the most vulnerable groups; and
      (2)   Acquisition of material, office equipment and vehicles
            for SAFU.
                             *   *   *
      The Project is expected to be completed by June 30, 1997.
                            SCHEDULE 3
               Procurement and Consultants' Services
Section I.  Procurement of Goods and Works
Part A:     International Competitive Bidding
1.    Except as provided in Part B hereof, goods shall be procured
under contracts awarded in accordance with procedures consistent
with those set forth in Sections I and II of the "Guidelines for
Procurement under IBRD Loans and IDA Credits" published by the Bank
in May 1992 (the Guidelines).
2.    To the extent practicable, contracts for goods shall be
grouped into bid packages estimated to cost the equivalent of
$100,000 or more.
Page  11
3.    Goods to be procured through international competitive bidding
shall be exempted from pre-shipment price inspection by a third
party.
Part B:     Other Procurement Procedures
1.    Civil works may be procured under contracts awarded on the
basis of competitive bidding, advertised locally, in accordance with
procedures satisfactory to the Association.
2.    Civil works under Part B.2. of the Project, estimated to cost
the equivalent of $12,000 or less per contract, may be procured
under contracts awarded on the basis of comparison or price
quotations solicited from at least three suppliers eligible under
the Guidelines, in accordance with procedures acceptable to the
Association, provided however that the aggregate value of such
contracts shall not exceed the equivalent of $60,000.
3.    Goods estimated to cost less than the equivalent of $100,000
per contract, may be procured under contracts awarded on the basis
of competitive bidding, advertised locally in accordance with
procedures satisfactory to the Association, provided however that
the aggregate value of such contracts shall not exceed the
equivalent of $420,000.
4.    Miscellaneous items of goods which cannot be grouped into bid
packages estimated to cost the equivalent of $50,000 or more per
contract may be procured under contracts awarded on the basis of
comparison or price quotations solicited from at least three
suppliers eligible under the Guidelines, in accordance with
procedures acceptable to the Association, provided however that the
aggregate value of such contracts shall not exceed the equivalent of
$310,000.
5.    Service contracts for the construction of wells, under Part
B.3. of the Project, estimated to cost the equivalent of $6,000 or
less per contract, may be procured under contracts awarded on the
basis of comparison or price quotations solicited from at least
three suppliers eligible under the Guidelines, in accordance with
procedures acceptable to the Association, provided however that the
aggregate value of such contracts shall not exceed the equivalent of
$70,000.
Part C:     Review by the Association of Procurement Decisions
1.    Review of invitations to bid and of proposed awards and final
contracts:
      (a)   With respect to each contract estimated to cost the
equivalent of $100,000 or more, the procedures set forth in
paragraphs 2 and 4 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines shall apply.
Where payments for such contract are to be made out of the Special
Account, such procedures shall be modified to ensure that the two
conformed copies of the contract required to be furnished to the
Association pursuant to said paragraph 2 (d) shall be furnished to
the Association prior to the making of the first payment out of the
Special Account in respect of such contract.
      (b)   With respect to each contract not governed by the pre-
ceding paragraph, the procedures set forth in paragraphs 3 and 4 of
Appendix 1 to the Guidelines shall apply. Where payments for such
contract are to be made out of the Special Account, such procedures
shall be modified to ensure that the two conformed copies of the
contract together with the other information required to be
furnished to the Association pursuant to said paragraph 3 shall be
furnished to the Association as part of the evidence to be furnished
pursuant to paragraph 4 of Schedule 5 to this Agreement.
      (c)   The provisions of the preceding subparagraph (b) shall
not apply to contracts on account of which withdrawals from the
Credit Account are to be made on the basis of statements of
Page  12
expenditure.
2.    The figure of 10% is hereby specified for purposes of para-
graph 4 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines.
Section II. Employment of Consultants
      In order to assist the Borrower in carrying out the Project,
the Borrower shall employ consultants whose qualifications,
experience and terms and conditions of employment shall be
satisfactory to the Association. Such consultants shall be selected
in accordance with principles and procedures satisfactory to the
Association on the basis of the "Guidelines for the Use of
Consultants by World Bank Borrowers and by the World Bank as
Executing Agency" published by the World Bank in August 1981.
                            SCHEDULE 4
                      Implementation Program
Section A.  Parts A, B and C of the Project
1.    Management
      MINPH shall be responsible for the overall coordination,
monitoring and supervision of activities.
      (a)   The Project Implementation Committee
            (i)   In order to facilitate implementation of the
                  Project, the Borrower shall establish a Project
                  Implementation Committee, under MINPH, whose
                  primary functions will be to provide policy
                  guidance and technical input for implementation
                  of the health sector subprojects.
           (ii)   The Committee shall be composed of:
                  (A)   the Director of Planning of MINPH who shall
                        be Chairman;
                  (B)   the Director of Primary Health Care of
                        MINPH;
                  (C)   the PCU Director, who shall act as
                        Secretary;
                  (D)   a Training and Management Technical
                        Director; and
                  (E)   a Procurement and Architectural Specialist.
      To carry out its objectives and in accordance with its own
rules of operation, the Committee shall meet on a monthly basis
during the first year of the Project's implementation and thereafter
as often as necessary.
          (iii)   The Borrower shall appoint the training and
                  management technical director and the procurement
                  and architectural specialist in accordance with
                  the provisions of Section 2 of Schedule 3 to this
                  Agreement.
          (iv)    The Project Implementation Committee shall remain
                  in function during the implementation of the
                  Project.
      (b)   The PCU
            (i)   The Project Coordinating Unit which shall carry
                  out the day-to-day administration, management and
Page  13
                  coordination of Parts A, B and C of the Project
                  shall consist of a director, an accountant and an
                  adequate number of support staff.
           (ii)   The Borrower shall appoint the PCU Director and
                  the accountant, in accordance with the provisions
                  of Section 2 of Schedule 3 to this Agreement. The
                  Borrower shall appoint as support staff
                  individuals whose experience, qualifications, and
                  terms of employment are acceptable to the
                  Association.
2.    Implementation
      (a)   Not later than October 31 of each year, starting October
31, 1993, MINPH, in collaboration with the Training and Management
Technical Director of the Project Implementation Committee, shall
furnish to the Association for review and approval the proposed
health training program to be implemented under the Project for the
following year, and a report on the achievements of training in the
previous year.
      (b)   The Borrower shall take all measures generally, and
measures regarding wage and compensation in particular, to attract
and retain appropriate health staff in health facilities located in
rural areas.
3.    Reporting
      (a)   The Project Coordinating Unit, through its Director,
shall consolidate quarterly reports on the implementation of Parts
A, B and C of the Project within four weeks after the end of each
quarter and submit such reports to the Project Implementation
Committee and the Association for their review and comments.
      (b)   The Project Coordinating Unit, through its Director,
shall promptly communicate to the Association, for its review and
comments, the coordinated quarterly reports of SAFU, referred to in
paragraph 3 of Section B of this Schedule.
      (c)   The Project Coordinating Unit, through its Director,
shall promptly furnish to the Association, for its approval, the
recommendations of the SAF Technical Committee referred to in
paragraph 2 (a) (ii) of Section B of this Schedule.
4.    Compensatory Program
      The Borrower shall adopt for the PCU director, the PCU
accountant, the procurement and architectural specialist and the
training and management technical director compensatory programs
satisfactory to the Association.
Section B.  Part D of the Project
1.    Management
      MINFAC shall be responsible for the overall coordination,
monitoring and supervision of activities under Part D of the
Project. MINFAC shall be assisted in this function by various
ministries and instrumentalities of the Borrower, including MINPH,
MINNE and SOLIDAMI.
      (a)   The Social Action Fund Technical Committee
            (i)   In order to facilitate implementation of Part D
                  of the Project and maximize its impact, the
                  Borrower shall establish a Social Action Fund
                  Technical Committee whose functions will be to
                  review the small-scale project proposals in
                  social sectors submitted by various entities,
                  such as national NGOs, and make recommendations
                  to the Association on the proposals suitability
Page  14
                  for SAF financing.
           (ii)   The Technical Committee shall be composed of:
                  (A)   the Managing Director of the Social Action
                        Fund Unit who shall be chairman;
                  (B)   a representative of MINPH;
                  (C)   a representative of MINNE;
                  (D)   a representative of SOLIDAMI;
                  (E)   a representative of national NGOs; and
                  (F)   a representative of international NGOs.
      The Committee shall meet as often as necessary to carry out
its objectives, but at least every other month. The representatives
of the national and international NGOs will serve on a one-year
basis.
      (b)   The Social Action Fund Unit
            (i)   The Social Action Fund Unit which shall carry out
                  the day-to-day management and monitoring of the
                  funds of the Social Action Fund shall consist of
                  a managing director, an assistant to the Managing
                  Director, an accountant and an adequate number of
                  support staff.
            (ii)  The Borrower shall appoint the managing director,
                  the assistant to the managing director and the
                  accountant, referred to in paragraph 3 (b) (i)
                  above, in accordance with the provisions of
                  Section 2 of Schedule 3 to this Agreement. The
                  Borrower shall appoint as support staff
                  individuals whose experience, qualifications, and
                  terms of employment are acceptable to the
                  Association. The Borrower shall adopt for the
                  SAFU managing director a compensatory program
                  satisfactory to the Association.
2.    Implementation
      (a)   Small-scale projects identification, appraisal, and
approval.
            (i)   Proposals for small-scale projects may be
                  initiated by various entities, such as national
                  NGOs. Proposals shall identify the type of small-
                  scale projects, describe the works, goods or
                  services to be carried out and identify the
                  Beneficiaries.
           (ii)   The proposals shall be processed and reviewed by
                  the Social Action Fund Technical Committee for
                  recommendations to the Association. These
                  recommendations shall be submitted promptly,
                  through the PCU Director, to the Association for
                  its approval, as referred to in paragraph 3 (c)
                  of Section A of this Schedule. The Association
                  shall determine whether or not the proposals
                  qualify for SAF funding.
          (iii)   Appraisal criteria for all small-scale projects
                  shall include the following:
                  (A)   Small-scale projects shall be technically
                        feasible and financially viable.
                  (B)   Proposed Beneficiaries shall include, inter
Page  15
                        alia, women, children, elderly people
                        without family support and handicapped
                        persons.
                  (C)   Small-scale projects shall contribute
                        mainly to support, inter alia, nutrition
                        and family planning programs, literacy and
                        numeracy programs, targeted health programs
                        and income-generating activities for women.
      (b)   Small-scale projects' arrangements.
            (i)   The proposed entities selected to carry out
                  small-scale projects shall promptly enter into
                  written arrangements with the Borrower, on terms
                  and conditions satisfactory to the Association,
                  pursuant to which the Borrower shall, inter alia,
                  obtain rights adequate to protect the interests
                  of the Association and the Borrower, including
                  the right of the Borrower to:
                  (A)   require the entities to carry out and
                        operate the small-scale projects with due
                        diligence and efficiency and in accordance
                        with sound technical, financial and
                        managerial standards and to maintain
                        adequate records;
                  (B)   require that the goods and services to be
                        financed out of the proceeds of the Credit
                        shall be purchased at a reasonable price;
                        other relevant factors in the selection
                        process will include the time of delivery,
                        the efficiency and reliability of the
                        goods, the availability of maintenance
                        facilities and spare parts therefor and, in
                        the case of services, their quality and the
                        competence of the parties rendering them;
                        such goods and services shall be used
                        exclusively in the carrying out of the
                        small-scale projects;
                  (C)   inspect, by itself or jointly, with
                        representatives of the Association and the                        
Borrower, if the Association and the
                        Borrower shall so request, such goods and
                        the sites, works, plants and construction
                        included in the small-scale projects, the
                        operation thereof, and any relevant records
                        and documents;
                  (D)   obtain all such information as the
                        Association and the Borrower shall
                        reasonably request relating to the
                        foregoing and to the administration,
                        operations and financial condition of the
                        small-scale projects, if appropriate, and
                        to the benefits to be derived therefrom;
                        and
                  (E)   suspend or terminate the right of the
                        entities to the use of the proceeds of the
                        Credit upon failure by such entities to
                        perform their obligations under their
                        arrangements with the Borrower.
           (ii)   The Borrower shall exercise its rights in
                  relation to each small-scale project in such
                  manner as to:
                  (A)   protect the interests of the Borrower and
                        the Association;
Page  16
                  (B)   comply with its obligations under these
                        arrangements; and
                  (C)   achieve the purposes of the Project.
3.    Reporting
      SAFU, through its Managing Director, shall prepare quarterly
reports on the implementation of Part D of the Project within four
weeks after the end of each quarter. SAFU shall promptly submit,
through the PCU Director, such quarterly reports to the Association
for its review and comments, as referred to in paragraph 3 (b) of
Section A of this Schedule.
SCHEDULE 5
                          Special Account
1.    For the purposes of this Schedule:
      (a)   the term "eligible Categories" means Categories 1 to 7
set forth in the table in paragraph 1 of Schedule 1 to this
Agreement;
      (b)   the term "eligible expenditures" means expenditures in
respect of the reasonable cost of goods, works and services required
for the Project and to be financed out of the proceeds of the Credit
allocated from time to time to the eligible Categories in accordance
with the provisions of Schedule 1 to this Agreement; and
      (c)   the term "Authorized Allocation" means an amount
equivalent to $500,000 to be withdrawn from the Credit Account and
deposited into the Special Account pursuant to paragraph 3 (a) of
this Schedule.
2.    Payments out of the Special Account shall be made exclusively
for eligible expenditures in accordance with the provisions of this
Schedule.
3.    After the Association has received evidence satisfactory to it
that the Special Account has been duly opened, withdrawals of the
Authorized Allocation and subsequent withdrawals to replenish the
Special Account shall be made as follows:
      (a)   For withdrawals of the Authorized Allocation, the
Borrower shall furnish to the Association a request or requests for
a deposit or deposits which do not exceed the aggregate amount of
the Authorized Allocation. On the basis of such request or requests,
the Association shall, on behalf of the Borrower, withdraw from the
Credit Account and deposit in the Special Account such amount or
amounts as the Borrower shall have requested.
      (b)   (i)   For replenishment of the Special Account, the
                  Borrower shall furnish to the Association
                  requests for deposits into the Special Account at
                  such intervals as the Association shall specify.
           (ii)   Prior to or at the time of each such request, the
                  Borrower shall furnish to the Association the
                  documents and other evidence required pursuant to
                  paragraph 4 of this Schedule for the payment or
                  payments in respect of which replenishment is
                  requested. On the basis of each such request, the
                  Association shall, on behalf of the Borrower,
                  withdraw from the Credit Account and deposit into
                  the Special Account such amount as the Borrower
                  shall have requested and as shall have been shown
                  by said documents and other evidence to have been
                  paid out of the Special Account for eligible
                  expenditures. All such deposits shall be
                  withdrawn by the Association from the Credit
                  Account under the respective eligible Categories,
Page  17
                  and in the respective equivalent amounts, as
                  shall have been justified by said documents and
                  other evidence.
4.    For each payment made by the Borrower out of the Special
Account, the Borrower shall, at such time as the Association shall
reasonably request, furnish to the Association such documents and
other evidence showing that such payment was made exclusively for
eligible expenditures.
5.    Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 3 of this
Schedule, the Association shall not be required to make further
deposits into the Special Account:
      (a)   if, at any time, the Association shall have determined
that all further withdrawals should be made by the Borrower directly
from the Credit Account in accordance with the provisions of Article
V of the General Conditions and paragraph (a) of Section 2.02 of
this Agreement; or
      (b)   once the total unwithdrawn amount of the Credit
allocated to the eligible Categories less the amount of any
outstanding special commitment entered into by the Association
pursuant to Section 5.02 of the General Conditions with respect to
the Project, shall equal the equivalent of twice the amount of the
Authorized Allocation.
Thereafter, withdrawal from the Credit Account of the remaining
unwithdrawn amount of the Credit allocated to the eligible
Categories shall follow such procedures as the Association shall
specify by notice to the Borrower. Such further withdrawals shall be
made only after and to the extent that the Association shall have
been satisfied that all such amounts remaining on deposit in the
Special Account as of the date of such notice will be utilized in
making payments for eligible expenditures.
6.    (a)   If the Association shall have determined at any time
that any payment out of the Special Account: (i) was made for an
expenditure or in an amount not eligible pursuant to paragraph 2 of
this Schedule; or (ii) was not justified by the evidence furnished
to the Association, the Borrower shall, promptly upon notice from
the Association: (A) provide such additional evidence as the
Association may request; or (B) deposit into the Special Account
(or, if the Association shall so request, refund to the Association)
an amount equal to the amount of such payment or the portion thereof
not so eligible or justified. Unless the Association shall otherwise
agree, no further deposit by the Association into the Special
Account shall be made until the Borrower has provided such evidence
or made such deposit or refund, as the case may be.
      (b)   If the Association shall have determined at any time
that any amount outstanding in the Special Account will not be
required to cover further payments for eligible expenditures, the
Borrower shall, promptly upon notice from the Association, refund to
the Association such outstanding amount.
      (c)   The Borrower may, upon notice to the Association, refund
to the Association all or any portion of the funds on deposit in the
Special Account.
      (d)   Refunds to the Association made pursuant to paragraphs
6 (a), (b) and (c) of this Schedule shall be credited to the Credit
Account for subsequent withdrawal or for cancellation in accordance
with the relevant provisions of this Agreement, including the
General Conditions.
