Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No. 9260
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
REPUBLIC OF YEMEN
FIRST HEALTH PROJECT
(CREDIT 1294-YAR)
DECEMBER 28, 1990
Population and Human Resources Division
Country Department III
Europe, Middle east and North Africa Region
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



EXCIUNGE RATES
Name of Currency                               Yemeni Rial
Year                                      Exchange Rate
Appraisal Year Average                            US$ 1 - YR 4.50
Completion Year Average                          US$ 1 - YR 9.50
ABBREVIATIONS
CPO     -   Centr 1 Planning Organization
GYAR    -   Government of the Yemen Arab Republic
HMI     -   Health Manpower Institute
IDA     -   International Development Association
MOH     -   Ministry of Health
PIU     -   Project Implementation Unit
MAE'    -   Ministry of Agriculture and Fisheries
PHC     -   Primary Health Care
PCR     -   Project Completion Report
FISCAL YEAR
January 1 to December 31



FO  OFFCIAL USE ONLY
THE WORLD BANK
Washington. D.C. 20433
U.S.A.
Ofice of Dfectw-Cewtal
Opetatm Evakiatonn
December 28, 1990
MEMORANDUM TO THE EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS AND THE PRESIDENT
SUBJECT: Project Completion Report: Republic of Yemen
First Health Proiect (Credit 1294-YAR)
Attached, for information, is a copy of a report entitled
"Project Completion Report: Republic of Yemen - First Health Project
(Credit 1294-YAR)" prepared by the Europe, Middle East and North
Africa Regional Office with Part II of the report contributed by the
Borrower. No audit of this project has been made by the Operations
Evaluation Department at this time.
Attachment
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance
of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
REPUBUC OF YEMEN
FIRST HEALTH PROJECT
(CREDIT 1294-YAR)
TABLE OF CONTENTS
Page No.
Preface . ......................................................                                                   i
Evaluation  Summary  ...........................................                                                iii
I. PROJECT REVIEW FROM BANK'S PERSPECTIVE
A.   Project Identity .....................................                                                    1
B.   Project Background ...................................                                                    1
C.   Project Objectives and Description ...................                                                    2
D.   Project Design and Organization ......................                                                   2
E.   Project Implementation ...............................                                                   2
F.   Project Results ......................................                                                   4
G.   Project Sustainability ...............................                                                    5
H.   Bank Performance .....................................                                                    5
I.   Borrower Performance ................................                                                    7
J.   Project Relationship .................................                                                    7
K.   Consulting Services ..................................                                                    8
L.   Project Documentation and Data .......................                                                   8
II.          PROJECT  REVIEW  FROM  BORROWER'S  PERSPECTIVE                               ..........               9
III. STATISTICAL INFORMATION
Related Bank Credits ..........................................                                                 11
Project Timetable .............................................                                                 11
Credit Disbursements ..........................................                                                 12
Project Costs and Financing ...................................                                                 12
Project Results ...............................................                                                 13
Status of Covenants ...........................................                                                 14
Use of Bank Resources .........................................                                                 15
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance
of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



- i -
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
REPUBLIC OF YEMEN
FIRST HEALTH PROJECT (CREDIT 1294-YAR)
PREFACE
1.        This is the Project Completion Report (PCR) for the First
Health Project in the Republic of Yemen (YAR), for which Credit 1294-YAR
in the amount of US$ 10.48 million was approved on September 30, 1982.
The credit was closed on June 30, 1989, three years behind schedule.
Only 75.3 credit was disbursed, and the last disbursement was on
December 31, 1989.
2.        The PCR was prepared by an external consultant of the Human
Resources Division of EMENA, Country Department III. On January 3, 1990,
the Bank sent the Borrower Parts I and III with the request to prepare
Part II by April 3, 1990. On May 30, 1990, an official telefax was
received indicating general agreement with the conclusions of the Project
Completion Report.



- iii -
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
REPUBLIC OF YEMEN
FIRST HEALTH PROJECT
(CREDIT 1294-YAR)
EVALUATION SUMMARY
OBJECTIVES
1.          The main objective of the First Health Project was institution
building to improve the capability of the Ministry of Health and its Health
Manpower Institute to plan, staff and manage YAR's health programs. The basis
for the strategy was training and technical assistance. New administrative
and management units were to be created for this purpose.
2.          Part A would set up the institutional arrangement, including
technical assistance, to strengthen five key areas in MOH headquarters:
planning, finance and administration, supplies management, evaluation and
research, health education, and manpower development and training. Pat B
would provide for construction of warehouse facilities, dormitories for the
Health Manpower Institute (HMI), and procurement of equipment and supplies.
IMPLEMENTATION EXPERIENCE
3.          Health activities had previously been funded by the Bank and IDA
under the umbrella of population issues. Cr. 1294-YAR was the first IDA
effort to fund a comprehensive health project. The Bank staff who appraised
it were senior health professionals, but the limited IDA experience in health
planning and management affected the design of the institution building effort
as well as the planning and management of technical assistance. The MOH
itself lacked experience in planning and managing such a complex and multi-
faceted project. The institution building strategy chosen for this situation
seemed reasonable but its failure is more common than its success. Better
utilization could have been made of GYAR/IDA successful experiences in other
areas for the designing and implementation of this project. As a result, the
implementation of frequently used components (e.g. civil works, fellowships)
was easily carried out, but the innovative components introduced at that time
(e.g. institution building, supplemental salary fund) experienced major
problems.
RESULTS
4.          Despite implementation difficulties mainly with respect to
institution building, the project was moderately successful in achieving some
of its goals. Civil works for the Health Manpower Institute accounted for
nearly 50X of project costs and were completed as planned, albeit with delays
due to procurement problems. A 1986 MOH evaluation of the project found that
"In spite of the problems that surrounded the project in the early phases of
implementation, it is fair to state that overall performance is
satisfactory..." A separate CPO evaluation supported this view; and in a 1984
MOH survey of counterparts and advisors, 80X supported continuation of the
project. IDA supervision reports routinely evaluated progress over time as
good or with moderate problems, although several extansions were needed to the
project's closing date to assure completion of the project's major components.



- iv -
5.          The MOH met its commitments to reorganize the Ministry, to absorb
the new units, and to introduce new policies and procedures vhich improved
management effectiveness. All construction was completed and appropriately
equipped. Technical assistance was recruited in a timely manner. The long-
term fellowship program was particularly effective: of 49 persons trained, 48
are still with MOH.
6.          Despite generally favorable progress and evaluation reports, both
IDA and GYAR considered many aspects of che project to be problematic.
Because the main objective was institution building, it must be concluded that
the project was unsuccessful. The greatest weaknesses were felt to be poor
planning of technical assistance and institution building as well as poor
management of technical assistance by an inexperienced MOH.
(a) Project maragement and evaluation were isolated from MOH
administratively and physically; until new units were
integrated into MOH, they made little contribution to the
program;
(b) The simultaneous introduction of 17 advisors to train 17
counterparts who, despite work programs, were not always
supplied was not very efficient. Their oversupply meant they
were underutilized and underemployed, thereby unnecessarily
increasing project costs;
(c'  Despite an atte-npt at planning at appraisal, ther'i were
several key deficiencies that delayed progress and led to
inefficient use of scarce resources: institution building
was never defined conceptually or operationally; the lack of
a formal evaluation plan to document progress and outcomes
weakened the effectiveness of MOH management and IDA
supervision; only a Lew GYAR policy makers were involved in
planning; extensive revision was made within IDA, leading to
confusion about project purposes and a low degree of
commitment among some MOH managers.
SUSTAINABILITY
7.          Project outcomes are expected to be sustainable, with respect to
the utilization of the project's physical components and employment of staff
trained under the project. The emphasis of the project on institution
building and expansion of training to reduce the need for costly expatriate
technical and professional personnel is consistent with national development
goals as reflected in the current five-year plan. The President of YAR has
declared primary healt.h care and health education issues of national priority,
and development goals for these subjects are prominent in the third Five-Year
plan. Both programs have full support of Parliament. Within MOH there is IIow
strong policy and management commitment to build on the successes of the
Health I project, to reorganize MOH and strengthen the new units in support of
an expanded and decentralized PHC system.
FINDINGS AND tESSONS LEARNED
8.          Further institution-building efforts of the MOH should be expanded
based on the experiences of the Health I project. But to be successful,
institution building must take place within a service framework that makes a
direct contribution to program goals:



- v -
(a)   Technical assistance is still required, but should be
primarily through short-term interventions. More use should
be made of the few available local consultants, especially
in areas requiring cooperation and collaboration with other
GYAR institutions. Use of a contractor for expatriate
consultants requires clearer definition of responsibilities
and stronger management than in the past;
(b)   Long-term fellowships are more useful than short-term
fellowships;
(c)   Primary Health Care should be the core around which
institution building takes place. Project management should
be integrated at the MOH policy level;
(d)   Project planning processes must be broadly based to include
all spheres of government: Parliament, local development
associations, and professional and voluntary associations;
(e)   The MOH requires a major reorganization which would reflEzt
the prominence of primary health care as the core strategy
for the 90s. Consideration should be given to
decentralization of planning, administration, finance and
implementation to the Governorate level. This would require
a formal functional analysis of all levels of organization
and service, including mapping of facilities, personnel,
centers of disease and populations at risk;
(f)   Supplementary salary funds often have serious drawbacks.
Health I was one more case where problems exceeded benefits;
(g)   Lack of an evaluation plan and any evaluative activities may
have compromised project effectiveness.



PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
REPUBLIC OF YEMEN
FIRST HEALTH PROJECT
(CREDIT 1294-YAR)
I. PROJECT REVIEW FROM BANK'S PERSPECTIVE
A. Context of the Project
A.    Project Identity
Name                     First Health Project
Loan Number              CR 1294-YAR
RVP Unit           :    EMENA Region
Country            :    Yemen Arab Republic
Sector             :    Health
Subsector          :    Manpower Training
B.    Project Background
1.          The First Health Project grew out of an identification in 1979 of
a need for health manpower development during the planning for the Fourth
Educat4on Project. At the time, World Bank efforts in YAR had emphasized the
strengthening of Yemeni institutions and manpower capabilities through
increased training of local staff, continuing technical assistance, and, in
the case of education, direct financing. Two particularly important examples
of support for institution building had been the Central Planning Organization
(CPO) and the Ministry of Agriculture and Fisheries (MAF). It should be noted
that this was to be the World Bank's first integrated health project anywhere
in the world. Moreover, the project was implemented under enormously
difficult conditions. YAR was critically short of health manpower, was an
emerging nation whose institutions were new and weak, and where foreign
language capabilities were relatively limited even among managers and
professionals.
2.          Sector DeveloRment Objectives during Project  Dppraisal.  In order
to meet basic health needs in a predominantly rural society with weak
infrastructure, severe poverty, malnutrition and low health status, the GYAR
adopted a national health strategy based on introduction of primary health
care for 20X of the rural population by 1981 and 90X of the population by the
year 2000. It soon became clear that these goals could not be met without
reorganization of MOH and strengthening of its planning, management and
implementation capabilities, by major expansion of the training capacities of
the Health Manpower Institute, and by introduction of an effective logistics



-2-
system.
3.          Policy Context.  The Government's health policy emphasized primary
health care and basic health services. Its manpower development policy called
for increasing independence from oversees training and decreasing use of
expatriate technical, managerial and p;,fessional manpower in development
programs. Government policy emphasized the need to concentrate on developing
the basic institutions, skills and infrrstructure as the prerequisites to
development in all sectors.
C.    Proiect Obiectives and Descriotion
4.          Project.Objectives.  The overall objective was institution
building. The project focused on strengthening the ability of the Ministry of
Health to plan, manage, implement and evaluate its health care system. This
was to be achieved through structural reorganization, formation and
development of new units, introduction of new procedures in established units,
training of staff, development of the Health Manpower Institute through
strengthening of management capabilities, upgrading of teaching staff,
improvement of curricula, introduction of new methodologies, and expanding
training of women.
5.          Proiect Components.  The project consisted of two parts.  Part
would set up the institutional arrangement to strengthen five key areas in MOH
headquarters: (a) comprehensive health planning, (b) finance and
administration, including budgeting and personnel administration, (c) supplies
management, (d) evaluatior. and research, and (e) health education, including
nutrition, and (f) manpower planning and development, including training. The
key inputs were technical assistance through expatriate consultants and an
extensive program for long- and short-term external training. Part B provided
for (a) construct'ng, furnishing at.- equipping a warehouse for drugs, medical
supplies and equipment; (b) dormitories for the HMI and its branches; and (c)
purchase of vehicles for support of MOH management units and HMI.
D.    Project Design and Organization
6.          Institution building as the foundation of the project was clearly
appropriate based on the knowledge available during the pre-appraisal,
appraisal and post-appraisal phases of the project, which took place between
February 1980 and July 1982 (Table 2, Part III). Five months passed between
Board approval and credit effectiveness. The final design of the project was
based on a Government proposal for institution building and manpower
development around a core of primary health care and other service-oriented
demonstration activities as well as specific research activities. Due to
shortages in trained personnel, substantial modifications were made to these
proposals by IDA, and all service-related components were eliminated. In
order to attract and retain key personnel, GYAR and IDA agreed that a
supplemental Salary Fund was required. The planned five-year project was
optimistically reduced to three years, a decision that proved unwise in light
of recognized management deficiencies. The Project Implementation Unit was
established outside the direct administration of MOH, and all new units and
technical advisors were assigned to it. MOH agreed to a technical assistance
team of 17 advisors, all to be introduced within the first three or four
months of project implementation. These decisions had serious management-



- 3 -
related consequences for MOH in the initial three years.
7.          Although IDA devoted considerable resources to project planning,
the management of the planning process with GYAR was carried out with only a
few policy makers in MOH and CPO (Central Planning Organization). Thus, many
key managers within and without MOH lacked full understanding of and
commitment to project objectives.
8.          The Bank's previous experience in funding hplth activities had
been under the umbrella of population projects. This was the Bank's first
effort to fund a comprehensive health project.  The general lack of experience
in health planning and management proved to be a serious deficiency in
designing thv institution-building effort and the technical assistance inputs.
The MOH itself lacked experience in planning and managing a complex and
multifaceted project. Here, it appears, the project relied upon the technical
assisLance team and contractors to define institution building both
conceptually and operationally; however, outsiders alone could not undertake
this task.
9.          To recruit and retain personnel, a supplementary salary fund was
utilized, which would ultimate raise project personnel salaries by 60X to lOOX
in comparison to MOH salaries. Its distribution to some employees associated
with the project but not to others caused friction within MOH. Eligibility
and award level criteria were unclear, and the fund remained controversial to
the end of the project. Furthermore, disbursements to employees were made
irregularly. It was considered that the drawbacks of the fund outweighed its
benefits.
E.    Proiect ImRl_"entation
10.         Critical Variances in Proiect Implementation.  Several factors
contributed to the slow start of project implementation and the need for three
extensions: (a) the arrival of 17 advisors at the MOH offices in Sana'a
virtually at the same time overwhelmed MOH's ability to provide space,
services and facilities and to assign qualified counterparts in a timely
manner; (b) the lack of a technical assistance teem leader and of MOH
management experience in technical assistance made experts unable to identify
their roles, with many (9 of 17) finding little to do and a few having to
delay their work for several months after arrival in YAR; (c) staff trained in
some socialist countries encountered difficulties in communicating with staff
trained in western countries; (d) the salary fund was not implemented for more
than a year, thus making it difficult to hire and retain new staff; the
tendering for and commencement of construction were thus delayed; (e)
unfamiliarity with IDA procedures and regulations for tendering and purchasing
on the part of both the MOH project manager and his project advisor caused
delays, maisunderstandings, and in one case a failure by IDA to reimburse for a
major expenditure; (f) all but three of the advisors left before their
counterparts were fully trained on the job or had returned from external
training; (g) studies which had been agreed to as essential to project
implementation - health manpower and facilities study, and the nutrition
survey - were approved by MOH only after long delays, and even this approval
was later withdrawn; (h) the isolation of the PIU, the new units and the
technical assistance team physically and administratively during the first two
to three years of the project led to development of unrealistic and
unimplemented work plans, which were, furthermore, not related to the



-4
mainstream of the MOH program. As a result of these factors as well as of
changing exchange rates, only 76X of the loan amount, US$7.24 million, was
disbursed by the date the loan finally closed, December 31, 1989. The
remainder, US$2.38 was cancelled.
11.         Underlying the factors described in the above paragraph was the
failure to plan and conceptualize the institution-building process. The
failure might have been avoided if the appraisal mission had drawn upon
experiences of other projects which had bean successful in institution
building, in arnas such as agriculture and fisheries, educational planning,
water and sewerage and in ministries such as CPO. Also, inadequate definition
of the managerial duties of the project manager, project idvisor and MOH
managers with respect to technical assistance led to delays and
indecisiveness. Both the project manager and advisor should have been
adequately trained in IDA procedures. The use of the policy, planning, and
implementation committees made up of eenior MOH and other GYAR managers would
have served to integrate the project in meeting MOH program needs and
nriorities.
12.         The physical components of the project (civil works, equipment,
furniture) were carried out with various delays due to procurement
difficultieb (see below) as well as difficulties in hiring and retaining
trained staff. However, all civil works planned were built; equipment and
furniture were eventually purchased for the Health Manpower Institute as
planned.
13.         Linkages Between Proiect. Sectgm-. and Macro Policy Objectives.
The links berween project objectives and macro objectives for developing basic
institutions, organizational skills, manpower and infrastructure were strong.
The sectoral goals for strengthening planning, management and 'mplementation
capabilities were met with moderate success in qualitative terms and with
great success in the expansion of training capability at HMI, which more than
doubled over a period of six years. The link to primary health care was
indirect, through organizational development. The lack of a direct link to
services around which institution building efforts could be organized
diminished the impact of technical assistance, and hence the impact of the
project on achievement of sectoral service objectives.
14.         Pro1ect Risks.  Of risks identified by the appraisal mission, the
unfamiliarity of MOH with institution building and organizational development
and the limited availability of suitable counterparts proved the most
significant.
15.         Unforeseen Factors Affecting Proiect ImRlementation.  The failure
of the technical assistance team to develop and implement a formal
institution-building scheme might not have been anticipated but should have
been given priority and corrected. Similarly, the failure of the technical
assistance experts to take the lead in developing a project evaluation plan
and process was unexpected.
16.         Actions or Decisions Taken or Not Taken Which Affected Proiect
IZMlementation. Frequent changes in project managers by MOH and of IDA
project officers led to discontinuity in policy, unrealistic expectations, and
consequent delays and misunderstandings in management and supervision. MOII
managers and IDA personnel did not collaborate closely. All IDA communication



-5-
with MOH was in English without Arabic translation. This meant that even
aides-memoire were not widely circulated or understood within GYAR.
F. MaGor Results of the Project
17.         Proiect Objectives.  All of the project objectives with respect to
construction and furnishing and equipping of facilities were met, albeit
behind schedule. Eventually, institution building goals were met with
moderate success, with the notable exception of the evaluation and research
unit which has never functioned effectively. Towards the end of the project,
the MOH carried out an extensive reorganization in order to absorb new units
and to integrate them functionally and administratively. The concept of
health planning and its importance has been recognized by the planning,
follow-up and statistics unit attaining the status of a general directorate
and plans to attach it directly to the office of the Minister of Health.
Although MOH still functions frequently on the basis of crisis management due
to scarcity of resources, its ability to initiate organizational and
programmatic changes has been enhanced. Training capacity has more than
doubled; extensive curriculum revision and introduction of new curricula has
taken p.`ce. Strengthening of staff morale, commitment, and reduction in
turnover is illustrated by the fact that of 49 persons trained abroad, 48 have
remained with MOH, and one has moved to another ministry.
18.         ImDact of Project:  (a) Sectoral Growth and Policy Attainment.
The strengthening of MOH central management and the expansion and
strengthening of HMI have provided the institutional base for the attainment
of sectoral policy goals that were formerly unachievable, particularly the
expansion of primary health care. An atmosphere of openness to change and
innovation has been created within MOH and has led to a serious study of
.decentralization of planning, finance, admiListration, and implementation of
the national PHC strategy. (b) National Manpower and Human Resource
Develooment Policy.  Expansion of HMI training capacity has been consistent
with national policy and has lessened country-wide shortages of Yemeni health
personnel. However, MOH staffing targets have not been met, and absorption of
graduates by MOH needs to improve; apparently most graduates are recruited by
the private sector. (c) Achievement of Health for All by the Year 2000. The
institutional capability to work toward this goal has been enhanced, but
improvement in service delivery or project impact on health behavior of the
population and MOH staff cannot be measured in the absence of baseline and
follow-up studies.
G.    Proiect Sustainabilitv
19.         (a)  Policy Consistency and Support.  The emphasis on institution
building and manpower development has been and will continue to be consistent
with GYAR emphasis on developing and strengthening basic institutions, skills
and infrastructure, and on manpower policies aimed at achieving self-
sufficiency in technical areas. The President has declared primary health
care a national priority and issued instructions to all ministries. He has
issued a similar memorandum with respect to health education, declaring its
importance to achieving health and development goals in the third Five-Year
Plan. Both programs have the full support of Parliament.
20.         (b) Management Commitment.  Throughout implementation, the project
enjoyed strong ministerial support as evidenced by the assignment of senior,



-6-
experienced Directors General as project managers. Although initial confusion
had created some doubts regarding project sustainability, the effectiveness
demonstrated by new units and the greatly strengthened HMI has increased the
support among all senior managers for continued institutional development,
based on the experiences of the Health I project. These managers are
realistic about deficiencies of past efforts and what is required to correct
these. The structural and procedural changes introduced (such as the
fellowiship selection and management system now applied to all sources of
assistance) are perceived as valued and have been institutionalized.
21.     (c) Risk Factors.  Although substantial progress was made under the
Health I project in developing management capabilities, all units remain
understaffed relative to demand for services. Without further organizational
development, gains already made could be diminished as units find themselves
unable to respond to expanding needs. In particular, managers have identified
a need for (i) a thorough and formal functional analysis of organization
structure and process, including analysis of integration of vertical programs
and issues of decentralization of planning, finance, administration and
implementation to the Governorates; (ii) the development of a comprehensive
health management information system and epidemiological surveillance system;
and (iii) restructuring of evaluation and research, an area ir. which the
Health I project notably failed.
H.    Bank Performance
22.         Maior Strengths and Weaknesses.  The major strengths of IDA
performance were identification of institution building as the focus of the
project, regularity of supervision missions (Table 8, part III), flexibility,
and goodwill by Bank staff in attempting to resolve problems, such as credit
extensions. The major weaknesses were: (a) a failure to define institution
building conceptually and operationally or to require the technical assistance
team to do so; (b) introduction of a technical assistance input which
overwhelmed MOH ability to absorb technology and to manage so large a group of
technical assistance experts; (c) a failure to insist upon development of an
evaluation plan based upon measurable objectives; (d) a failure to capitalize
on highly successful examples of cooperation and experience in institution
building in other development areas and a reluctance to use
management/organizational development consultants on supervision missions
(only two such experts were used in nine years from appraisal to completion);
and (f) a lack of continuity in project management, including four changes in
project officers during the nine-year life of the project.
23.         Lessons Learned.  The principal lessons learned with respect to
future project support for MOH and HMI are that institution building efforts
should be continued based on achievements and deficiencies of the Health I
project; that design of a second project design should have at its cort the
primary health care strategy, and institutional and staff development must be
to that end; and that changes in project management should be kept to a
minimum. Other lessons learned with application to Bank projects more
generally, as well as to MOH, are that:
(a)   institution building must be defined conceptually and
operationally in terms of program contributions and
outcomes, levels of development to be achieved,
organizational changes to be realized, and operational



capabilities to be institutionalized ac various stages of
development;
(b)   institution building cannot take place in the abstract or in
isolation from the institution; there must be a defined
program core around which the effort is organized; new units
should be integrated into the organizational structure and
process, and make a direct and measurable contribution to
achievement of organizational objectives;
(c)   reorganizations should be undertaken on the basis of a
functional analysis of structure and process and current and
projected organizational capabilities either in the planning
stage or 9.-rly in project implementation; expected outcomes
should be defined in terms of the institution building plan
and its effectiveness;
(d)   IDA supervision tends to become undermined and its
effectiveness weakened in the absence of a formal evaluation
plan based on measurable objectives and precisely defined
expected outcomes; the general statements of goals and
objectives in Bank documents are not sufficient to guide
implementation or to evaluate progress objectively; and
(e)   in Arabic countries where the knowledge of English is rare,
provisions must be made for translation of documents,
general communications and aides memoire (especially) into
Arabic to ensure full circulation and understanding among
policy makers, managers and implementers; consultants who
are not bilingual may require language training and/or the
support of professional interpreters/ translators.
I.    Borrower Performance
24.         Malor Strengths and Weaknesses.  The major strengths of the
borrower were MOH's strong commitment to organizational change and development
at the policy level; the appointment of senior Directors General who were
strong project managers; a willingness to be self-critical and evaluative; and
a willingness to institutionalize procedures, methods, technologies, and units
which demonstrated success. The major weaknesses in borrower performance were
in the management of the technical assistance and institution building effort,
for which the MOH was ill-prepared and inexperienced; the failure to maintain
close and continuous supervision of construction, due to a lack of sufficient
trained engineering staff; and weak commitment to, understanding of, and
support for evaluation and research components of the project.
25.         Lessons Learned.  The major lesson learned was that technical
assistance inputs must be compatible with the absorptive capacity of the
organization, administratively as well as technologically to ensure effective
and economical utilization of the costly inputs. Other lessons learned were:
(a) a broadly based planning process which includes other Government
ministries which affect implementation, political and community leaders, and
voluntary and professional associations is of utmost importance; (b) there
should be a preference for short-term technical assistance; local consultants,
if available, as well as expatriate consultants should be used, particularly



- 8 -
in development of joint projects with other institutions; (c) the PIU should
be administratively and financially integrated into the Ministry at the policy
level, while at the same time mechanisms are found which assure flexibility in
management, finance and implementation; and (d) long-term fellowships seem
more cost-effective for the development of managers and professionals, short-
term external training programs for technicians, and in-country training for
lower level staff such as statistical clerks and stock room clerks.
J.    Proiect Relationships
26.         Impact of RelationshiRs on Proiect ImRlementation.  Although there
was willingness and cooperation on both sides to solve problems, frequent
changes in IDA project officers and mission membership and MOH project
managers led to occasional misunderstandings as well as poor follow-up of
aides memoire and loss of confidence on both sides, which hindered efficient
implementation. MOH and IDA are partners in development who need to improve
their mutual understanding of their separate but complementary roles.
K.    Consultin2 Services
27.         Role and Effectiveness.  Technical assistance on this project had
several purposes: (a) to help the counterparts organize their units and to
plan and initiate activities; (b) to train the counterparts on the job and
prepare them for external training; and (c) to carry out technical,
professional and managerial assignments requiring the experts' extensive
experience and training, such as designing a new personnel system or a
manpower study. Approximately 80% of al] technical assistance was given in
the first two years of the project. This was a period of poor management and
leadership of the technical assistance team, characterized by low productivity
and Ineffectiveness. Only about half of the 17 advisors performed well in
their assignments and contributed to achieving project objectives; the
remainder had little impact. The team had no formal leader and MOH lacked the
experience to manage technical assistance effectively on its own. IDA was
aware of problems but, for unclear reasons, failed to intervene on a timely
and effective basis. Many of the advisors, all of whom were recruited in the
US, lacked international experience and were academically oriented, with
little in the way of practical organizational development experience. This
fact reflected poorly on the selection procedures of the contractor.
L.    Proiect Documentation and Data
28.   (a)  Staff Aioraisal ReRort.  The staff appraisal report was complete
and adequate for its purposes. It reflected a sound understanding of the
organizational and training deficiencies and needs of MOH and HMI, and
presented the general goals, objectives and work plan clearly. However, in
the absence of an institution building plan and evaluation scheme, it was
incomplete as an implementation volume.
29.   (b) Documentation of Project Progress.  Quarterly reports were required
of each unit but few units complied on a regular basis. The reports prepared
were descriptive rather than analytical. Over time they became increasingly
restricted to reports of progress on construction, disbursements, and
procurement. Work Rlans were developed for each project unit but these were
not organized into a comprehensive, coordinated and prioritized work plan for
the project as a whole. None of these work plans was reported to be



- 9 -
implemented due to resource scarcities. None has survived in either the PIU
or IDA. Only a few advisors (5 of 17) submitted end-of-assignment reports;
none of these dealt with issues of institution building or assessed unit
capabilities to work independently of technical assistance. Recently,
comprehensive work plans were completed by a small number of units in
preparation for planning a second project. These make good assessments of
unit and staff capabilities. The sole formal evaluation (1986) provides a
useful overview of organizational development and documents strengths and
weaknesses of project management and technical assistance.
30.    (c) Procurement and audit experience.  Lack of familiarity with
procurement rules, caused continuous confusion, particularly with respect to
international competitive bidding. The PIU managers were inadequately prepared
to handle IDA procurement. The project budget was separate from the MOH
budget, and local disbursement delays were caused by the inability to draw
from the MOH budget. To accelerate project progress, a US$500,000 revolving
fund was established in 1985, but there were misunderstandings about its
function.
31.   (d) Auditing.  External audit reports were filed regularly and have been
satisfactory. The last report received by the Bank audited the year 1988.
32.   (e) Proiect costs have not been well documented over the years, and they
were not recalculated at any time after appraisal. Supervision reports list
no major problems with cost overruns for civil works. The fact that 76X of
the loan was eventually cancelled indicates, however, that the absorption
capacity of MOH was smaller than initially determined; perhaps a smaller loan
would have put less strain on the fragile institutional capability of MOH.
33.   (f) PCR Pregaration.  Comp'lete access to IDA and PIU files was made
available for PCR development. The cooperation of GYAR in arranging extensive
interviews was outstanding.



- 10 -
11. PROJECT REVIEW FROM BORROWER'S PERSPECTIVE
34.   In response to the Bank's request for a review, Mr. Abbas Zabarah,
Director of IDA-financed projects in the Ministry of Health, sent on May 30,
1990 an official telefax containing the following information:
"Regarding the project completion report on Health I, we agree in
general about the report you sent."
35.   The original telefax, which includes information on issues unrelated to
the PCR, can be found in the project files.



- 11 -
111. STATISTICAL INFORMATION
1.   Related Bank Credits
Credit Title                 Purpose             Year of Approval       Status
n/a
2.   Project Timetable
kItm                 Date Pl ed             Vate Revised         Rate Actual
Identification                                                 February 1980
Preparation                                                    July 1980
Preappraisal                                                   March 1981
Appraisal                                                      September 1981
Loan Negotiations                                              July 13-15, 1982
Board Approval                                                 September 30, 1982
Credit Signature                                               November 3, 1982
Credit Effectiveness                                           January 28, 1983
Credit Completion    December 31, 1985                         June 30, 1989
Credit Closing       June 30, 1986                             June 30, 1989



- 12 -
3.   Credit Dlsbursements
Cumulative Disbursements (SDRs millions)
By End of Fiscal Year   1983   1984   1985   1986   1987   1988   1989  1990
Appraisal Estimate      0.19   2.59   7.87   9.62      -      -      -
Actual                  0.84   1.96   3.49   5.11   5.98   6.90   7.18   7.24
Actual as X of Estimate 442Z    751    44X    531      0     0       0      0
Actual as 1 of Loan        81    20X    361    531    621   711      741    761
Date of Final Disbursement: December 31, 1989; 75.31 of the loan was disbursed;
US$2.38 million were cancelled in 1990.
4.   ProJect XmDlem2ntation
Key Indicators
None were developed for the duration of the project
5.   Proiect Costs and Financing
A. Proiect Costs (US$ millions)
Appraisal Estimate      Revised  Estimate              Actual
Foreign  Local   Total  Foreign  Local   Total  Foreign  Local  Total
Costs   Exchange         Costs  Exchange          Costs  Exchange
Costs                   Costs                    Costs
Construction   4.62   2.15    6.77
Hardware
Technical      2.23    .83    3.06
Assistance
Recurrent       .22   3.05    3.27
Costs
Contin-        1.54   1.21    2.76
gencies
Total          8.61   7.25   15.86
Note: It has not been possible to obtain final cost estimates for this project.



- 13 -
B.   Proiect Financing
Source                      Credit
------                     Agreement
Planned      Revised        Final                Comments
(USS millions) (US$ millions) (US$ milions) X
IDA            10.48                            10.48     66X  S$2.38 cancelled
Domestic        5.38                             5.38     34X
6.   Prolect Results
A. Direct Benefits
No indicators were used. The economic and financial impact of the project
were not assessed.
D. Studies
Purpose as Defined
StudLes              at ARpraisal                Status       Impact of Study
Health Education    Needs assessment        cancelled by MOH         n/a
Nutrition           Needs assessment        cancelled by KOH         n/a
Health Manpower     Needs assessment        cancelled by KOH         n/a



- 14 -
7.  gtatus of Covenants
Deadline for
Covenant             Subject                    CeU                S afmntatus
(a.i)   Maintenance of adequate records        annual              met
(a.ii)  Retention of all records               one year after
closing date
(b)     Auditing obligations                   six months after   met through
end of each year   1988
(c)     Furniture and equipment maintenance   up to date           met
(d)     Preparation of a PCR                   six months after
completion         met



- 15 -
8.    Use o"M%_.BRLsUX&"
Staff Inputs
Type of            Preparation
Mission              Mission        Month/ Days   # of   Staff
Composition    Year              Staff  Days   Status   Trend
Identification ECON/PH/TRN    2/80          12         3      36
Preparation    PH/ECON/MAG/   7/80           13        4      52
IEC
Pre-appraisal  2PH/ARC/IEC        3/81       16        6      96
NUT/ECON
Appraisal        PH/ARC/IEC/    9/81         18        5      90
ECON/TRG
Post-Appraisal TRG                12/81    21          1      21.
Sub-Total                  80       19    315
1. Supervision DC/PH              11/82       9        2      18   1             1
2. Supervision DDC/PH             11/83    16          2      32   1             1
3. Supervision DDC/PH/ECON        12/83       7        3      21   1             1
4. Supervision                    4/84                              4
5. Supervision ECON/PH            11/84     13         2      26   2             1
6. Supervision ECON/2PH           3/85       18        3      54   2              1
7. Supervision PH                 10/85       4        1       7   1             2
8. Supervision PH/ENG/ECON        12/85  1                          2            2
9. Supervision PH/ENG/MAG         7/86   2                          2            2
1O.Supervision DC/2PH/ARC         4/87   13        1                2            2
11.Supervision PH/ENG             12/87  7         2    -           2            2
12.Supervision 2PH                6/88   11        2    1           2            2
13.Supervision 1PH                6/89   5         1    5           1            2
*Abbreviation: ECON 3 Economist; FIN * Financial Analyst; ARC a Architect; IEC = Information, Education and
Coimmunicatfon, POS e Population Specialist; TRN - Training Specialist; MAC a Management Specialist; DC
Division Chief; DDC * Deputy Division Chief; P&E * Planning & Evaluation Specialist; PH a Public Health
Specialist.
**Status: 1. Problem free or minor problems  Trend: 1 a Improving
2. Moderate problems                        2 * Stationary
3. Major problem                           3 a Deteriorating
4. Data missing
c:\wpSO\doc\txt.rey
HA:cbc



