Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY     
Report No. P-3384-YAR
REPORT AND RECOt$MENDATION
OF THE
PRESIDENT OF THE
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
TO THE
EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS
ON A
PROPOSED CREDIT
IN AN AMOUNT EQUIVALENT TO US$10.5 MILLION
TO THE
YEMEN ARAB REPUBLIC
FOR A
HEALTh PROJECT
September 8, 1982
1 his document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.
Lh    document has a restricted distribution and may he used by recipients only in the performance of~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
Calendar 1981                     December 1981
Currency Unit  =  Yemeni rial (YR1)            YR1
$1  =  YRls 4.50 1/               4.50
YRI 1 =  $0.22                      0.22
FISCAL YEAR
July 1 to June 30 (prior to 1980)
July 1 to December 31 (1980)
January 1 to December 31 (from 1981)
ABBREVIATIONS
BHS/PHC     Basic Health Services/Primary Health Care
CPO         Central Planning Organization
FFYP        First Five-Year Plan, 1977-81
HMI         Health Manpower Institute
IDA         International Development Association
LBA         Local Birth Attendant
LDA         Local Development Association
MAF         Ministry of Agriculture and Fisheries
MOH         Ministry of Health
PFU         Planning and Follow-Up Unit
PHCU        Primary Health Care Unit
PHCW        Primary Health Care Worker
PIU         Project Implementation Unit
RHTS        Rural Health Training School
SSF         Salary Supplement Fund
SFYP        Second Five-Year Plan, 1982-86
UNDP        United Nations Development Program
UNICEF      United Nations Children's Fund
WHO         World Health Organization
YAR         Yemen Arab Republic
1/ No par value for the Yemeni rial has yet been declared to the IMF. All
exchange transactions are effected at the Central Bank rate which has
been pegged to the US dollar since February 1973.



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
YEMEN ARAB REPUBLIC
HEALTH PROJECT
CREDIT AND PROJECT SUMMARY
Borrower:              Yemen Arab Republic (YAR)
Amount:                Special Drawing Rights:  9.62 million
(approximately US$10.5 million equivalent)
Terms:                 Standard IDA terms
Project Description:  The proposed project is designed to strengthen and ex-
pand the capability of the Ministry of Health (MOH) to
plan, staff and manage the country's health care system.
The project comprises: (a) technical assistance for key
departments at MOH, including the Health Manpower Insti-
tute (HMI) which has the responsibility of training
middle-level health workers; and (b) infrastructure
development, particularly for manpower training, includ-
ing civil works, equipment and supplies. The proposed
project's main benefits would be (i) the strengthening
of MOH's planning, management and implementation capa-
city, particularly for its basic health services/primary
health care (BHS/PHC) program; and (ii) the development,
through HMI, of health manpower to staff BHS/PHC ser-
vices and facilities. Because of the project's emphasis
on institution-building and manpower training, these
benefits would be of a long-term nature. Project risks
relate to (i) retention of MOH staff; (ii) timely
recruitment of qualified experts; and (iii) possible
continued underutilization of HMI facilities.  These
risks are minimized by the strong Government commitment
to this project, evidenced by specific measures which
the Government has taken. The proposed salary supple-
ments are expected to assist MOH in attracting and
retaining quality staff in the short-run. The Govern-
ment is committed to take the necessary measures to
ensure that MOH's staff salaries would remain competi-
tive, and to improve personnel management practices to
further career development at MOH. The Government has
contracted with a US firm, Western Consortium for the
Health Professions Inc., to assist MOH in recruiting
experts. As for HMI enrollment, the throughput from the
general preparatory schools may continue to be insuffi-
cient and HMI may not be able to enroll sufficient num-
ber of students to utilize its facilities fully. How-
ever, the measures that MOH has taken will enhance HMI's
share from the available pool of graduates.
1'his document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



- ii -
Estimated Cost:                             Local        Foreign        Total
(Project costs are exempted                 ----------- $  ilion-----------
from customs duties and taxes)
A. Technical Assistance Costs
Consultant Services                   0.5           1.9           2.4
Training                              0.3           0.4           0.7
Subtotal                          0.8           2.3            3.1
B.  Infrastructure Costs
Civil Works 1/                        1.6           2.5           4.1
Furniture and Equipment 1/           0.3            1.1           1.4
Educational Material and Supplies  0.2              0.5           0.7
Vehicles 1/                            -            0.5           0.5
Subtotal                          2.1           4.6           6.7
C. Incremental Operating Costs
Salaries and Wages 1/                 2.5            -            2.5
Other Operating Costs 1/              0.6           0.2           0.8
Subtotal                          3.1           0.2            3.3
Project Base Cost                          6.0           7.1          13.1
Physical contingencies                     0.2           0.4           0.6
Price contingencies                        1.0           1.1           2.1
Subtotal                          1.2           1.5           2.7
Total Project Cost                         7.2           8.6          15.8
Financing Plan:
Government 2/                              5.3            -            5.3
IDA Credit                                 1.9           8.6          10.5
Total                                    7.2           8.6          15.8
Estimated IDA Disbursements:  IDA FY   1983         1984      1985     1986
---$ million-----------
Annual                                  0.2       2.6      5.8        1.9
Cumulative                              0.2      2.8       8.6       10.5
Estimated Completion Date:  December 31, 1985
Rate of Return:               Not applicable.
Staff Appraisal Report:       Report No. 3874-YAR, dated September 8, 1982.
1/ Partly financed under a Project Preparation Facility (PPF) advance
totalling $140,000.
2/ UNICEF is expected to contribute about $2.4 million towards the Govern-
ment's share of project costs.



INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION OF THE PRESIDENT OF IDA
TO THE EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS ON A PROPOSED CREDIT
TO THE YEMEN ARAB REPUBLIC FOR
A HEALTH PROJECT
1.        I submit the following report and recommendation on a proposed
development credit to the Yemen Arab Republic (YAR) for Special Drawing
Rights (SDR) 9.62 million (approximately US$10.5 million equivalent), on
standard IDA terms, to help finance a Health project. UNICEF has informed
the YAR Government and IDA of its interest in providing a grant in the amount
of $2.4 million equivalent, towards the financing of this project.
PART I - THE ECONOMY
2.        A basic economic report entitled "Yemen Arab Republic:  Development
of a Traditional Economy," (No. 2057a-YAR), dated December 14, 1978; a
Country Economic Memorandum (No. 2856-YAR), dated October 23, 1980; a report
on manpower development (No. 3181a-YAR), dated March 27, 1981; and a report
on domestic resource mobilization (No. 3554a-YAR), dated January 6, 1982,
have been distributed to the Executive Directors. Country data are attached
in Annex I.
Introduction
3.        Over the last decade YAR has experienced far-reaching changes in
its socioeconomic structure and the material welfare of its citizens. The
republican government which came to power following the 1962 Revolution
succeeded in establishing within a surprisingly short period of time the
foiundations of a modern state.
4.        Political integration and the growing influence of central authori-
ties have provided the basis for rapid development of the public and private
sectors. Under the Three-Year Development Program (1974-76) and the First
Five-Year Plan (1977-81), the foundations of the country's physical and
social infrastructure were laid and expanded, and first attempts were made at
lifting agriculture, the mainstay of the economy, out of its medieval
setting; industrialization was also started, albeit on a small-scale.
5.        Rapid domestic economic growth has been accompanied and enhanced by
the large inflow of remittances and transfers by Yemenis abroad, particularly
workers in Saudi Arabia and the Gulf States. These are estimated to have
increased, on a net basis, from around $40 million in 1969/70 to a level that
has fluctuated around $1 billion on an annual basis between 1978 and 1980.
They have since dropped to close to $790 million in 1981 (on the basis of
tentative estimates by the Central Bank). Largely as a result of these cash
inflows, YAR's real per capita GNP has increased significantly over this
period, reaching an estimated $430 in 1980.



-2-
Major Development Issues
6.        Recent achievements in development, remarkable as they are, should
not detract from the fact that YAR continues to be one of the world's least
developed countries. Productivity levels are still extremely low, especially
in agriculture. Over 90 percent of the population reside in rural areas, a
large part in remote villages without access to modern transportation,
schools, electricity or health services. Agricultural land and water are
scarce and few mineral deposits have been discovered so far.
7.        The shortage of skilled manpower is an overriding constraint to
YAR's development and limits the capacity of the public administration to
manage and implement a growing and increasingly complex development program.
The most critical shortages are in the skilled and semi-skilled occupations.
8.        A special effort is required to mobilize domestic resources for the
financing of fast-growing government expenditures. Although government
revenue rose rapidly during the 1970s, the tax base is still very small.
Most budget revenue is derived from import duties, while other sources of
taxation are still largely undeveloped. So far, budget deficits have been
covered through generous foreign aid. But this assistance could diminish in
relative terms over the longer run, a development which calls for measures to
broaden the tax base, strengthen the tax administration, and devise new
schemes to tap the savings of the private sector. A Bank mission, with IMF
participation, addressed these and related issues, and its report was
discussed with the Government in November 1981. The Government has already
implemented some of the mission's recommendations, but the tougher measures
are likely to take more time to implement.
Government Objectives
9.        As of the early seventies, the country has been trying to develop
human resources and build new institutions, to strengthen the physical and
social infrastructure, to raise the productivity of the commodity-producing
sectors, and to improve the standard of living of the people, giving priority
to their basic needs. The First Plan's targets which were in line with these
objectives have by and large been met except in the agriculture sector where
output has stagnated and actual growth fell considerably below targeted
levels primarily because of the abandonment of marginal rain-fed areas where
income opportunities could not compete with the opportunities of migration.
The production of qat (a mild stimulant) has been on the increase and has
competed for agricultural land. Its production is only partially reflected
in the national accounts.
10.       A draft Second Five-Year Plan (1982-86) was presented to an
International Development Conference in April 1982. The Bank assisted as an
executing agency for a UNDP-financed project by overseeing some inputs used
by the Central Planning Organization for the plan. The plan aims at a
7 percent GDP growth target calling for a total investment of around $6.5
billion (1981 prices) over the plan period. The sectoral distribution of



- 3 -
investment underlies a continued broad-fronted strategy with a relative
emphasis on agriculture and manpower development. The plan's financing
depends heavily on external sources with around 70 percent of investment
expected to be covered by grants and loan disbursements and direct foreign
private investment. The Bank has cautioned the Government against setting
unrealistically ambitious targets and advised it to maintain flexibility in
plan implementation should the level of expected external resources prove
untenable.
Recent Economic Performance
11.       Overall economic performance during the First Plan period (1977-81)
has been satisfactory.  Real GDP grew at around 6 percent p.a.  Investment
effort was impressive averaging around one-third of GNP. Since 1978,
however, a noticeable deceleration in the growth of most economic aggregates
has set in. This has been mainly due to the stabilization in the inflows of
workers' remittances and private transfers. Since imports and consumption
continued to grow, national savings, the balance of payments and the foreign
exchange position deteriorated. Thus, the overall balance of payments which
showed considerable surpluses before 1978, showed an estimated $330 million
deficit in 1981. Reserves which were equivalent to around 20 months of
imports in 1975 were down to around 7 months by end 1981.
12.       The budgetary position has also deteriorated rapidly as of 1978.
The overall deficit has more than quintupled from 1977/78 to 1978/79 and has
remained around the same level (some $500 million) through 1981. The main
reason is the very steep rise in capital expenditures at a time when revenue
increases were moderate.
13.       YAR's commodity exports are still extremely low, reflecting the
country's limited resource endowment and the underdeveloped state of its
economy. Imports, on the other hand, have risen sharply from $194 million in
1973/74 to $1748 million in 1981. This upsurge in import demand reflects the
rapidly rising cash incomes, the convertibility of the Yemeni rial, and the
absence of import restrictions.
14.       Although there are no reliable data on income and consumption
distribution in YAR, there are reasons to believe that the benefits from
recent growth have been widely distributed; migration has led to little
apparent unemployment so far, and strong family ties ensure that many people
benefit from the increase in incomes. Public social expenditures, especially
on education and health, increased substantially, and the associated benefits
accrue directly to an increasing segment of the population.
Capital Flows and External Debt
15.       Since independence, YAR has received large amounts of foreign
assistance. Given the country's low per capita income and its UN classifi-
cation as a "least-developed country," most of the aid was provided in the
form of grants and concessionary loans. Cumulative aid disbursements,



-4-
including grants, came to around $2 billion by the end of 1981. The
principal donors have been Saudi Arabia, Kuwait, United Arab Emirates, Iraq,
USA and West Germany as well as IDA and the Arab development funds.
16.       About one-half of the total assistance given so far was provided as
grants, mostly for food aid, technical assistance and more recently, for
budget support primarily from Saudi Arabia. Food aid has been provided
through the World Food Program and by a number of bilateral donors. A
significant part of official grants has been made available in the form of
technical assistance. Given the extreme shortage of skilled manpower in YAR,
this type of aid has high priority and will be needed by the country for many
years to come. Besides the grants, YAR received sizeable amounts of official
loans and credits. Drawings on these loans have increased in recent years,
reaching $417 million in 1980 and $294 million in 1981. Most of the official
loans and credits have been committed for the financing of specific projects,
with the main emphasis on roads, agriculture, including irrigation, and
utilities. The remaining funds were given for commodity assistance or as
cash loans.
17.       The terms on which YAR has obtained official loan assistance have
been very favorable. Loans from the USSR and the People's Republic of China
are, for the most part, free of interest. Western European countries have
generally charged between 3/4 percent and 2-1/2 percent. Interest rates
charged by Arab countries have varied from 0 to 4 percent. Loan maturities
range from 5-50 years, with a median of 20-30 years.
18.       YAR's external public debt outstanding on December 31, 1981 was
estimated at $1747 million, of which $1094 million was disbursed. IDA
credits accounted for $239 million or about 14 percent-of the total debt
reported. Because of their very favorable terms of borrowing, the debt
service payments amounted to $59 million for 1981, equivalent to around
1.3 percent of gross foreign exchange earnings (including workers'
remittances and private transfers). Service payments are expected to rise
significantly over the next decade.
PART II - WORLD BANK OPERATIONS l/
19.       The proposed credit would be the thirty-second to YAR, bringing
total IDA commitments to $294.8 million.2/ The World Bank strategy in YAR
has been threefold:  to concentrate on developing the basic institutions,
skills and physical infrastructure which are prerequisites for development,
1/ Substantially the same as Part II of the President's Report for the
Fourth Highway credit which was approved by the Executive Directors on
June 17, 1982.
2/ This includes the supplementary credit of $10.3 million for the First
Tihama project, No. 376-1 YAR, and excludes the $7.0 million credit for
the Textile Rehabilitation project, No. 832-YAR of 1978, which was
cancelled at the Government's request in October 1979 (see Annex II).



-5-
to develop production and income in the dominant productive sector, agricul-
ture, and to support the Government in its programs to meet basic needs in
rural and urban areas. To achieve these objectives, IDA has extended ten
credits, totaling $112.4 million, for agriculture, fisheries and rural infra-
structure; twelve credits totaling $114.6 million, for infrastructure includ-
ing highways, ports, water supply and sewerage, power distribution, and urban
development; four credits, totaling $41 million, for education and training;
two credits, totaling $14.3 million, for industry; and a $2.0 million credit
to promote the exploration of the petroleum and geothermal resources to pri-
vate companies. In FY78, an investment of $2.4 million by the International
Finance Corporation was approved to help finance a dairy and juice project.
20.       The main constraint to YAR's social and economic development has
been, and will remain for some time, the critical shortage of manpower,
especially skilled and professional, and the newness and weakness of its
institutions. World Bank strategy in YAR has placed emphasis on helping to
strengthen Yemeni institutions and manpower capabilities, through increased
training of local staff and continued technical assistance, as well as
through direct financing for education. Thus all IDA projects in YAR contain
substantial components for technical assistance towards institution build-
ing. Three particularly important examples of the World Bank's support for
institution building have been in the Central Planning Organization (CPO) and
the Ministry of Agriculture and Fisheries (MAF). In CPO, the World Bank
(through three grants totaling $520,000) and the Kuwait Fund have financed a
team of planning and economic advisers so as to create a planning machinery.
The Bank has been the executing agency for a UNDP-financed project to assist
the CPO in the preparation of the Second Five-Year Plan, 1982-86 (see
paragraph 10). In MAF, the Bank supplies the services of seven advisers
initially financed by UNDP with the Bank as executing agency, and now fi-
nanced jointly by IDA, the EEC Special Action Fund (under the Second Tihama
project) and UNDP. The Agricultural Research Service at Taiz, which has the
responsibility for carrying out applied agricultural research for the country
as a whole, is also financed as part of this institutional support.
21.       YAR's disbursement performance (disbursements as a percentage of
total commitments) lagged somewhat lately largely due to the delay in the
recruitment of staff for project implementation and the shortage of counter-
part funds arising from budgetary constraints. Following a number of imple-
mentation reviews of the whole portfolio, there are indications that perfor-
mance started to improve and implementation of ongoing IDA-assisted projects
is now progressing satisfactorily. YAR's performance now compares favorably
with the regional average and is considerably above that of countries at a
similar level of development. Annex II contains a summary statement of IDA
credits, Bank grants, and IFC investments, as well as notes on the execution
of the ongoing projects, as of March 31, 1982.
22.       Future World Bank operations will concentrate on reinforcing the
institutional progress made in infrastructure, agriculture, rural development
and education and training, and will seek to spread the benefits of develop-
ment more widely throughout YAR. Particular attention will be given to YAR's



- 6 -
ability to implement projects, by ensuring the availability of key staff and
technical assistance needed for successful implementation. An agricultural
credit project and a fifth education project have been appraised; a third
power project, a fifth highway project and a rural development project are in
the preparation stage. Future projects are expected to include water supply
and sewerage, urban and housing, and agricultural development, and may also
include health and energy.
23.       YAR has contributed an increasing portion of local currency financ-
ing and is expected to continue to finance a rising portion of its develop-
ment expenditures in the future.  Nevertheless, it remains among the least-
developed countries and requires special assistance through financing of a
large part of project costs, including local expenditures when necessary. As
in the past, the costs of future projects are expected to be substantially
higher than the amounts that IDA can provide, and we shall continue to co-
operate closely with other donors so as to maximize IDA's catalytic role in
stimulating cofinancing. IDA-supported projects, including this project,
have led to about $325 million equivalent of cofinancing from other aid
donors.
PART III - THE HEALTH SECTOR
Background
24.       Despite the impressive economic achievements in the Yemen Arab
Republic (YAR) during the 1970s, the health status of the population remains
at an extremely low level compared with other developing countries. The
quality of life as indicated by social data leaves much to be desired. Life
expectancy is at a low level of 42 years, while the average for countries in
North Africa and the Middle East is 57 years; the infant mortality rate (190
per 1,000) is as high as in parts of Sub-Saharan Africa; and the crude death
rate (23 per 1,000) is one of the highest in the world. This is not surpris-
ing considering that only 17 percent 1/ of the population has access to safe
water, population per physician is about 11,700 and the rural population,
which comprises about 90 percent of the total, has virtually no access to
health services (paragraph 29).
25.       Information on disease conditions in YAR is scarce.  Available data
indicate that probably the most widespread diseases in YAR are intestinal
parasites and infectious diarrheal diseases. The very incidence of these
diseases is indicative of the low standards of hygiene and sanitation which
are prevalent in the country, aggravated by the unprotected nature of many
water sources. The main causes of infant mortality are diarrheal and
respiratory diseases, measles and whooping cough. In general, diseases of
high endemicity are tuberculosis, malaria, bilharzia and enteritis.
1/ This is a recently updated figure which is not reflected in the attached
Social Indicators Data Sheet (Annex 1).



26.       The problem of malnutrition is greater in terms of both frequency
and severity in YAR than in other countries of the region. About 12 percent
of Yemeni children suffer from moderate to severe protein-calorie malnutri-
tion, and around 50 percent of children under five are anemic. One-third of
all rural mothers also suffer from anemia. One factor contributing to infant
malnutrition is the large-scale migration of the male labor force, which
increased labor force participation by women, particularly in the agricul-
tural sector. This led to a rapid decline in the incidence and duration of
breast-feeding, and an increase in bottle-feeding. Considering the lack of
safe water in rural areas, this entails serious infant health hazards.
27.       The average age at marriage is low, 14 years for women in rural
areas. The average number of children per family is about 6.6 and the crude
birth rate, at an estimated 47 births per 1,000 persons, is higher than the
average for countries in North Africa and the Middle East (41 per 1,000).
Only a minority of Yemeni women are attended by local midwives during child-
birth. For women living in remote areas, childbirth is the most serious
threat to their lives. Maternal mortality is estimated at 10 per 1,000, as
compared to a rate of 1 per 1,000 in Egypt.
23.       The Government recognizes that improved health is fundamental to
overall social and economic development in YAR. Accordingly, one goal of
YAR's First Five-Year Plan 1977-81 (FFYP) was to develop a program which
would meet the basic health care needs of 20 percent of the population before
the end of the plan period, and 90 percent by the year 2000. A basic health
services/primary health care (BHS/PHC) national health program was adopted in
1976 as Ministry of Health (MOH) policy, and is seen as the most effective
and efficient means to achieve these goals. The BHS/PHC program emphasizes
the development of a village-based primary health care system, supported by
higher level facilities/staff and central MOH management and planning per-
sonnel (paragraph 34).
29.       While the Government has worked towards achieving the above goals,
its capacity to provide the needed services is extremely limited. MOH, which
is responsible for the provision of health care services and the formulation
of health policy, is a relatively new institution with a weak planning and
implementation capacity. Training of the middle-level health manpower (e.g.,
nurses and technicians) vital to health care delivery is the responsibility
of MOH's Health Manpower Institute (HMI) which is also an infant institution,
having been established in 1972 (paragraphs 40-44). Accordingly, the com-
bined effects of weak planning and implementation capacity at MOH and the
insufficient production and deployment of health manpower resulted in the
Government being able to provide basic health services to only 5 percent of
the population by 1981, compared to a target of 20 percent.
30.       The Government is also committed to the development of basic infra-
structure projects which have direct impact on the health standard of the YAR
population. Although it has concentrated its efforts during the 1970s along
the perimeter of the Sanaa-Taiz-Hodeidah triangle, its water, road and nutri-
tion activities have also reached the rural areas, with the assistance of



-8-
local efforts through the Local Development Associations (LDA) and external
donors. By 1980, in addition to Government-supported activities, the LDAs
sponsored the construction of about 2,000 water schemes and about 15,000 km
of feeder roads in the rural areas. The water schemes, though not com-
pletely safe, have helped reduce the incidence of waterborne diseases such as
typhus and cholera, while the new road network has increased the rural popu-
lation's access to the available health services. In addition, the Govern-
ment's substantial investments in the agricultural sector have assisted the
Yemeni farmers in improving the yield and introducing new varieties and crops
with higher nutritional contents.
31.       Nonetheless, a number of major problems affecting the delivery of
health care services remain to be solved. These include:
(a) lack of adequate planning, implementation and management capacity
in all areas at MOH, due to inadequately-trained staff and poor
management;
(b) insufficient production of well-trained middle-level health man-
power to staff health-care facilities;
(c) limited funds to finance the recurrent costs of health care which
are expected to increase significantly during the SFYP period
(paragraph 45); and
(d) lack of participation by women in the health care system, both as
patients and as staff.
Government Objectives
32.       YAR's Second Five-Year Plan (SFYP), 1982-1986, reaffirms the Gov-
ernment's commitment to the BHS/PHC program and sets as a target the exten-
sion of this program to 25 percent of the population by 1986. The Govern-
ment's commitment to attaining this objective is evidenced by its allocating
$148 million (2.3 percent of total public and private investment) for health
investment expenditures in the SFYP, with $60 million of this being allocated
to the category of basic health services. The Government has also adopted a
clear and realistic health manpower training plan that calls for a substan-
tial increase in HMI output, from about 200 in 1981/82 to 410 in 1984/85 and
has allocated about $10 million for health manpower training under the SFYP.
In addition, the Government has recently reorganized MOH to provide a suit-
able organizational structure as the groundwork for improving MOH's capacity
in several key areas, including planning of all types, evaluation and
research; an allocation of $16 million for institutional support to the
Ministry of Health is included in the SFYP.
33.       The Government's health development objectives and the strategy for
achieving them appear sound. Its approach is similar to its strategy in
other sectors, where the Government has already made a headstart. The
Government expects that the set objectives for the health sector, of which
the proposed project is a part, would render the Ministry of Health an
effective entity and at par with other technical ministries in YAR.



-9-
Health Care Activities
34.       In the rural areas, the BHS/PHC program is designed to comprise a
network of facilities at three levels; the primary health care unit (PHCU)
or health post (covering about 500 people), headed by a primary health care
worker (PHCW) recruited from the locality and trained at a nearby health
center; the health subcenter or dispensary (covering about 5,000 persons)
which provides maternal and child health care and curative services and is
headed by an assistant nurse or a nurse; and, at the third level, the health
center (covering up to about 50,000 people) which supervises the PHCUs,
provides a more comprehensive service, including treating referral cases, and
is staffed by nurses and medical assistants or doctors. Some of the nurses/
medical assistants in the health centers act as trainers of PHCWs and Local
Birth Attendants (LBAs) and have the added responsibility of supervising
these cadres. The training courses for PHCWs and LBAs last 20 and 16 weeks
respectively. To achieve full coverage of YAR's entire rural population
would require the development and staffing of over 120 BHS/PHC networks. The
5 percent coverage achieved by 1981 was realized by constructing scattered
facilities; no complete network has yet been built.
35.       The Government and several multilateral and bilateral external
donors are implementing a number of direct health care programs in YAR.
Among the ongoing and planned MOH and donor programs are the following: (a)
WHO/MOH programs for the control of endemic diseases including malaria,
tuberculosis, smallpox, bilharzia and diarrheal diseases; (b) construction of
hlealth centers and PHCUs by MOH, Local Development Associations and the Saudi
Arabia and Kuwaiti Governments; (c) joint projects by MOH and various donors
(e.g. USAID, Germany, France, the Netherlands, Sweden, Norway and several
voluntary organizations, such as the various Save the Children organizations)
to train staff and provide equipment for PHCUs; (d) piovision of drugs and
coordination of immunization campaigns, mainly provided by UNICEF; (e) con-
struction and equipping of hospitals by MOH, Saudi Arabia and Kuwait; (f)
staffing of hospitals by France, the USSR, China, Kuwait and Saudi Arabia;
(g) a maternal and child health program funded by the World Food Program to
provide high protein food to pregnant and nursing women as well as pre-school
children; and (h) the bilharzia monitoring and control program funded by IDA
and WHO under the Second Southern Uplands Rural Development credit.
36.       Unfortunately, most external assistance has been provided indepen-
dently with insufficient regard to the benefits that would accrue from better
coordination; the MOH capacity in monitoring the implementation of these
activities remains very weak. The proposed project therefore provides for
strengthening of MOH capability to implement the Government's BHS/PHC
program, as well as to strengthen the impact of foreign aid and coordinate
assistance provided by the numerous external donors.
37.       In addition to the above direct health care activities, the Govern-
ment and a number of donors, including IDA, continue to undertake projects
outside the health sector which have had and will continue to have a bene-
ficial impact on public health. These projects, which are aimed at attacking



- 10 -
the causes of endemic diseases by increasing access to clean water and sani-
tary sewage facilities and by improving nutrition, are in the following sec-
tors: water supply and sewerage, agriculture and fisheries, education and
rural development. All of these sectors are supported by IDA assistance.
The Ministry of Health - Organization and Management
38.       The Ministry of Health is organized into four Directorates-General
at headquarters (Health and Medical Services, Pharmacy and Medical Supplies,
Health Department Affairs, and Finance and Administration) and eleven in the
field--one for each governorate. The head of each Directorate-General
reports to the Undersecretary. In addition, a ministerial directive for the
establishment of a Planning and Follow-Up Unit (PFU) was recently issued in
line with the reorganization of MOH to be implemented under the proposed
project. The PFU, when staffed and operational, will be responsible for
planning, budgeting, statistics and manpower development, and its head will
report to the Undersecretary. Two other new units which form part of the
proposed project would also be established in the Directorate-General of
Health and Medical Services--the Nutrition Unit and the Evaluation and
Research Unit.
39.       The standard of planning and management at MOH is poor.  The Health
Council, a coordinating committee composed of senior managers, rarely meets
and there is limited communication among the different parts of the Ministry.
Planning and budgeting are presently undertaken, if at all, only by ad hoc
committees. Many Directors lack management training. There is no clear
health education strategy and MOH's health education unit has technical and
administrative weaknesses. Systematic personnel policies and procedures,
necessary to motivate and retain quality staff, have yet to be developed.
Poor drug inventory management and unsatisfactory storage facilities have
produced chronic shortages of drugs throughout the health care system,
despite the availability of the drugs themselves.
The Health Manpower Institute
40.       The shortage of trained Yemeni health manpower, particularly middle-
level staff, severely constrains the effective delivery of health services.
Population per nurse in YAR is 4,580 (versus an average of 1,800 in the Middle
East and North Africa) and about one-third of the nurses are expatriates. A
number of health facilities, some of them fully equipped, are non-operational
because of lack of staff and the majority of facilities which are operational
are understaffed. Population per physician is 11,700 versus an average of
4,000 in the region. There is no medical school in YAR, so all doctors are
either expatriates (about 45 percent) or Yemenis trained abroad. However,
the Government of Kuwait has agreed to finance the construction, equipping
and staffing of a medical school at Sanaa University, which could open around
1985.
41.       The HMI is responsible for training middle-level health staff, com-
prising para-medical staff (nurses, medical assistants and midwives) and



- 11 -
health auxiliaries (laboratory assistants, practical nurses, laboratory tech-
nicians, community health nurses, etc.). Currently HMI's links with MOH
headquarters are rather weak but as part of the reorganization of MOH, HMI is
to be placed under the coordination of the Manpower Development Directorate
in the new PFU. HMI now consists of the headquarters in Sanaa and two
branches at Hodeidah and Taiz, which offer seven 3-year courses for para-
medical workers and four 1-year courses for health auxiliaries. The Govern-
ment plans for health manpower training include the eventual establishment of
five new Rural Health Training Schools (RHTS) for training health auxiliaries,
subject to experience gained at the first RHTS, to be constructed at Hajjah
under the proposed project.
42.       Currently, there are no in-service training courses; HMI offers
only pre-service training.  A total of about 200 HMI students graduated in
1981/82. Enrollment in the HMI programs, which reached about 400 students in
1981/82, has averaged only 50 percent of HMI's teaching capacity; this com-
bined with attrition after graduation has led to actual production and place-
ment of trained health manpower falling short of planned levels by over
60 percent. There have been several reasons for these shortfalls in recruit-
ment and placement: lack of boarding facilities at HMI campuses; competition
from the private sector and other Government institutions for the pool of
preparatory (junior high) school graduates; low stipends for students; lack
of a recruitment program; cultural factors inhibiting the recruitment of
female nurse trainees; and the fact that health workers' salaries have not
been competitive with those in the neighboring Arab countries or Yemen's
private sector. These problems have, however, affected all types of tech-
nical and vocational training in YAR.
43.       The Government is addressing some of the above problems.  In
JarLuary 1982 it increased the salaries of its employees, including MOH staff,
by as much as 60-100 percent. Furthermore, HMI and RHTS students will hence-
forth be inducted into the civil service upon enrollment, and will be paid
regular Government salaries, which are competitive with stipends paid to
students at other technical training institutions in YAR. The prospects of
increasing the output of health workers and specifically of achieving the
Government's goal of 410 HMI graduates per annum by 1984/85, therefore, have
been enhanced.
44.       The curricula of HMI courses are not yet fully consistent with the
needs of the BHS/PHC program, and so need to be improved. Furthermore,
Yemeni instructors at HMI lack training and experience, partly because the
expatriate experts at HMI (provided under the WHO/UNDP project which termi-
nates at the end of 1982) have frequently been used for direct teaching of
students rather than as trainers of Yemeni instructors.
Health Finance
45.       Partly in response to the need to finance the implementation of the
in:itial stages of the BHS/PHC program, the Government has in recent years
significantly increased the health sector's share of capital and recurrent



- 12 -
Government expenditures from 2.6 percent in 1977 to 5.2 percent in 1981,
which is still slightly below the average for countries in the region. In
terms of total investments, public and private, the health sector's share is
planned to grow from 1.3 percent under the FFYP to 2.3 percent under the SFYP
(paragraph 32). Currently no user fees are levied--all recurrent costs are
covered by the Government and donor contributions. The Government is
conducting a study to determine the projected recurrent costs of health care
during the SFYP period and how to finance these costs.
IDA Experience and Strategy in the Health Sector
46.       The proposed project would be the first IDA-assisted health project
in YAR. However, as noted above (paragraph 37), several IDA-assisted proj-
ects in other sectors have had beneficial impacts on public health.  These
include four urban water supply and sewerage projects, three agricultural/
rural development projects with water supply components in the Southern
Uplands and the Tihama, two projects with nutrition components and two rural
develoment projects which finance molluscicides and other equipment to combat
bilharzia and malaria in the Southern Uplands. The proposed project is
intended to address two of the key problems facing the health sector in YAR:
the poor planning, implementation and management capacity at MOH and the
severe shortage of well-trained health manpower to staff health care facili-
ties. The project would support the Government's well-designed BHS/PHC pro-
gram for extending quality basic health services to the populace as rapidly
as possible.
PART IV - THE PROJECT
Background
47.       The proposed project continues IDA's lending strategy of supporting
the institutional development of key Ministries in YAR, in this case the
Ministry of Health (MOH). The project was prepared by the YAR Government
with assistance of consultants and two IDA preparation assistance missions of
January and April 1981. It was appraised in September/October 1981 with
post-appraisal in February 1982. Negotiations were held in Washington from
July 13 to 15 1982. The YAR delegation was headed by His Excellency
Dr. Mohammed Al-Kabab, Minister of Health, and included representatives of
MOH and the Central Planning Organization. A Staff Appraisal Report entitled
"Yemen Arab Republic - Health Project" (No. 3874-YAR) dated September 8, 1982
is being distributed separately to the Executive Directors. The main
features of the credit and the project are summarized in the Credit and
Project Summary and in Annex III. A map of the project sites is attached.
Project Objectives and Description
48.       The proposed project is primarily designed to strengthen and expand
the capability of MOH to plan, staff and manage the country's health care
system. The project would be implemented over the 1983-85 period and would
comprise two components: (i) technical assistance for key departments at
MOH, including the Health Manpower Institute (HMI) which has the responsi-
bility for training middle level health workers (paragraphs 40-44); and (ii)
infrastructure development, particularly at HMI.



- 13 -
49.       The proposed project thus has a dual focus:  middle-level health
manpower training, and institution-building at MOH. The development of YAR's
BHS/PHC program is constrained by the lack of qualified middle-level health
workers. As detailed above (paragraphs 34-37), several external donors have
been active in constructing health facilities (at all levels), of which a
significant number remains unutilized or underutilized due to the lack of
staff. A UNDP/WHO project which assisted in the establishment and operation
of HMI terminates in late 1982; it provides the basis upon which the proposed
IDA-assisted project would build. As for institution-building, this deserves
priority because MOH,due to poor management practices and a lack of adequately
trained staff, lacks the capacity to effectively plan and manage its own
direct health care delivery activities and those of external donors (para-
graphs 38-39).  If the fivefold increase in the coverage of the BHS/PHC
program (from 5 percent of the population in 1981 to 25 percent in 1986)
envisaged in the Second Five-Year Plan is to be achieved, and if further
extension of basic health services is to be undertaken after 1986, MOH
urgently needs technical assistance in several key areas. This assistance
needs to comprise both experts' services and training of Yemeni staff.
Technical Assistance
50.       The proposed project provides for (i) 23 man-years of consultancy
services to establish the Project Implementation Unit (PIU) and strengthen
five key areas in MOH headquarters, namely planning, health education, nutri-
ticin, evaluation and research, and supplies management; and (ii) 3 man-years
of consultancy services to assist HMI in developing curricula and training of
Yemeni staff in project evaluation and management, and health/hospital manage-
ment. Moreover, the project provides for 150 man-months and 252 man-months
of overseas fellowships for the training of senior MOH-and HMI staff respec-
tively. The consultants will be responsible for on-the-job training of
Yerneni staff and for assisting with executive functions while those staff are
away on fellowship training.
lnfrastructure Development
51.       This component of the proposed project aims at (i) modestly expand-
ing HMI facilities to allow for the training of the anticipated increase in
enrollments (paragraph 43); and (ii) strengthening MOH operational capa-
bi:Lity by constructing and equipping a medical supplies warehouse and main-
tenance workshop at Hodeidah as well as the provision of vehicles, equipment
and furniture for the newly established departments/units, including
the PIU, at MOH. It is anticipated that HMI graduates would be about doubled
by 1984/85 when they are estimated to reach about 400. To absorb the pro-
jected increasing enrollment, the project provides for the construction,
equaipping and furnishing of additional teaching and boarding facilities for
HM'1 branches at Hodeidah and Taiz and the establishment of a Rural Health
Training School (RHTS) at Hajjah. The RHTS would be the first of five
sclhools the Government plans to establish in rural Yemen. About half of the
additional enrollment that would benefit from the proposed project are
females since the project provides for the construction of three boarding
facilities for female students in Hodeidah, Hajjah and Taiz.



- 14 -
Project Implementation
52.       The proposed project would be implemented over a period of three
years and MOH would be the implementing agency for all components. MOH has
established a Project Implementation Unit (PIU) to assist in implementing the
project. The PIU will be responsible for the day-to-day work of all aspects
of project implementation. It is headed by a Yemeni Project Manager, who
will be assisted by an internationally recruited project advisor and a senior
engineer. In executing its work, the PIU will liaise with the heads of the
respective MOH departments and the Director of HMI. Technical assistance
funds allocated for the preparation of a health project under the IDA-
assisted Third Education Project (Cr. 915-YAR) and an advance of up to
$140,000 from IDA's Project Preparation Facility (PPF) are financing start-up
costs of the PIU so that it can carry out activities required prior to credit
effectiveness. Such activities include the recruitment of required experts,
and the preparation of final engineering designs and bidding documents for
civil works. Moreover, to ensure that a qualified and experienced project
manager and an architect/engineer are selected for the PIU, the project would
provide funds ($145,000) to pay part of the salaries of these two Yemeni
staff on a phased basis over three years. The Government has agreed to take
by July 31, 1983 the necessary steps to incorporate its share of these sala-
ries into the MOH recurrent budget for 1984 and 1985 (Development Credit
Agreement, Section 3.05).
53.       Despite the recent salary increases announced for all levels of YAR
Government employees, the salaries are not yet sufficient to attract and/or
retain experienced and qualified Yemeni staff necessary for a successful
implementation of the proposed project, and consequently for the strengthen-
ing of MOH. In addition, since the project would finance about 17 interna-
tionally recruited technical advisors for MOH headquarters and HMI, it is
important that the necessary number of qualified Yemeni staff be retained.
Therefore, the proposed project would finance a Salary Supplement Fund (SSF)
that would allow the MOH to grant each qualified key staff, a monthly salary
supplement amounting to about 34 percent of the basic salary. The total
amount, including contingencies, to be allocated to the SSF under the pro-
posed credit is about $130,000 to be paid into the SSF on a phased basis over
three years. A list of the 20 key Yemeni staff eligible for the salary
supplement has been provided by the Government. An initial payment of $50,000
into an SSF account would be made by IDA upon credit effectiveness. Sub-
sequent payments into the account would be made semi-annually on the basis of
actual expenditures. The Government has agreed to take the necessary steps
by July 31, 1983 to incorporate progressively the salary supplement expendi-
tures into the recurrent expenditure budget of MOH, commencing fiscal year
1984 and leading to full budgetary provisions of such expenditures for fiscal
year 1986 (Development Credit Agreement, Sections 3.04, 3.05 and 4.03).
Staffing, Training and Technical Assistance
54.       A total of 33.5 man-years of overseas fellowships would be provided
for senior MOH and HMI staff. Those chosen for fellowship support would be



- 15 -
required to work for at least six months with the appropriate expert upon the
coTnpletion of their overseas training (Development Credit Agreement, Section
3.06) and would also be subject to MOH's policy of bonding staff members for
five years following their return. Overseas fellowships will be of at most
12 months duration, allowing time for returnees to overlap with the appro-
priate expert for at least six months. In addition, the proposed project
provides for in-service training to MOH and HMI staff in a number of areas.
Training courses and seminars of two to four weeks' duration would be pro-
vided to about 1,850 field staff. The project also provides for the National
Institute for Public Administration to design a series of one-month in-service
couirses in administration and management for MOH staff in charge of clinics,
hospitals and district health offices. About 120 Yemeni staff would benefit
t          from this program.
55.       The MOH and HMI staff would be substantially strengthened through a
technical assistance/training program encompassing about 26 man-years of con-
sultancy services for key areas in the health sector (nutrition, health
education, training, supply management and planning), or for specialized
mannagement assistance. Such consultancy assistance would be particularly
important to MOH and HMI while Yemeni staff are being trained abroad. The
Government has contracted on terms and conditions satisfactory to IDA, a US
firm, Western Consortium, to assist in the recruitment of the individual
consultants and experts. It is also in the process of appointing key staff
important to project implementation in advance of credit effectiveness, in
which case they would be financed during that period from the proceeds of
funds allocated for health-related expenditures under the technical assis-
tance component of IDA Credit 915-YAR (Third Education Project). The quali-
fications and terms and conditions of employment of all consultants and
experts shall be satisfactory to IDA (Development Credit Agreement, Section
3.03).
Monitoring and Evaluation
56.       An Evaluation and Research unit would be established at MOH under
the project. This unit would develop an adequate system to help standardize
the monitoring and evaluation reports. It would ensure that satisfactory
reporting of activities, including detailed implementation arrangements,
would be prepared by the PIU with copies forwarded to IDA. The PIU would
prepare periodic reports on the activities under the project, and the Govern-
ment will ensure that the PIU is maintained with organization and staffing
satisfactory to IDA (Development Credit Agreement, Section 3.02).
Project Costs and Financing
57.       The total cost of the project, including contingencies, is esti-
mated at $15.8 million equivalent, of which about 54 percent, or $8.6 million
equivalent, represents the foreign exchange component. These estimates,
adjusted to reflect the second quarter of 1982 prices, are based on prices
quoted in contracts of a similar nature. The project is exempt from taxes
and duties. Physical contingencies of 10 percent for civil works, furniture
and equipment were assumed in developing the cost estimates. Price contin-
gencies for the period 1982-85 have been applied to civil works, equipment,



- 16 -
furniture and technical assistance, at rates varying between 7 and 11 percent
per annum for items locally procured and between 7.5 and 8 percent per annum
for items subject to foreign procurement. Price contingencies, of which
53 percent are in foreign exchange, amount to about 15 percent of the base
cost plus physical contingencies. Total contingencies, of which 56 percent
are in foreign exchange, amount to about 21 percent of the base cost. The
base cost related to the project components are $6.7 million for development
costs (civil works, equipment, vehicles, and material); $3.1 million for
technical assistance; and $3.3 million for incremental operating costs (para-
graph 60). Experts' services of about 26 manyears have been costed at about
$7,100 and $9,000 per man-month for long- and short-term experts respectively,
including travel, subsistence, and overhead. All experts would be hired by
the Government with the assistance of a recruiting firm. The 33.5 man-years
of overseas fellowships have been costed at an average of about $14,600 per
man-year, including travel and subsistence.
58.       The establishment of the PIU and of new units/departments at MOH
implies an increase in the number of Yemenis employed by MOH and a rise in
salaries to attract and retain qualified Yemeni staff. The incremental
operating costs of about $3.8 million, including contingencies, provide for
the salaries of the additional staff and operating costs for additional
vehicles, equipment and facilities included in the project.
59.       An advance from IDA's Project Preparation Facility (PPF), of
$140,000, made to cover start-up expenditures of the PIU prior to the credit
effectiveness, would be financed under this credit.
60.       The proposed IDA credit of SDRs 9.62 million (approximately $10.5
million equivalent) would finance the full foreign exchange requirements of
the project ($8.6 million), the local costs of the phased contribution to the
SSF and two PIU staff members' salaries, the technical assistance component,
and other minor supplies. The credit would represent about 66 percent of
total project costs. The balance of project costs, $5.3 million, would be
met by the Government, with UNICEF expected to contribute about $2.4 million
towards the Government share.
Procurement
61.       All civil works contracts, costing about $5.2 million in total,
would be awarded on the basis of international competitive bidding (ICB) in
accordance with IDA 'Guidelines for Procurement.' Contracts for equipment
and furniture ($1.8 million), supplies and materials ($0.9 million), and
vehicles ($0.7 million), would be grouped, whenever feasible, to attract
international competitive bidding. Small goods contracts estimated at below
$50,000 each which cannot be grouped appropriately, and not exceeding
$200,000 in total, would be awarded on the basis of local competitive bidding
following procedures which are satisfactory to IDA and do not exclude foreign
bidders. Miscellaneous goods contracts which are estimated at less than
$10,000 each and not exceeding $200,000 in total, would be procured under
normal Government procedures which are satisfactory to IDA, and which include



- 17 -
solicitation of quotations from at least three manufacturers or suppliers. A
15 percent preference margin, or the prevailing custom duty, whichever is
lower, would be extended to local manufacturers in evaluating bids under ICB.
Disbursement
62.       The proceeds of the proposed credit, to be disbursed over a three
and one-half year period, would finance (a) civil works, 60 percent of expen-
ditures; (b) equipment, furniture, vehicles and materials, 100 percent of
foreign expenditures, 100 percent of local expenditures (ex-factory) for
locally manufactured items and 70 percent of local expenditures for items
procured locally (off-the-shelf); (c) consultants' services, studies and
training, 100 percent of expenditures; (d) salaries of two eligible PIU staff
and SSF expenditures for key Yemeni project staff, 100 percent of payments
made for the first, 50 percent for the second, and 30 percent for the third
twielve-month periods following the Effective Date; and (e) project prepara-
tion advance, amount due.
Accounting and Audit
63.       Separate project accounts and appropriate accounting procedures
would be established within the PIU to record all project-related financial
transactions. The Government has appointed a qualified and experienced
accountant to the PIU. Moreover, independent auditors, acceptable to IDA,
would audit these accounts and submit their reports to IDA through the PIU
not later than six months after the close of each fiscal year (Development
Credit Agreement, Section 4.01).
Project Benefits and Risks
64.,      The project has two main benefits.  First, it would strengthen
MOH's capacity in planning, management and program implementation, particu-
larly for the BHS/PHC program. It would enhance MOH's ability to coordinate
and monitor the Government's health policies and programs including those of
local authorities and those financed by various multilateral and bilateral
donors and thereby improve their effectiveness. Secondly, it would develop,
through HMI, health manpower required to staff the long-term expansion of the
BHS/PHC services and facilities. The project would help increase the annual
output of graduates of HMI from 210 at present to 410 by 1985, and reorient
HMI's training for nurses and midwives to the specific needs of the BHS/PHC
program. As a consequence, MOH's health care delivery in general and its
BHS/PHC program in particular, would be improved in the long term.
65.       Project risks relate to (i) retention of MOH staff; (ii) timely
recruitment of qualified experts; and (iii) possible continued underutiliza-
tion of HMI facilities. These risks are minimized by the strong Government
commitment to this project. The proposed salary supplements are expected to
assist MOH in attracting and retaining quality staff in the short-run. The
Government is committed to taking the necessary measures to ensure that MOH's
staff salaries would remain competitive, and that personnel management prac-
tices would improve to further career development at MOH. With regard to the



- 18 -
recruitment of experts, the Government has contracted with a US firm, Western
Consortium, to assist MOH in recruiting experts. As for HMI utilization,
enrollment in preparatory schools (which feed HMI and other institutions) is
projected to more than double between 1981 and 1986, with the number of
graduates increasing accordingly. In addition, HMI's chances of obtaining
enrollees from the pool of preparatory school graduates would be enhanced by
the measures which MOH has taken (paragraph 43).
PART V - LEGAL INSTRUMENTS AND AUTHORITY
66.       The draft Development Credit Agreement between the Yemen Arab
Republic and the Association and the recommendation of the Committee provided
for in Article V, Section l(d) of the Association's Articles of Agreement are
being distributed to the Executive Directors separately.
67.       Features of the Development Credit Agreement of special interest
are referred to in Section III of Annex III.
68.       I am satisfied that the proposed credit would comply with the
Articles of Agreement of the Association.
PART VI - RECOMMENDATION
69.       I recommend that the Executive Directors approve the proposed
credit.
A. W. Clausen
President
By Syed Kirmani
Attachments
September 8, 1982
Washington, D.C.



- 19 -
ANNEX I
Page 1 of 5
TABLE 3A
YEMEN, ARAB REPUBLIC OF - SOCIAL INDICATORS DATA SHEET
YEMEN, ARAB REPUBLIC OF                REFERENCE GROUPS (WEIGHTED AVE7GES
AREA (THOUSAND SQ. KM.)                                                                    - MOST RECENT ESTIMATE)-a
TOTAL             195.0                                                       MIDDLE INCOME
AGRICULTURAL       97.9                                 HOST RECENT           NORTH AFRICA &            MIDDLE INCOME
1960  /b    1970 /b ESTIMATE /b           MIDDLE EAST        LATIN AMERICA & CARIBBEAN
GNP PER CAPITA (US$)                      ..          ..      430.0                1253.6                   1902.0
ENERGY CONSUMPTION PER CAPITA
(KILOGRAMS OF ODAL EQUIVALENT)        6.7         15.3      57.6                  713.5                   1259.9
POPIULATION AND VITAL STATISTICS
POPULATION, MID-YEAR (THOUSANDS) 4163.0         5258.0    7039.0/c
URBAN POPULATION (PERCENT OF TOTAL) 3.4            6.0      10.3                   47.3                     65.7
9                    POPULATION PROJECTIONS
POPULATION IN YEAR 2000 (MILLIONS)                        11.0
STATIONARY POPULATION (MILLIONS)                          26.4
YEAR STATIONARY POPULATION IS REACHED                   2130
POPULATION DENS ITY
PER SQ. KM.                        21.3         27.0      35.0                  35.8                     35.2
PER SQ. KM. AGRICULTURAL LAND      43.1         54.0      69.8                 420.9                      92.5
POPULATION AGE STRUCTURE (PERCENT)
0-14 YRS.                          42.4         43.0      45.4                  44.3                      39.7
15-64 YRS.                          54.4        53.9       51.5                  52.4                     56.1
65 YES. AND ABOVE                    3.2          3.1       3.2                   3.3                      4.2
POPULATION GROWTH RATE (PERCENT)
TOTAL                               2.3          2.3       2.9                   2.8                      2.4
URBAN                               8.1          8.0       8.3                   4.6                      3.8
CRUDE BIRTH RATE (PER THOUSAND)      49.7         48.8      46.7                  41.2                     31.4
CRUDE DEATH RATE (PER THOUSAND)      28.9         26.4      22.8                  12.2                      8.4
GROSS REPRODUCTION RATE               3.4          3.3       3.2                   2.9                      2.1
FAMILY PLANNING
ACCEPTORS, ANNUAL (THOUSANDS)
USERS (PERCENT OF MARRIED WOMEN)    ..            ..
POOD AND NUTRITION
INDEX OF FOOD PRODUCTION
PER CAPITA (1969-71-100)          119.0        84.0       92.0                 100.4                    110.0
PER CAPITA SUPPLY OF
CALORIES (PERCENT OF
REQUIREMENTS)                    90.3        75.9       81.8/d               108.5                    108.4
PROTEINS (GRAMS PER DAY)           68.9        55.4       59.57d                71.9                     66.0
OF WHICH ANIMAL AND PULSE        17.6         13.7      19.O07                18.0                     34.0
CHILD (AGES 1-4) MORTALITY RATE      60.4           ..      50.0                  15.1                      5.6
HEALTH
LIFE EXPECTANCY AT BIRTH (YEARS)    35.8         38.5       42.2                  56.9                     64.2
INFANT MORTALITY RATE
(PER THOUSAND)                      211.6           ..     190.0                 104.3                     64.2
ACCESS TO SAFE WATER (PERCENT OF
POPULATION)
TOTAL                                ..          4.0       4.Ole                59.1                     65.6
URBAN                                ..        45.0       30.0oT                83.1                     78.9
RURAL                                ..          2.0       2.07e                39.8                     43.9
ACCESS TO EXCRETA DISPOSAL (PERCENT
OF POPULATION)
TOTAL                                ..           ..        ..                    ..                     59.3
URBAN                                ..           ..        ..                    ..                     75.3
RURAL                                ..           ..        ..                    ..                     30.0
POPULATION PER PHYSICIAN         130093.8     24373.9   11673.3                 4015.5                   1617.3
POPULAT1ON PER NURSING PERSON          ..           ..    4582.7                1802.2                   1063.5
POPULATION PER HOSPITAL BED
TOTAL                            2726.3           ..    1699.8                 641.7                    477.4
URBAN                                ..           ..     226.1                 538.3                    679.8
RURAL                                ..           ..    6752.9                2403.3                   1903.4
ADMISSIONS PER HOSPITAL BED            ..           ..      14.3                  25.5                     27.3
HOUSING
AVERAGE SIZE OF HOUSEHOLD
TOTAL                                ..           ..       5.0/
URBAN                                ..           ..       4.2
RURAL                                ..           ..       6.07                    ...
AVERAGE NUMBER OF PERSONS PER ROOM
TOTAL                                ..           ..       2.8/
URBAN                                ..           ..
RURAL                                ..           ..       3.1
ACCESS TO ELECTRICITY (PERCENT
OF DWELLINGS)
TOTAL                                ..           ..
URBAN                                ..           ..      56.5/f..
RURAL                                ..           ..        ..



- 20 -
ANNEX I
Page 2 of 5
TABLE 3A
YEMEN  ARAB1 REPUBLIC OF - SOCIAL INDICATORS DATA SHEET
YEMEN, ARAB REPUBLIC                  REFERENCE GROUPS (WEIGHTED AVERA9ES
- MDST RECENT ESTIMATE)-a
MIDDLE INCOME
MOST RECENT           NORTH AFRICA &            MIDDLE INCOME
1960  /b    1970 /b ESTIMATE /b           NORTH EAST          LATIN AMERICA & CARIBBEAN
EDUCATION
ADJUSTED ENROLLMENT RATIOS
PRIMARY:     TOTAL                   8.0         12.0      34.1                   88.7                     104.3
MALE                  14.0         23.0       59.4                 104.5                     106.4
FEMALE                 0.4          2.0        8.6                  72.0                     103.3
SECONDARY:   TOTAL                   0.1          1.0       4.0                   39.7                      41.3
MALE                    ..          2.0        7.0                  49.3                      40.4
FEMALE                  ..          0.1        1.1                  29.0                      41.8
VOCATIONAL ENROL. (X OF SECONDARY)   2.7/h          2.0        4.6/S                10.1                      33.7
PUPIL-TEACHER RATIO
PRIMARY                             44.7/h       51.1      38.7/S                 34.1                      29.9
SECONDARY                           22.97h       24.0      1B.57                  23.7                      16.7
ADULT LITERACY RATE (PERCENT)          2/5/h       10.0/i    21.0                   43.3                      79.1
CONSUMPTION
PASSENGER CARS PER THOUSAND
POPULATION                            ..           ..         ..                  17.8                      42.8
RADIO RECEIVERS PER THOUSAND
POPULATION                            ..         15.3ZI    15.4                  131.3                    270.5
TV RECEIVERS PER THOUSAND
POPULATION                            ..           ..       0.1                   44.1                     107.7
NEWSPAPER ("DAILY GENERAL
INTEREST") CIRCULATION PER
THOUSAND POPULATION                     ..         10.7         ..                  31.5                      63.7
CINEMA ANNUAL ATTENDANCE PER CAPITA   .,             .,       O.9/d                  1.7                       2.7
LABOR FORCE
TOTAL LABOR FORCE (THOUSANDS)       1263.3       1481.0    1753.3
FEMALE (PERCENT)                     3.7          4.5       5.4                   10.6                     24.4
AGRICULTURE (PERCENT)               83.0         79.0      75.0                   42.4                      31.3
INDUSTRY (PERCENT)                   7.0          9.0      11.0                   27.8                     23.9
PARTICIPATION RATE (PERCENT)
TOTAL                                 30.3         28.2      24.9                   26.0                      33.6
MALE                                  57.7         55.0       49.8                  46.2                      50.4
FEMALE                                 2.3          2.5       2.5                    5.6     -                16.8
ECONOMIC DEPENDENCY RATIO                1.5          1.6        1.9                   1.9                       1.3
INCOME DISTRIBUTION
PERCENT OF PRIVATE INCOME
RECEIVED BY
HIGHEST 5 PERCENT OF HOUSEHOLDS
HIGHEST 20 PERCENT OF HOUSEHOLDS    ..
LOWEST 20 PERCENT OF HOUSEHOLDS       ..
LOWEST 40 PERCENT OF HOUSEHOLDS       ..
POVERTY TARGET GROUPS
ESTIMATED ABSOLUTE POVERTY INCOME
LEVEL (US$ PER CAPITA)
URBAN                                 ..           ..     366.0                  279.2
RURAL                                 ..           ..         ..                 178.6                    184.1
ESTIMATED RELATIVE POVERTY INCOME
LEVEL (US$ PER CAPITA)
URBAN                                 ..           ..         ..                 403.6                    518.0
RURAL                                 ..           ..     157.0                  285.6                    371.1
ESTIMATED POPULATION BELOW ABSOLUTE
POVERTY INCOME LEVEL (PERCENT)
URBAN                                 ..           ..         ..                  22.1
RURAL                                 ..           ..         ,,                  30.9
Not available
Not applicable.
NOTES
/a   The group averages for each indicator are population-weighted arithmetic means.  Coverage of countries
among the indicators depends on availability of data end is not uniform.
/b   Unless otherwise noted, data for 1960 refer to any year between 1959 and 1961; for 1970, between 1969
and 1971; and for Most Recent Estimate, between 1978 and 1980.
/c   Resident population, includes migrant workers abroad for less than a year.
/d   1977; /e 1976; /f In the major cities of Sanaa, Taiz and Hodaidah; /A 1975; /h 1962; /i 1973; L/  1972.
May, 1982



- 21 -                                                                                 ANNEX I
DEFIISTIONS Of SOCLidI.  DtCT08                                                                        Pagte    3   of   5
.Not.o;  Aith-uh  the data urn d-a   f ro  nrcO g -erly judg.d 'he flat outbaO"itain  tad I.IiOhl. it should  L-o b. oted shot Eby sp  et he inte-
.ationaly cmpr bleios  of the lnk of  Ltaedaoiad d.S.fteitio                        and coopt. 0.d by diff.r.., ..-tnri-  .inoleie   th. date.  Th. data  I.enoe
tiniso,  -sful co descrb. ord.rs of agitad., Ldinans tas,and ch tent.re  caroO   sin   di!ffeesenen  .aWe  ......ri...
The rfres,gras.  -e  (1) the  -a  -o.at   group of th.                        --o cunr  en  (Z) . .-Iar   IIO.P  riSh  ....tStt hig.,..          hetns nilo bs. b   outry group
ofthe shist counr  (.e-.Pt fan             11tgb inca.f    Oil  E.port.ars  gr-ta  Wfter   'iddis  ae. Idd       M.tb hfi-t  nd 5(iddb  East" L. oe.-  benAue of ars
eurn-uliarl  ffaite..   n  he rsoroo gop deC. the  -rong.. I.  ppulation estgbgsd  rIth-tin  Nban  for .-th ioltcatu- ned  h-   oly e
.s)riy  o  n. toonis  I  ngroup has d.ta for that indicator .  Sio.. 015 cvrg of   --attIns a g tin  indic-to. d.p.nd. on the ansiobtiit- di d.ta
ond i  notosifrm.  autin   se  he  -unrise"t  re lating s o          of -non 4  ....nto  so ather   The.-  -negss are only ueful to csa lb.th  Yalta di
asidicator at a tit        h. as..  he cate  and efrtousas
ASIA  (,tto -an  qo. k.)                                                                              Poultin mr  oeitul hod - total   -rh.., add niem               -Pplain(ttl
Totl - Totni.L1o-en  opieo   ad a-s  an  .Inan    Lasr    979 d.ta,                                   urban,an _ra) dliOsSd by their rep.oti- . oueh    of hosital beSt
aalenrl- fEgtstn  ofS egiut-rs  ar.. od tsmporanly or psr.sstly                                 -allabln  in   niio  -od pIi-.n goeri  0  epnialnd hospital and r-
foncrps                    k-tuos   eretadIklrhes gardens or no ii. foLlio; 1979 data.                             P=llttls   etoe     gnpt lsarse bliAhNbete  permnonly ntsfs
hy at lestus  phy.1-ccuo .     Oalatnnpoiigpriscp.11y c.eto
Gilt PEA CAPITA (IS)   GOPa Par cuPita  .oietsu   corss  naln  Pricen. C.1-                              d_lcr   r  not idanl             A..Id.Sa)   rpltu   h. -.ons. tuelds hnalth
culat4 by ss  covra              lbahd an nrld honk Atll.. (1978460 haniaf  19bO.                     andissdL.i             ddne , u  p.nr..snnlIy stuffed by a phy.irtaa  (but bya
170. adL1980  -sd ia  ussisas..                                                                                             nur.. si&vIfo,si.JA htft.ofe  inpt "es                 Ion
datian  end p-onid. a 11il4o rang. of seolcal feoilitiss.  For .t.t..
1N5RGY10 CWSiDTII   PEt1 ChItTOI - fAnoa-   ocomoo         f -os-ila    oorgY          I (coo     l      Oto l.purpse  ur.ban h-splt.l. includs W80. pni_cip.1/gsownn1 h-sPIt.I
and lgio                        -Irla.  uua  go and hyaro-. ccc lene and  aetees   lec-               adorlhaspitla.Iccul or runsl:~  h,npitols no  adico   -nd  --terltY
cricliy   In tiogna..of coa  t~alvlont pr capia; 196, 1970  and 199cons                            pcaladhsiasae  olddol   n    totol.
(roe hosplitls divided by the Osbsr of bIas..
POPULAOTION AND 0VI00. STATiSTiCS
TtlPrltn.Mid-Y... (th-osade) - ho ofJuly 1; 1960. 1970. aod 1960                        00us1501
data.                                                                                             AesO-    la   f  saaod  nrsn - e I o.need  - total -r .  n  rrl
Urban Pnltlot (roaof tal)I  - Stito   f                      LaYa   to.. toa  Pupu1ltt-;              Ah..cs.hod c-oio. of s"& gru   f  tigdaaw    nr  lirng   uorer
diff=rotdef.iioln   of aphe asa -           ,   ffo   corsltyo  Oats                                and tel  su,   sealsi.  A I.aad.e  Ie ldgar any or  n  not he, Oiudedd is
aat,g oooortss  196. 1970  . 55  19O dat-                                                            the household foesuitos uIoa
P ultoPo Lnt`ne                                                                          lA-,.r osrI of MI-$t Par root-  io.l  ura.as   un)-asig    s
Iotlto   nrs  1200  - Core-t posalopro)stlids aro hoand an 1980                           he   fpOsn   s   on   nal  ra.sd rerL occpie  oc-nanl-
toa    u aiod   by  g  and no  sd thei sL.       liyan -rlit    otn di    ige    specIoL,y.  D-asLlna   snln    o-prnn    trcun    n
Proleotian P-r- -to  for snilty  Iea   opia   ftrs  sasaau-cucpldprs
log .lifa sepeoany  ts bitch  iuosn    ith coaster's per c.pit. intos..   L  E1. Accssto   l c rtct                          dprcnto   dlio ) ..     total. urhan  and ruri 
Iss.  e  fnl  (ifs eept-,eu      . stoiloinig  -c 77)5 yae. ;:The paru                    C--cst onI danlio    ott  elah tniiy In lining qu-tr-a   nostg
s.tsns foe fenLility rats alan have three.. I  ..t...asofn   dcLus 10                            oftta. Att. and eue  Onlis   sn.ttsy
forllly  nunin   to   oos  lanel  asd pas  family Vlaning yromos
Eah  ocnI.O han  -sn          n   on  of the.  nidscointua    f  ortlloy                     EDUCATION
And fetillit  tosed. foe promo:tion purPoa.                                                    alss    noiettto
Sot-i-roy p.puL.tlos - Il. .t.ti-eay  Popuiltion  thers  In co gronhoLCtn                             !:77r  school -.1 F toL. al    n   fuessl  - irs-  coa. ane add fenal
th. birthl Inns is sqnl cc the daab h         t  andals  th, age stuttuca  me                         oolet  falas t chfiary  Ine ... I                     ecstgs       f r-peotin
flt -onat.  ThL.Ia is hcbi-d on.I       ts . innWtlIrat.dc icd  t                             prmeny nchal-gag  populatlon.; --rmaI, l-lades child-u  asd 6-il
Chs  -sPOce.-     l-s  of -uit -tat        .d i. Isrocolo   rt . oo  ...h Osn..too LtoYro  b.. adjussa for dLff.re - Istath. of prta-rynocatLon; fo
of osenceylcst itsf n-Ico ry . tusainr   puPoilaiuuousoast                                    c ct ien       ht uni-sr-1 elocuion, e-.o1-u  any ecse  100 parnest
setlete   co th  isos    Ithe prootd-   oa-  telaic    f the.oulto                           ainnsu   popln art ibn1  or aoon  the offycu1 -choo  ags.
In  heyosr 2000, and the nat  of  ndlin  of ftotillty .t.c  rplae                                  etn.ysa           -toctal. sale add (GenIe - Couop-ns_hbv-;sotar
to-  sta-lone                  L.uanu   Inelce.     The Ysn  vAn  sn-ti-nay pooalnInie    oea.nttoa,o  teahe  cosining lstrocto. for PupiLo
si_Oe l 0111 b   ...cisd.                                                                           usull  of12no17 tee. of ogs:crepnano   osss  r   esa
Po so. An.-   dl-,.aI popalatios pse sq--r  kiloatn     (ill in--ora  -oOctua   noln   (scn   facna                                                   - Vccatuialos I-t-ti...
to-1 are; 1960. 1970 and 1979 IstO.                                                               iclude OnchaiC.,. industial , or hnbs  rPIsra     hbh op.-a. iaddsPn
Per  -o  An.            Ircatr ." an   - Comue   saosfoe aticlurlad                                 entlyors dspantasn   of  -anodar  ItLd atiansd..
cely; 1960, 197  an'd 1979 da- si-tabentio - Pnt.rr.Y and  ssota - Tot.i  -td-tt enoledi
yoeclatoon dAM Strootar. (psotant) - Childr.n  (0-14  ...to. ),         hIng.-ag S.(15-               plisery an   sodor nI.-I  diolded by  -owr   of ....er  10. n.eh
ho Y yon). and retId  (65  s-n  and onr) an p-ro-tgna of sid-ysurpup.-                              c-er-pedint Iol.1
aII s; lObO.60  1970. tad 1960  dat.                                                              uduIt Lteacy este (nooo....    Lit--t  adults(.l labI   to   madad _trnct
PonoaI.Ms Gronh Mlt.  Irret  -  oa    - tno  n st  rates of tota  md4-                                asapotstg   of total edolI populatio   aeS 1) yer  ad anon.
yer  oplato   for  9195-0   I90 ,ad 197-0.
Ponulacio  GrI,-,i  aIn (Par__t) -urost- tonua 1or.i rteu.  of uobao popo-                       CONSSIOTIOC
lotions for 1950-60. 1960-70. al1970-Si.                                                         P.....taer Core (por tionand p.p"olnLun)   P. snogee ca-            osrsefc
C,ud. girth Rat  (-n itoceaod) -  oo-l 11. bilohe per  h..usad of 0d10-ya                             cats n     n   les  the  sigit persons; nuI=s  aabladce..  hsurse  andd
population; 1960. 1970. and 1980 data.                                                              siita    rhics.::h
Crd  -Tah Ra,. (Orr thueand) - Annual denths per thu..... d    f 5td-15aC                       tdin twoeoo-   (-  thousand ....aun   -Al  tys-t rclor  for radio
populoln;190   190. and 1980 d"te.                                                                  hroedca..... I;S.-r.L PubLi  par thoono4 of1 ypoplio;ecus 
Grs   anootio   an      -  rrs   ubro   aghtss  ana              ill bea  It                         "IenslaoIoesi   onr.eadI   eeswe   eit     o   f0d
h,rocmlcerluto   period Ifsh                             P,aree    yr..nt aae-spot If; ca-          easO . In  f1fect; data fur  ra-   years sey not be -osa-blo  I.n.a
olin rae;uuly _fn-yn  snrgaodicg  in 1960. 1970, sna 1960.                                          sotootieenihd  lonig
Fracily PI-oId.  A- ocrtr.I., ua  dthusalet- OO-uO  oo- ofatstr                                     TV 5.-civor  (p.r theueand norl-ion,-rcre i-srt  for broad... 
ofbirth-control1 4-nites oOdds   upIcas of  ainnol tily pi.u.teg progrem.                           a...eruI poabli. per rhausasd ~porulati;  -tc  desunoen    TY  unrr
_am    Ply C lea tn   - Ua-r   (--ost3 o4f nrtdns        -iI ..r.eetagnf  -orind                     Ln coastolse ad is y roas   ltengi.-etlon uf OTV eats  -a  in  ffet.
.a  f  hilid-bh..ring  s .     -6   er)  b   n  bIrth-cosIol.  d-vt... to .san   loltu   (r- tho.,a    orls                                           -Shov  ths  -vesne  lir-
4ollotondvted Pni1rly to -r Idrding   e-srl oan.  It Lu  -anodar-d
FODD AND 9)U711T01                                                                                      t  be  daIly" if LI  pp.sro  at leastIfoc   Is .rk
lide  ofroodProuctin m   Cuita 1199-7.100) -  ud.n of P.r capitalo.              l          Co -noas-lAttsnda4.   crCrt   etOo       ne  as sh. o-h-  of
pvlci o    Ll fon Lndte.         Prnloti   enldee san  end fee   ndtolt  sol  duin   ohs osr   alodo    dmsts  t   re-t-o
Ino  olndoy..n bsega.  CN~adlnl-sos   pnt.ey goals (e.g. angaoen                                ad sebils  -itO..
le-Asa   cf hsgr)     ich are aible  sal cntasatiot   ( . I.ffes und
inn are enlll)    enga.ts crdut1on of  -h couter is based onLABOR FORCE
I-tLoeia   -re   rooe   prco         ighta; 1961S. IS970.ad1900 dons.                          TotaL Labor foce(taoen             - Ocouoi-ally ac spesn.-  IncLuding
P., caricu  uroy   f calorie  Iparent of -sguirssoso   - Ohepstitd from                               .rd   ooe ndf       oalya   u   ocai -tou0Yino, stdentt. etc..
nourgsy eunn  ofat fool soppli. ins  ys bla  10 county Par, c-pita. coeing ppulotis of all  s.n.   Dofiitlians  inL.                                            osconre    r
per day.  A-ra.lleI   ..P*ls  comris  doesetic  pOodeola. Import  1...                              tot c ...srahl; 1960. 1970 and 1990 dat.
seon, nedchasges 10 etuok.  M5., eapples. sandal  Aila  fnd. sends.                            Ps-I. (osroat) - Psos  norfrcs  paostogo  ofttl  ao   or
Iuolte   aa  in sand pr--ing.-aad Iean   in 4.letbihtios.  tequre-                          Atniioultar   (Pertan) - Labor fac  is7 faoie. f-rsety. hunting and
anne  sro   stias     byFAOI bone.d on physiologIcal  sd. fun .o.aI anti-                      fishing so P pro sog   of tota.L labor fort; 1960. 1970 sadd 1980 data.
hit  an -helt   co idSrignvrstltmsaus  body nooghtsI, ag                                    Iduty -     nnet  - l.eha  foron Ln                 -    -tg.cnorota. nnaf.ct..i..
and an  dItribatoo   of  populatio. on  al1Iout     10 paroa_   for  eo_        a                     and 1slesitmy  arternod sw  ee percetage uf tote1 labr fo....
hece=lted level; 1961-65. 1970 slad 1977 data                                                         19 60. 1970 tedy10   ae
net  uppy o  fol pr dy.   st  uppy o  toolin.dfisa   an abP.   i-Pu                      p-tilv-it' roos  or  oPotda   col                a.ed(taelbr  oca
q.oIr---.t for sil c.tanIas  -sseliehd by USDA prov.ide for eAnimo                                   e oae   of   sa . alean  teal, population  of 011 0555 respoctiOny;
elosss   of 6h0 goa Of  utal.  poenPer deyso  20rs  of aetanl and                                   1960. 1970. and 1990 data,  Tesa aro based us 0110. yartLipftia  rn...
poles pnloof  hIch 10 grs. should he anil Proen                       hea.  ta-rfeto    gssoarnueo   h  PretIon ,-ad lung                                              i Its.ree.  A
aol.oroloeo  tae  hese of 75 aros  ad  otal p-t..i  and 23 gees  of                           feeetifrn   or  (n   otoalsnrc
nI_eL proiea  no.u. te.  for the essl.l.-proos-by P610 in the Third                             fon-   l  bnno.cyjto - 0.t   di pouainud 15 an,d h5 cod o
WrIld food SorVs; 19615-6.1970 ndl?e.nocstal lbor foros.-
Pen osnaP rotei             ft.. ro   elo  an  p          la-rtein  supply of food ds
rit.s  foot anil  and pulse.i  gr`s  pet day, L961-65. 197 aoId 977   os                       IKOCCIIST&LBUTlff
Child loan  1-4l Death Oats  nor tiho_asd) -   -nua  deto hPer th=onod  l                           Pcetaofrisnncan(both in cash ean  kla) - hec.1-d bc rihest
ags  rou   1-  psre.no  hildn 4in ibsa    00.  (oriaso  Usyslopin  coon- d                     pIopeot. richet 1  p--tc  rorat2  p--ces  add                         40retc    -oren
tiE La.   e drirs   (ro  lIfe  tables; 1960. 1070 a'M  19 soa,                                     o f tonh-- a.
IEAITH                                                                                            tPoVEaTYo Tf.GlT GROUIPS
tohnt   960, 1970 and 190dt.adiol   olteortd  rOth colaalcoi
lofon  rorulic  Coo     lhn ...oenno(- -o.-a  ds-h. of icioo-   -tdaroc  Yea                 Eacu-t.dfoalsrnec  Icons.1.            Loon  'Ti) tPe  -plc(-)   rotoa         Ius
Xc.... to Saf  Aste  loerceot of  Looico  -  oa,  rn. aou roral   N (-                                ccecoa           dqat  01st pic  essen..tial con-foodlrsql -rnt   IS OOt
eropepe(Otal,1 urine, sodcrl  nith t...... bl:tce:c-                  n                      fforanbI.
netesuyly  (ooldsetsatu  sfrac    Isos  ru       dratlbt  Inotscte                       ulae  tlslePoso    to   L.onl 1101 Poy Capital -othara-d turl.L
oatsrnothas cht irn pOO dcte  horshlto   prns  an    cotr  esll(                           R.rdi r-luit- pov-ty  Looms Isnl Iu on-third of aeaoP"0  apita
loncicorotadpoec  lacated   ootrthen 200note   its a  osenyanlo   otchadu t                                                 . to  hLo-r Cost of lionosi In  canasa.
cesnId  access s.old LlPy  ta   b   neooeo   sneo  cOo I.Xth.ll                                -0  .o... I-       - eso t o  Ppoulecie  totnan   ou) o1ha are 'ubslut
doOth  ec   pend      - lp-otriont  psrc of the  . cay     f-ohotS  che                   p-00.
Nusber.    sou    oca,ura,an   uo (servd ly ...c...ut                  " .i.p. Ia
yernnngseui  hei  repocivepoplatun . -tnrei  dispnsl n.y lucloda
andcoss-ate  bynaer-ars  nstas o  cs ue  f pit poinies and ale-
PopolatIon oe  Phy-ici ad- Popuoota  dinil    by oof-  ofprciigpoy.i-                                                                       01000I1  add i-sILa  Dat Ito ialo-
damn -I qaliio   Iro  o -olica  nobol at___orIty I.Lensi                                            .                               Ecooni  OOalyi. and Peoetoehn fe
P ...sI!no rE   vi- si--  Person - PopulatIo   dli"dd by  obro   ccoe06Sy16
sal.an  f     ,ne   rudaenrs. ai-tan   turn. plaoitL. I..... and



- 22 -                            ANNEX I
Page 4 of 5
ECONOMIC INDICATORS
NATIONAL ACCOUNTS (us$ Mln)                              ANNUAL RATE OF GROWTH
1981 1/                 (Constant Price)
(Current Prices)           FY1977-81      FY1981
GNP at Market Prices 2/               3228                     6            1
GDP at Market Prices                  2877                     6            5
Gross Domestic Investments            1284                    26            3
Gross National Savings                 518                     1         -23
Exports of GNFS                        251                    24           30
Imports of GNFS                      2141                    13             6
OUPUT, LABOR FORCE AND PRODUCTIVITY (1981)
Value Added    Resident Labor Force        V.A. Per Worker
US$ Mln       %    Thousand         X       us$ 
Agriculture              820      32         830        69          988       47
Industry                206        8          54         5         3815      182
Services               1492       60         318        26         4691      224
TOTAL/AVERAGE      2518      100        1202       100        2095      100
GOVERNMENT FINANCE (YRls Mln)
% of GNP
1977/78  1978/79   1979/80   1981        1981
Current Receipts                1985      2161      2755     3277       22
Current Expenditure             1250      1847      2531     3253       22
Current Deficit/Surplus          735       314       224       24        -
Capital Expenditure             1167      2618      2492     3807       26
External Assistance, Net         691      1904       976     2437       17
MONEY CREDIT AND PRICES
---YRls Million Outstanding End Period---
Money Supply                    5081      6273      7350      7868
Bank Credit to Govt. Sector   -990        -609      1199     4039
Bank Credit to Non-Govt.
Sector                        1555     2199      2830      3234
------Percentages or Index Numbers------
Money Supply at % of GNP          53        53        52        54
Annual Percentage Increase in:
Money Supply                  45        23        17        7
Consumer Price Index          17        22       11         7
1/  Provisional.  The fiscal year was from July 1 to June 30 through
1979/80, then it was changed to coincide with the calendar year as of
January 1981.
2/ Not including private transfers by Yemeni migrants whose duration of
stay abroad exceeds one year.



- 23 -
ANNEX I
Page 5 of 5
BALANCE OF PAYMENTS (us$ Mln)
1977/78   1978/79   1979/80   1981
Exports of Goods, fob              7         3        7        10
Imports of Goods, cif           -801    -1250    -1546    -1748
Trade Balance                   -794    -1247    -1543    -1738
r
Non Factor Services, net         -69      -36        --       -51
Transfers and Factor
Income, net                   1039      833      1098       788
Balance on Current Account       176     -450      -445    -1001
M & LT Capital, net              176      416       229       542
Official Grants                100      312       112       337
Official Loans, net 1/          76      104       117       205
Disbursements               (81)    (114)    (124)    (262)
Repayments                   (-5)    (-10)      (-7)    (-57)
Other Capital (including
errors and ommissions), net   73        162       184       128
Increase in Reserves (-)       -425      -128        32       331
Gross Reserves (end FY)         1085     1213      1180       850
EXTERNAL PUBLIC DEBT (1981)                        MERCHANDISE EXPORTS
(Average 1976/77-1979/80)
T'otal Outstanding            1747         Cotton and Cotton Products        14
cf which disbursed            1094         Coffee                             9
Hides and Skins                  12
DEBT SERVICE RATIO (1981) 2/               Biscuits and Confectionary        15
All Other Commodities            50
%                                              100
T'otal Outstanding and
Disbursed                    1.3
/  Based on figures published in the Central Bank's financial statistical
bulletins. These figures differ slightly from debt information
compiled on a loan-by-loan basis.
2/ Workers' remittances and transfers included in denominator.
EM1DB
ALugust 1982



- 24 -                             ANNEX II
Page 1 of 7
THE STATUS OF BANK GROUP OPERATIONS IN THE YEMEN ARAB REPUBLIC
(As of March 31, 1982 - $ Million)
A. Statement of IDA Credits 1/
Amount
Credit                                                           (less cancellations)
Number Year       Borrower               Purpose                   IDA   Undisbursed
Five credits fully disbursed 2/                       55.2
465   1975 Yemen Arab Republic Industrial Estate                  2.3        0.4
545   1975 Yemen Arab Republic Rural Development                 10.0        0.04
559   1975 Yemen Arab Republic Hodeidah Water Supply              8.1        0.01
611   1976 Yemen Arab Republic Education II                       8.0        0.8
636   1976 Yemen Arab Republic Grain Storage and Processing    5.2           1.5
662   1976 Yemen Arab Republic Livestock Credit and Processing 5.0           0.8
670   1977 Yemen Arab Republic Sanaa Water Supply II             10.0        3.1
714   1977 Yemen Arab Republic Port Development                   6.0        1.1
794   1978 Yemen Arab Republic Highways III                      11.5        5.4
805   1978 Yemen Arab Republic Tihama Agriculture II             10.5        4.6
837   1978 Yemen Arab Republic Power Distribution                10.0        4.8
880   1979 Yemen Arab Republic Tihama Agriculture III            15.0       14.2
915   1979 Yemen Arab Republic Education III                     10.0        6.9
950   1979 Yemen Arab Republic Ibb and Dhamar Water Supply    12.0          11.9
978   1980 Yemen Arab Republic Tihama Agriculture IV              5.5        5.4
1025   1980 Yemen Arab Republic Fisheries Development             17.0       16.5
1067   1980 Yemen Arab Republic Rural Development                 17.0 4/   16.6 5/
1102   1981 Yemen Arab Republic Regional Elect.                   12.0       12.0
1122   1981 Yemen Arab Republic Industrial Dev.                   12.0       12.0
1202   1982 Yemen Arab Republic Sanaa Urban Development           15.0       15.0
1203   1982 Yemen Arab Republic Education IV                      12.0       12.0
1216 3/1982 Yemen Arab Republic Petroleum and Geothermal Exp.   2.0           2.0
Total                                                271.3 1/  147.1
of which has been repaid
Total now held by IDA                                271.3
Total undisbursed                                              147.1
1/ Excluding $7 million credit for textile rehabilitation project which was
cancelled on October 31, 1979, and a $6 million credit for the
Agricultural Research and Development project and a $7 million credit for
the Fourth Highway project which were approved by the Executive Directors
on June 8 and 17, 1982, respectively.
2/ Including supplementary credit of $10.3 million of April 9, 1976.
3/ Not yet effective.
4/ Beginning with Credit 1067-YAR, credits have been denominated in Special
Drawing Rights. The dollar amounts shown in this column represent the
dollar equivalents at the time of credit negotiations.
5/ Beginning with Credit 1067-YAR, the dollar amounts shown in this column
represent the dollar equivalents as of the date of this status report
(i.e., March 31, 1982).



- 25 -
ANNEX II
Page 2 of 7
B.   Statement of IFC Investments
(Amount in US$ millions)
Year             Obligor            Type of Business    Loan   Equity   Total
1978    Yemen Dairy and Juice       Dairy Products        2.4       -       2.4
Industries Co. Ltd.
Total Gross Commitments                           2.4              2.4
less cancellations, terminations,
repayments, sales                                 -               _
Total commitments now held by IFC                 2.4              2.4
Fully disbursed
C. Other Bank Group Activities
Two Bank grants of $200,000 each, and one of $120,000 were
approved in July 1971, September 1973 and January 1976 to help finance,
jointly with the Kuwait Fund for Arab Economic Development, a team of
planning and economic advisors and later a management/administrative
expert. The Kuwait Fund provided grants of about $200,000, $300,000 and
5425,000.
D., Projects in Execution 1/
Cr. No. 465-YAR - Industrial Estate Project; $2.3 million Credit of March 4,
1974; Effectiveness Date: November 17, 1974; Closing Date: December 31,
1982.
Key staff for the Industrial Estate Development Authority have
been appointed and advisory services for operations and civil engineering
are being secured. Feasibility studies for the planned industrial estates
irn Taiz and Hodeidah are underway.
1/ These notes are designed to inform the Executive Directors regarding
the progress of projects in execution and in particular, to report any
problems which are being encountered and the action being taken to
remedy them. They should be read in this sense, and with understanding
that they do not purport to present a balanced evaulation of strengths
and weaknesses in project execution.



- 26 -
ANNEX II
Page 3 of 7
Cr. No. 545-YAR - Southern Uplands Rural Development Project; $10.0 million
Credit of May 13, 1975; Effectiveness Date: January 17, 1976; Closing Date:
March 31, 1982.
The project is completed and the final withdrawal application,
which will exhaust the credit proceeds, is being processed. The problem of
cost escalation of rural water scheme was largely solved by elimination of
the rural roads component, which became possible as a result of its
financing by the local communities.
Cr. No. 559-YAR - Hodeidah Water Supply and Sewerage Project; $8.1 million
Credit of June 20, 1975; Effectiveness Date: December 29, 1975; Closing
Date: June 30, 1982.
Construction has been substantially completed. Transfer of the
existing water system assets from the Port Authority has been effected.
Training of operational personnel for the sewerage collection and treatment
element has not proceeded apace.
Cr. No. 611-YAR - Second Education Project; $8.0 million Credit of
February 13, 1976; Effectiveness Date: May 10, 1976; Closing Date:
June 30, 1982.
All construction and equipping of project institutions is com-
plete and all twelve institutions are operational. Technical assistance
and staffing needs have been met by the appointment of expatriates from
Arab countries. Progress in the utilization of the Basic Training Scheme
is relatively slow.
Cr. No. 636-YAR - Grain Storage and Processing Project; $5.2 million Credit
of June 7, 1976; Effectiveness Date: October 26, 1976; Closing Date:
December 31, 1982.
Construction of all project components has been completed; the
grain silo at Hodeidah and the bakeries at Sana'a and Taiz are in opera-
tion.  Cost overruns on construction are being met by the Saudi Fund for
Development and the YAR Government. The training program is underway and
technical assistance is also continuing.
Cr. No. 662-YAR - Livestock Credit and Processing Project; $5.0 million
Credit of November 15, 1976; Effectiveness Date: August 22, 1977; Closing
Date: June 30, 1984.
Following escalation in the costs of this project, and a number of
other implementation problems, the project scope was reduced without chang-
ing the project concept. One dairy farm has been completed, but the live-
stock fattening farm is facing some problems in the supply of irrigation
water. The other physical works, although progressing reasonably well at



- 27 -
ANNEX II
Page 4 of 7
present, are about one year behind schedule. The slaughterhouses, meat
markets, and animal health components, in particular, are achieving their
aims, and the livestock fattening, dairy production, and village develop-
ment components will provide valuable research information and development
experience for the livestock sector in YAR. The vacant positions in the
project implementation unit have been or are being filled.
Cr. No. 670-YAR - Sana'a Second Water Supply and Sewerage Project; $10.0
miLlion Credit of January 14, 1977; Effectiveness Date: May 16, 1977;
Closing Date: December 31, 1982.
All contracts for supply of materials and construction of the
water and sewerage systems have been awarded. Implementation of the
sewerage component of the project is behind schedule because of the delayed
award of the civil works contract and changed location of treatment plant
site. The closing date has recently been extended to allow time for
acquisition of the treatment plant site.
Cr. No. 714-YAR - Port Development Project; $6.0 million Credit of June 8,
1977; Effectiveness Date: March 17, 1978; Closing Date: March 31, 1983
Civil works construction was completed in December 1981, about
eleven months behind appraisal schedule. Final estimation of the cost of
the works is in progress to determine final project cost including
conitractors claims.
Cr. No. 794-YAR - Third Highway Project; $11.5 million Credit of May 31,
l978; Effectiveness Date:  April 4, 1979; Closing Date:  March 31, 1983
Implementation is about two years behind schedule due to initial
delays in arranging cofinancing and subsequent difficulties in locating a
suitable training organization. Most of the equipment provided under the
project has arrived and construction contracts for three of the five
weighing stations have been signed. Implementation of a comprehensive
training program has started. Preparation studies for the overlay program
have been completed or are underway.
Cr. No. 805-YAR - Second Tihama Development Project (Wadi Rima); $10.5
million Credit of May 31, 1978; Effectiveness Date: March 5, 1979; Closing
Date: June 30, 1984
After an initial slow start, progress on all components relating
to Wadi Rima has picked up with some of them nearing completion. The
agricultural extension service is proceeding satisfactorily.



- 28 -
ANNEX II
Page 5 of 7
Cr. No. 837-YAR - Power Distribution Project; $10.0 million Credit of
July 25, 1978; Effectiveness Date:  August 20, 1979; Closing Date:
June 30, 1984
Implementation is underway and major contracts for the supply of
equipment and materials have been awarded. The rural electrification
interim study has been completed.  YGEC's training center is operating but
experiencing some problems relating to lack of text books. Training abroad
is proceeding but not at an adequate pace to meet YGEC's pressing need for
trained staff.
Cr. No. 880-YAR - Third Tihama Development Project (Wadi Mawr); $15.0
million Credit and $3.0 million Special Action Credit of April 20, 1979;
Effectiveness Date: February 29, 1980; Closing Date: September 30, 1985
After a delay in declaring the credit effective and selecting
project consultants for engineering work, implementation is now underway
and the engineering consultants' inception report is expected shortly.
Farm management consultants have been selected and their contract is under
consideration by Government. Training of extension agents has started and
assignments in the project area are being made. TDA has not yet appointed
a project manager. Procurement of equipment for agricultural services has
been initiated.
Cr. No. 915-YAR - Third Education Project; $10.0 million Credit of June 27,
1979; Effectiveness Date: December 21, 1979; Closing Date: July 31, 1986
Civil works equipment procurement is proceeding satisfactorily.
One project institution is already operational; the remaining three project
institutions will be completed shortly. The implementation of technical
assistance has been slow and the Ministry of Education has been requested
to submit a training program to utilize the funds allocated for this
component.
Cr. No. 950-YAR - Ibb and Dhamar Water Supply and Sewerage Project; $12.0
million Credit of November 15, 1979; Effectiveness Date:  January 13, 1981;
Closing Date: December 31, 1984
Tardy preparation of the hydrological study and tender documents
together with slippage of the well drilling program have delayed the water
component. Drilling is nearing completion in Ibb and will recommence in
Dhamar in April 1982. Bids for civil works are being evaluated and
contract awards are expected shortly.



- 29 -
ANNEX II
Page 6 of 7
Cr. No. 978-YAR - Fourth Tihama Development Project (Wadi Rima II); $5.5
million Credit of April 21, 1980; Effectiveness Date: April 14, 1981;
Closing Date: June 30, 1985
Contracts for the construction of irrigation structures have been
awarded and the work started. The forestry expert and the sand dune
stabilization expert have been appointed and about 800 ha of dunes have
been selected for afforestation. The staff required for .the rural uplift
program has been appointed.
Cr. No. 1025-YAR - Fisheries Development Project; $17.0 million Credit of
June 6, 1980; Effectiveness Date: April 14, 1981; Closing Date: June 30,
1986
After initial delays, project implementation has somewhat
improved. A fisheries advisor has been selected and contract negotiations
for construction of fishing ports and shore facilities are underway.
Vessels for trial fishing and shrimping have been ordered.
Cr. No. 1067-YAR - Second Southern Uplands Rural Development Project;
$17.0 Million Credit of November 24, 1980; Effectiveness Date: June 16,
1981; Closing Date: December 31, 1985
Agricultural extension, rural water supply construction and
provision of agricultural credit, started under the First Southern Uplands
project, are expanded to cover most of the provinces of, the region. Key
staff have been appointed. Expansion of agricultural extension services
and implementation of additional rural water schemes are progressing on
schedule.
Cr. No. 1102-YAR - Regional Electrification Project; $12.0 million Credit
of May 15, 1979; Effectiveness Date: December 15, 1981; Closing Date:
December 31, 1984
Project implementation is underway. Procurement of materials is
complete and contracts with consultants for detailed engineering and
construction supervision have been signed.  The construction and erection
contract has been awarded.
Cr,, No. 1122-YAR - Industrial Development Project; $12.0 million Credit of
May 15, 1979; Effectiveness Date: November 13, 1981; Closing Date:
December 31, 1985
Project implementation is underway. The director general and
credit adviser have been appointed.



- 30 -
ANNEX II
Page 7 of 7
Cr. No. 1202-YAR Sanaa Urban Development Project; $15.0 million Credit of
February 5, 1982; Effectiveness Date: May 7, 1982; Closing Date:
December 31, 1987
Project implementation is underway. The chief engineer and the
implementation engineer have been appointed.
Cr. No. 1203-YAR Fourth Education Project; $12.0 million Credit of
February 5, 1982; Effectiveness Date: June 15, 1982; Closing Date:
December 31, 1987
Project implementation is underway.
Cr. No. 1216-YAR Petroleum and Geothermal Exploration Promotion Project;
$2-.0 mil-lion Credit of April 9, 1982; Effectiveness Date: (Not yet
effective); Closing Date: June 30, 1985
Action on effectiveness and project start-up is underway.



- 31 -
ANNEX III
Page 1 of 1
YEMEN ARAB REPUBLIC
HEALTH PROJECT
SUPPLEMENTARY PROJECT DATA SHEET
Section I:  Timetable of Key Events
(a)  Time taken by country to prepare            Ten months (June 1980
project:                                  to April 1981)
(b)  The agencies which prepared the project: Government and Consul-
tants, with IDA assistance
(c)  Date of first presentation to IDA:          June 1980
(d)  Date of Departure of appraisal mission:  September 18, 1981
(e)  Date of completion of negotiations:         July 15, 1982
(f)  Planned Date of Effectiveness:              January 1983
Section II: Special Implementation Action by IDA
None
Section III: Special Conditions
Measures to be Taken by the Government include:
(1) Incorporation of the salaries and salary supplements of eligible
MOH staff into its budget (paragraphs 52-53).
(2)  Establishment of a Salary Supplement Fund (paragraph 53); and
(3) Implementation of a staffing and training program (para-
graphs 54-55).



I..



BRD 16317
Fa5RCH 1982
S A U D  I    A  R A  B  I A
>E.-,    D6AHRAN                                          YEMEN  ARAB  REPUBLIC
HEALTH PROJECT
-JR   20t     /  l1                NAJRAN
v  -  .  v                 ~    ~ ~~~~/  \                                                       o'tne hsc FOOI-eOcr airegSh
F- -                     U!e oMes   (_   \   QZ    -                     IP   Rura HeaYt Tammg Schoo
z              a esot           o)         \                                                           S      Heol0h MAarpaaerH W s,p- tes
F} SO&AL1A 6, _ r X Si ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~Eqip,,,e,   Ma~ nt- -nc v,vo Shcp
_________                                  ~~~~~~SAMARA
0                                                         -     Paved Primary Roads
t   JIZAN,  t\,            (                                                                                 Other Rods
JIZ API            -'      ~~~~~~~SAADAH                                                     ;I    Ar1parto
BAN                                                    0    Ctie,s Tow-S a-d vi. ages
\UWAI                                                       FaR Nt -aa Capitas
OBERAT                             Man Wads
Pr. -OtIo B-aad,ries
HARAD                                                                         -   Irterror0  Bourdares
MAiDI                           SrI HARA
H0Tq
HiAMER                                                               O 2J   rItOR
AL                                                                                                                 i
i     ABS           TMAHAB SHA                                                                 0          20         40          O
7         .                                         F?
LUHACtA           - -      *Fr~~~~OAJJA                            -A      F
AZZOHPAN                           AMRAN-
AL KHJSHMO                   TOOR                                               c
CAMP              MAHWEIT    ABIL                                               MARIB
-SALIF                                     SANAX|   Al
-L         ZAID YA                   -           ADD           AHANA
A ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~
= 9 I \ MANArHAH                                l             (/
+ >/   SOOKHNA     DJRAN    MABAR
A P PA 1D                                     \
BET       AL HDAMAR                                        RADAA 
ALAW A  AA AAA I
-B~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~C
AL JURUBAH                    A      A S
WADI ZABNI SHIBA 
ZABI       VARADMAH 
TOHAITAo                                                  0, -    DAMTH\                            
_ 4 : SOOWAIKX AL UDAYN >O>  ( y t ALBE DA /
OI                O         oMO
ALRa  HOUKAH IAiNAH                     tt  5A6R4       _  OABr PlE O  P L El                          S
_ .                , ,,    | \MAKBNA    V   J               H            ~~~~D E M  O C  R A  T  I C       R E P U B  L  I C
1                                           \    57-A U    hfiA'VIYA-r                                    ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~Al 5    F    Y E M  E N
.      vYouF~~~Rus7/_ MISRAK   PI, DA
A~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ID
MOCH          A      N              NKDS 
-   X U   HAYFAN)             9
r~~~~~~~~~~~~~                                                                      ~     ~ ~~~~~~~~~~~~ o TURBA   MFA L S  
B NI SHIBA
DUJBAB);
/   ~     ~      ~       ~             6;~~~ADEN
E T H  I O  P  I A,                    
/    D  J I B  O Uj T I                                                                                       Cf..d  !a~T<M_  sb a  h ol a;ad/



I



too-5   --  I                                              ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~44'
~~'.   O,s0J5t<TQRW  4~~~~~~~~~~J                                                                   YEMEN   ARAB   REPUBLIC
1<                                                        ~~~~~~~~~IDA-ASSISTED PROJECTS BY SECTOR
tool APAto   A  p           --                                                                              ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~PROJECTS
~~~v> ~~~~~oror V   ~~~~~~~~~~ ~Ag-Ituire  Res-rh Center
--- P tOPS OFOtO ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~       ~      ~      ~      ~       ~      ~     ~      ~      ~     ~     ~     .- ft,, .
eA-str el
~~~"    S  ~ ~ ~ ~ ~    ~ ~ ~ ~    ~             WererSuoply
-~~~~~  p'       ix    -                         - ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~EXISTING FEATURES
I  /                                   C'ovorrrreoe~G-' te Cepirelo
,       I          /                            -               - -     A-rp-e-yRts   ,
15                                       1                             'p                        -                                                              It'~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~.t
-  HAJJA.       -               2                                             P~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~1L.EVATION (Meter)
koowboir  S                                   A                                                 ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~300
15000
AL MAHRWEITr                          I A a                                         e         
s          o       '-j.d 
HODEIDA         AP                                                                         ~I (
R.1erk                                                           IIseAAo  ~~"
tsr                                   v               
SB EIDA
Qotobob                                                       -  -T"  1- 
-Orn                             -tooIMMI 
8.b    ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~rIP'OtltOAPlO
M-d&                                                                 "ADLr
MooSe~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~-l    -I..-
IWonsoIA - -m Mot00Lrt0            lO
otIOo000  450   tO'tO               7
N                      noor-or~ITo o'1                    nonM~-
-,               tots" OOOPOt 0 trtrOOI01            10



