Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No. 3874-YAR
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
YEMEN ARAB REPUBLIC
HEALTH PROJECT
August 17, 1982
Population, Health and Nutrition Department
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



Currency Equivalents                                            *
A
US$100        =  Yemen Rials 4.5
Yemen Rial 1  =  US$0.22
GOVERNMENT OF THE YEMEN ARAB REPUBLIC FISCAL YEAR:
January 1 - December 31
i                                                                                           46



YEMEN ARAB REPUBLIC          FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Health Project
Table of Contents
Page No.
Basic Data ........................................... .                    i
Definitions .......... ii-iii
Abbreviations   ............................................               iv
I.   THE HEALTH SECTOR  ........................................                  1
A.   Background ............................................                1
B.   Population Profile ....................................                1
Fertility ........................................              2
Mortality ........................................              3
C.   Nutrition Status ......................................                3
D.   Health Status and Services ............................                4
Morbidity and Mortality .........................*                5
Health Services ....................................              5
Role of External Agencies ..........................              6
II.  POLICIES, PROGRAMS AND ISSUES .............................                  7
A.   Population ............................................                7
B.   Health Policies and Programs ..........................                8
C.   Organization and Management of the Ministry of Health.                10
D. Health Manpower .10
E. Issues .11
III. THE PROJECT .12
A.    Project Concept, Objectives and Design .12
B. Project Composition .12
C.  Detailed Project Description .15
Part A.  Strengthening of the Ministry of Health                 15
Part B.  Health Manpower Institute (HMI) .17
IV. PROJECT COSTS AND FINANCING .20
A. Cost Estimates .20
B. Financing .23
Project Preparation Facility (PPF) .23
V. PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION .24
A. Management .24
B. Procurement .24
C. IDA Review Requirements .25
D. Accounting and Audit .26
E. Disbursement .26
This report is the result of a Bank appraisal mission that visited Sana'a,
Yemen Arab Republic in September/October 1981. The mission consisted of
Messrs. E. Pratt (Chief of Mission), H.W. Franckson, S.H. Yun, and
Ms. V. Elliott, World Bank Staff, and Mr. J. Herm, World Bank Consultant.
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



Page No
VI.  PROJECT JUSTIFICATION AND RISKS  ...............................         27
A.   Benefits ................................................  27
B.   Risks .............................................    28
VII. RECOMMENDATIONS  ....................... . . .. . .    29
CHARTS: ............................................................. 30
I    Organization of the Ministry of Health               .      .30
II   Project Management Organization                 ...                31
III  Organization of the Project Implementation Unit .                   32
ANNEXES: ......                                                  .. 33
1  Detailed Cost Estimates ...................                           33
Detailed Financing Plan..8............ e. 8
2    Project Implementation Schedule ...........................  49
3    Estimated Schedule of Disbursements .50........ .........  22
4    Existing and Planned Health Manpower by Cadre
1981/82 - 1984/85......................51
5    IDA and CYAR Financing of SSF for 18 Key Staff and
Salaries (Including SSF) for 2 Project Implementation
UJnit (PIU) Staff.......................52
6.   Project Preparation Facility.................                       53
7    Selected Documents and Data Available in the Project File.  54
TABLES
1.01  Health Status ....................... 
2.01  Estimated Prevalence of Main Diseases and Targeted
Reductions.........................                                 8
4.01  Estimated Project Cost by Expenditure Categories ......21
4.02  Summary of Estimated Project Cost by Component........22
MAP        IBRD 16317:  Yemen Arab Republic - Health Project



YEMEN ARAB REPUBLIC
Health Project
Basic Data 1/
Total Area                                                       195,000 km2
Total Population (estimated as of mid-1980)                      7,039,000
Density per km2 (mid-1980)                                       35
Per Capita GNP (1980)                                            US$430
Crude Birth Rate (mid-1980)                                      47/1000
Crude Death Rate (mid-1980)                                      23/1000
Rate of Natural Increase of the Population (1980)                2.4 percent
Total Fertility Rate                                             6.7
Life Expectancy at Birth (1980)                                  42.2 years
Infant Mortality Rate (1979)                                     190/1000
Child Death Rate (age 1-4) (1979)                                50/1000
Maternal Mortality Rate (1978)                                   10/1000
Urban Population as Percent of Total Population (1980)           10.3 percent
Estimated Adult Literacy Rate (1980)                             21 percent
Primary School Enrollment as a Percentage of
Age Group:                                   Males (1980)   59.4 percent
Females (1980)   8.6 percent
Secondary School Enrollment as a Percentage of
Age Group (1978)                                               4 percent
Higher Education Enrollment as a Percentage of
Age Group 20-24 (1977)                                         1 percent
Age Structure Distribution by Percentage of Population:
0-4                          17   percent
5-14                         28.4 percent
15-64 (working population)   51.5 percent
65+                         3.2 percent
Dependency Ratio                                                 94
Females Aged 15-44 (percentage of women in reproductive
age group) (1979)                                              41 percent
Population per Physician (1980)                                  11,673
Population per Nurse (1980)                                      4,583
Nutrition (1977):
Calorie Intake as Percent of Requirements                81.8
Per Capita Protein Intake (grams/day)                    59.5
Percentage of Population With Access to Potable Water            17 percent 2/
1/ Basic data compiled from the following sources: World Development
Report, World Bank 1981; Population Council Fact Book, Population
Council, New York, 10th Edition.
2/ Most recent estimates not shown in the Social Indicators Data Sheet of
May 1982.



<~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~



- ii -
DEFINITIONS
Morbidity                            : The frequency of disease and illness
in a population.
Mortality                            : Deaths as a component of population
change.
Crude Birth Rate                     : Number of live births per year per
1000 people.
Cruae Death tare                     : Number uf deaths per year per 1000
people.
Peri-Natal Mortality Rate            : The number of fetal deaths after 28
weeks of pregnancy (late fetal
deaths) plus the number of deaths to
infants under 7 days of age per 1000
live births.
Child Mortality Rate                 : Annual deaths of children 1-4 years
per 1000 children in the same age
group.
Infant Mortality Rate                : Annual deaths of infants under 1 year
per 1000 live births during the same
year.
Neo-Natal Mortality Rate             : The number of deaths to infants under
28 days of age in a given year per
1000 live births that year.
Maternal Mortality Rate              : Number of maternal deaths per 1000
births in a given year attributable
to pregnancy, childbirth or puerperal
complications.
Rate of Natural Increase             : Difference between crude birth and
crude death rate; usually expressed
as a percentage.
Dependency Ratio                     : Ratio of population 14 years or under
and 65 or over, to population aged 15
to 64 years, multiplied by 100.



- iii -
Total Fertility Rate                     The average number of children a
woman will have if she experiences a
given set of age-specific fertility
rates throughout her lifetime.
Serves as an estimate of average
number of children per family.
Life Expectancy at Birth                 Indicates the number of years a
newborn child would live if subject
to the mortality risks prevailing for
the cross-section of population at
time of birth.
Adult Literacy Rate                   :  The percentage of persons aged 15 and
over who can read and write.
Incidence Rate                       :  The number of persons contracting a
disease as a proportion of the
population at risk, per unit of time
usually expressed per 1000 persons
per year.
Prevalence Rate                          The number of persons having a
particular disease at a given point
in time per population at risk.
Usually expressed per 1000 persons
per year.
Case Fatality Rate                      The proportion of persons contracting
a disease who die of that disease;
usually expressed as a percentage.



- iv -
ABREVIATIONS
BHS     =  Basic Health Services
CBR     =  Crude Birth Rate
CDR     =  Crude Death Rate
CHREU    =  Central Health Education Unit
CPO     =  Central Planning Organization
CYDA    =  Confederation of Yemeni Local Development Associations
EPI     =  Expanded Program of Immunization
E&R     =  Evaluation and Research
FAO     =  Food and Agriculture Organization
FH      =  Family Health
FP      =  Family Planning
GYAR    =  Government of the Yemen Arab Republic
HMI     =  Health Manpower Institute
IDA     =  International Development Association
LBA     =  Local Birth Attendant
LDA     =  Local Development Association
MCH     =  Maternal and Child Health
MOE     =  Ministry of Education
MOH     =  Ministry of Health
NIPA    =  National Institute for Public Administration
PCM     =  Protein-calorie Malnutrition
PFU     =  Planning and Follow-Up Unit, MOH
PHC     =  Primary Health Care
PHCU    =  Primary Health Care Unit
PHN     =  Population, Health and Nutrition
PIU     =  Project Implementation Unit
RHTS    =  Rural Health Training School
SSF     =  Salary Supplement Fund
UN      =  United Nations
UNCDF   =  United Nations Capital Development Fund
UNFPA   =  United Nations Fund for Population Activities
UNICEF  =  United Nations Children's Fund
WHO     =  World Health Organization
YAR     =  Yemen Arab Republic
YFPA    =  Yemen Family Planning Association



I



I. THE HEALTH SECTOR
A. Background
1.01    Although incomes and living standards in the Yemen Arab Republic
(YAR) increased very rapidly during the 1970s, primarily because of the
remittances of Yemeni migrant labourers in Saudi Arabia, the population's
health and nutritional status remains very poor. Life expectancy is only
42 years, the crude death rate is one of the highest in the world, and an
estimated 10% of children suffer from protein-calorie malnutrition. The
rural population, 90% of the total, has virtually no access to health
services and there is an acute shortage of trained health manpower of all
types.
1.02    The feudal rule of the Imams ended only in 1962 and in 1971 a
constitution was adopted that established the framework for a modern state
with a central government and essential government institutions. In the
last ten years, the Government (GYAR) has given priority to strengthening
these institutions and IDA has supported specific institution-building
activities in the Ministries of Education, Agriculture and Public Works
and in the Central Planning Organization (CPO). During this period,
formal education has expanded dramatically and GYAR has prepared two
national development plans. Although these efforts are encouraging, most
government institutions are still in their infancy; the Ministry of Health
(MOH) is one of the least developed. GYAR has requested IDA assistance to
help strengthen the MOH and to help train health manpower, both essential
conditions for the expansion and improvement of the country's health
services.
B. Population Profile
1.03    YAR's population data are extremely poor.  Its first census in
1975 estimated the resident population at 5.3 million and the short-term
migrant population at 617,000 making a total of about 5.9 million. The
estimated population in mid-1980 was 7.0 million, including around 740,000
short-term migrants. Waile a Confederation of Yemeni Development
Associations' census in 1979 resulted in a preliminary count of 8.5
million, these data are not reliable. The 1975 census and mid-1980
estimates are therefore the official data.
1.04    The age structure of YAR's population, typical of developing
countries, reflects a high birth rate and low life expectancy. The median
age is only 17.2, 45.4% of the people are under 15 and only 3.2% are 65 or
older. This gives a dependency ratio of 94.
1.05    The country is predominantly rural.  In 1975, only 13% of the
population lived in settlements of 1000 or more inhabitants, and 34% lived
in dwelling groups of fewer than 100. Although only about 9% of the



- 2 -
residents of YAR live in six towns of 10,000 or more population, these
towns are estimated to be growing at the rate of 6-7% a year, and are
likely to account for about 20% of the resident population by the year
2000. Urban infrastructure--particularly housing for low-income
people--is already quite inadequate.
1.06    The large migration of male unskilled workers to Saudi Arabia and
other Gulf States is an important feature of YAR's population structure.
About 740,000 short-term migrants, or 19% of the labor force, are
estimated to be abroad. The majority are married men from rural areas who
leave their families behind and stay away for 1-3 years. Significant
effects of this migration include shortages of agricultural labor,
declining food production, and heavy workloads for rural women. Moreover,
returning migrants tend to re-settle in towns, thereby increasing the
pressure on the urban infrastructure.
Fertility
1.07    Estimates of total fertility range from 6.5 to 6.8 and of the
crude birth rate from 44 to 49 per thousand. Several factors account for
this high level of fertility. First, marriage is nearly universal and
occurs at a very young age - as low as 14 years for women in rural areas.
Given the strength of cultural tradition and the slow integration of women
into the male dominant society, age at marriage is likely to increase only
slowly with economic development. Second, although the Koran prescribes
breast-feeding for two years, its incidence and duration appears to be
declining, in part because of women's increasingly heavy agricultural work
load. Since a decline in breast-feeding reduces the period of postpartum
infecundity, this may increase the potential for high fertility. Third,
from the limited evidence available, contraceptive usage is very low.
Family planning services are provided in some urban clinics, but there are
no outreach or mobile activities.  The Yemen Family Planning Association
(YFPA), a private organization affiliated with the International Planned
Parenthood Federation, assists some government clinics with
contraceptives, information and training on a small scale and a few
private pharmacies also sell contraceptives. Wider acceptance of family
planning is constrained not only by the lack of clinical facilities and
outreach services but also by high infant mortality and the widely held
religious belief that children are a gift of God.
1.08    At present, GYAR does not consider the estimated 2.9%1/ rate of
population growth a serious problem and population consideratTons have not
been specifically treated in its national development plans. Two
important obstacles to the formulation of population policies are the lack
of firm data and the lack of official and popular awareness of the
/   This includes rate of natural increase plus a significant proportion
of migrant population less than 12 months absent from YAR.



- 3 -
implications of population growth. While the absence of data prevents a
rigorous analysis of the implications of population growth, it is
estimated that, even with a modest decline in fertility, YAR's populaiaon
would reach at least 11 million by 2000.
1.09    UNFPA's 1980 Needs Assessment for Population Assistance to YAR
recommended: technical support for the second national population and
housing census in 1985; assistance in strengthening the technical
capability of the Government's Data Processing Center; assistance in
developing the recently established Population Center in the CPO; and,
technical assistance to CPO for staff training in human resource aspects
of planning. UNFPA also recommended that the Government should consider
formulating a population policy; that MOH should assess its personnel and
training needs in order to integrate maternal and child health (MCH) and
family health (FH) services into its Basic Health Services (BHS) program,
that technical assistance from the UNICEF, UNCDF, and BHS/PHC (Primary
Health Care) projects be coordinated, and that the UNFPA/MOH (MCH/FH)
project currently underway should progressively promote a national MCH/FH
program. UNFPA's four-year agreement with MOH for an MCH/FH project
starting January 1981, to be implemented through the BHS/PHC program,
involves nine health centers, 27 sub-centers, and 715 PHC units. UNFPA
will also assist in training Yemeni staff and provide technical assistance
and supplies.
Mortality
1.10    Lack of data makes it difficult to estimate accurately infant
mortality and crude death rates, and life expectancies.  However, infant
mortality is believed to be as high as in parts of Sub-Saharan Africa
(150-210 per thousand) and the crude death rate one of the highest in the
world (22-28 per thousand). This is not surprising considering that only
17%2/ of the population has access to safe water and the rural population
has7virtually no access to health services. Life expectancy is
approximately 42 years, compared with the average for West Asia, North
Africa and the Middle East of about 55 years. The World Fertility Survey,
undertaken in YAR in 1979, will report in mid-1982 and should provide more
dependable demographic data.
C. Nutrition Status
1.11    The frequency and severity of malnutrition in YAR exceeds that of
other countries in the region and even of some sub-Saharan countries. It
contributes significantly to high infant and child mortality, low average
life expectancy, and low productivity. Recent nutrition studies,
including an IDA-supported country-wide sample survey of over 3,000
children, reveal that almost one-half of Yemeni children are below 85% of
2/   Most recent estimates not shown in the Social Indicators Data Sheet
of May 1982.



the U.S. median for weight and for height. Calorie intake in YAR in 1977
was 81.8% of requirements, lower than in Egypt (109%), Syria (109%) and
Morocco (105%); and 10-12% of all Yemeni children suffer moderate to
severe protein-calorie malnutrition (PCM). Anemia in bot'n adults and
children is also significant: the survey cited above estirtiated that
500,000 or approximately one-half of all Yemeni children under five are
probably suffering from combined effects of PCM and anemfa.
1.12    These high rates of malnutrition arise partly because of
geographical and social factors peculiar to the YAR. Difficult terrain
and scarcity of water limit the amount of land under culti-vation; the lack
of roads in many areas limits access to food markets; and, food
production, already limited by small, inefficient holdings, is further
constrained by shortages of agricultural labor. Studies show that output
of traditional staples such as barley, millet, and sorghum declined by
over 10% over the past five years.  Moreover, while YAR nroduced 90% of
its cereals requirements in 1970, this had fallen to 70% b; 1977/78, and
is estimated now to be around 60%. Consequently, imported cereals have
increased and refined wheat flour (the main form of imported cereal) is
replacing millet, sorghum and traditional coarse wheat.  S-'nce the iron
content of these local staples is much higher than imported: cereals, there
has probably been a decrease in the nutritional content o,f the typical
Yemeni diet, which may explain the high rate of anemia.
1.13    In addition, there is an increasing trend towards cash crops.
FAO estimates that nearly 50% of YAR's irrigated areas is now under qat, a
shrub whose leaves are chewed for their stimulant effect by many Yemenis.
The growth of qat consumption is a nutritional concern; it is expensive
and reduces the appetite and, hence, food intake. Moreover, there is
evidence that its amphetamine-like properties can be transmitted through
breast-feeding to infants, thereby curbing their appetite.
Nevertheless, the sale and consumption of qat is tolerated by GYAR, which
regulates it only for taxation purposes, and, because of its central role
in social life, any official attempt to reduce its use is unlikely.
1.14    Finally, the decline in breast-feeding has aggravated the problem
of infant nutrition and its synergistic relationship with diarrhoeal
diseases and endemic childhood disorders -- all predisposing causes of
protein-calorie-malnutrition (PCM). Substitute infant formulas, powdered
milks, and canned foods, prominently displayed in small village groceries,
often lack the vitamins and minerals of traditional foods and, even more
serious, are frequently prepared and diluted with contami-Kated water.
GYAR has so far not restricted the entry of processed foods nor curbed
extensive infant formula advertising.
D. Health Status and Services
1.15    By all standard indicators of health status, conditions in YAR are
among the worst in the world.  As noted earlier (paras. 1.07 and 1.10),
life expectancy at birth is 42 years; infant mortality averages 190 per
1000; the crude birth and death rates are 47 and 23 per 1000 respectively,



-5-
maternal mortality is 10 per 1000; and only 17% of the population has
access to safe water. While diarrhoeal and respiratory diseases, measles
and pertussis (whooping cough) are the main causes of infant mortality,
tuberculosis, malaria, schistosomiasis and enteritis are also endemic,
with national incidence rates of 25, 20, 97 and 850 per thousand
respectively. YAR's health profile compares unfavorably with that of
other countries in the region
Table 1.01: HEALTH STATUS
Egypt Iran Iraq Saudia Syria Turkey YAR
Infant Mortality Rate        108    108   92      118    113      118   190
Life Expectancy (Yrs)         54     52   55       53     57       61    42.2
Access to Safe Water (%)    66    n.a.  62         64      75      75    17
Crude Death Rate              10     14   13       15     13       10    23
Morbidity and Mortality
1.16    Given the few reliable data available, one source of morbidity and
mortality information is hospital in-patient returns, which
depict appreciably different morbidity patterns between the highlands and
the lowlands. The diseases exhibiting highest morbidity are enteritis,
malaria, amoebic dysentery, schistosomiasis, tuberculosis, diseases of the
respiratory, digestive and circulatory systems, and infective and
parasitic diseases: a pattern more consistent with that of very low-income
sub-Saharan countries than with middle-income countries of Southwest Asia,
the Middle-East and North Africa. The five leading causes of mortality in
1976-78 were infective and parasitic diseases and those of the
respiratory, digestive and circulatory systems. Hospital and health
center records under-report the extent of obstetric accidents and
puerperal fever because more than 90% of births occur at home.
Health Services
1.17    In 1976, YAR had 16 health centers, 16 health sub-centers, 17
dispensaries and 92 rural health units (health posts). Most of these
facilities were inadequately equipped and staffed and were concentrated
in four major towns, Taiz, Sana'a, Ibb and Hodeidah. In addition, there
were 24 hospitals with 2,637 beds, mainly in the cities, giving a ratio of
5 beds per 10,000 population. YAR's health services were thus mainly
l6cated in the urban governorates and were, and remain, predominantly
curative. Sana'a, Hodeidah and Taiz alone accounted for 56% of all health
facilities and Sana'a and Taiz for 60% of health manpower. The number of
rural population having real access to services was insignificant.



-  6 -
1.18    The basic strategy of YAR's first National Health Plan (1976-81)
was to develop a health program to meet the basic health needs of 90% of
the population by the year 2000, and to achieve 20% rural coverage by
1981. A Basic Health Services/Primary Health Care (BHS/PHC) program was
proposed as the most appropriate means to achieve these long-term and
intermediate goals.  The BHS/PHC program included expanded programs of
immunization, the strengthening of MOH's management and administrative
capability, the development of manpower through a strengthened Health
Manpower Institute (HMI), and the consolidation and expansic-n of health
infrastructure at central, governorate and district levels.
1.19    The BHS/PHC program comprises a network of services at three
levels:  the primary health care unit (PHCU) (covering abou  500
population), which consists of health posts staffed by pr1.mory health care
workers recruited from and trained in the locality; the health subcenter
or dispensary (covering about 5,000 population) which provides simple
curative and MCH services and is staffed by assistant nurses and nurses;
and, at the third level, the health center (covering up to ¶bollt 50,000
people) which provides a broader and more sophisticated range of services
and is staffed by qualified nurses, medical assistants anc!/cr doctors.
The organizational and referral network for a target popua1Cion of 50,000
would therefore comprise 15 PHCIJs, 3 health sub-centers/dispensaries and 1
health center. To achieve full coverage of YAR's entire rtazal population
would ultimately require the development of 120 such networks.
1.20    Against this background, the First National Health. Plan, prepared
with the assistance of W4HO, called for the development of 2f BHS/PHC
networks, comprising 24 health centers, 72 health sub-centers and 360
primary health care units designed to provide curative, maternal and
child health, and preventive care to 20% of the population. By 1981,
progress was extremely limited: only 8% of the planned units had been
brought into operation and less than 5% coverage of the population had
been achieved. The problems encountered were several: the OH's
traditional bias towards urban, hospital-based health care5 --he acute
shortage of trained manpower for BHS/PHC activities, compounaed by
unrealistic staffing norms; poor logistics, and insufficient drugs and
medical supplies; and, weak planning and implementation csaicity,
particularly for infrastructure development.
Role of External Agencies
1.21    Although MOH failed to improve significantly the coverage and
quality of BHS/PHC services, two externally-aided programs have met with
some success.  The Expanded Program of Immunization (EPI), s-:pported and
technically managed by WHO and UNICEF, covered about 9% of id-e population
over a 2-year period (1977-79) and this was expected to inc---ase to about
12% by 1981. In addition, while there was previously much diversity in
externally aided activities for primary health care (PHC), -he MOH's
BHS/PHC Program now provides a coherent framework for the coordination of
donor inputs. The activities of the principal agencies involved are
currently limited to eight specific districts in five goverLcrates:



- 7 -
Hodeidah (UNICEF and USAID); Dhamar (Netherlands); Taiz (Sweden); Sana'a
(Norway, Germany and the United Kingdom); Hajja (Norway) and Mukha
(France). They are mainly geared to the training of PHC workers and local
birth attendants (LBAs).
1.22    In addition to the WHO/UNICEF supported EPI program and the PHC
training activities noted above, totalling about US$22 million of
financial and technical assistance for varying periods during the next
5-10 years, UNFPA has committed US$4.1 million for a US$12.3 million
MCH-FH project to be implemented over four years. Some useful work, on a
small scale, is being undertaken by several voluntary and non-gover-m. ental
agencies in the areas of mother and child care, nutrition, sample surveys,
the staffing of clinics and dispensaries, and technical assistance.
However, while there has been some progress in coordinating the PHC
training inputs in the districts noted above, MOH's administrative and
technical capacity to plan, direct and monitor the significant amount of
external assistance already available is weak. Various agencies and
governments support health programs in different parts of the country.
among which are USAID, Catholic Relief Services, WHO, UNICEF, the
Government of the Netherlands, the Federal Republic of Germany, the
Governments of France and Sweden. Kuwait and Saudi Arabia have given
substantial assistance in the hospital sector. There is a need for a
central health planning unit to develop a detailed plan of implementation
for the BHS/PHC program and to direct the flow of external aid
accordingly.
II. POLICIES, PROGRAMS AND ISSUES
A. Population
2.01    Although there is increasing awareness among GYAR officials of the
need to consider the population aspects of the country's overall economic
growth and development goals, GYAR so far has no official population
policy. However, in 1976, a Population Center was established in the
Department of Statistics of the Central Planning Organization (CPO), with
UNFPA assistance, which in due course should form the nucleus of a policy
and planning capability. Meanwhile, one of its main roles is to
coordinate social and demographic research in the country and, during the
last five years, it has sponsored five studies which have developed useful
insights into the social and demographic parameters of YAR's population.
2.02    UNFPA's Needs Assessment Report recommended inter alia that YAR's
High Commission for Planning, headed by the Prime Minister, should provide
guidelines for the formulation of a population policy with inputs from the
Population Center. Although GYAR has not reacted officially to this
recommendation, a growing awareness of and interest in population issues
among GYAR planning officials suggests that the need for a population
policy may soon be officially acknowledged.



B. Health Policies and Programs
2.03    GYAR's principal long-term development goals are set out in its
first Five-Year National Plan (1976-81) as follows: raising the standard
of living of all citizens; concentration on increasing productivity;
concentration on integrated rural development; improvement of human
resources with emphasis on education and training, health care, and
general services; and breaking down the isolation of the regions.
2.04    Within this overall context, the Plan established the following
policies and objectives for YAR's health sector: to raise health standards
and improve health awareness among individuals and in the community; to
control epidemic and endemic diseases; to provide health care in all areas
of the country; to train the health manpower necessary for health service
delivery; to develop MCH and family health services; and to supply
medicines to the people. The Plan's quantitative health targets,
expressed in terms of planned reductions in the incidence and/or
prevalence of nine priority health problems and diseases, are indicated in
Table 2.01 below.
Table 2.01: YAR NATIONAL HEALTH PLAN (1976-81): ESTIMATED PREVALENCE
OF MAIN DISEASES (1976) AND TARGETED REDUCTIONS (1981)
Govrt Est. 1981
1976    Target
Health Problem                         Index                Level    Level
1.  Major Childhood Diseases  infant mortality
per 1000 live births         160      140
2.  Tuberculosis                prevalence rate/1000          25       20
3.  Malaria                     incidence rate/1000           20       10
4.  Schistosomiasis             prevalence rate/1000          97       55
5.  Maternal Diseases           maternal, mortality rate
per 1000 live births          10        8
6.  Inflammatory Eye            active prevalence rate
Diseases                    per 1000 among school
children                     450      300
7. Intestinal Parasites
and Dysentery               prevalence rate/1000         850      800
8. Traffic Accidents and
Fractures                   incidence rate/1000           15       -
9.  Anemias                     prevalence rate/lOO          600      550



- 9 -
2.05    In the circumstances, specifically the existing pattern of
curative, hospital-based services concentrated in the main urban areas,
MOH decided that the Basic Health Services/Primary Health Care (BHS/BHC)
program (outlined in paras. 1.19-1.20 above) would be the principal
mechanism for implementing the Plan's health sector policies. It adopted
the goal of extending BHS/PHC coverage to 20% of I:he rural population by
1981.
2.06    Despite significant amounts of external financial and technical
assistance, neither the Plan's specific health targets nor the BHS/PHC
program's coverage goals were achieved. There are several specific and
detailed reasons for this, but the two fundamental causes were: MOH's
inadequate planning, management and implementation capacity; and, the
chronic lack of trained health manpower. Notwithstanding these problems
and the MOH's poor performance during the first Plan, the second Five-Year
National Plan (1982-86) adopts the goal of extending BHS/PHC coverage to
25% of the rural population by 1986. Its estimated cost would be about
270 million rials (US$60 million) in capital expenditures and would entail
significant annual recurrent expenditures.
2.07    The feasibility of GYAR's second Plan objectives for health will
obviously depend inter alia on early progress towards removing the two
fundamental constraints noted above:  strengthening MOH's planning,
management and implementation capacity; and improving the quantity and
quality of health manpower, through appropriate training, recruitment and
deployment policies. It will also depend on the availability of adequate
financial resources for the health sector in general, and for the BHS/PHC
program, in particular. In this latter connection, GYAR expenditure on
health is low, compared with other countries in the region. In 1979, for
example, the health sector's share of GYAR's budget was 3%, compared with
3.5% in Egypt, 8.4% in Tunisia, and 5.1% in Morocco. In addition, at
least three-quarters of MOH's budget is spent on hospital and other
curative services. Despite a significant increase in the health sector's
share of GYAR's budget in 1981 (to 5.2%), partly in response to MOH's
request for additional funding for the BHS/PHC program further major
increases are unlikely in the short-term. Consequently, MOH's options for
generating the additional funds for the BHS/PHC program are probably
threefold: to re-allocate at least some of the funds currently spent on
hospital and curative services to the BHS/PHC program; to achieve savings
through reduced costs and other measures to improve efficiency; and, to
develop appropriate mechanisms for a degree of self-financing or
cost-recovery in the health sector. While the scope for early action in
any or all of these areas may well be limited in the short term, the issue
of health care financing requires priority attention by GYAR.



- 10 -
C. Organization and Management of the Ministry of Health
2.08    In 1977, GYAR reorganized the MOH and set out terms of reference
for about sixty sections, or subdivisions of directorates. However, most
directorates had too few people to be subdivided, only about ten sections
became operational, and the majority of functions and activities specified
in the decree have not been carried out. MOH recently decided to modify
its organizational structure, taking into account the objectives of the
proposed project, and Chart I illustrates the proposed MOH organogram.
2.09    The quality of MOH management is low.  The Health Council, a
committee of senior managers which is supposed to convene at least
monthly, almost never meets and there is little coordination or
communication within the Ministry. Directors and Directors-General have
very limited authority and practically none as regards financial matters.
MOH managers and senior staff spend a good deal of their time receiving
petitions and applications from members of the public. Despite a general
shortage of personnel, the staff of some divisions are underutilized.
MOH's planning capability is similarly very weak. There is no unit
responsible for planning and budgeting and no process for estimating the
financial or personnel implications of new programs or projects. Except
for primary health care projects, there is no capacity to evaluate the
activities of non-governmental organizations. In addition, MOH has no
effective liaison with the Local Development Associations (LDAs) which
could play a significant supporting role in the health sector.
2.10    The consequences of MOH's poor management and planning capability
are manifest throughout the system: chronic shortages of drugs;
inefficient and often inoperative transport; little or no basic management
information; and low staff morale.
D. Health Manpower
2.11    The shortage of trained manpower of all types is an overriding
constraint to the delivery of health services. In 1979, MOH employed
2,353 health workers, a 52% increase over the number employed in 1975; of
these, 34% were expatriates, compared with 20% in 1975. The absolute
number of expatriates employed thus increased by over 250% In 1980, the
number of population per physician was 11,673 and that per nurse 4,583,
which compares unfavorably with other countries in the region. YAR has no
medical school: its physicians are therefore either expatriate or Yemenis
trained abroad. There is a particular shortage of middle-level health
workers: medical assistants, nurses, midwives, and assistant
pharmacists. The latter are trained at the Health Manpower Institute
(HMI), set up in 1972 under the Ministry of Health. HMI consists of three
schools, in Sana'a (the main branch), Hodeidah and Taiz. The Netherlands,
UNICEF and WHO are providing support to HMI through the UNDP, but this
assistance will cease at the end of 1982.



- 11 -
2.12    Since 1972, HII has trained over 700 health workers in various
cadres: 254 nurses, 22 community health nurses, 188 practical nurses, 2
assistant midwives, 10 medical assistants, 32 sanitarians, 31 labora-ory
technicians, 8 pharmacy assistants and 83 laboratory assistants; of these,
there has been a 60-70% attrition; thus the number going into the MOH
system is quite low. Currently, HMI offers seven three-year courses for
para-medicals (including medical assistants, nurses and midwives) and four
one-year courses for health auxiliaries (including practical nurses and
community health nurses). There is no refresher training nor an
in-service training program. Recent efforts have been directed towards
expanding HMI's output of health workers and about 200 students were
expected to graduate in 1981/82.
2.13    Although HMI is the only source of locally trained health manpower
in YAR, its potential has not been fully realized. Enrollment has averaged
only 50% of capacity. There are several reasons for this: lack of a
recruitment program; cultural factors inhibiting the recruitment of female
students; lack of boarding facilities; and competition from the private
sector and other government institutions for the limited pool of school
leavers. HMI's trainee stipends were lower than those for students in
other institutes and health workers' salaries were not competitive with
the private sector or with other government agencies. The cumulative
effects of low enrollment, high attrition and uncertain employment
prospects following graduation have led to an annual 60% shortfall in
planned output and placement of health manpower. GYAR has recently issued
a decree increasing civil service salaries across-the-board, and for MOH
staff by as much as 60-100%. In addition, HMI students will henceforward
be inducted into the civil service and will be paid regular salaries (as
are students in some other government training institutes), which will
eliminate the problem of inadequate stipends. These decisions
significantly improve the prospects for expanding the output of trained
health workers to the levels planned for 1985/86 and 1986/87. However,
considerable strengthening of HMI's training program and manpower planning
is still needed.
E. Issues
2.14    Excluding the long-term question of health care financing, two
main issues emerge from the preceding analysis of YAR's health policies
and programs: MOH's inadequate planning, management and implementation
capacity; and, the critical lack of appropriately trained health manpower
of all types. These two constraints together were the principal cause of
MOH's failure to achieve the BHS/PHC program objectives of GYAR's first
Plan; and, unless action is initiated to help remove them, the objectives
of GYAR's second Plan will similarly remain unfulfilled. It is against
this background that GYAR requested IDA to help prepare the proposed
health project and that its scope, content and objectives have been
defined.



12 -
III. THE PROJECT
A.  Project Concept, Objectives and Design
3.01    At present, YAR's health sector receives significant external
assistance from various bilateral and multilateral agencies, but these
activities are not well coordinated. MOH, the main executing agency, does
not have the capacity to plan its own activities, to determine the
country's health needs, or to manage programs and train staff.  It has
difficulty bidding effectively for a higher share of domestic budgetary
resources because it is unable to justify its needs. In the
circumstances, MOH expansion of health care services will depend on the
development within MOH of adequate planning, administrative, training and
support functions.
3.02    The principal overall objective of the proposed project is
therefore institutional: to help develop the capability of MOH (including
HMI) to plan, staff and manage YAR's health care system. The basis of the
project's strategy is training and technical assistance.
B. Project Composition
3.03    The project would consist of two parts:  Part A would set up the
institutional arrangements, including technical assistance, to strengthen
five key areas in MOH headquarters: planning, finance and administration;
supplies management; evaluation and research; health education; and
nutrition; Part B would comprise support for the Health Manpower Institute
(HMI) including civil works, furniture, equipment and technical assistance
for three urban and one rural health training school.
3.04    In summary, the project would include the following activities:
Part A: MOH
(a) Construction, furnishing and equipping of:
(i) 1 warehouse (for drugs and medical supplies) and 1
maintenance workshop (to train maintenance technicians)
in Hodeidah;
(b) Special equipment and furniture for:
(i) the Nutrition and Health Education Units;
(ii) the Evaluation and Research Unit; and



- 13 -
(iii) the Planning and Follow-up Unit (including the
Statistics Departmeat); Lhe Pesonxiel daid F't-,ancc
Directorates; and the Pharmacy and Medical Supplies
Directorate;
(c)  Vehicles:
(i)  one 10-ton truck, one 1-1/2-ton pick-up truck and one
4-seat sedan for distributing drugs and medical
commodities, and providing supervision, in Sana'a;
(ii) two 1-1/2-ton pick-up trucks for the warehouse and
maintenance workshop in Hodeidah; and
(iii) four 4-wheel-drive vehicles for the Health
Education, Nutrition, Evaluation and Research and PFU
Units and one 4-seat sedan and one 4-wheel-drive for the
Project Implementation Unit.
(d) Technical Assistance:
(short-term is equivalent to under 12 months and long-term to
12 months or over)
(i)  54 man-months (4.5 man-years) of short-term advisory
services for: the Personnel Directorate (9 man-months);
the Finance Directorate (9 man-months); the General
Directorate of Pharmacy and Medical Supplies (9
man-months); the Directorate of Vehicles, Transport and
Maintenance (9 man-months); and the Health Education
Unit (2 x 9 man-months);
(ii) 222 man-months (18.5 man-years) of long-term advisory
services for: the Health Education Unit (12 man-months);
Planning and Follow-up Unit (72 man-months); Supplies
Management System (18 man-months); Nutrition Unit (24
man-months); Evaluation and Research Unit (24 man-
months); and the Project Implementation Unit (72 man-
months, of which 36 man-months each for Project Advisor
and Construction Engineer);
(iii) 150 man-months (12.5 man-years) of fellowships for
Yemeni counterpart staff under d(i) and d(ii); and



- 14 -
(iv) sub-contracts for health education, nutrition and
research and evaluation studies;
(e) Incremental Operating Costs:
(i) salaries and allowances for incremental Yemeni staff in
the Units or Departments listed above;
(ii) refresher/in-service training of middle and lower level
Yemeni staff;
(iii) educational materials;
(iv) meetings and seminars for middle level Yemeni staff;
(v) vehicle operation and maintenance costs; and
(vi) other operating costs (translation, telexes, telephone,
local travel, building maintenance, photocopying, etc.).
Part B:   Health Manpower Institute (HMI)
(a) Construction, furnishing and equipping of:
(i)  teaching, office and boarding facilities for 140
students (50 girls and 90 boys) at Hodeiah (HMI);
(ii)  teaching, office and boarding facilities for 90
students (30 girls and 60 boys) at Hajjah (RHTS);
(iii)  1 dormitory for 100 girls at Taiz (HMI);
(b)  Furniture and equipment for:
(i)  the existing boys' dormitory at Taiz (HMI);
(c)  Vehicles:
(i)  for HMI Sana'a:  one 4-wheel-drive vehicle and two
20-seat buses;
(ii)  for HMI Hodeidah:  one 4-wheel-drive vehicle, two
12-seat minibuses, and two 30-seat buses;
(iii)  for RHTS Hajjah:  one 4-wheel-drive vehicle, and one
30-seat bus.



- 15 -
(d) Technical Assistance:
(i)  12 man-monthb (1 Iiaman-year) of short-term advisory
services to assist with training programs in specific
areas and in organizing training workshops;
(ii) 24 man-months (2 man-years) of long-term advisory
services to train Yemeni trainers and help develop
curricula;
(iii) 252 man-months (21 man-years) of fellowships for the
training of Yemeni staff in management, planning and
other areas.
(e) Incremental Operating Costs:
(i) salaries and allowances of incremental Yemeni staff;
(ii) costs of training workshops, local travel, per diem and
teaching materials for basic and refresher training
courses for students;
(iii) training supplies and educational materials;
(iv) vehicle operation and maintenance costs.
C. Detailed Project Description
Part A. Strengthening of the Ministry of Health
3.05    This Part of the project, comprising five components, would
provide an integrated program of technical assistance and training to
strengthen MOH's capability to plan, implement and manage YAR's health
care system. The annual work program and budget requirements for each
component would be defined by MOH and reviewed annually with IDA.
3.06    Planning, Finance and Administration. This component would provide
training and technical assistance for: the newly-established Planning and
Follow-up Unit (PFU); and the Directorate-General of Finance and
Administration, specifically its Directorates of Finance and Personnel.
3.07    The PFU, established by a recent GYAR decree, would consist of
four main sections: health planning and budgeting; manpower planning;
physical planning; and statistics. It would report to the Deputy Minister
and Under-Secretary of Health, coordinate all information from MOH's
operating departments and provide feedback. Its main functions would be



16
to establish annual budget guidelines for M0H7s operating departments;
establish budgets and accounts for MOHI's programs and activities; and
prepare 5-year and other long-term plans, including their financial and
administrative feasibility, as inputs into the National Development Plan.
3.08    MOH's Statistics Department Twhich, until recently, was under the
Directorate-General of Health Administration Affairs, now forms part of
the PFU Unit.  Its function would be collection and analysis of service
statistics, and of data and information about supplies an6 equipment for
use by MOH managers, PFU and the Evaluation and Research Unit.
3.09    The project would provide the PFU Unit with three internationally
recruited advisers, for two years each, in general health planning and
budgeting, manpower planning, and physical planning.  It would also
finance two senior Yemenis: one to be the Director of the PFU Unit and
counterpart to the adviser on Health Planning and Budgetizg, and the other
to be counterpart to the Physical Planner.  The existing Director of
Manpower Development would be the counterpart to the Manpower Planner. The
project would also provide for employment of one Yemeni Statistical
Technician to be the Director of the Statistics Department and counterpart
to a WHO funded Adviser who is expected to be on post shortly.  The
project would provide funds for a 2-year fellowship for the Statistical
Technician, in-service training for some thirty statistical clerks and
orientation seminars for key staff in MOH. Remaining staff of the PFU
Unit would come from the Projects Department and from the Directorate-
General of Finance and Administration. The project would finance the
training in Yemen of middle- and lower-level technical staff at the
National Institute of Public Administrati'on (NIPA), and one-year
fellowships for each of the Yemeni counterparts. With respect to the
Directorates of Finance and Personnel, the project would provide one
technical advisor for 9 man-months for each directorate and 6 man-months
of training fellowships for each Yemeni counterpart.  It would also
provide office furniture and equipment, printing of new forms, incremental
consumable supplies, and funds for local travel.
3.10    Supplies Management System. Through the General Directorate of
Pharmacy and Medical Supplies and the Directorate of Vehicles, Transport
and Maintenance, the project would assist in establishing a supplies
management system for drugs, laboratory chemicals, equipment, vehicles and
medical supplies.
3.11    It would provide three full-time technical advisors for a total
period of three years: for drug and medical supply planning and
management (18 man-months); for vehicle and transport management (9
man-months); and for equipment management and maintenance (9 man-months).
The project would also provide: five additional Yemeni staff as deputies
to the Directors; finance the trainnrga of five central and five



- 17 -
governorate staff in storekeeping; and three man-years of fellowships for
six-month training in each of the following: drug supply and dispensing,
procurement and medical supply, transport management, and equipment and
maintenance management.
3.12    The project would finance the construction and equipping of a
warehouse and maintenance workshop in Hodeidah; five vehicles for
distributing supplies, supervision, and general support in Sana'a and
Hodeidah; and a sample study on the utilization of drugs.
3.13    Evaluation and Research. The Evaluation and Research Unit (E&R),
under the Director-General of Medical and Health Services, would help
design evaluation and monitoring systems and initiate, coordinate and
carry out evaluation and research activities in collaboration with
relevant departments of MOH.
3.14    The project would provide one full-time advisor for a period of
two years; 12 man-months of fellowships; five Yemeni staff including one
Director, one Evaluation and Research Assistant, one Statistical Clerk and
office supporting staff; and funds for studies, sub-contracts, materials,
forms and incremental operating costs.
3.15    Health Education.  This component would help strengthen the
Central Health Education Unit (CHEU) under the Directorate-General of
Medical and Health Services. To assist in the development of a health
education plan and strategy, the project would provide one expatriate
technical advisor for 12 man-months and, to assist in detailed preparation
of educational programs, one full-time advisor for 18 man-months. The
project would finance two senior Yemeni counterparts; 12 man-months of
training for Yemeni staff; and furniture and equipment, one vehicle,
incremental consumable supplies, production of audio-visual material,
audio visual equipment and other materials.
3.16    Nutrition.  MOH has recently established a Nutrition Unit to help
GYAR develop a nutrition and food policy. The Nutrition Unit would
coordinate food and nutrition activities in YAR, initiate and collect
nutritional surveys, formulate plans and test programs to combat
malnutrition and help develop a national food and nutrition strategy. The
Unit would be in the Directorate-General of Health and Medical Services.
The project would provide a senior technical advisor for food and
nutrition planning for two years; one counterpart as Director; two Yemeni
Nutrition Assistants; and funds for 18 man-months of fellowships.
Part B. Health Manpower Institute (HMI)
3.17     MOH's present lack of trained manpower is in part the result of
weakness in the three facets of human resource development: manpower
planning, staff management and manpower production. The project would



- 18 -
improve manpower planning through its support for the Planning and
Follow-up Unit. Technical assistance to the Personnel Department would
enable it to introduce policies and procedures for personnel management,
particularly concerning career development. Finally, the project would
support manpower production through provision of facilities and equipment
and technical assistance to the Health Manpower Institute.  The HMI
component has the following four elements:
3.18    Strengthening HMI's Management and Planning.  GYAR's second Plan
health manpower targets are unrealistic and MOH has developed a revised
and more realistic manpower plan, which forms the basis for the HMI part
of the project. The emphasis of training will be on specific
task-oriented cadres to meet the needs of the 5-Year Plan. The HMI would
establish a close working relationship with the Planning and Follow-up
Unit.
3.19    Expanding HMI's Training Capacity.  The project would increase
HMI's training capacity by about 270 places involving the schools at
Hodeidah, Taiz and a rural health training school in Hajjah. It is
estimated that the output by the end of the project would have increased
from its current 210 graduates a year to about 410.  In addition to HMI
Sana'a, training would be carried out in the following locations:
(a)  Hodeidah:  The project would finance a new school with
boarding facilities for 140 students, of
which about 90 would be additional capacity;
(b)  Taiz    :  There is already a school and a boy's hostel
at Taiz and the project would build a hostel
for 100 girls to improve enrollment;
(c)  Hajjah  : MOH's training strategy includes the
development of rural health training schools
(RHTS) in selected rural areas where
population density and involvement of the
LDAs could increase the enrollment of
prospective students in a one-year course
specially designed to provide the necessary
support staff for the PHC program. The
project would provide funds for one RHTS
including boarding facilities for 90
students.



- 19 -
3.20    Improving the Quality of HMI's Training Programs
(a)  The project would provide for strengthening the trainipng of
Yemeni trainers. Until now, the expatriate experts at HMI
have been used frequently as direct trainers of students.
Provision would be made for two man-years of long-term (one
man-year minimum), and one man-year of short-term (less than
one man-year) experts whose main role would be to train
Yemenis as trainers and help develop curricula. The number
of Yemeni trainers involved would amount to 91. The project
would also provide fellowships for the training of Yemeni
staff comprising a total of 21 man-years in human
resource/training management; curriculum development/training
planning; training evaluation; training implementation;
management training; community health teaching, etc.
(b)  In-service training and improving the curricula of existing
courses would become an important part of the training
strategy. An in-service training program would be instituted
to allow about 1,850 MOH health workers to participate in
two-week courses during a three-year period. The in-service
training program for MOH staff would be a continuous
program.
(c)  Curricula for existing courses need to be evaluated; also
there is need for standardization of format. To this end,
the project would assist HMI through technical assistance.
(d)  Technical assistance for developing courses and curricula
would be provided by the long-term consultants mentioned in
(a) above.
3.21    Training in Health Administration and Health Statistics:  The
National Institute for Public Administration (NIPA) has agreed to design a
series of one-month in-service courses in administration and management
for MOH staff in charge of clinics, hospitals and district health
offices. The total number of staff to be trained would be approximately
120.
3.22    By the end of the project period, a substantially revised and
expanded training program should be in place. The program would emphasize
the delivery of basic health services, preventive health and primary
health care, because these are the priority areas for the overall health
plan.



- 20 -
IV. PROJECT COSTS AND FINANCING
A. Cost Estimates
4.01    Estimated total project cost, including contingencies (US$2.8
million), is US$15.8 million, of which US$8.6 million (54%) is the foreign
exchange component (Table 4.01). Unit costs of construction take into
account recent experience under Credit 915-YAR (Third Education Project),
adjusted for geographical variations. Equipment and furniture costs have
been estimated as a percentage of construction costs. Cost estimates for
short-term consultants? services average US$9,000 per man-month, and for
longer-term consultants' services US$7,100 per man-month. The estimated
cost of fellowships, including travel, averages about US$1,220 per
man-month. Project costs, based on prices current in October, 1981 and
updated to negotiations, do not include taxes or import duties because
IDA-supported projects in YAR are exempted. Project costs by component and
by category of expenditure are summarized in Tables 4.01 and 4.02.
4.02    Physical contingencies for unforeseen factors are estimated at 10%
of base cost of civil works, furniture and equipment, and 5% of the
estimated cost of vehicles. Price contingencies amount to about 15% of
base cost plus physical contingencies, on the basis of the following
assumed inflation rates:
1982            1983          1984/85
Local Foreign Local Foreign Local Foreign
Civil Works                  11.0%   8.0%   11.0%   8.0%   10.0%   7.5%
Furniture, Equipment,
Materials, Vehicles         10.0%   8.0%   10.0%   8.0%    8.0%   7.5%
Technical Assistance,
Salaries, Operation Costs  8.0%   8.0%    8.0%   8.0%    7.0%   7.5%
Total contingencies of US$2.8 million are estimated at 21% of the base
cost.
4.03    The US$8.6 million estimated foreign exchange component (54% of
total project cost) assumes that all civil works would be awarded to local
contractors and that most furniture and all equipment and vehicles would
be imported. The foreign exchange component by category of expenditure is
as follows: civil works 60%; furniture and equipment 80%; supplies and
educational materials 70%; vehicles 100%; technical assistance 80%;
fellowships 70%; vehicle operating costs 50%; other operating costs 30%.
4.04    About US$4.8 million of total project costs represents incremental
recurrent costs for salaries, supplies and operating expenses that are a
direct result of project investments and that would continue indefinitely



Table 4.01:  ESTIMATED PROJECT COST BY EXPENDITURE CATEGORIES
YR ('000)                   USS (million)            %       % of
I.  Construction and Hardware            Foreign    Local       Total   Foreign   Local    Total   FEC   Base Cost
Civil Works                           11,216    7,478    18,694    2,492    1,662    4,154    60            31.7
Furniture and Equipment (*)            5,090    1,272       6,362    1,131        283    1,414    80        10.8
Education Material & Supplies          2,153       922      3,075       479       204       683    70        5.2
Vehicles  (*)                          2,322       -        2,322       516       -         516   100        3.9
Subtotal I                        20,781    9,672    30,453    4,618    2,149    6,767    68           51.6
II. Technical Assistance
Consultancies (incl.Pr.Mgt)            8,229    2,057    10,286    1,829          457    2,286    80        17.4
Fellowships                            1,548       664      2,212       344       148       492    70        3.8
Training & Seminars                      272       634        906         60      141       201    30        1.5
Studies                                  -         378        378       -          84        84    -         0.6
Subtotal II                       10,049    3,733    13,782    2,233          830    3,063    73       23.3
III.  Recurrent Costs
Salaries of Incr. Key Staff (*)          -       4,800      4,800       -       1,067    1,067    -          8.1
Salaries Incr. Support Staff (*)         -       6,380      6,380       -       1,418    1,418    -         10.8
Rent                                     -         933        933       -         207       207    -         1.6
Vehicle Operating Costs (*)               497      497        994       110       111       221    50        1.7
Other Operating Costs (*)                 485    1,131      1,616       108       251       359    30        2.7
Subtotal III                         982   13,741    14,723         218    3,054    3,272        7     24.9
Subtotal Base Cost I+II+III           31,812   27,146    58,958    7,069    6,033   13,102    54    100.0
Physical Contingencies                 1,961       967      2,928       436       214       650    67        4.9
Price Contingencies                    4,989    4,487       9,476    1,109        997    2,106    53        16.1
Subtotal Contingencies             6,950    5,454    12,404    1,544    1,212    2,756    56           21.0
TOTAL COST                 38,762   32,600    71,362    8,613    7,245   15J858    54    121.0
(*) Partially financed under PPF which totals US$140,000 (see para. 4.08).



Table 4.02: SUMMARY OF ESTIMATED PROJECT COST BY COMPONENT
YR ('000)                     US$ ('000)                %         %
Foreign    Local    Total       Foreign   Local        Total    FEC    Base Cost
Part A: MOH-Base Cost
- Health Education               1,714      1,572    3,286        381        349         730    52.1       5.6
- Planning and Finance
Administration               2,875      2,509    5,384        639        558       1,197    53.3       9.1
- Supplies Management            4,198      3,260    7,458        933        725       1,658    56.2      12.6
- Nutrition                      1,076      1,631    2,707        239        362         601    39.7       4.6
- Statistics                       783        950    1,733        174        211         385    45.1        2.9
- Evaluation and Research        1,100      1,397    2,497        244        310         554    44.0        4.2
- Project Management (FIU) (*) 2,239        3,031    5,270        498        674       1,172    42.5        8.9
Subtotal (A)             13,995    14,350   28,335        3,108      3,189       6,297    49.3      48.0
PART B:  Base Cost
- Health Manpower Institute   17,827    12,796   30,623         3,961      2,844       6,805    58.2       51.9
Subtotal (B)             17,827    12,796   30,623        3,961      2,844       6,805    38.2      51.9
Subtotal Base Cost              31,812    27,146   58,958       7,069      6,033      13,102    54.0    100.0
Contingencies
Physical Contingencies           1,961        967    2,928        436        214         650    67.0        4.9
Price Contingencies              4,989      4,487    9,476      1,109        997       2,106    52.6       16.1
Subtotal Contingencies   6,950       5,454   12,404       1,544      1,212       2,756    56.0      21.0
TOTAL              38,762    32,600   71,362        8,613     7 245      15,858    54.3    121.0
(*) Partially financed under PPF which totals US$140,000 (see para. 4.08).



- 23 -
after project completion. These incremental costs, amounting to about
US$1.6 million equivalent per annum or about 2.6% of MOH's current revenue
budget should be incorporated into MOH's budget; this represents the
average for three years through annual progressive increments.
4.05    The project would also give rise to incremental recurrent costs
for students' training not included in total project costs. GYAR should
ensure that those additional costs, estimated at US$1.3 million equivalent
annually, would be met.
4.06    The project would finance 17 internationally recruited technical
advisors for MOH and 1MI under terms of reference agreeable to IDA, each
of whom would have a Yemeni counterpart. Because the project would
require a substantially greater degree of effort, commitment and
on-the-job training, some supplementation of standard MOH salaries would
be required to recruit and retain Yemeni counterparts of the desired
cali'bre. Accordingly, MOH has agreed to the setting up of a Salary
Supplement Fund (SSF) to finance salary supplementation for key project
Yemeni staff. The total amount, including contingencies, to be allocated
to the SSF under the proposed credit is about US$212,000 to be paid into
the SSF on a phased basis over three years. During negotiations, GYAR
provided IDA with (a) assurances that it would take necessary steps to
incorporate progressively SSF expenditures into the recurrent expenditure
budget of the MOH, leading to full budgetary provisions of such
expenditures by fiscal year 1986; and (b) a list of the estimated 20 key
Yemeni staff eligible for the salary supplement.
B. Financing
4.07    The proposed IDA credit of US$10.5 million (SDR 9.62 million)
would finance the full foreign exchange cost of the project (US$8.6
million) and US$1.9 million of local currency expenditures, together
amounting to 66% of estimated total project cost. The balance of total
project costs of US$5.3 million, or 34%, would be met by GYAR. The United
Nations Children's Fund (UNICEF) indicated that it is considering
contributing US$2.4 million equivalent as a part of YAR Government
contribution. It is noted that this would be the first time UNICEF would
associate itself with an IDA-assisted project in YAR.
Project Preparation Facility (PPF).
4.08    At the request of the Government, IDA has approved an advance of
up to US$140,000 equivalent from the Project Preparation Facility to
assist in financing certain expenditures necessary to complete the
preparation and initiate implementation of the project (Annex 6).



- 24 -
V. PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION
A. Management
5.01    MOH would be the implementing agency for both parts of the
project. Under the overall guidance of the Minister of Health, the Under-
Secretary of MOH would have responsibility for supervising project
execution with a Project Manager, assisted by a Project Advisor,
responsible for day-to-day coordination and management of the entire
project. Communications with IDA would be maintained through the Under
Secretary.
5.02       To assist in implementing the project, MOH would establish a
Project Implementation Unit (PIU) staffed by the Project Manager, the
Project Advisor and one internationally recruited expert (one consulting
engineer). The Project Advisor,would, inter alia, assist the Project
Manager in recruiting staff, appointing and supervising consultants,
arranging fellowships and training programs, preparing workplans, designs
and reports, carrying out procurement, arranging local funding,
maintaining project accounts and for project evaluation. Detailed terms
of reference are in Annex 7 (B.9). Supporting staff would consist of a
Yemeni architect or engineer, an accountant/administrative assistant, a
draftsman, a translator, two typists, a secretary and sundry staff to be
locally recruited. Part of the cost of the PIU involving the incremental
salaries of the Project Manager and Architect/Engineer will be financed on
a sliding scale from proceeds of the credit (Annex 5).
5.03       Project execution is estimated to require three years and a
detailed implementation schedule has been drafted and accepted by GYAR
during negotiations. Organizational charts for MOH and for project
management have also been prepared (See Charts 1 and 2). A detailed
implementation schedule based on the above will address the following:
(i) the timely dispatch by MOH of essential documents to IDA for review;
(ii) timely arrangements of local funding; and (iii) MOH's timing of
quarterly reports, evaluation reports and the project completion report;
and (iv) the timely recruitment of project incremental staff. Following
project execution, a project completion report (PCR) will be prepared by
MOH within six months of completion. During the period of implementation,
the E&R Unit would assist in establishing basic indicators for project
evaluation in terms of measuring project inputs, processes, performance
and outcomes.
B. Procurement
5.04    All contracts for civil works amounting to US$5.2 million would be
let after international competitive bidding. Contracts for furniture and
equipment (US$1.8 million), supplies and materials (US$0.9 million), and



- 25 -
vehicles (US$0.7 million) would be grouped, where feasible, to attract
international competitive bidding. However, small contracts below
US$50,000 which cannot be grouped appropriately and not exceeding
US$200,000 in total, would be let after local competitive bidding under
procedures acceptable to IDA. Prudent shopping (at least three
competitive bids) would apply for contrAr!ts estimated to cost US$10,000 or
less but not exceeding US$200,000 in total. Local manufacturers of
Furniture or equipment would be granted a margin of preference of 15X of
the cif price of competing foreign bids or the prevailing customs duty,
whichever is lower.
5.05    GYAR has already appointed the Project Manager and the Project
Advisor. GYAR has hired a recruitment firm, agreeable to IDA, to assist
with recruitment of technical assistance personnel. Recruitment of
international staff may proceed in phases, specifically in the first
pW6se: the training planner and, training implementation specialist for
HMI, and the health, physical and manpower planners, and nutrition planner
(MOH). GYAR is planning to start the first phase of recruitment even
prior to effectiveness of the proposed health credit in which case it
would be financed during that period from proceeds of the Credit 915-YAR
(Third Education Project). The Project Manager and Project Advisor will
organize training fellowships for Yemeni counterpart staff and IDA will
assist MOH to develop a prominent relationship with institutions to
provide back-up for training during and after project period. A phased
program will be introduced for fellows and advisors for maximum impact on
Yemeni staff. Yemeni counterpart staff, on completion of training, will
overlap for six months with the internationally recruited staff. Yemeni
staff are required by MOH to return to their posts for at least a period
of five years after completion of their fellowships.
C. IDA Review Requirements
5.06    Documents for all civil works and for bid packages for goods
estimated to cost US$50,000 equivalent or more would be subject to IDA's
review prior to finalization. This would result in IDA reviewing about
50% of all contracts. For each category (civil works, furniture,
vehicles, etc.), IDA would review one complete set of draft standard bid
and contract documents, the criteria for prequalification, the bid
invitation and advertisements and the contract award recommendation. IDA
would also review and approve the terms of reference, evaluation criteria
and contracts for all consultancies.



- 26 -
D. Accounting and Audit
5.07    MOH would keep separate accounts for HMI and MOH of all project-
related activities. During negotiations GYAR agreed that the project's
accounts will be audited by an independent auditor acceptable to IDA; and
that MOH will furnish to IDA six months after the end of each fiscal year
an audit report in such a detail as IDA may reasonably request.
E. Disbursement
5.08    Funds from the credit account would be disbursed according to the
following schedule:
Amount of Credit
Allocated           % of Expenditures
Category              (US$ Equivalent)         to be Financed
(1) Civil Works for             2,492,000    60% of total.
new RMI facilities
(2) Furniture, equipment,       2,817,000    100% of foreign expenditures,
materials and vehicles                    100% of local expenditures
(ex-factory) and 70% of local
expenditures for other items
procured locally off-the-shelf.
(3) Consultants' services,    3,000,000    100%
training, including
fellowships and studies
(4) Special account               130,000
(salary supplement)
100% for the first, 50% for the
second and 30% for the third
(5) Incremental salaries          130,000    twelve-month periods following
of eligible staff                         the Effective Date, of payments
(Project Manager and                     made.
Project Architect/
Engineer)
(6) Refund of the Project         140,000    Amount due.
Preparation Advance
(7) Unallocated                 1,800,000



- 27 -
5.09    The proposed credit is expected to be fully disbursed in 3½ years,
with cumulative disbursements amounting to 9%, 55% and 96% at the end of
the first, second and third project years. (Annex 3). Disbursements for
SSF expenditure will be made against Statement of Expenditures for which
the Borrower would maintain the supporting documentation for review by the
Associations' supervision missions.
5.10    The project's disbursement profile, which shows a faster rate of
disbursement than the YAR project profile, is based on the extent of
preparation done regarding completion of detailed designs, tender
documents and recruitment of key staff by Board presentation and credit
effectiveness.
VI. PROJECT JUSTIFICATION AND RISKS
A. Benefits
6.01    The project's justification and two main benefits would be
institutional: the strengthening of MOH's planning, management and
implementation capacity in general, and for GYAR's BHS/PHC program, in
particular; and the development, through HMI, of locally-trained health
manpower required to staff the longer-term expansion of BHS/PHC services
and facilities.
6.02    As far as MOH is concerned, the qualifications and experience of
its staff would be substantially enhanced by the 150 man-months of
fellowships and by on-the-job training from the 222 man-months of
long-term consultants provided under the project. This substantial
investment in staff training and development, along with the creation of
the Planning and Follow-up Unit, would strengthen the MOH's ability to
plan, manage and implement GYAR's health policies and programs, including
the activities of foreign donors and local authorities. Health sector
human and financial resources would thus he utilized more effectively and
in conformity with GYAR's overall development priorities. In addition,
MOH's improved capacity to assess its needs and priorities would
facilitate preparation of a second project, which would probably include
BHS/PTHC service delivery activities, including family planning. Such a
project would consolidate and apply the outcomes of institution-building
and training to health service delivery.
6.03    Regarding ffMI, its annual output of graduates would increase from
210 at present to 410 by 1985, and the content and quality of its training
particularly for nurses, assistant midwives, community health nurses and
practical nurses, would be re-oriented to the specific needs of the
BHS/PHC program.  HMIT's total output of manpower during the three years
1982-85 would be 1486. This figure falls substantially short of GYAR's
2nd Plan health manpower targets, which are not feasible, but is
consistent with MOH's assessment of the sector's absorptive capacity, in
terms of health services, by that date (Annex 4).



- 28 -
6.04    A long-term indirect benefit would be a small, but potentially
significant, improvement in the condition of Yemeni women. The rural
health training schools include dormitories for female students, in order
to make it feasible for young women to attend while staying close to
home. Officials of MOH and non-governmental organizations that do health
training are confident that young women are interested in being trained,
provided that appropriate supervised accommodations are available; and an
increase in the number of female health workers would, in turn, increase
women's access to health services, which at present is marginal because of
their reluctance to be treated by males.  Other long-term benefits would
be: changes in the pattern and distribution of health service delivery
through staffing changes, leading to more emphasis on primary care and
more rural areas having access to services; and, an improvement in HMI's
institutional capability so that its key, staff and students are
effectively task-oriented through basic and in-service training.
B. Risks
6.05    This project carries the risks inherent in any institution-
building project involving a weak implementing agency. Moreover, three
specific risk elements are also present: the possibility of continued
underutilization of HMI's expanded capacity3/; the difficulty of
recruiting and retaining qualified local staff; and the possibly slow rate
of implementation of the project's infrastructure components. These three
risks and the actions taken or planned to minimize them are summarized
below:
(a)  Underutilization of -MI
GYAR has recently decided to employ RMI students upon their
enrollment, thus eliminating the earlier problem of
inadequate stipends. In addition, MOH/HMI plan to solicit
the active involvement of the LDAs in the respective
districts concerned in the recruitment of students.  HMI's
experience in utilizing the LDAs in Hodeidah is indicative of
possible success in other areas.
(b)  Retention of MOH Staff
Despite the recent increase in GYAR salaries, there is a risk
that MOH will have continued difficulty in retaining
qualified staff, if the anomalies in MOH's existing salary
3/   The risk attributable also to a limited pool of school leavers is
minimized, in the long run, by an estimated 100% increased production
of preparatory school graduates in 1981-86, due in some degree to
on-going IDA-supported education projects.



- 29 -
and grading structure are not eliminated.  In the short term,
the proposed SSF should help ensure recruitment and retention
of key project staff but MOH, with assistance provided under
the project, will need to improve its longer-term career
development and other personnel management practices.
(c) Delays in Project Implementation
In order to reduce the risk of delays in project start-up,
GYAR would recruit key project management staff with funds
available ji&'-r  1'c TDA-supported Third Education Project to
help prepare architectural designs and tender documentation.
6.06    Overall positive factors making these risks acceptable are the
care and thoroughness of the project's design and preparation during the
past two years; GYAR's commitment to the project's institution-building
objectives; and the history of similar IDA-supported activities in the
Ministries of Education, Agriculture and Public Works, and in the Central
Planning Organization.
VII. RECOMMENDATIONS
7.01    During negotiations, agreement with the Government was reached on
the following points:
(a) GYAR will set up and provide funds for the Salary Supplement Fund
(SSF), assuming full responsibility for the SSF on a sliding scale
by the end of the project.  GYAR has also provided a list of the
estimated 20 key Yemeni staff eligible for the salary supplement
(para. 4.06);
(b) GYAR will employ technical advisors under terms of reference
acceptable to IDA (para. 4.06);
(c) Yemeni counterparts, on completion of training, will overlap for a
period of six months with the internationally recruited staff
(para. 5.05); and
(d) the project's accounts will be audited by an independent
accountant acceptable to IDA (para. 5.07).



YEMEN ARAB RBPUBLIC
ORGANIZATION OF THE MINISTRY OF HEALTH
(Revised)
F__~[e
Suprene Board
Drugs & Medical                             i
Supplies
Man o.er Develoi    n   t,,
rProject Implementation ||Deputy M n ster &                                                               Planningr ondlpn  Di.I
Unit (PIU)                                     Under-Secretary                                                                                ( olop   nt     frl
Ofce of the Depty. Minister
|   Under-Secretary of Heal th                                         Stisc|
Asst. Deputy Min.
and Undersecretary                                                                                                                                                                                   w
for Finance & Adm.
Directorate Cen.                                    Directorate General                               Directorate General                       Directorate  Cener-l
Finance b Admin.                                Pharm. b Medic. Suppl.                           ofLfealth & Med. Serve.                    of NealIt   Dept. Affairs
|Dir.  for |    Dir, of           Dir, of        Dir                                ir. of    Dir  of               Dir, of       Dir, of        Dir. of          Dir,  of                 Dir. of
Archive         Vehicles          Personnel    Account               Pharmacy    PMedical    Furchasg.              Curative       Prevent.      Basic            Int. Health              Regn. I
+ Secr.   Trans. 6 M.             & l   6 Bud ge t                    p_                     es      Medicine       Medicine       Health                                   Licens.
General Directorates of Health
In The 11 Governorates
i ealth   |    aluation
|     |  |Education|  |nd Beaearch



YEMEN ARAB REPtB.LIC
HEALTH PROJECT
PROJECT MANAGEMENT ORGANIZATION CHART
MINISTER
OF HEALTH
I
Tlnderseretary&
Deput  ?inister
rProi ect Impl. UTnit            V  rolect|  
| Proect anager          F'd-so
Health Planning
Physical Planning  - ----  Planning and  -----------_______________ ---------------------------------------                ----
Follow-up Unit
Statistics
Manpower Dev.
( I)          ~~~----------------------- --------------____________  ______--------------------------
Dir. Gen. of
Dir. Gen. of            Dir. Gen. of                                            Dir. Gen. of Health               Health Dept.
Finance & Admin.        Pharm.& Med.                                            and Med. Services                 Affairs
Incl. Transport         Supplies                                              -    -     _A  
_ (Medical Supplies) _                                                Dir. of Basic Hlth.Serv.
Dep.Dir.     Dep.Dir.   Dep.Dir.    Dep. Dir.    Dep. Dir.                         Evaluation   Nutrition    Health
Transport    Equipmt.   Pharmacy    Med. Suppl.  Purchasing                        & Research                Education
(Procuremt.)



- 32 -
CHART 3
YEMEN ARAB REPUBLIC
HEALTH PROJECT
PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION UNIT
ORGANIZATION CHART
Project           Project
Manager           Advisor
Senior                  ranslator            Accountant/
Consulting                                   Administrative
Engineer                                     Assistant
Engineer/           Draftsman                         Secretary (1)
Architect          I            I                     Typists (2)
Drivers (2)
Office Attendant/
Messenger
Office Attendant/
Sweeper
Watchman



- 33 -
ANNEX 1
Page 1
YEMEN ARAB REPUBLIC
COST TABLES
CODIFICATION SYSTEM USED FOR COST TABLES
1. Health    2. Health  3. Planning    4. Supplies  5. Nutri-  6. Sta-  7. Evalua.  8. Project
Manp. Inst.  Education  & Fin. Admin.   Management         tion    tistics  & Research  Management
1.  Construction                 1.1            -             -              1.4          -           -          -             -
2.  Furniture & Equipment        2.1           2.2           2.3             2.4         2.5         2.6        2.7           2.8
3.  Supplies and
Educational Materials        3.1           3.2            -              3.4         3.5         3.6        3.7           3.8
4.  Vehicles                     4.1           4.2            -              4.4         4.5         4.6        4.7           4.8
.  Technical Assistance          5.1           3.2           5.3             5.4         5.5          -         .7            7.8
6.  Fellowships                  6.1           6.2           6.3             6.4         6.5         6.6        6.7            -
7.  Training                     7.1            -             -              7.4         7.5         7.6         -
8.  Studies                       -                           -               -          8.5          -         8-7            -
9.A Incremental Yemeni
Key Staff (SSF)             9A.1          9A.2          9A.3            9A.4        9A.5        9A.6       9A.7          9A.8
9.B Incremental Yemeni
Support Staff              9B.1          9B.2           9B.3            9B.4        9B.5       9B.6       9B.7          9B.8
10. Rent                          -           10.2          10.3              -         10.5          -          -          10.8
11. Vehicle Operations          11.1          11.2            -              11.4       11.5        11.6      11.7          11.8
12. Other Operations           12.1          12.2          12.3              124        12.5       12.6       12 .7         12.8



- '34 -                                 AANNEX 1
Page 2
YAR HEALTH PROJECT
DETAILED COST TABLES (YR)
ADJUSTED FOR THE TIME OF NEGOTIATIONS/BOARD PRESENTATION (*)
1982                1983             1984            1985          TOTAL         FEC
1.    CONSTRUCTION
1.1   HMI
1.1   - 1.  HMI Hodeidah
training + boarding
facilities for 50
girls, 90 boys,2,250
M2 x YR 2,587 + site
works                        -               3,201,000        3,201,000           -         6,402,000
- 2. HMI Taiz
boarding facilities
for 100 girls =
1,042 M2 x 3,075 +
site works =                 -               1,762,000        1,762,000           -         3,524,000
- 3. RHTS Hajjah training
+ boarding facilities
for 30 girls, 0
boys = 1,370 M x
YR 4,450 + site works        -               3,353,000        3,353,000           -         6,706,000
Subtotal 1.1                 -               8,316,000        8,316,000           -        16,632,000
1.4   Supplies Management
1.4   - 1.  Hodeidah warehouse
+ maintenance workshop
725 ML x 2,585 + site
works                        -               1,031,000        1,031,000           -         2,062,000
Subtotal 1.4                 -               1,031,000        1,031,000           -         2,062,000
SUBTOTAL BASE COST 1         -               9,347,000        9,347,000           -        18,694,000        60%
2.   FURNITUJRE-AND EQUIPMFNT
2.1   HMI
2.1   - 1.  For HMI Hodeidah
(1.1-1) 25%                  -                                1,600,000           -         1,600,000
- 2.a.  For HMI Taiz (1.1-2)  -                    -              881,000           -           881,000
b. For existing dorm-
itories for 48 boys        -                 287,000            -               -           287,000
- 3.  RHTS                     -                   -            1,676,000           -         1,676,000
Subtotal 2.1                 -                 287,000        4,157,000           -         4,444,000
2.2   Health Education
2.2   - 1.  For HQ office             -                 110,000            -               -          110,000
- 2.  Audiovisual +
production equipment         -                 103,000            -                           103,000
Subtotal 2.2                 -                 213,000            -               -           213,000
2.3   Planning, Finance
Administration
2.3   - 1.  For HQ office             -                 206,000            -               -          206,000
Subtotal 2.3                                   206,000            -               -           206,000
2.4   Supplies Management
2.4   - 1.  For Hodeidah ware-
house + workshop
(1.4-1)                      -                   -              516,000           -           516,000
- 2.  For HQ office            -                   57,000            -              -            57,000
Subtotal 2.4                 -                  57,000          516,000           -           573,000
2.5   Nutrition
2.5   - 1.  For HQ office             -                 180,000            -               -          180,000
Subtotal 2.5                 -                 180,000            -               -           180,000
(*) July/September 1982.



ANNEX 1
e3
YAR HEALTH PROJECT
DETAILED COST TABLES (YR)
ADJUSTED FOR THE TIME OF NEGOTIATIONS/BOARD PRESENTATION
1982                1983             1984             1985            TOTAL         FEC
2.6   Statistics
2.6   - 1.  For HQ office                                  51,000          257,000            -            308,000
Subtotal 2.6                                         51,000         257,000             -           308,000
2.7   Evaluation + Research
2.7   - 1.  For E + R office            -                 128,000            -                -            128,000
Subtotal 2.7                     -                  128,000           -                 -           128,000
2.8   Project Management
2.8   - 1.  At PIU (*)            96,000                  214,000            -                -            310,000
Subtotal 2.8                96,000                  214,000           -                 -           310,000
SUBTOTAL. BASE COST 2       96,000                1,336,000       4,930,000             -         6,362,000       80%
3.    SUPPLIES + EDUCATIONAL MATERIAL
3.1   HMI
3.1   - 1.  Handouts + manuals
f.2,000 stud. x 230 YR        -                  127,000         150,000          183,000        460,000
- 2. Training, medical
supplies, f. lab +
field 2,000 x 345 YR          -                 183,000          230,000          277,000        690,000
- 3. Visual aid materials
(tapes, slides) 80 x
5,750                         -                  127,000         150,000          183,000        460,000
Sublotal 3.1                    -                  437,000         530,000           643,000    1,610,000
3.2   Health Education
3.2   - 1.  Raw materials for
production of a.v.
materials                     -                    -              52,000          104,000        156,000
- 2. Tools, spare parts,
supplies, others (exhib.)   -                     94,000          73,000            78,000       245,000
Subtotal 3.2                    -                   94,000         125,000           182,000       401,000
3.4   Supplie. Mlanagement
3.4   - 1.  Material, spare
parts, f. maintenance
workshop                      -                                                    350,000       350,000
Subtotal 3.4                                         -               -               350,000       350,000
3.5   Nutrition
3.5   - 1.  Forms, educational
materials, supplies        -                      52,000          52,000            52,000       156,000
Subtotal 3.5                                        52,000          52,000            52,000       156,000
3.6   Statistics
3.6   - 1.  Recoruing, reporting,
supplies                                          77,000          83,000            89,000       249,000
Subtotal 3.6                                        77,000          83,000            89,000       249,000
3.7   Evaluation + Research
3.7   - 1.  Forms, supplies,
reference materials           -                   77,000          73,000            78,000       228,000
Subtotal 3.7                    -                   77,000          73,000            78,000       228,000
3.8   Project Management - PIU
3.8   - 1.  Office supplies,
prints (*)                    -                   23,000          29,000            29,000        81,000
Subtotal 3.8                    -                   23,000          29,000            29,000        81,000
SUBTOTAL BASE COST 3            -                  760,000         892,000         1,423,000    3,075,000 ___  t
4.    VEHICLES
4.1   HMI
4.1     L..    HMI Sana'a (Instit.)
one 4 wh-dr sb 81,500         -                    -              81,500             -            81,500
i- b    HMI Sana'a 2 buses
(20S) x YR 113,000            -                   -              226,000            -            226,000
(*) Financed during 6 months under the PPF



-36 -                                  ANNEX 1
Page 4
YAR HEALTH PROJECT
DETAILED COST TABLES (YR)
ADJUSTED FOR THE TIME OF NEGOTIATIONS/BOARD PRESENTATION
1982                 1983             1984              1985           TOTAL          FEC
4.1   - 2.a.  HMI Hodeidah:
one 4 wh-dr sb x YR
81,500                                    -                          -                81,500        81,500
- 2.b. 2 buses (12 S)
YR 66,000                      -                    -                -               132,000       132,000
- 2.c. 2 buses (30 S)
YR 143,000                     -                    -                -               286,000        286,000
- 3.a   RHTS:
one 4 wh-dr sb x YR
81,500                         -                    -                -                81,500         81,500
- 3.b   one bus (30 S) x
YR 143,000                     -                    -                -               143,000        143,000
Subtotal 4.1                   -                    -              307,500           724,000    1.031.500
4.2   Health Education
4.2   - 1.  One 4 wh-dr
(long-B) YR
92,000                         -                    -               92,000             -             92,000
Subtotal 4.2                   -                    -               92,000             -             92,000
4.4   Supplies Management
4.4   - 1.  One Sedan at HQ
x YR 56,500                    -                    -               56,500             -             56,500
- 2, HQ one 1-1/2 tons
pickup HQ x 76,000             -                    -               76,000                           76,000
- 3. Warehouse Hodeidah
two 1-1/2 tons pick-
ups                            -                    -                -               152,000       152,000
- 4. Sana'a: one heavy
truck (10 tons) YR
510,000                        -                    -              510,000             -           510,000
Subtotal 4.4                   -                    -              642,500           152,000       794,500
4.5   Nutrition
4.5   - 1.  One 4 wh-dr
long-B x YR 92,000             -                    -               92,000             -             92,000
Subtotal 4.5                   -                    -               92,000             -             92,000
4.6   Statistics
4.6   - 1.  One 4 wh-dr
(short-B) x YR
81,500                         -                    -               81,500             -             81,500
Subtotal 4.6                   -                    -               81,500             -             81,500
4.7   Evaluation + Research
4.7   - 1.  One 4 wh-dr (long-
B) x YR 92,000                 -                    -               92,000             -             92,000
Subtotal 4.7                   -                    -               92,000             -             92,000
4.8   Project Management - PIU
4.8   - 1.  One 4 wh-dr (short-
B) x YR 81,500  *              -                   81,500            -                 -             81,500
- 2. One sedan x YR
56,500  *                      -                   56,500            -                 -             56,500
Subtotal 4.8                   -                  138,000            -                 -           138,000
SUBTOTAL BASE COST 4.          -                  138,000         1,307,500         876,000      2,321,500        100t
*Financed during 6 months under the PPF.



- 37 -
ANNEX I
Pe  5
YAR HEALTH PROJECT
DETAILED COST TABLES (YR)
ADJUSTED FOR THE TIME OF NEGOTIATIONS/BOARD PRESENTATION
1982         1983                1984               1985               TOTAL
5.     TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE
(Expatriates)
5.1    HMI
5.1    a.  Short-term (12 mm)
- 1. In Service Training
12 mm x YR 40,800                -          244,800            122,400             122,400            489,600
b. Long-term
Consultants (24 mm)
- 1. Training Planning
12 mm x YR 32,000 *              -          384,000                -                  -               384,000
- 2. Training Implementation
12 mm x YR 32,000 *              -          384,000                -                  -               384,000
Subtotal 5.1                       -       1,012,800             122,400            122,400          1,257,600
5.2    Health Education
5.2    Short-term
- 1. Health Education
Planner  12 mm x YR 40,800        -         489,600                -                  -               489,600
- 2. Communication
Specialist (Mass-Media
+ Interpersonal Planning)
1 x 18 mm x YR 40,800            -              -              489,600             244,800            734,400
Subtotal 5.2                                 489,600             489,600            244,800          1,224,000
5.3    Planning, Finance
Administration
5.3    a.
- 1. PFU-Health Planner
24 mm x 32,000 *                  -         384,000             384,000               -               768,000
- 2. PFU-Manpower Planner
24 mm x 32,000 *                  -         384,000             384,000               -               768,000
- 3.  PFU-Physical Planner
24 mm x 32,000 *                  -         384,000             384,000               -               768,000
b.
- 1. F + A-Personnel
Management 9 mm x
40,800                            -         367,200                -                  -               367,200
- 2. F + A-Financial
Analyst 9 mm x
40,800                            -         367,200                -                  -               367,200
Subtotal 5.3                       -       1,886,400           1,152,000                             3,038,400
* Financed during 6 months by Credit 915-YAR.



- 38 -
ANNEX 1
Page 6
YAR HEALTH PROJECT
DETAILED COST TABLES (YR)
ADJUSTED FOR THE TIME OF NEGOTIATIONS/BOARD PRESENTATION
1982              1983                1984                1985               TOTAL          FEC
5.4    Supplies Management
5.4    - 1.  Drug Supply Cons.
1 x 18 mm x 32,000                 -               288,000             288,000                -               576,000
- 2. Med. Equipment
Supplies + Maintenance
Management
9 mn x 40,800                      -               244,800                -               122,400             367,200
- 3. Transport Management
9 mm x 40,800                      -               367,200                -                   -               367,200
Subtotal 5.4                       -               900,000             288,000            122,400           1,310,400
5.5    Nutrition
5.5    - 1.  Nutrition Planner s
1 x 24 mm x YR 32,000              -               384,000             192,000                -               576,000
Subtotal 5.5                       -               384,000             192,000                -               576.000
5.7    Evaluation + Research
5.7    - 1.  Planner and
Management Specialist
1 x 24 mm x YR 32,000              -                   -               384,000             384,000            768,000
Subtotal 5.7                                           -               384,000             384,000            768,000
5.8    ProJect Management - PIU
5.8    - 1.  Project Management
Advisor
I x 36 mm x 32,000 *               -                384,000            384,000             192,000            960,000
- 2. Construction
Engineer/Proc.
1 x 36 mm x 32,000 *               -                384,000            384,000             384,000          1,152,000
Subtotal 5.8                      -                 768,000            768,000             576,000          2,112,000
SUBTOTAL BASE COST 5               -             5,440.800           3,396.000          1,449,600          10,286,400          80%
6.     FELLOWSHIPS
6.1    HMI (a: 240 mm; b: 12 mm)
6.1    a.
- 1. Human Resource/Management
6 x 6 mm x 4,125                   -                 49,500             49,500              49,500            148,500
- 2. Training Planning
12 x 3 mm x 4,125                  -                 74,250             74,250                -                148,500
- 3. Training Evaluation
4 x 3 mm x 4,125                   -                 24,750             24,750                -                 49,500
- 4. Training Implementation
4 x 3 mm x 4,125                   -                 24,750             24,750                -                 49,500
- 5. Management Training
4 x 6 mm x 4,125                   -                   -                49,500              49,500              99,000
- 6. Community Health
6 x 18 mm x 4,125                  -                123,750            222,750              99,000             445,500
- 7.  Recruiting Team
8 x 1.5 mm x 4,125                 -                 49,500                -                  -                 49,500
6.1    b.
- 1. Health Manpower Planning
(MOH) I x 12 mm x 8,250                              49,500             49,500                -                 99,000
Subtotal 6.1                                        396,000             495,000            198,000           1,089,000
* Financed during 6 months by Credit 915-YAR.



- 39                                   ANNEX 1
Page 7
YAK HEALTH PROJECT
DETAILED COST TABLES (YR)
AWUSTED FOR THE TIME OF NEGOTIATIONS/BOARD PRESENTATION
1982                1983            1984             1985           TOTAL         FEC
6.2   Health Education (12 mm)
6.2     1.  Communication,
planning, management
1 x 3 mm x YR 8,250          -                   24,750           -                -            24,750
- 2. Mass-media pro-
duction 2 x 3 mm x
8,250 YR                     -                    -              49,500            -            49,500
- 3. Community health
education 1 x 3 mm x
8,250 YR                     -                    -               -               24,750        24,750
Subtotal 6.2                 -                   24,750         49,500            24,750        99,000
6.3   Planning, Finance
Administration (48 mm)
6.3   - 1.  Planning 3 x 12
mm x YR 6,450                -                  232,200           -                -           232,200
- 2. Personnel admin-
istration 1 x 6 mm
x 6,450 (X')                 -                   38,700           -                -            38,700
- 3. Finance admin-
istration 1 x 6 mm
x YR 6,450 (X)               -                   38,700           -                -            38,700
subtotal 6.3                 -                  309,600           -                -           309,600
6.4    Supplies Management (36mm)
6.4    - 1. Drug Supply manage-
ment 2 x 6 mm x 6,450        -                   77,400           -                -            77,400
- 2. Procurement/med.
supply 1 x 6 mm x 6,450      -                   38,700           -                -            38,700
- 3. Transport management
1 x 6 mm x 6,450             -                   38,700           -                -            38,700
- 4. Equipment mainten-
ance 2 x 6 mm x 6,450        -                   77,400           -                -            77,400
Subtotal 6.4                 -                  232,200           -                -           232,200
6.5    Nutrition
6. 5    - 1. Nutritionist 2 x
9 mm x YR 10,300             -                  92,700           92,700            -           185,400
Subtotal 6.5                 -                  92,700           92,700            -           185,400
6.6    Statistics
6.6    - 1.  Diploma course 1 x
24 mm x 8,250 YR             -                    -              99,000           99,000       198,000
Subtotal 6.6                 -                    -              99,000           99,000       198,000
6.7    Evaluation + Research
6.7    - 1.  Research program
1 x 6 mm x 8,250             -                    -              49,500            -            49,500
- 2. Evaluation program
1 x 6 mm x YR 8,250          -                    -               -               49,500        49,500
Subtotal 6.7                 -                    -              49,500           49,500        99,000
SUBTOTAL BASE COST 6         -               1,055,250          785,700          371,250    2,212,200         70%
7-     TRAINING + SEMfiARS
7.i   HM1
72-El   -T1.  In-service train-
ing of technical health
staff including 120
health managers: 1,860
trainees x 10 days x
300 YR                       -              (1,860,000)    (1,860,000)        (1,860,000)  (5,580,000)*
- 2. Basic training for
30 statistical clerks
(existing) x 3 months each
a YR 3,000 (through NIPA)   -                    90,000          90,000           90,000       270,000
Subtotal 7.1                 -                   90,000          90,000           90,000       270,000
(X)     Recommended for increase to 12 mm.
*       The cost for HMI in-service training (YR 5,580,000 base cost) is  not part of the project cost.



- 40 -
ANNEX 1
Page 8
YAR HEALTH PROJECT
DETAILED COST TABLES  (YR)
ADJUSTED FOR THE TIME OF NEGOTIATIONS/BOARD PRESENTATION
1982                1983             1984             1985           TOTAL         FEC
7.4   Supplies Management
7.4   - 1.  3 x 10 store-
keepers 10 days x
YR 300 (NIPA)                 -                   30,000          30,000            30,000        90,000
Subtotal 7.4                  -                   30,000          30,000           30,000         90,000
7.5  Nutrition
7.5  - 1.  Seminars +
nutrition workshops           -                   54,000         108,000           108,000       270,000
Subtotal 7.5                  -             .    54,000          108,000          108,000        270,000
7.6  Statistics
7.6  - 1.  Annual seminars
of total 92 statis-
tical staff, each
10 days x YR 300              -                   69,000         102,000          105,000        276,000
Subtotal 7.6                                      69,000         102,000          105,000        276,000
SUBTOTAL BASE COST 7.         -                  243,000         330,000          333,000        906,000        30%
8.   STUDIES
8.5  Nutrition
8.5  - 1.  Contracted
research + studies            -                    -              78,000            78,000       156,000
Subtotal 8.5                  -                    -              78,000            78,000       156,000
8.7  Evaluation + Research
8.7  - 1.  Contracted
studies                                                                           222,000        222,000
Subtotal 8.7                                                       -              222,000        222,000
SUBTOTAL BASE COST S.         --78,000                                            300,000        378,000         0%
9.   SALARIES FOR INCREMENTAL
YEMENI STAFF
9.A. - Salary Supplement Fund
for key staff and
counterparts
9.A.   - 1.  HMI
- 1. Director of RHTS
1 x 1 1/2 my x YR
60,000                                         -              30,000          60,000         90,000
Subtotal 9.A.1                                                  30,000          60,000         90,000
9.A.    - 2.  Health Education
- 1. 1 senior
HE staff interpers.
3 my x 50,000             -                  50,000           50,000           50,000       150,000
- 2.  1 senior
HE staff mass-media
3 my x 50,000             -                  50,000           50,000           50,000       150,000
Subtotal 9.A.2                                100,000          100,000          100,000       300,000
9.A.    - 3.  Planning, Finance,
Administration
- 1.  PFU for
health planning
3 my x 110,000            -                 110,000          110,000          110,000       330,000
- 2.  PFU for
physical planning
3 my x 110,000            -                 110,000          110,000          110,000       330,000
- 3.  PFU for
Manpower planning
3 my x 110,000            -                 110,000          110,000          110,000       330,000
Subtotal 9.A.3              -                  330,000         330,000          330,000       990,000



-41-                                    ANNEX I
Page 9
YAR HEALTH PROJECT
DETAILED  COST TABLES  (YR)  -
ADJUSTED FOR THE TIME OF NEGOTIATIONS/BOARD PRESENTATION
1982                 1983            1984              1985           TOTAL         FEC
9.A.      - 4.  Supplies Manage-
ment
- Deputy Dirs. to Dir.
Gen.: pharmacy, med.
supplies, purchasing
(procuremenQ, transport,
equipment/maintenance
5 x 3 mv x 60.000                           300,000          300,000          300,000        900,000
Stubtotal 9.A.4           _                  300,000         300,000           300 000       900,000
9.A.     - 5.  Nutrition
- 1. Nutrition Dir.
l x 3 my x YR
110,000                   -                  110,000         110,000           110,000       330,000
- 2. Nutrition
Assistants 2 x 3.5 my
x YR 40,000             40,000                80,000          80,000            80,000        280,000
Subtotal 9.A.5            40,000               190,000         190,000           190,000        610,000
9.A.     - 6.  Statistics- (PFU)
- 1. Senior statis-
tical technician
1 x 3 my x
60,000                                        60,000          60,000            60,000       180,000
Subtotal 9.A.6              -                  -60,000          60,000            60,000       180,000
9.A.     - 7.  Evaluation +
Research
- 1. (Director)
1 x 3 my x
110,000                   -                  110,000         110,000           110,000       330,000
Subtotal 9.A.7              _                  110,000         110,000           110,000       330,000
9.A.     - 8.  Project _anagement-PIU
- t. Project manager
1 x 3.5 my x 160,000 * 80,000                160,000         160,000           160,000       560,000
- 2. 1 Engineer/
Architect *
1 x 3.5 my x 96,000    48,000                 96,000          96,000            96,000       336,000
- 3. 1 Draftsman *
I x
3.5 my x 60,000          30,000              60,000           60,000            60,000       210,000
- 4. 1 Accountant/
Adm. Asst. 1 x 3.5 my
x YR 84,000 *            42,000               84,000          84,000            84,000       294,000
Subtotal 9.A.8            200.000              400,000         400,000          400,000      1,400,000
SUBTOTAL BASE COST
B            9.A  ** (SSF)           240,000           1,490,000        1.520.000         1,550,000    4,800,000           0%
9.B   Supportive Staff
9.B.1 - 1.  DMI (new and ex-
panded activities)
- l.a. HMI Sana'a:
instructors (5),
11 my x 40,000              -                   80,000         160,000           200,000       440,000
- l.b. Assistant
tutors/fields (15)
35 my x 22,000              -                  176,000         264,000           330,000       770,000
- l.c. Dep. head for
CN training (1)
3 my x 42,000               -                   42,000          42,000            42,000       126,000
- I.d. Finance officer
(1) 3 my x 30,000 YR        -                   30,000          30,000            30,000        90,000
- l.e. Personnel officer
(1) 3 my x 30,000 YR        -                   30,000          30,000            30,000        90,000
- l.f. Drivers(3) 4.5
my x 21,600                 -                    -               32,400            64,800        97.200
*  Financed during 6 months under PPF.
** These remunerations include an estimated 34% to be financed from the salary supplement fund (SSF) = 1,207,416
base cost.



-42-                                  ANNEX 1
Page 10
YAR HEALTH PROJECT
DETAILED COST TABLES (YE)
ADJUSTED FOR THE TIME OF NEGOTIATIONS/BOARD PRESENTATION
1982                1983            1984             1985           TOTAL         FEC
'9. B.1   - l.g.  Secretaries/
typists (2) 3 my x
21,600                                          - -          21,6eo           43,200         64,8oo
- l.h.  Office atten-
dants (1) 2 my x
14,400                                          -            14,400           14~,400        28,800
Subtotal Sana'a              -                 (358,000)    (594,40o)         (7544100)   (1.706.800)
'9.B.1 - 2.  HMI Hodeidah:
- 2.a. instructors
(2) 5 my x 40,000          -                  40,000           80,000           80,000       200,000
- 2.b. Assistant
tutors/fields (3)
8 my x 22,000              -                   44,000          66,000           66,000       176,000
- 2.c. Hostel super-
visor(2) 3 my x
27,000                     _                    -              27,000           54,000        81,000
- 2.d.  Drivers (5)
5 my x 21,600)                                  -               -              108,000       108,000
- 2.e. Secretaries/
rtp ssts (1) 2 my x
2I,00                                           -              21,600           21,600        43,20.0
- 2. f. Office atten-
dants (1) 2 my x YR
14,400                      _                   -              1h,400           14,400        28,800
Subtotal Hodeidah            -                  (84,000)       (.209,0o         (344,000)    (637,000)
9.B.1  - 3   HMI Taiz:
- 3.a. Instructors
(4) 9 my x 40,000          -                  80,000          120,000          160,000       360,000
- 3.b. Assistant
tutors/field sup.
(3) x 22,000 x 8 mY        -                  44,000           66,000           66,000       176,000
- 3.c. Hostel Super-
visor (1) x 27,000x 1.5 my                      -              14,000           27,000        41,000
- 3  .  Secretary/
typist (1) 2 my x
21,600                      -                   -             21,600            21,600       43 200
Subtotal Taiz                 -                (124,000)       (221,600)        (274,600)   (620.200)
9.B.1  - 4.  RHTS:
- h.a. Instructors
(2) 3 my x 40,000          -                    -              40,000           80,000       120,000
- 4.b. Assistant tutors/
- field sup. (2) 3 my
x 22,000                   -                    -              22,000           44,000        66,000
- 4.c. Finance assis-
tant (1) 1.5 my x
30,000                      -                   -              15,000           30,000        45,000
- 4.d. Administrator
(1) 1.5 my x 48,000        -                    -             24.000            48.000        72,000
- 4.e. Hostel super-
visor (1) 1.5 my x
27A000                     -                    -              14,000           27,000        41,000
- 4.f.  Secretary/typist
1 x 2 my x 21,600           -                                  21,600           21,600        43,200
- 4-g. Office at,-endant
1 x 2 my x 14,4o00                                             14,4o             i4,400       28,800
4.h  Drivers (2)
3 my x 21,600              -                    -              21,600           43,200         64,800
Subtotal RHTS                 -                   -             (172.600)        (308.200)    (480.800)
SUBTOTAL9.B.1                        -          566.000       1,197,600         1,681,200    3.444.800
9.B.  2.  Health Education
9.B.2 - 1.  Health education
technicians 2 x 3 my
x 40,000      _               -                  80,000          80,000           80,000       240,000
- 2. Office assistants
1 x 3 my x 19,200             _                  19,200          19,200           19,200        57,600
- 3. Driver I x 2 my
x 21,600                                                         21,600           21,600        43,200
Subtotal  9.B.2                 _                  99 20o        120.800           120,800       3408()n
9.B.  3.  Planning Finance,
Administration
9.B.3 - 1.  Assistant staff
3 x 3 my x YR
30,000                        -                  90,000          90,000'          90,000       270,000



- 4 3 -                               ANNEX 1
Page 1
YAR HEALTH PROJECT
DETAILED COST TABLES (YR)
ADJUSTED FOR THE TIME OF NEGOTIATIuAS/BOARD PRESENTATION
1982                1983             1984             1985            TOTAL         FEC
9.B.3  - 2.  Secretary/typist
1 x 3 my x 21,600             -                   21,600          21,600            21,600        64,800
- 3.  Office atten-
dant I x 3 my x
14,400                        -                   14,400          14,400            14,400        43,200
Subtotal 9.B.3                  -                  126.000         126,000          126.000        378.000
9.B.   4.  Supplies Management
9.B.4  - 1.  Assistant phar-
macist HOD. 2 x 1.5
mv x 40.000                   -                    -              40,000            80,000       120,000
- 2. Maintenance Instruc-
tor (Hodeidah) 1 X
1.5 my X 40,000                                                   20,000            40,000        60,000
- 3. Maintenance
technicians 3 x 1.5
my x 40,000                   -                    -              60,000           120,000       180,000
- 4. Typist HOD.
1 x 1.5 my x
21,600                        -                    -              10,800            21,600        32,400
- 5. Truck driver
1 x 1.5 my x
28,000                        -                    -              14,000            28,000        42,000
- 6. Drivers 4 x 2 my
x 21,600                      -                    -              86,400            86,400       172,800
Subtotal9.B.4                   -                    -             231,200           376,000       607,200
9. B.       Nutrition
9.B.5   - 1.  Typist 1 x
3 my x 21,600                 -                   21,600          21,600            21,600        64,800
- 2. Driver 1 x 2 my
x 21,600                      -                    -              21,600            21,600        43,200
- 3. Office atten-
dant 1 x 3 my x
14,400                        -                   14,400          14,400            14,400        43,200
Subtotal9.B.5                   -                   36.000          57.600            57.600      151.200
9.B.    6.  Statistics(PFU)
9.B.6   - 1.  Statistical clerks
2 x 3 my x 40,000             -                   80,000          80,000            80,000       240,000
- 2. Driver 1 x
2 my x 21,600                 -                    -              21,600            21,600        43,200
Subtotal 9.B.6                  -                   80,000         101,600           101,600       283,200
9.B.    7.  Evaluation +
Research
9.B.7   - 1.  Assistant research
officer 1 x 3 my x
60,000                        -                   60,000          60,000            60,000       180,000
- 2.  Statistical clerk
1 x 3 my x 40,000             -                   40,000          40,000            40,000       120,000
- 3.  Office assistant
1 x 3 my x 19,200             -                   19,200          19,200            19,200        57,600
- 4.  Secretary/typist
1 x 3 my x 21,600                                 21,600          21,600            21,600        64,800
- 5. Driver 1 x 2 my
x 21.600                      -                    -              21,600            21,600        43,200
Subtotal 9.B.7                  -                  140,800          162.400          162,400       465,600
9.B.    8.  Project Mana&ement (PIU)
9.B.8   - 1.  Secretary 1 x 3.5 my
x 21,600 *                  10,800                21,600           21,600           21,600        75,600
- 2. Typists 2 x 3.5 my
x 21,600 *                  21,600                43,200           43,200           43,200       151,200
- 3. Translator 1 x 3.5 my
x 48,000 *                  24,000                48,000           48,000           48,000       168,000
- 4. Drivers 2 x 3 my
x 21,600                       -                  43,200           43,200           43,200       129,600
- 5. Office attendant
2 x 3.5 my x 14,400 *       14,400                28,800           28,800           28,800       100,800
- 6. Watchman 1 x 3.5 my
x 24,000 *                  12,000                24,000           24,000           24,000        84,000
Subtotal 9.B.8                82,800               208,800          208,800          208,800       709,200
SUBTOTAL BASE COSI 9.8.       82,800             1,256,800        2,206,000        2,834,400    6,380,000   0%
_0,2   lealth Educatio
10.2     -1.  Rent for incre-
mental office space
100 M2 a 840YR/M2                                84,000           84,000           84,000       252,000
Subtota1in                      -          ~       84,000           84.000           84.000        95-nn0o
* Financed durine 6 months under the PPF



-44 -
ANNEX 1
Page 12
YAR HEALTH PROJECT
DETAILED COST TABLES (YR)
ADJUSTED FOR THE TIME OF NEGOTIATIONS/BOARD PRESENTATION
1982           1983             1984             1985            TOTAL            FEC
10.3   Planning and Financial
Administration
- 1. Rent for PFU's
Office Space
100 m2 x 840 YR/m2                -           84,000           84,000            84,000          252,000
Subtotal 10.3                     -           84,000           84,000            84,000          252,000
10.5   Nutrition
- 1. Rent for Nutrition
Unit's Office Space
70 m2 x 840 YR/m2                 -           58,800           58,800            58,800          176,400
Subtotal 10.5                                 58,800           58,800            58.800          176,400
10.8   ProJect Management-PIU
- 1. Rent PIU's Office
Space, 100 m  x 840 YR/m2         -           84,000           84,000            84,000          252,000
Subtotal 10.8                     -           84.000           84,000            84.000          252,000
SUBTOTAL BASE COST 10             -310,800                    310,800           310,800          932,400           0
11     VEHICLE OPERATION COST
11.1   HMI
- 1. HMI Sana'a:
-  .a.  (4.1.1.a)-
1 4 wh-dr sb,
YR 38,000 P/A                   -             -              19,000            38,000           57,000
-l.b   (4.1.1.c)
2 buses (20 S)
x YR 35,000                     -             -              17,500            35,000           52,500
- 2. HMI-Hodeidah:
- 2.a. (4.1.2.a)
1 4 wh-dr sb,
YR 38,000                       -             -                -               38,000           38,000
- 2.b. (4.1.2.b)
2 buses (12 S)
x YR 20,500                     -             -                -               20,500           20,500
- 2.c. (4.1.2.c)
2 buses (30 S)
x YR 44,000                     -             -                -              44,000            44,000
- 3. RHTS:
- 3.a. (4.1.4.a)
1 4 wh-dr sb,
x YR 38,000                     -             -                -               38,000           38,000
- 3.b. (4.1.4.b)
1 bus (30 S)
x YR 44,000                     -             -                -              44,000            44,000
Subtotal 11.1                     -             -              36,500           257,500          294,000
11.2   Health Education
- 1. (4.2.1)
1 4 wh-dr, lb x
YR 42,500 P/A                     -             -               21,500           42,500           64,000
Subtotal 11.2                     -             -              21,500            42,500           64,000
11.4   Supplies Management
- 1.  (4.4.1) 1 sedan
HQ x YR 14,500 P/A                -             -                7,500           14,500           22,000
- 2.  (4.4.2) 1 pick-up
at HQ x YR 24,000 P/A             -             -              12,000            24,000           36,000
- 3.  (4.4.3) 1 pick-up
warehouse x YR 24,000 P/A         -             -                 -              24,000           24,000
- 4.  (4.4.4) 1 heavy
truck (10 tons) x YR
158,000 P/A                       -             -              79,000           158,000          237,000
Subtotal 11.4                       -             -               98,500          220,500          319,000



- 45                                    ANNEX 1
-Page 13
YAR HEALTH PROJECT
DETAILED COST TABLES (YR)
ADJUSTED FOR THE TIME OF NEGOTIATIONS/BOARD PRESENTATION
1982                1983            1984              1985           TOTAL         FEC
11.5   Nutrition
11.5   - 1.  (4.5.1) 1 4 wh-
dr, lb x YR
42,500                                            -               21,500           42,500        64,000
Subtotal 11.5                   -                    -              21,500           42,500        64,000
11.6   Statistics
11.6   - 1.  (4.6.1) 1
4 wh-dr sb,
x 38,000 P/A                  -                   -               19,000           38,000        57,000
Subtotal 11.6                   -                    -              19,000           38,000        57,000
11.7   Evaluation + Research
11.7   - 1.  (4.7.1) 1
4 wh-dr long-B
x YR 42,500 P/A               -                   -               21,500           42,500        64,000
Subtotal 11.7                   -                   -               21,500           42,500        64,000
11.8   Project Management-PIU
11.8   - 1.  (4.8.1) 1
4 wh-dr short-B
x 38,000 P/A                  -                  19,000           38,000           38,000        95,000
- 2. (4.8.2) 1
sedan x YR
14,500 P/A                    -                   7,500           14,500           14,500        36,500
Subtotal 11.8                   -                   26,500          52,500           52,500       131,500
SUBTOTAL 11                     -                   26,500         271.000          696.000      .993.500        50%
12.   - OTHER OPERATION COST
(Local traveling, tele-
phone, cables, building
maintenance, utilities,
etc.)
12.1   HMI
Local travel, + opera-
tion, maintenance               -                  120,000         120,000          220,000       460,000
Subtotal 12.1                   -                 120,000          120,000          220,000       460,000
12.2   Health Education
Local travel, opera-
tion, exhibitions               -                  100,000         100,000          100,000       300,000
Subtotal 12.2                   -                  100,000         100,000          100,000       300,000
12.3   Planning, Finance Ad-
ministration, PFU
Local Travel                    -                   70,000          70,000           70,000       210,000
Subtotal 12.3                   -                   70,000          70,000           70,000       210,000
12.4   Supplies Management
Local travel, opera-
tion of warehouse +
workshop                                            50,000          70,000          100,000       220,000
Subtotal 12.4                   -                   50,000          70,000          100,000       220,000
12.5   Nutrition
Local travel, office
operation                                           30,000          30,000           30,000         90 00
Subtotal 12.5                   _                   30,000          30,000           30,000        90,000
12.6   Statistics
Local travel, office
operation                       -                   30,000          30,000           40,000       100,000
Subtotal 12.6                   -                   30,000          30,000           40,000       100,000
12.7   Evaluation + Research
Local travel, office
operation                       -                   25,000          30,000           45,000       100,000
Subtotal 12.7                   -                   25,000          30,000           45,000       100,000
12.8   Project Management - PIU
Local travel, prints,
office expenses *             6,000                 30,000          50,000           50,000       136,000
Subtotal 12.8                 6,000                 30,000          50,000           50,000       136.000
SUBTOTAL BASE COST 12         6,000                455,000         500,000          655,000    1,6146,000        30%
*  Financed during 6 months under PPF.



-46-
ANNEX I
Page 14
YAR HEALTH PROJECT
ESTIMATED CONTINGENCIES + TOTAL COST
(000' YR)
1982       1983          1984         1985         TOTAL        FEC      Foreign        LOcal
1.   CONSTRUCTION BASE COST               -        9,347         9,347          -         18,694        60%       11,216        7,478
Physical Cont. (10%)                -           935          934          -          1,869                   1,121           748
Subtotal                            -        10,282       10,281          -         20,563                  12,337        8,226
Price Contingency Foreign           -           692.         957          -          1,649                   1,649          -
Price Contingency Local             -           310           789         -          1,099                     -          1,099
Subtotal Price Contingencies        -         1,002        1,746          -          2,748                   1,649        1,099
Subtotal Contingencies              -         1,937        2,680          -          4,617                   2,770        1,847
TOTAL 1                             -        11,284       12,027          -         23,311                  13,986        9,325
2.   FURNITURE + EQUIPMENT
BASE COST                           96        1,336        4,930          -          6,362        80%        5,090        1,272
Physical Cont. (10%)                  9         134          493          -             636                     509          127
Subtotal.                          105        1,470        5,423          -          6,998                   5,599        1,399
Price Contingency Foreign             4         108           778         -             890                     890          -
Price Contingency Local              1           30          218          -             249                     -            249
Subtotal Price Contingencies         5          138          996          -          1,139                     890          249
Subtotal Contingencies              14          272        1,489          -          1,775                   1,399           376
TOTAL 2                            110        1,608        6,419          -          8,137                   6,489        1,648
3.   SUPPLIES + EDUCATIONAL
MATERIALS BASE COST                             760          892        1,423        3,075        70%        2,153           922
Physical Cont. (10%)                 _           76           89          142           307                    215            92
Subtotal                             _          836          981        1,565        3,382                   2,368        1,014
Price Contingency Foreign            _           54          123          300          477                     477          -
Price Contingency Local                          26           59          140          225                     -            225
Subtotal Price Contingencies         _           80          182          440           702                    477           225
Subtotal Contingenciss                          156          271          582        1,009                     692          317
TOTAL 3                             -           916        1,163        2,005        4,084                   2,845        1,239
4.   VEHICLES BASE COST                               138        1,308          876        2,322       100%        2,322          -
Physical Cont. (5%)                 _              7          65            44          116                     116         -
Subtotal                            _           145        1,373          920        2,438                   2,438          -
Price Contingency Foreign           _            13          263          260          536                     536          -
Subtotal Contingencies                           20          328          304          652                     652          -
TOTAL 4                              .          158        1,636        1,180        2,974                   2,974          -
5.   TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE BASE COST    -            5,441        3,396        1,449       10,286        80%        8,229        2,057
Price Contingency Foreign           -           332          412          269        1,013                   1,013          -
Price Contingency Local             -            89          110            71          270                    -             270
Subtotal Contingencies              -           421          522          340        1,283                   1,013          270
TOTAL 5                             -         5,862        3,918        1,789       11,569                   9,242        2,327
6.   FELLOWSHIPS BASE COST                -         1,055          786          371        2,212        70%        1,548          664
Price Contingency Foreign           -            56            83           60          199                     199         -
Price Contingency Local             -            26            38           27           91                    -              91
Subtotal Contingencies              -            82          121            87         290                     199            91
TOTAL 6                             -         1,137          907          458        2,502                   1,747           755
7.   TRAINING + SEMINARS BASE COST        -           243          330          333          906        30%          272          634
Price Contingency Foreign           -              5          15            23           43                      43         -
Price Contingency Local             -            14           38           52           104                    -             104
Subtotal Contingencies                           19           53            75          147                      43          104
TOTAL 7                             -           262          383          408        1,053                      315          738
8.   STUDIES BASE COST                    -           -             78          300          378         0%          -            378
Price Contingency Local             -           -             13            73           86                    -              86
TOTAL 8                             -           -             91          373          464                     -            464
9.   A.  SALARIES + SSF BASE COST        240        1,490        1,520        1,550        4,800         0%          -          4,800
Price Contingency Local             10          122          248           377          757                     -            757
TOTAL 9.A                          250        1,612        1,768        1,927        5,557                      -         5,557
9.   B.  Yemeni Staff-BASE COST           83        1,257        2,206        2,834        6,380         0%          -          6,380
Price Contingency Local               3         103          358          692        1,156                      -         1,156
TOTAL 9.B                           86        1,360        2,564        3,526        7,536                      -         7,536
10.  RENT-BASE COST                       -           311          311          311          933         0%          -            933
Price Contingency Local             -            25            51           76          152                    -             152
TOTAL 10                            -           336          362           387       1,085                     -          1,085
11.  VEH.OP.-BASE COST                    -            27          271          696          994        50%          497          497
Price Contingency Foreign           -              1           20           81          102                     102          -
Price Contingency Local              -             1           22           85          108                     -            108
Subtotal Contingencies              -              2          42          166           210                    102           108
TOTAL 11                            -             29          313          862        1,204                     599          605
12.  Other Op. Cost-BASE COST              6          455          500          655        1,616        30%          485        1,131
Price Contingency Foreign             1           10           23           46           80                      80          -
Price Contingency Local             -             26           57          107          190                     -            190
Subtotal Contingencies               1            36          80           153          270                      80          190
TOTAL 12                              7         491           580          808       1,886                      565       1,321
TOTAL BASE COST                    425       21,860       25,875       10,798       58,958                  31,812       27,146
TOTAL PRICE CONT. FOREIGN            5        1,271        2,674        1,039        4,989                   4,989           -
TOTAL PRICE CONT. LOCAL             14          772        2,001        1,700        4,487                      -         4,487
TOTAL PHYSICAL CONTINGENCIES          9       1,152        1,581           186       2,928                    1,961          967
TOTAL COMPONENTS                   453       25,055       32,131       13,723       71,362                  38,762       32,600



- 47 -
ANNEX 1
Page 15
YAR HEALTH PROJECT
SUMMARY PROJECT COSTS (YR)
Base Cost               Base Cost      Contingencies Contingencies          Total           Total
Total        FEC       Foreign           Total          Foreign           Total          Foreign
i. CC-T^.'CT1CN - HARDWAFE
1.  Construction              18,694,000        60      11,216,000       4,617,000       2,770,000      23,311,000       13,986,000
2.  Furniture + Equipment    6,362,000          80       5,090,000       1,775,000       1,399,000       8,137,000        6,489,000
3. Supplies + Educational
Materials                  3,075,000        70      2,153,000        1,009,000         692,000       4,084,000        2,845,000
4.  Vehicles                   2,322,000       100       2,322,000         652,000         652,000       2,974,000        2,974,0no
II.  TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE
5.  Technical Assistance    10,286,000          80       8,229,000       1,283,000       1,013,000      11,569,000        9,242,000
6.  Fellowships                2,212,000        70       1,548,000         290,000         199,000       2,502,000        1,747,000
7.  Training + Seminars (*)    906,000          30         272,000         147,000          43,C00       1,053,000          315,000
8.  Studies                       378,000        -            -             86,000           -             464,000             -
III.  RECURRENT COSTS
9. A. Incremental
Key Staff               4,800,000        -            -             757,000          -            5,557,000             -
B. Salary
Support Staff           6,380,000        -            -           1,156,000          -            7,536,000             -
10. Rent                         933,000         -            -            152,000           -           1,085,000             -
11. Vehicle
Operating Cost               994,000       50          497,000         210,000         102,000       1,204,000          599,000
12. Other
Operating Costs            1,616,000        30         485,000         270,000          80,000       1,886,000          565,000
TOTAL (YR)          58,958,000                31,812,000      12,404,000       6,950,000      71,362,000       38,762,000
% Relation: to Base Cost       100%                       54%             21%
to Total
Cost                                                                                      100%
TOTAL (US$)         13,102,000                 7,069,000       2,756,000       1,544,000      15,858,000        8,613,000
(*) Excluding HMI in-service training of technical health staff.



YAR HEALTH PROJECT
DETAILED FINANCING PLAN
('000 US$)
Base Cost    Contingencies               Total Cost                      Financing
Total          Total          Foreign   Local   Total           IDA     %   Government  %
Civil Works                       4,154          1,026            3,108   2,072   5,180         3,108   60       2,072   40
Furniture and Equipment           1,414             394           1,439      369   1,808        1,808  100         -      -
Education Material and
Supplies                          683            224              635     272      907          907  100         -      -
Vehicles                            516             145             661       -      661          661  100         -      -
T.A. Consultants                  2,286             285           2,057     514   2,571         2,571  100         -      -
Fellowships                         492              64             389     167      556          556  100          -     -
Training and Seminars               201              33              64     170      234          234  100         -      -
Studies                              84              19              -      103      103          103  100         -      -
SSF for 18 Key Staff and
Salaries and SSF for
Two PIU Key Staff                 380              60              -      440      440          275   62         165   38
Salaries 18 Incremental
Key Staff (Basic)                 687            108               -      795      795           -    -          795  100
Salaries Incremental
Support Staff                   1,418            257               -    1,675   1,675            -    -        1,675  100
Rent                                207              34              -      241      241           -    -           241  100
Vehicle Operating Costs             221              47             134     134      268          134   50          134   50
Other Operating Costs               359              60             126     293      419          126   30          293   70
TOTAL               13,102          2,756            8,613   7,245  15,858        10,483   66       5,375   34



YEMEN ARAB REPUBLIC
INPLEMENTATION SCHEDULE
Pre-Project      Project Year 1   Project Year 2    Project Year 3
1. Establishment of Project Implementation Unit
and Recruitment of Project Advisor
2. Contracti.ig of Consulting Engineer
3. Contracting of Consulting Firm for Recruit-
ment of Technical Assistance
4. Preparation of Preliminary Designs and Cost
Estimates for Civil Works
5. Site Surveys and Acquisition
6.  Preparation of Civil Works' Final Design,
Vehicle, Furniture and Equipment lists
and Bid Documents
7.  Tendering of Contracts
8. Construction Development Period
9.  Selection of Fellows for Training Abroad
10.  Technical Assistance and Consultants
11.  Procurement of Vehicles, Furniture and
Equipment
12.  Commissioning and Staffing of Training
and Other Facilities
13. Full Operationalizing of Training
Program



- 50 -
ANNEX 3
YAR HEALTH PROJECT
Estimated Schedule of Disbursements (US$M)
Fiscal Year       Disbursements       Accumulated        Accumulated              Undisbursed
and Quarter       By Quarter          Amount             Disbursement in %        Balance
FY 1983
9/30/82
12/31/82
3/31/83             0.10                 0.10                   1                   10.40
6/30/83             0.10                 0.20                   2                   10.30
FY 1984
9/30/83             0.33                 0.53                   5                    9.97
12/31/83             0.42                 0.95                   9                    9.55
3/31/84             0.73                 1.68                  16                    8.82
6/30/84             1.16                 2.84                  27                    7.66
FY 1985
9/30/84             1.36                 4.20                  40                    6.30
12/31/84             1.58                 5.78                  55                    4.72
3/31/85             1.57                 7.35                  70                    3.18
6/30/85             1.26                 8.61                  82                    1.89
FY 1986
9/30/85             0.95                 9.56                  91                    0.94
12/31/85             0.52                10.08                  96                    0.42
3/31/86             0.21                10.29                  98                    0.21
6/30/86             0.21                10.50                 100                      -



- 51 -
ANNEX 4
YEMEN ARAB REPUBLIC
EXISTING AND PLANNED HEALTH MANPOWER
BY CADRE 1981/82 - 1984/85 la
HMI
Second                 Planned
Current      5-Year Plan   Revised    Output
(1981)        Estimates   Estimates  1983-85
3-Year Courses
Medical Assistants                          29             131          102         79
Qualified Nurses                           295             319          319        319
X-Ray Technicians                           19              69           50         50
Sanitarians                                108             153           45         45
Anesthesiology Technicians                  10              53           43         43
Lab Technicians                             57             127           70         70
Dental Technicians                          45              70           35          0
Assistant Pharmacists                       54             124           70         70
Qualified Midwives                          23              62           39         39
Subtotal                              640           1,108          773        715
1-Year Courses
Practical Nurses                           738           1,198          460        460
Assistant X-Ray Technicians                 18             105          105         87
Assistant Midwives (Hodeidah,
Ibb & Dhamar)                              0             101          101         55
Community Health Nurses                      0              50           50         99
Assistant Lab Technicians                  109             179           70         70
Subtotal                              865           1,633          786        771
TOTAL                                    1,505           2,741        1,559      1,486
/a  MIOH/IDA mission estimates (October, 1981).



YAR HEALTH PROJECT
IDA and GYAR Financing of SSF for 18 Key Staff and Salaries (including SSF)
for two PIU Staff (Project Manager and Architect/Engineer)
Pre-Project
7/82-12/82       %     YR 1 (1983)       %     YR 2 (1984)      %      YR 3 (1985)      %       TOTAL
IDA               36,400        100       129,028       100        66,815       50         42,092       30     274,339
GYAR                _             0          -            0        66,815       50         98,215       70     165,030
-                                                                    t~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~n
TOTAL             36,400        100       129,028       100       133,630      100        140,307      100     439,369
(440,000)



- 53 -
ANNEX 6
PROJECT PREPARATION FACILITY
The Project Preparation Facility (PPF) advance of up to
US$140,000 equivalent will finance the following expenditures:
Activity                  Type of Expenditure          Amount (US$)
(a) Establishment of        Salaries for PIU staff
PIU and finalization   (Project Manager, Engineer/
of detailed designs    Architect, Draftsman,
of facilities and       Accountant, Secretary,
bid documents           two Typists, Translator,
two Office Attendants,
Watchman)                         62,844
Furniture, equipment
and supplies                      22,667
Two vehicles and vehicle
operating costs                   36,500
(b) Contingencies           Contingencies on (a)              17,989
TOTAL           140,000



- 54 -
ANNEX 7
Page 1 of 2
YAR: Health Project
Selected Documents and Data Available in the Project File
A.   General Reports and Studies
A.1 Food/Nutrition Profile, July, 1981.
A.2 Population in the Yemen Arab Republic, by Helen Garrison,
September 1, 1981.
A.3  World Bank, Manpower Development in the Yemen Arab Republic, March
1981 (Report No. 3181a-YAR).
A.4 United Nations Fund for Population Activities, YAR - Needs Assessment
for Population Assistance Report, September 1980 (Report No. 32,
UNFPA).
A.5 World Bank, Mobilization of Domestic Financial Resources in the Yemen
Arab Republic, January 6, 1982 (Report No. 3554a-YAR).
B.   Reports and Working Papers Relating to this Project
B.l Ministerial Order No. 74 of 1977 concerning the issuance of the
Statute of the Command Council Decree Law No. 67 to reorganize the
Ministry of Health (translated from Arabic text).
B.2 YAR: Ministry of Health Basic Health Services/Primary Health Care
Project (1976-19081), 1978.
B.3 UNDP: Reports on the Evaluation of the Health Manpower Development
Phase III Project YEM/78/002.Consultant Report.
B.4 Consultant Report: YAR - Part II: Public Health Finances; Part III:
Proposed IDA Project by O.H. Calika, March 1981.
B.5 Consultant Report: YAR - Part I: Manpower in the Public Health
Sector, by Alan Fairbank, March 1981.
B.6 Consultant Report: YAR - Individual Manpower Plans for Various
Health Cadres (1981-1985), by James Herm, November 1981.
B.7 Government of Yemen Arab Republic: Draft Project Proposal by the
Ministry of Health, August 1980.
B.8  Working papers of the Appraisal Mission.
B.9 Implementation Volume (in preparation).



- 55 -
ANNEX 7
Page 2 of 2
B.10 NIPA Study on Salaries and Compensation (MOH).  Consultant Report.
B.l1 Decree No. 12 of 1982 on Salaries.
B.12 Office Orders of the Ministry of Health Establishing the Project
Implementation Unit, Planning and Follow-Up Unit and Evaluation and
Research Unit.



A



5RD 16317
A            ~~~~S A UD IA RA B IA
DHAHRAN                                                    YEMEN  ARAB REPUBLIC
\AJPA\HEALTH PROJECT
Prot,,ryp,, 0'Aoehou- Whi Arrohod
Equrprre,,l M-rrenorc Worxk S op
---------------SAMARA
II0                                             ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~Poc-c Pr.-Oy Rocos
JIZAN2(Afe  od
"'  SAADAH                                                                    Arp,crt,
BANl                                                    0    Cco e T.....  oco Olloge
'JWA R                                                        Ncrt,o Copro-
0BERBAT                             Mi  ol
-    rr-c -ro Bo-d-r-o
WARAD
MAT)i                            SHdzHARA
cr006~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~0                             1      c     'o~            0
HAMER                                               KIL~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ OME TE 0'
ABS?          -MAHAB HA                                                         N
LHAl 06/
A, ZZOHRAN\I                          AMOAN
AL KHUrSHdM                co  OO                                          o
SALIF~~~~~~.    AN'  - YA~                                       --
~ZAID00                                     0      0JAHA0oNA
SCRDuD  ''            ''rAZYAZ 
,,-BA             AArIrO-                                  -"cHAR B0 
4'       SOOOAONA           ~~~~DURAN   MABAP                   -0
HODEID)A 4         ~       0A~AJ             rDNTc
PE lT    A L    H A YH                       W         -'  B.A D A A     K     L~,
SOOWAL             ALUFA      JAN    BABAHA 
ALANIA ~      ~       ArOAN       BKD
so         -
ETrIOP     A                          or~~~AB                                ARA5"
0'~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~C AT
/    o                              I                   ARHA
/~~~~~~~~~~~~~A  DY,IAN                                   p~,                                     ED~
ALIOJ HOc 4444r44040cOAT                                                                                                                  ,4cc04
UKAH'                               0-~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~41,4444Or,44044ccc. c'pc 4040, 44,0
AH                                       P E 0  P  L E~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~,rco44,oo'c 440 S 4o4c444c44oe 4 cc4crc0



