CONTORMED COPY
LOAN NUMBER 880 MA
Loan Agreement
(Population Project)
BETWEEN
MALAYSIA
AND
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION
AND DEVELOPMENT
DATED FEBRUARY 9, 1973


﻿LOAN AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT,       dated  February   9,  1973,    between    MALAYSIA
(hereinafter called the Borrower) and INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR
RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT (hereinafter called the Bank).
WHEREAS (A) The Borrower has requested the Bank to assist in the
financing of the Project described in Schedule 2 to this Agreement by making
the Loan as hereinafter provided;
(B)   The Project will be carried out in part by the National Family Planning
Board with the Borrower's assistance and, as part of such assistance, the Borrower
will make available to the National Family Planning Board all proceeds of the
Loan as hereinafter provided;
(C)   The Bank is willing to make the Loan available upon the terms and
conditions set forth hereinafter and in a project agreement of even date herewith
between the Bank and the National Family Planning Board; and
(D)   The United Nations Fund for Population Activities will also assist in
the financing of the Project;
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
ARTICLE I
General Conditions- Definitions
Section 1.01. The parties to this Agreement accept all the provisions of the
General Conditions Applicable to Loan and Guarantee Agreements of the Bank,
dated January 31, 1969, with the same force and effect as if they were fully
set forth herein, subject, however, to the following modifications thereof (said
General Conditions Applicable to Loan and Guarantee Agreements of the Bank,
as so modified, being hereinafter called the General Conditions):
(a)   Section 5.01 is deleted;
(b)   Section 6.02(i) is amended to read as follows: "Any event specified
in paragraph (e) or (f) of Section 7.01 shall have occurred."; and


﻿4
(c)  the words "Project Agreement" are added after the words "Loan
Agreement" in Section 6.06.
Section 1.02. Wherever used in this Agreement, unless the context otherwise
requires, the several terms defined in the General Conditions have the respective
meanings therein set forth and the following additional terms have the following
meanings;
(a)   "Project Agreement" means the agreement between the Bank and the
National Family Planning Board of even date herewith, as the same may be amended
from time to time;
(b)   "National Family Planning Board" or "NFPB" means the National
Family Planning Board established and incorporated by the Borrower's Family
Planning Act, 1966 (NO. 42) as subsequently amended;
(c)   "United Nations Fund for Population Activities" or "UNFPA" means
the United Nations Fund for Population Activities established in 1967 by the
Secretary General of the United Nations in response to resolutions in the General
Assembly and the Economic and Social Council to assist developing countries in
carrying out population programs and to expand the work of the United Nations
system in that field; and
(d)   "MCH/FP" means maternal, child health and family planning.
ARTICLE II
The Loan
Section 2.01. The Bank agrees to lend to the Borrower, on the terms and
conditions in the Loan Agreement set forth or referred to, an amount in various
currencies equivalent to five million dollars ($5,000,000).
Section 2.02. (a) The amount of the Loan may be withdrawn from the Loan
Account in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1 to this Agreement, as
such Schedule shall be amended from time to time, for expenditures made (or,
if the Bank shall so agree, to be made) in respect of the reasonable cost of goods
and services required for the Project and to be financed under this Agreement
and in respect of interest and other charges on the Loan; provided, however, that,
except as the Bank shall otherwise agree, no withdrawal shall be made on account
of expenditures in the territories of any country which is not a member of the


﻿5
Bank (other than Switzerland) or for goods produced in, or services supplied from,
such territories.
(b) The Bank shall, withdraw from the Loan Account and pay to itself,
on behalf of the Borrower, the amounts required from time to time to pay interest
and other charges on the Loan during implementation of the Project, provided,
however, that such amounts in the aggregate shall not exceed the amount set forth
in Category V of Schedule 1 to this Agreement.
Section 2.03. Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree, the goods and services
required for the Project and to be financed out of the proceeds of the Loan shall
be procured pursuant to the provisions set forth or referred to in Section 2.02
of the Project Agreement.
Section 2.04. The Closing Date shall be September 30, 1978 or such other
date as shall be agreed between the Borrower and the Bank.
Section 2.05. The Borrower shall pay to the Bank a commitment charge
at the rate of three-fourths of one per cent (3/4 of 1%) per annum on the principal
amount of the Loan not withdrawn from time to time.
Section   2.06. The     Borrower    shall pay   interest  at  the  rate
of seven and one fourth per cent (7-1/4%) per annum on the principal amount
of the Loan withdrawn and outstanding from time to time.
Section 2.07. Interest and other charges shall be payable semi-annually on
February 1 and August 1 in each year.
Section 2.08. The Borrower shall repay the principal of the Loan in
accordance with the amortization schedule set forth in Schedule 3 to this
Agreement.
Section 2.09. If and when the Bank shall from time to time request, the
Borrower shall execute and deliver Bonds representing the principal amount of
the Loan as provided in Article VIII of the General Conditions.
Section 2.10. The Minister of Finance of the Borrower and such other person
or persons as he shall appoint in writing are designated as authorized representatives
of the Borrower for the purposes of Section 8.10 of the General Conditions.
ARTICLE III
4
Execution of the Project
Section 3.01. (a) The Borrower shall carry out (i) Part A of the Project
through the Project Construction Unit referred to in Schedule 4 to this Agreement


﻿6
and (ii) Part D of the Project, with due diligence and efficiency and in conformity
with appropriate administrative, financial, engineering and family planning practices,
and shall provide, promptly as needed, the funds, facilities, services and other
resources required for the purpose.
(b)   Without any limitation or restriction upon any of its other obligations
under this Agreement, the Borrower shall cause the National Family Planning Board
to perform in accordance with the provisions of the Project Agreement all the
obligations therein set forth, shall take and cause to be taken all action, including
the provision of funds, facilities, services and other resources, necessary or
appropriate to enable the National Family Planning Board to perform such
obligations, and shall not take or permit to be taken any action which would
prevent or interfere with such performance.
Section 3.02. (a) In order to assist the Borrower in carrying out Part A
of the Project, the Borrower shall not later than April 30, 1973 or such later
date as the Borrower and the Bank may determine employ architectural consultants
acceptable to the Bank upon terms and conditions satisfactory to the Bank.
(b)   The Borrower shall for the purposes of Part D of the Project appoint,
or cause to be appointed, the advisers listed in Annex C to Schedule 2 to this
Agreement; provided that: (i) the advisers listed in Part I of the said Annex shall
have qualifications and experience satisfactory to the Bank and the Bank shall
be consulted in the selection of such advisers, and (ii) the advisers listed in Parts
I and II of the said Annex shall be appointed upon terms and conditions determined
by the Borrower in consultation with the Bank and UNFPA.
(c)   The Borrower shall appo-it, or cause to be appointed, the Management
Advisers and the Research Advisers listed in Parts I and II of said Annex by
June 30, 1973 or such later date as the Borrower and the Bank may determine.
Section 3.03. In carrying out Part A of the Project, the Borrower shall employ
contractors acceptable to the Bank upon terms and conditions satisfactory to the
Bank.
Section 3.04. Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree, the Borrower (i)
shall cause all goods and services relating to Parts A and D of the Project and
financed out of the proceeds of the Loan to be used exclusively for said Parts
of the Project and (ii) shall take all action necessary to ensure that any goods
and services financed out of the proceeds of the Loan and made available inder
Parts B and C of the Project to any department or agency of the Borrower shall


﻿7
be used exclusively by the department or agency for the purposes specified in
the respective Parts of the Project.
Section 3.05. The Borrower shall make the proceeds of the Loan relating
to Parts B and C of the Project available to the National Family Planning Board
as a grant under terms and conditions satisfactory to the Bank and duly notify
the Bank.
Section 3.06. (a) The Borrower shall furnish to the Bank for its approval
promptly upon their preparation: (i) the plans, specifications, reperts, contract
documents, construction and procurement schedules for Part A of the Project, (ii)
with respect to Part D only of the Project the job descriptions and qualifications
relating thereto, and (iii) any material modifications thereof or additions thereto,
in such detail as the Bank shall reasonably request.
(b)   The Borrower: (i) shall maintain records adequate to record the
progress of Parts A and D of the Project (including the cost thereof) and to identify
the goods and services financed out of the proceeds of the Loan, and to disclose
the use thereof in Parts A and D of the Project; (ii) shall enable the Bank's
accredited representatives to inspect Part A of the Project, the goods financed out
of the proceeds of the Loan and any relevant records and documents; and (iii)
shall furnish to the Bank all such information as the Bank shall reasonably request
*        concerning said Parts of the Project, the expenditure of the proceeds of the Loan
and the goods and services financed out of such proceeds.
Section 3.07. The Borrower shall take or cause to be taken all such action
as shall be necessary to acquire all such land and rights in respect of land as shall
be required for carrying out Part A of the Project prior to the scheduled start
of construction and shall furnish to the Bank, promptly after such acquisition,
evidence satisfactory to the Bank that such land and rights in respect of land are
available for purposes related to said Part of the Project.
Section 3.08. The Borrower shall take all action necessary to ensure that
the University of Malaya: (i) establishes a population studies and research unit
by June 30, 1973 or such later date as the Borrower and the Bank may determine,
and (ii) appoints as soon as practicable the advisers listed in Part III of Annex
C to Schedule 2 hereto.
ARTICLE IV
Other Covenants
Section 4.01. (a) It is the mutual intention of the Borrower and the Bank
that no other external debt shall enjoy any priority over the Loan or the Bonds
by way of a lien on governmental assets.


﻿8
(b)   To that end the Borrower (i) represents that at the date of this
Agreement no lien exists on any governmental assets as security for any external
debt except as otherwise disclosed in writing by the Borrower to the Bank, and
(ii) undertakes that, except as the Bank shall otherwise agree, if any such lien
shall be created, it will ipso facto equally and ratably, and at no cost to the Bank
or the holders of the Bonds, secure the payment of the principal of, and interest
and other charges on, the Loan and the Bonds and in the creation of any such
lien express provision will be made to that effect. The Borrower shall promptly
inform the Bank of the creation of any such lien.
(c)   The foregoing representation and undertaking shall not apply to: (i)
any lien created on property, at the time of purchase thereof, solely as security
for payment of the purchase price of such property; and (ii) any lien arising in
the ordinary course of banking transactions and securing a debt maturing not more
than one year after its date.
(d)   As used in this Section, the term  "governmental assets" means: (i)
assets of the Borrower; (ii) assets of any statutory authority of the Borrower,
including assets of any State or political subdivision of the Borrower; (iii) assets
of any agency of the Borrower, including the Bank Negara Malaysia or any
institution performing the functions of a central bank for the Borrower; and (iv)
any right, interest or share of the Borrower in the Currency Fund and Cunency
Surplus Fund administered under the Malaya British Borneo Currency Agreement,
1960.
Section 4.02. The Borrower shall appoint for each State of West Malaysia
a qualified officer responsible for Maternal, Child Health and Family Planning by
December 31, 1973 or such later date as the Borrower and the Bank may
determine.
Section 4.03. The Borrower shall, not later than June 30, 1973 or such
later date as the Borrower and the Bank may determine, prepare and send to the
Bank a timetable for the completion of short-term in-service family planning
training of paramedical staff necessary to carry out the Borrower's family planning
program.
Section 4.04. (a) The Borrower shall, not later than March 31, 1973 or such
later date as the Borrower and the Bank may determine, prepare a plan of action
covering the period 1973 to 1975 and showing: (i) the existing coverage of family
planning program of West Malaysia and (ii) the steps the Borrower will take to
ensure progressive improvement in the quality and quantity of family planning;
such a plan will be drawn up to cover over 90% of the rural population by


﻿9
March 31, 1975 and its phasing shall be related to the training timetable referred
to in Section 4.03 hereof.
(b)   The Borrower shall as soon as practicable but in any case not later
than December 31, 1976 cause population education to be introduced into the
courses of study provided at the Borrower's school system,,
Section 4.05. The Borrower shall not later than April 30, 1973 or such later
date as the Borrower and the Bank may determine: (i) establish the Project
Construction Unit referred to in Part II of Schedule 4 hereto, and (ii) cause NFPB
to appoint a Deputy Director of NFPB.
Section 4.06. Except as the Bank and UNFPA shall otherwise agree, the
Borrower shall cause the external review referred to in Part D of the Project to
be carried out not later than 30 months after the date of this Agreement.
ARTICLE V
Consultation, Information and Inspection
Section 5.01. The Borrower and the Bank shall cooperate fully to assure
that the purposes of the Loan will be accomplished. To that end, the Borrower
and the Bank shall from time to time, at the request of either party:
(a)   exchange views through their representatives with regard to the
performance of their respective obligations under this Ag:ement, the performance
by the National Family Planning Board of its obligations under the Project
Agreement, the administration, operations, resources and expenditures of the
National Family Planning Board and, in respect of the Project, of the departments
or agencies of the Borrower responsible for carrying out any part of the Project,
and other matters relating to the purposes of the Loan; and
(b)   furnish to the other all such information as it shall reasonably request
with regard to the general status of the Loan. On the part of the Borrower, such
information shall include information with respect to financial and economic
conditions in the territories of the Borrower, including its balance of payments,
and the external debt of the Borrower, of any of its political subdivisions and
of any agency of the Borrower or of any such political subdivision.
Section 5.02. (a) The Borrower shall furnish or cause to be furnished to
the Bank all such information as the Bank shall reasonably request concerning
the administration, operations, resources and expenditures of the National Family


﻿10
Planning Board and, in respect of the Project, of the departments or agencies of
the Borrower responsible for carrying out any part of the Project.
(b)   The Borrower and the Bank shall promptly inform each other of any
condition which interferes with, or threatens to interfere with, the accomplishment
of the purposes of the Loan, the maintenance of the service thereof, the
performance by either of them of its obligations under the Loan Agreement or
the performance by the National Family Planning Board of its obligations under
the Project Agreement,
Section 5.03. The Borrower shall afford all reasonable opportunity for
accredited representatives of the Bank to visit any part of the territories of the
Borrower for purposes related to the Loan.
ARTICLE VI
Taxes and Restrictions
Section 6.01. The principal of, and interest and other charges on, the Loan
and the Bonds shall be paid without deduction for, and free from, any taxes
imposed under the laws of the Borrower or laws in effect in its territories; provided,
however, that the foregoing shall not apply to taxation of payments under any
Bond to a holder thereof other than the Bank when such Bond is beneficially
owned by an individual or corporate resident of the Borrower.
Section 6.02. The Loan Agreement, the Project Agreement and the Bonds
shall be free from any taxes on or in connection with the execution, issue, delivery
or registration thereof imposed under the laws of the Borrower or laws in effect
in its territories and the Borrower shall bear the cost of any such taxes, if any,
imposed under the laws of the country or countries in whose currency the Loan
and the Bonds are payable or laws in effect in the territories of such country
or countries.
Section 6.03. The payment of the principal of, and interest and other charges
on, the Loan and the Bonds shall be free from all restrictions, regulations, controls
and moratoria of any nature imposed under the laws of the Borrower or laws
in effect in its territories.
ARTICLE VII
Remedies of the Bank
Section 7.01. If any event specified in Section 7.01 of the General Conditions
or in Section 7.03 of this Agreement shall occur and shall continue for the period,


﻿11
if any, therein set forth, then at any subsequent time during the continuance
thereof, the Bank, at its option, may by notice to the Borrower declare the principal
of the Loan and of all the Bonds then outstanding to be due and payable
immediately together with the interest and other charges thereon and upon any
such declaration such principal, interest and charges shall become due and payable
immediately, anything to the contrary in this Agreement or in the Bonds
notwithstanding.
Section 7.02. For the purposes of Section 6.02 of the General Conditions,
the following additional events are specified:
(a)   the National Family Planning Board shall have failed to perform any
of its obligations under the Project Agreement;
(b)   an extraordinary situation shall have arisen which shall make it
improbable that the National Family Planning Board will be able to perform its
obligations under the Project Agreement;
(c)   the Borrower's Family Planning Act, 1966 (No. 42) shall have been
amended, suspended, abrogated, repealed or waived in such a way as to materially
and adversely affect the ability of the National Family Planning Board to carry
*        out its obligations under the Project Agreement; and
(d)   the United Nations Fund for Population Activities shall have suspended
or cancelled the financial assistance which it provides for the Project and the
Borrower shall have failed to obtain other adequate assistance in substitution
therefor.
Section 7.03. For the purposes of Section 7.01 of the General Conditions,
the following additional events are specified:
(a)   the events specified in paragraphs (a), (b) and (d) of Section 7.02
of this Agreement shall occur and shall continue for a period of 60 days after
notice thereof shall have been given by the Bank to the Borrower: and
(b)   any event specified in paragraph (c) of Section 7.02 of this Agreement
shall occur.
ARTICLE VIII
Effective Date: Termination
Section 8.01. The following events are specified as additional conditions to
the effectiveness of the Loan Agreement within the meaning of Section 1 1.01(c)
of the General Conditions:


﻿12
(a)   the execution and delivery of the Project Agreement on behalf of
the National Family Planning Board have been duly authorized or ratified by all
necessary corporate and governmental action;
(b)   the  establishment of a Project Implementation Committee in
accordance with Part I of Schedule 4 to this Agreement; and
(c)  the conclusion of arrangements satisfactory to the Bank ensuring
UNFPA financial assistance for the Project.
Section 8.02. The following is specified as an additional matter, within the
meaning of Section 11.02(c) of the General Conditions, to be included in the
opinion or opinions to be furnished to the Bank, namely, that the Project
Agreement has been duly authorized or ratified by, and executed and delivered
on behalf of, the National Family Planning Board and constitutes a valid and binding
obligation of the National Family Planning Board in accordance with its terms.
Section 8.03. The date April 30, 1973 is hereby specified for the
purposes of Section 11.04 of the General Conditions.
ARTICLE IX
Representative of the Borrower; Addresses
Section 9.01. The Minister of Finance of the Borrower is designated as
representative of the Borrower for the purposes of Section 10.03 of the General
Conditions.
Section 9.02. The following addresses are specified for the purposes of
Section 10.01 of the General Conditions:
For the Borrower:
The Tre2sury
Kuala Lumpur
Malaysia
Cable address:
TREASURY
Kuala Lumpur


﻿13
For the Bank:
International Bank for
Reconstruction and Development
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Cable address:
INTBAFRAD
Washington, D.C.
IN  WITNESS    WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their
representatives thereunto duly authorized, have caused this Agreement to be signed
in their respective names and to be delivered in the District of Columbia, United
States of America, as of the day and year first above written.
MALAYSIA
By /s / M. Ben Haron
Authorized Representative
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR
RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
By /s/ I.P.M. Cargill
Regional Vice President
Asia


﻿14
SCHEDULE 1
Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the Loan
1.    The table below sets forth the Categories of items to be financed out of
the proceeds of the Loan, the allocation of the amounts of the Loan to each
Category and the percentage of eligible expenditures so to be financed in each
Category:
Amount of the
Loan Allocated             % of
(Expressed in          Expenditures
Category                  Dollar Equivalent)    to be Financed
I.   Civil Works                   1,500,000         30% of total expendi-
tures (representing
the estimated foreign
expenditure component)
II.  Equipment for                  300,000          100% of foreign
Part B(i) of                                    expenditures
the Project
III.  Vehicles for                 1,000,000    )
Part C of the                             )
Project and                               )
equipment and                             )
furniture for                             )
Part A of the                             )
Project:                                  )
(a)  directly                             )     100% of foreign
imported                             )    expenditures
(b)  manufactured                         )     100% of local
locally (ex-                         )    expenditures
factory price)                       )
(c)  imported and                         )     70% of total
procured                             )    expenditures
locally                              )


﻿15
Amount of the
Loan Allocated             % of
(Expressed in          Expenditures
Category                   Dollar Equivalent)    to be Financed
IV.  Advisory and                    275,000          90% of total ex-
technical services                               penditure- (repre-
under Part D of                                  senting the esti-
the Project (not                                 mated foreign ex-
being services fi -                              penditure component)
nanced by UNFPA)
V.   Interest and other             1,075,000         100% of total ex-
charges on the Loan                              penditures
accrued on or before
February 1, 1978
VI.  Unallocated                     850,000
TOTAL         5,000,000
2.    For the purposes of this Schedule:
(a)   the   term  "foreign  expenditures"   means expenditures for goods
produced in, or services supplied from, the territories, and in the currency, of
any country other than the Borrower; and
(b)   the   term   "total expenditures" means the aggregate of foreign
expenditures and of expenditures for goods produced in, or services supplied from,
the territories of the Borrower.
3.    Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph I above, no withdrawals shall
be made in respect of:
(a)   expenditures prior to the date of this Agreement; and
(b)   payments for taxes imposed under the laws of the Borrower or laws
in effect in its territories on goods or services, or on the importation, manufacture,


﻿16
procurement or supply thereof. To the extent that the amount represented by
the percentage set forth in the third column of the table in paragraph I above
in respect of any Category would exceed the amount payable net of all such taxes,
such percentage shall be reduced to ensure that no proceeds of the Loan will be
withdrawn on account of payments for such taxes.
4.    Notwithstanding the allocation .of an amount of the Loan set forth in the
second column of the table in paragraph I above:
(a)  if the estimate of the expenditures under any Category shall decrease,
the amount of the Loan then allocated to such Category and no longer required
therefor will be reallocated by the Bank by increasing correspondingly the
unallocated amount of the Loan;
(b)  if the estimate of the expenditures under any Category shall increase,
the percentage set forth in the third column of the table in paragraph I above
in respect of such expenditures shall be applied to the amount of such increase,
and a corresponding amount will be allocated by the Bank, at the request of the
Borrower, to such Category from the unallocated amount of the Loan, subject,
however, to the requirements for contingencies, as determined by the Bank, in
respect of any other expenditures;
(c)  if the Bank shall have reasonably detenrmined that the procurement
of any item in any Category is inconsistent with the procedures set forth or referred
to in Section 2.02 of the Project Agreement, no expenditures for such item shall
be financed out of the proceeds of the Loan and the Bank may, without in any
way restricting or limiting any other right, power or remedy of the Bank under
the Loan Agreement, by notice to the Borrower, cancel such amount of the Loan
as in the Bank's reasonable opinion, represents the amount of such expenditures
which would otherwise have been eligible for financing out of the proceeds of
the Loan.
5.    Notwithstanding the percentages set forth in the third column of the table
in paragraph I above, if the estimate of total expenditures under Category I shall
increase and no proceeds of the Loan are available for reallocation to such Category,
the Bank may, by notice to the Borrower, adjust the percentage then applicable
to such expenditures in order that further withdrawals under such Category may
continue until all expenditures thereunder shall have been made.


﻿17
SCHEDULE 2
Description of the Project
The Project is designed to strengthen the Borrower's family planning program
as outlined in Annex A to this Schedule and consists of the following Parts:
A.    the construction of, equipment and furniture for, the following
facilities, as more specifically set out in Annex B to this Schedule:
(i) 11 State MCH/FP administrative centers (ii) 31 Family Planning
Clinics in Urban Government Hospitals (iii) 162 MCH/FP clinics in
Rural Health Centers (iv) a Rural Health Training Center at Trengganu
and (v) extensions to the Rural Health Training Center at Rembau
and to 365 Midwives Clinic-cum-Quarters;
B.    purchase and distribution of (i) special equipment for family planning
purposes including medical equipment and equipment to be used in
the evaluation of, and research into, family planning, nutrition,
education, training and family planning information and (ii)
contraceptives, family planning films and books;
C.    purchase and/or distribution of vehicles (i) for family planning purposes
including mobile information units and supervision of NFPB clinics
and (ii) for the Borrower's Ministry of Health including supervision,
mobile health teams and Rural Health Training Center.
D.    the provision of advisory services as more specifically set out in Annex
C hereto and/or technical services: (i) to NFPB for evaluation and
research, communication research and media production (ii) to the said
Ministry of Health for MCH/FP, Health Education Training, media
production and seminars (iii) to the Borrower's Ministry of Education
for population education (iv) to the University of Malaya for
population studies and research and (v) for external review of the
Borrower's family planning program;
E.    training of auxiliary and other staff for (i) in-service training in family
planning at national and regional levels (ii) MCH/FP training and
seminars and (iii) overseas training.
The Project is expected to be completed by March 31, 1978.


﻿18
Annex A to Schedule 2
Outline of Borrower's Family Planning Program
1.    Objectives: The main objectives of the Borrower's Family Planning Program
are: (a) to strengthen NFPB's family planning program particularly in the first
and second phases and more so in the areas of NFPB's communication, research
and training facilities in relation to NFPB's overall planning program; (b) to
strengthen the rural health maternal and child health services of the Borrower's
Ministry of Health so as to facilitate the integration of family planning services
with the rural health services in the third and fourth phases of NFPB's said program;
(c) to strengthen voluntary sector activities carried out by the Federation of Family
Planning Association; (d) to incorporate population education in the Borrower's
school curriculum; and (e) to establish population studies and research program
in the University of Malaya.
2. General Background: The first and second phases of NFPB's family planning
program covered the period 1967 and 1968 and related to the urban areas. Phases
three and four started from 1969 and are intended to cover the rural areas.
Functional integration of NFPB's family planning services with the rural health
services of the Ministry of Health is essential to the successul carrying out of the
third and fourth phases of the NFPB program. Experience derived from integration
in eight health districts of Malaysia since 1971 has demonstrated the need to
strengthen the rural health/maternal, child health services if family planning or
the maternal, child health services are not to be jeopardised. Similarly success in
strenthening the Borrower's overall family planning program will also depend among
other things on: (i) the strenthening of NFPB's communication, training, evaluation
and research capabilities, (ii) the strenthening of the contribution of the family
planning associations, (iii) introduction of population education into the schools
as well as (iv) the establishment of a population studies and research program in
the University of Malaya.


﻿19
Annex B to Schedule 2
Facilities to be Provided
Under Part A of the Project
Family
MCH/FP      Planning               Extension
State        Clinics    Clinics       Rural         to
MCH/FP         (Rural     (Urban        Health     Midwives-
Administrative   Health   Government     Training  clinic-c111m1-
States            Centers       Centers)  Hospitals)    Centers     Quarters
1.   JOHORE           1           22          5                        52
2.   KEDAH            1           17           3                       58
3.   KELANTAN         1           18           1                       15
4.   MALACCA          1           11           1                       20
5.   NEGRI            1           14          2         1 (Extension)  39
SEMBILAN
6.   PAHANG           1            9          4                        42
7.   PENANG           1           10          3                        25
8.   PERAK            1           23          7                        19
9.   PERLIS           1            4           1                       28
10. SELANGOR          1           21          2                       43
11. TRENGGANU         1           13          1       1               24
TOTAL      11         162          31      2               365


﻿20
Annex C to Schedule 2
Advisory Services
for Part D of the Project
Description                           Location             Man Months
I
1.   Firm of Management              NFPB                      1 x 24
Advisers
2.   MCH/FP Adviser                  Ministry                  1 x 24
of Health
II
3.   (a)   Senior Research           NFPB                      1 x 36
Adviser
(b)  Junior Research            NFPB                      1 x 24
Adviser
4.   Communications                  NFPB                      I x 21
Research Adviser
5.   Population Education            Ministry                  1 x 30
Adviser                         of Education
6.   Health Education/FP             Ministry                  I x 60
Training Adviser                of Health
7.   External Review                 NFPB                      3 x 3
Team
III
8.   Media Production                NFPB                      1 x 24
Adviser
9.   Production of                   Ministry                  1 x 12
Training Material               of Health
Adviser


﻿21
Description                           Location              Man Months
10.  Research Advisers               University                 2 x 36
of Malaya
11.  Medical Record                  Ministry                   I x 6
Adviser                         of Health


﻿22
SCHEDULE 3
Amortization Schedule
Payment of Principal
Date Payment Due                                  (expressed in dollars)*
February 1, 1983                                           95,000
August 1, 1983                                             100,000
February 1, 1984                                           100,000
August 1, 1984                                             105,000
February 1, 1985                                           110,000
August 1, 1985                                             115,000
February 1, 1986                                           115,000
August 1, 1986                                             120,000
February 1, 1987                                           125,000
August 1, 1987                                             130,000
February 1, 1988                                           135,000
August 1, 1988                                             140,000
February 1, 1989                                           145,000
August 1, 1989                                             150,000
February 1, 1990                                           155,000
August 1, 1990                                             160,000
February 1, 1991                                           170,000
August 1, 1991                                             175,000
February 1, 1992                                           180,000
August 1, 1992                                             185,000
February 1, 1993                                           195,000
August 1, 1993                                            200,000
February 1, 1994                                          210,000
August 1, 1994                                            215,000
February 1, 1995                                          225,000
August 1, 1995                                            230,000
February 1, 1996                                          240,000
August 1, 1996                                            250,000
February 1, 1997                                          255,000
August 1, 1997                                            270,000
*    To the extent that any portion of the Loan is repayable in a currency other
than dollars (see General Conditions, Section 4.02), the figures in this column
represent dollar equivalents determined as for purposes of withdrawal.


﻿23
Premiums on Prepayment and Redemption
The following percentages are specified as the premiums payable on
repayment in advance of maturity of any portion of the principal amount of the
Loan pursuant to Section 3.05(b) of the General Conditions or on the redemption
of any Bond prior to its maturity pursuant to Section 8.15 of the General
Conditions:
Time of Prepayment or Redemption                 Premium
Not more than three years
before maturity                                3/4%
More than three years but
not more than six years
before maturity                              2-1/4%
More than six years but
not more than eleven years
before maturity                                 3%
More than eleven years but
not more than sixteen years
before maturity                              4-1/2%
More than sixteen years but
not more than twenty-one
years before maturity                        5-3/4%
More than twenty-one years but
not more than twenty-three
years before maturity                        6-3/4%
More than twenty-three years
before maturity                              7-1/4%


﻿24
SCHEDULE 4
Part I
Project Implementation Committee
1.   Establishment and Composition:   The Borrower shall establish a Project
Implementation Committee headed by a representative of the Borrower's Economic
Planning Unit to ensure that the various activities relating to the Project are carried
out. The Project Implementation Committee shall consist of the said representative
of the Economic Planning Unit, the Director-General of NFPB, the Deputy Director
of NFPB, the Director of the Borrower's Health Services, a representative of (i)
the Planning and Development Division of the Borrower's Ministry of Health (ii)
the Borrower's Ministry of Education (iii) the University of Malaya and (iv) the
Treasury.
2.    Functions: The responsibilities of the Project Implementation Committee
shall include ensuring:
(a)   the appointment of advisers under Part D    of the Project and
coordination and follow-up of their work;
(b)   implementation of training under Part E of the Project;
(c)  implementation of the intensive input demonstration and its evaluation
and follow-up;
(d) provision of necessary operating cost and maintenance of components
provided under the Project;
(e)   submission to the Bank of periodic reports on the progress of the
Project; and
ff)   the establishment of the Project Construction Unit referred to in Part
II of this Schedule.
3.   Project Administrator:   NFPB's Deputy Director shall be the Project
Administrator and Executive Secretary of the Project Implementation Committee
and shall be responsible for:
(a)   the general administration of the Project;


﻿25
(b)   liaison with the Project Contruction Unit;
(c)   coordination of (i) arrangements for procurement of items under Parts
B, C and E of the Project and (ii) arrangements relating to the provision
of advisory and/or technical services under Part D of the Project;
(d)   administration of fellowships and study tours pertaining to family
planning in cooperation with the appropriate technical agencies; and
(e)   disbursements in respect of items under Categories II, 1II and IV of
the table to Schedule 1 to this Agreement.
5.    Secretariat: NFPB shall serve as the secretariat of the Committee and Project
Administrator.


﻿26
PART II
Project Construction Unit
1.    Establishment and Composition: The Borrower shall establish within its
Ministry of Health a Project Construction Unit. The Unit shall be responsible for
the execution of Part A of the Project and shall be under the charge of a Project
Architect who shall be provided with an adequate number of technical personnel
and facilities necessary for the efficient carrying out of the Unit's functions. The
Project Architect shall be assisted by the architectural consultants mentioned in
Section 3.02 of this Agreement.
2.    Functions: The Project Construction Unit under the Project Architect shall
inter alia have responsibility for:
(a)   liaison with the Project Administrator;
(b)   preparation of a comprehensive implementation chart showing the
planned timetable of coordinated activities and responsibilities on the
basis of which the civil works component of the Project will be carried
out;
(c)   all matters (jointly with the architectural consultants) concerning the
establishment of standards, user requirements, equipment lists, space
schedules and   preparation  of schematic and     final designs for
construction components and their cost estimates;
(d)   agreeing wlfl the architectural consultants and the appropriate agencies
of the Borrower including any firms of private architects appointed
by the Borrower on the production of tender documents, contract
documents and supervision of execution of the works;
(e)   arrangements for the review and approval by the appropriate authorities
of architectural and engineering reports, plans, specifications and other
submitted material; and
(f)   such other matters as the Borrower and the Bank may determine.


