                                            Documentof
                                         The World Bank


                                    FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY

                                                                          ReportNo. 44819-NE




                     FOODPRICE CRISISRESPONSETRUST FUND


                               EMERGENCY PROJECTPAPER


                                   ONA PROPOSEDGRANT


            UNDERTHE GLOBAL FOODCRISISRESPONSEPROGRAM


                           INTHE AMOUNT OFUS$7.0MILLION

                                              TO THE

                                     REPUBLICOFNIGER

                                      FORA PROPOSED

                EMERGENCY FOOD SECURITY SUPPORTPROJECT


                                          August 1,2008




Agricultureand RuralDevelopment
SustainableDevelopmentDepartment
CountryDepartmentAFCFZ
Africa Region

This documenthas a restricted distributionandmay beusedby recipients only inthe performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise bedisclosed without WorldBank authorization.

                               CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS

                           (Exchange Rate Effective July 17,2008)

                              Currency Unit = Franc CFA
                                      1US$ = 410CFAF

                                      FISCALYEAR
                                  January 1to December 31

                          ABBREVIATIONSAND ACRONYMS




            --.........
  DPL       DevelopmentalPolicy Lending
  FA0       FoodandAgricultural Organization
  FCD       Fonds Commun des Donateurs (Food Crisis Donor BasketFund)
  FCPMF     FoodCrisesPrevention andManagementFramework
  FPCR      FoodPrice Crisis Response
  FUCOPRI   Fidiration des Unions Coopiratives des Producteursde Riz (Rice ProducersApex
            Organization)
  FPCRTF  IIFoodPrice Crisis ResDonseTrust Fund
  FSA       Food Security Fund
  GFRP      Global FoodCrisis ResponseProgram
  GDP       Gross Domestic Product
I GNI     I GrossNationalIncome




I         I                                                                                 I




                                               ii

                                                                      FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY




        UEMOA         Union Economique et Monktaire OuestAfricaine (West AfricanEconomicandMonetary
                      Union)
        UNDP          United NationsDevelopmentProgram
                    r
        WFP           WorldFoodProgram




                                      Vice President: ObiageliKatrynEzekwesili
                                    Country Director: Madani M.Tall
                                      Sector Director: IngerAndersen
                                     Sector Manager: KarenBrooks
                                    Task Team Leader ElHad' Adama Toure




This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may notbe otherwise disclosed without WorldBank authorization.




                                                       ...


                         REPUBLIC OFNIGER
             EmergencyFoodSecuritySupportProject
              (FoodPriceCrisisResponseTrust Fund)


                                 CONTENTS


EmergencyProject Paper (EPP) Data Sheet .............................................               v


A Introduction ..............................................................................
 .                                                                                                  1
B. Country Context. Recovery StrategyandRationale for EmergencyProject                           ....1
C. Bank Responseand Strategy .........................................................              4
D Appraisal ofProjectActivities, Benefits, andRisks ..............................
 .                                                                                                  7
E Implementation Arrangements andFinancingPlan .............................
 .                                                                                                 10
F Risks
 .      ....................................................................................       12
G Terms andConditions
 .                           ................................................................ 13

Annexes
Annex 1 Detailed Description ofProject Components
       .                                                           ............................   14
Annex 2 ResultsFramework and Monitoring Arrangements
       .                                                                    .....................  15
Annex 3. Summary of Estimated Project Costs              .....................................    17
Annex 4. Financial ManagementandDisbursementArrangements                            ..............18
Annex 5. ProcurementArrangements             .................................................    28
Annex 6. ImplementationandMonitoringArrangements ........................                         -34
Annex 7. Project PreparationandAppraisal Team Members                          ..................35
Annex 8. Country at Glance        ...........................................................     36




                                         iv


Date: August 1,2008                                           Team Leader: ElHadj Adama Toure
Country Director: Madani M.Tall                                Sectors: Agriculture, Social
Sector Manager: KarenMcconnell Brooks                         Development
Lendinginstrument: Emergency Recovery Loan                     Themes: Agricultural Productivity, Food
                                                             I Environmental
                                                               security
                                                                              screening category: B
Project ID(s): P113222
Type of Operation: Emergency Project
NewOperation [ X ] Addit-ionaiFinancing [ ] ExistingFinancing(restructuring) [ ]
Financingtype: Loan [ ]              Credit [ ]          IDA Grant [ ]          Other [ X ]
Project ID(s): P113222                                 Total Amount: US$7 million
Proposedterms: 100 percentgrant basis                  Expectedimplementationperiod: 18 months
Expectedeffectivenessdate: August 15, 2008             Expectedclosing date: December31, 2009
Recipient: GovernmentofNiger                           Responsibleagency: Food Crisis Coordination
                                                       Unit(CCA) andCentrale d'Approvisionnement
                                                       (CA)




Borrower
Total IBRD/IDA
Trust Funds                                                            7.00                    7.00
Others
Total                                                                  7.00                    7.00

                                   2007         2008       2009        2010       2011         2012
Total IBRD/IDA
Trust Funds                                                6.00        1.oo
Does the emergency operation requireany exceptions from Bankpolicies?                  Yes [INo [XI
Have these beenapproved by Bank management?                                            Yes11 N o [ 1
Are there any critical risks rated "substantial" or "high"?                            Y e s [ X ] No[]
What safeguard policies are triggered, ifany? EnvironmentalAssessment Policy
(OP 4.01) andPest ManagementPolicy (OP 4.09)
Significant, non-standard conditions, ifany: None



                                                  V


A.      INTRODUCTION

1.      The Government of Niger has requested assistance from the World Bank to help
with its efforts to mitigate the impact of the crisis resulting from sharply rising food
prices. This Project Paper presents the proposed support to be provided to Niger for an
Emergency Food Security Support Project to be financed with a grant of US$7 million
fromthe Food Price Crisis Response Trust Fund(FPCR TF)'.
2.      The proposed grant will helpfinance the costs associatedwith urgent procurement
and distribution of fertilizer for irrigated rice production. Irrigated rice i s the only crop
that can respond effectively to soil fertilization at this period of the cropping season and
which can rapidly increase food availability. The support will also benefitthe Food Crisis
Coordination Unit (CCA) in the Prime Minister's office, which is the permanent
secretariat for the national Food Crisis Prevention and Management Framework
(FCPMF), and other national bodies involved in the FCPMF, by providing technical
assistance to strengthen monitoring of the food security situation and to prepare and
implement social safety nets programs. Project preparation and implementation are
coordinated with the Joint Government-Donor Food Crisis Committee (CRC) which
oversees the CCA. Net sales revenues of fertilizers will be used to strengthenthe social
safety nets programs.


B.      COUNTRYCONTEXT,RECOVERY               STRATEGY AND RATIONALEFOR PROPOSED
BANKEMERGENCY         PROJECT

3.      Niger i s a very poor country that faces many hardships and struggles with
significant levels of poverty and household food insecurity.2 A Sahelian landlocked
country, Niger is confronted by a harsh climate, with nearly 90 percent of the territory
receiving less than 350 mm rainfall annually, resulting inrecurrent natural disasters and
high exposure to climate change. With a per capita Gross National Income (GNI) of
US$260 and an estimated 62 percent of the population living below the poverty line,
Niger is one of the lowest-ranked countries on the UnitedNations' HumanDevelopment
index. The incidence o f poverty has remained constant since the early 1990s, with
approximately 85 percent of the population living on less than US$2 per day and 65
percentliving on less thanUS$1per day.

4.      Low agricultural productivity and uncontrolled population growth make the
country seasonally and chronically food insecure. Only 10percent of Niger's territory, or
120,000 km2,benefits from rain-fed agriculture. Agriculture in the rest of the country


 The proposed Grant is beingundertakenunder the GlobalFoodCrisis Response Program (GFW) which
was endorsedby the Boardon May 29,2008, and will be financed out of the FoodPrice Crisis Response
Trust Fund(FPCR TF).
 This sectionbasedonFood Security and Safety Nets Draft Report, June 12,2008, World Bank, andNiger
CountryAssistance Strategv,May 6,2008, World Bank and other sources




                                                1

must be irrigated, though many farmers cannot afford to do so properly, leaving the
country highly vulnerable to natural disasters (particularly drought). As a result, Niger
remains highly dependent on subsistence crops, livestock systems and rain-fed
agriculture, such as millet, sorghum, cowpeas, yams, manioc, and rice, which are
cultivated along the Niger River and inlow-lying areas borderingNigeria. Meanwhile, in
a context o f declining rainfall and cyclical droughts, unsustainable land management
practices abound, with communities overexploiting natural resources in order to maintain
or increase their level o f production to feed a rapidly growing population (at a rate o f 3.3
percent a year). The result i s soil depletion, loss o f fertility, lower yields, and
environmentaldegradation, which has progressively ledto an environment-poverty nexus
that contributes to increasing food insecurity and poverty.

5.      Though the majority o f households engage in some farming, almost all
households are net purchasers o f food. While over 60 percent o f households rely inpart
on their own production to meet their consumption needs, 68 percent o f households are
net purchasers o f staples such as millet and cowpeas. Drought also often results in
increases in the prices o f millet, sorghum and other staple foods o f the population, and
dramatic decreases inprices o f livestock, contributing to food insecurity.

6.      Supply and demand conditions inNigeria, especially the northern regions, have a
major influence on prices and availability o f staple food crops inNiger. Covering an area
o f 923,000 km2and with a population o f over 130 million, Nigeria produces significant
quantities o f millet, sorghum and maize as compared with Niger and dominates the sub-
regional supply o fthese cereals. Fluctuations inNigeria's cereal supply and demand have
important impacts on supply and prices inNiger.

Table 1:Variation in FoodPrices ( percent)
                                                  7.     The rise in international oil and
                               June08'Average
                            ~

               (June/MayOS        2003-2007       food prices, low cereal production in2007
Millet              18%              7%           due to drought, and increased demand for
Sorghum             18%              3%           cereals and other agricultural products in
Maize               51%              31%          neighboring countries-namely    Nigeria-
Rice                18%              21%          contributed to a sharp increase in food
Niebe               20%              23%          prices in 2008. As o f June 2008, and
                                                  according to the joint donor-government
earlier warning system put in place following the 2005 food crisis, about three million
people are living in areas currently identified as vulnerable to soaring food prices, fiom
which around one million people are under serious food insecurity, calling for urgent and
relief measuresto prevent another humandisaster three years after the 2005 crisis.

The GovernmentResponse

8.      Reducing vulnerability and ensuring food and nutrition security i s an overarching
priority for the Government o f Niger. Maintaining food security at the national and
household level i s an important priority for developing countries in general, both for the
welfare o f the poor and for political stability. In its 2003 Rural Development Strategy
(RDS), as well as in the Accelerated Development and Poverty Reduction Strategy


                                              2

(PRSP2), the Government has established the strategic vision, policies and institutional
framework to address food security issues. The RDS includes a comprehensive action
plan, adopted in 2006, which identifies various instruments to address food insecurity,
including efforts to increase staple food crop production (often with an explicit goal o f
food self-sufficiency), market interventions, and a variety o f safety nets programs,
especially after emergencies. This includes a food crisis contingency plan to cope with
drought episodes and a National Strategy to Support Vulnerable Population for increased
food prices.

9.      With the assistance o f development partners, the country has also worked to
improve its institutional and operational framework for food security, including by
establishing three facilitiesjointly with donors, as part o fthe FCPMF, under the oversight
andmanagement o f CCA: A Donor Basket Fund, A Food Security Fundandthe National
Food Security Stocks. Inthis context, food aid has served as an important resource for
the Government and is considered to be integral to the provision o f safety net
interventions, especially emergency responses.


10.     Inthe current context o f rising food prices, the Government's contingency plan
under the FCPMF has been to increase domestic rice stocks and to absorb the shock by
taking fiscal measures to facilitate access to inputs and imported rice. InJune 2008, the
Parliament adopted a supplemental Budget Law which included tax exemption (excise
and customs duties; VAT) on rice, wheat flour, edible oil, sugar, and milk, which ledto a
loss o f tax revenues o f CFAF 12.4 billion (about US$30 million), equivalent to 0.56
percent o f GDP.

11.     Inaddition, the Government has prepared a comprehensive food security national
strategy, within the framework o f CAADP3 and requested support from development
partners to implement its program. Development partners are responding to the
Government's request to support the national strategy, estimated to require $30 million in
the base case scenario (assumes normal rainfall ahead of the next harvesting season), by
replenishingthe Donor Basket Fund. Many partners, including France, Italy, the US and
EU have committed to assist. However, it is likely that funds will not flow in quickly
enough to meet the most urgent needs o f providing access to affordable inputs to support
crop production.

12.     It is worth noting that the Government-Donor Committee has been on alert since
the beginning o f the year and is meeting weekly to monitor and intervene to respond to
the situation. Inaddition to the Government's commitment, through the Prime Minister,
thirteen development partners have signed the FCPMF Agreement since 1998, namely
The European Commission, WFP, FAO, UNDP, France, Switzerland, Italy and Germany.
More havejoined or have contributed to one or more o f the Framework facilities after the
2005 food crisis, including the U S and Spain. The proposed Grant provides an
opportunity for the Bank to formally join this effort by becoming a signatory to the



 Afiica Union's ComprehensiveAfricanAgriculture DevelopmentProgramunderNEPAD.


                                              3

FCPMF Agreement and becoming more active in directly supporting food security in
Niger.

 13.    At this early stage of Niger's annual crop production cycle, the FPCR TF grant
will provide critical support to farmers to increasefood availability inthe short term. By
financing and distributing fertilizers at affordable price, the project will respond to an
urgent need and will also alleviate the fiscal burden of subsidizing imported rice-if
available at all, as many producer countries continue restricting rice exports. Inaddition,
net revenues from the fertilizer operation will later help CCA to finance social safety nets
programs, including replenishing the National Food Security Stocks at the end of the
production cycle with local production (cereals and cowpeas), contributing to
maintaining producer prices at reasonablelevels at a time when farmers are forced to sell
part of their productionat very low prices to cope with cash constraints. The project will
work with rice producers' associations, cooperatives, National Irrigation Development
office (ONAHA) and the Ministry of Agriculture to ensure distribution to target
beneficiaries, largely producers located along the Niger River on the western to south-
west border of Niger. Distribution and use of fertilizers will be monitored by these
groups, as well as through reporting to the CCA and FPCMF and the project will use
radio broadcasting and public meetings organized by ONAHA extension agents to raise
awareness about the program as well as for monitoring.


C.      BANKRESPONSE:THEPROJECT

    Briefdescriptionof Bank's strategy ofemergency support

14.     The Bank's strategy for this emergency support to Niger is aligned with the
Government's strategic approach and takes place in the context of the coordinated and
joint donor framework. The response focuses on measures to address the short and
medium to long term implication of the global food crisis for Niger, which is fully
consistent with the Bank's Global Food Crisis ResponseProgram (GFRP).

15.     The objectives of the GFRP are to: (i)reduce the negative impact of high and
volatile food prices on the lives of the poor in a timely way, (ii) governments in
                                                                       support
the design of sustainable policies that mitigate the adverse impacts of high and more
volatile food prices on poverty while minimizing the creation of long-term market
distortions, and (iii)
                     support broad-basedgrowth inproductivity and market participation
in agriculture to ensure an adequateand sustainable food supply response. Interventions
need to be rapid, include the poor4 and disadvantaged, and contribute to achieving
sustainable longer-run food security.

16.     The GFRP encompasses support for interventions inthe following areas: (i)         food
price policy and market stabilization, (ii) social protection actions to ensure food access
and minimize the nutritional impact of the crisis on the poor and vulnerable, (iii)


 FrameworkDocument for Proposed Loans, Credits and Grantsfor a Global Food Crisis Response
Program


                                              4

enhancing domestic food production and marketing response, and (iv) implementation
support, communications andmonitoring andevaluation.

17.     This support to Niger will focus primarily on areas (iii), supporting domestic
                                                                    by
production of rice at a critical time, and (ii), by using a share of the revenues from the
sale of fertilizer to strengthenNiger's social safety net mechanism. Inparallel, the Bank's
strategy for supporting agriculture and rural development inNiger includes longer-term
investments inrural idfastructure, including irrigation and rural roads, financed through
regular Bank mechanisms (IDA credits and grants), and also includes two new
investment operations in FY09 to complement these efforts, including an Agro-pastoral
Export Promotion and Irrigation Operation (PRODEX) and the second phase of the
Community Action Program (CAP 2).

    ProjectDevelopmentObjectivesandSummaryDescriptionof Component

18.     The objective of the grant is to support the government efforts to mitigate the
impact of food price crisis through: (a) increaseof rice production withprocurement and
distribution of fertilizers to rice producers at affordable prices ; and (b) providing
technical assistance to enhance the capacity of the Food Crisis Prevention and
Management Framework's (FCPMF) coordination unit and executing agencies, for the
management ofthe project and for improvedmonitoringofthe country's food security.

Component I:Procurement of Fertilizers (US6.5 million): The component will
support costs associated with the urgent procurement of 4,000 metric tons of fertilizers
(urea and di-ammonium phosphates) to be used on 10,000 ha of irrigated rice in the
current cropping season starting inJuly 2008 and ending inDecember 2008. Ifdelivery is
delayed due to any reasonablereason, use of fertilizers may be reported for the upcoming
counter-season starting in February 2009 and ending in June 2009. Fertilizer will be
procured by the Ministry o f Agriculture Development's Inputs Procurement Division
(Centrale d'Approvisionnement, CA) using agreed upon procedures under the National
Food Crisis Prevention and ManagementFramework (FCPMF) inJuly and August 2008.
Fertilizer will be delivered to rice producers at affordable price using CA's current
subsidy policy (a 30 to 40 percent subsidy for fertilizer). The grant will support CA and
CCA operating costs associatedwith the procurement andthe distribution of fertilizers.
Component 11: Support to the National Food Crisis Prevention and Management
Framework (US$0.5 million): This component will (a) contribute to strengtheningthe
CCA, as the permanent secretariat for the FCPMF, to manage the grant and monitor and
evaluate the grant funded activities. Those activities include the monitoring of targeting
eligible beneficiaries o f fertilizers procured and distributedunder the grant, and adequate
information disclosure regarding the distribution process. The project will also support
technical assistance under this component to CCA, CA and the Office of National Food
Security Stocks (OfJice des Produits Vivriers du Niger, OPVN) and ONAHA;(b) ensure
adequate monitoring o f food security, including accurately and timely reporting on food
prices across the country and along the borders with Nigeria; (c) support management of
grain storage and early identification of population and areas at risk of starvation; (d)
support the design o f safety net programs to permanentlytackle food insecurity affecting


                                                5

20 percent of the population in Niger; and (e) ensure close advisory services to
cooperatives and rice farmers during the two successive irrigation campaigns covered by
the project. This would include providing basic instructions on proper use of fertilizers,
as well as adequate quantitiesof application.

        Eligibilityfor ProcessingunderOPBP 8.00

19.     Due to the emergency nature of the crisis, this project was preparedwith great
speedunder OP 8.00, which provides the Bank's policy framework on RapidResponseto
Crisis and Emergencies and enables the Bank to provide a rapid response in support of,
inter alia, the following objective: "establishing and/or preserving human, institutional,
and/or social capital, including economic reintegration of vulnerable groups." OP 8.00
further provides that: "In support of this objective, emergency operations may include
activities forming part of the government's transitional social safety net programs,
including cashpayments, grant or micro-credit programs, andreintegration packages."

20.     Consistent with the guiding principles of OP 8.00, the project will address major
adverse economic and social impacts resulting from the hike in prices and consequent
lack of access to food and cereals by enabling Niger to produce rice in the short term,
ahead of the next harvesting cycle, and by contributing to the National Food Security
Stocks. The Project has been designed and will be implemented in close coordination
with other development partners, with financing channeledthrough ajoint donor funding
mechanism,

21.     Other financing options that were considered by the government included
additional financing to IDA operations, including the Agro-Pastoral Exports and Markets
Development Project (PRODEX, under preparation) and CAP2, which was negotiatedin
early July 2008.
22.     However, these options were not considered adequate because the PRODEX will
not be prepared in time to respond to the crisis (Board presentation is slated for early
2009) and the CAP 2 implementing agency does not have adequate capacity to rapidly
implement a new emergency program as it is already launching the implementation of a
new Avian Flu component in addition to the 2nd phase of the APL.            Supplemental
financing for a DPL that is under preparation was also considered but would not have
provided the appropriate instrument for responding to government's main priority of
procuring agricultural inputs.

    Consistencywith CountryStrategy
23.     This operation is consistent with the CAS for Niger, discussed by the Board on
May 29,2008, andwill contribute to the two mainpillars, which are:

1. AcceleratingSustained Growth that isEquitably Shared. Under this pillar, the Bank
    will increase support for policies and investmentsto promote rural growth, including
    for agro-pastoral products and exports and mining;             strengthen economic




                                             6

    infrastructure services, including irrigation, transport, and municipal services;
    improve the business and investment climate; and strengthen regional integration; and
2. DevelopingHuman Capital through EqualAccess to QualitySocialServices. Under
    this pillar, the Bank will support social infrastructure, such as water and sanitation
    services, basic education, health services, including HIV/AIDS prevention and
    treatment, decentralized financing mechanisms for basic services, and community
    driven development. The Bank will also continue to support Government responsefor
    emergencies, such as food insecurity, locust invasions and avian flu.

24.     Two fundamental and cross-cutting issues in the CAS include support for
improved governance and demographic issues, with a particular focus on improving the
situation for women, who tend to be more vulnerable to food insecurity.

25.     This operation will contribute to several specific CAS outcomes, including i)
helping Government and farmers be better prepared for natural disasters; ii)reducing
gender inequity, as evidenced by establishing an effective food security and social
protection strategy.


    Expected Outcomes


26.     With this grant support, rice yield in metric tons per hectare is expected to
increase by 20 percent in the irrigated plots treated with the recommended dose o f
fertilizers at the end o fthe p r ~ j e c t . ~

27.     With 4,000 tons o f fertiIizer procured under the grant, and distributed at an
affordable price to farmers, 10,000 ha o f paddy are expected to be adequately fertilized
over the project time frame.

28.     The management capacity of the CCA and OPVN for monitoring food security
will be strengthened.

29.     A comprehensive safety nets programisprepared andbeing implementedwiththe
FCPMF instruments.

D.      APPRAISALOFPROJECTACTIVITIES

30.       From July 8 to 11,2008, a Bank team discussed with the Government's officials
the country proposal for using the grant and met with the EU, the donor coordinator in
the Joint Government Donor Committee for Food Security, and with FAO. The Bank
team came up with the following:

31.     Technical: The government proposal i s technically articulated and provides a
rapid and effective response with regard to the current stage o f agricultural production
'Theprojecteighteen monthstimeframe includestwo rice croppingseasons: the mainseasonstartingin
July andendingDecember2008, andthe counter-seasonstartinginFebruaryandendingJune 2009.


                                                 7

and life cycle in rural areas. The government's approach consists o f giving priority to
food supply mainly through domestic production o f irrigated rice compared to rain fed
traditional cereals. At this early stage o f the cropping season, fertilization o f rain-fed
cereals would have less impact than on irrigated rice, which fertilization is sequentially
fragmented into two or three treatments. The 400kg per hectare o f fertilizer proposed
derived from research experimental and would ensure 4.7 tons per hectare in terms o f
output on average, compared to 3 tons per hectare with current farmer's practices.

32.     Economic: The urgency of a response has limited the time for preparing an
adequate quantitative economic appraisal. That said, the grant will support short term
benefits o f increased rice production for increased consumption, income-generation for
targeted farmers from the sale o f rice, and funding to increase cereal stocks, as well as
longer term results to strengthen sustainability, by supporting the safety net mechanisms
under the FCPMF and strengthening the capacity o f the involved organizations (CCA,
OPVN).     The increase in rice yields would result in increased farmer revenues that
outpace the marginal cost associated with procurement o f fertilizers, more so at
subsidized prices.

33.     Financial Management assessment: A Public Expenditure Management and
Financial Accountability Review (PEMFAR), including a CFAA, was carried out for
Niger inNovember 2003. The report identifies a number o f areas where additional steps
need to be taken to strengthen existing institutions and/or accelerate the reform process.
These include: (i)budget preparation and execution; (ii)computerized financial
information systems; (iii)  cash management; (iv) domestic debt management; and (v)
internal and external controls.

34.     The FM mission assessed the capacity o f the Food Crisis Coordination Unit
(CCA) and found that the Chief Finance Officer (CFO) has previous experience inWorld
Bank FM procedures (on the Private Irrigation Project) and the Accountant also has
satisfactory experience and competence in accounting. An FM manual and software are
already in place and internal controls are strong. The annual financial statements are
audited and IFRs are regularly produced. The opinion on 2006 financial statements is
unqualified; that for 2007 i s not yet available because the process o f appointment o f
auditors by EU is underway. The harmonized FM procedures applied on the FCD
operations are acceptable.

35.     The C A inthe Ministry o f Agriculture Development procures fertilizers, manages
related stocks and cash receipts generated from sales. It transfers a part o f these receipts
to the CCA for financing the safety net program. However, C A has a weak internal
control system and the scope o f its audits is narrow. Procedures related to procurement,
inventory and delivery management, cost recovery are not documented. However, it is
well staffed and has reliable software in inventory management. It produces annual
financial statements (balance sheet, income statement and use and sources statement) and
practices ininventory management are inplace.

36.     The conclusion o f the FM assessments is that the CCA and C A financial
management capacities meet the World Bank's minimum requirements under


                                              8

OPA3P10.02. However, the capacity o f C A needs to be strengthened on an urgent basis
with regard to documenting satisfactory procedures o f inventory and delivery
management o f fertilizers, and cash recovery from fertilizer sale. Other major areas o f
improvement are: developing an FM manual, ensuring a satisfactory audit scope (to be
expanded from the current practice to include internal controls review) and appointing an
experienced internal auditor. The overall FMresponsibility will be assigned to the CCA.

37.     Institutional and fiduciary: The CA is the government body in charge of
procurement and distribution o f agricultural inputs. In addition to distorting the inputs
markets by taking up to 40 percent o f fertilizer market share, and operating within a
complex subsidy framework, there i s some governance concern due to the fact that some
o f the products procured by C A consistently end up intraders' stores and being resold at
higher prices to farmers. C A does, however, have the appropriate procedures and skills to
procure fertilizers in emergency conditions. The FCPMF related bodies, such as the
CCA, which are under the joint donor-government supervision, have stronger control
mechanisms and more transparent fiduciary procedures. The team recommends that the
grant be managed by the CCA which will contract out C A for the procurement and
distribution o f the fertilizers, thereby using the strengths o f each institution while
minimizing the fiduciary risksassociated withCA.

38.     The Project design and implementation will draw from the lessons o f Malawi,
which has successfully developed a food security scheme combining various government
interventions, including distribution o f subsidized inputs, and market-based mechanisms
such as warehouse receipts and index based crop insurance. Other lessons have also been
drawn from the Regional Africa Emergency Locust Project, through which the Bank also
contributed to restoring productive capacity o f farmers affected by the 2004 locust surge
insevenparticipatingcountries, includingNiger, through fast track distribution of inputs
to eligible farmers.

     Safeguardpolicies-Environment

38.     From an environmental and social safeguard point o f view, the Niger Emergency
Food Security Support Project i s a Category B project. That is, the environmental and
social impacts o f the project, for the most part, are expected to be minimal, site-specific
and manageable to an accepted level. Two safeguard policies are triggered: The
Environmental Assessment Policy (OP 4.01) and the Pest Management Policy (OP 4.09).
The latter is triggered based on project's objectives to boost agricultural production and
productivity through purchase o f large quantities o f fertilizers to be distributedto farming
communities.

39.     The existing Environmental and Social Management Framework (ESMF) and the
Pest Management Plan (PMP) will be adapted to the project and will be reviewed and
approved by ASPEN and disclosed in-country and at Bank Infoshop, in accordance with
Bank and National policies by the project, within six months of grant effectiveness.
However, intensive supervision will be provided commencing with the first supervision
after signing to ensure the safe use o f fertilizers and support to farmers. The safeguards
specialist will participate inthe first supervision mission.


                                                9

40.      The ESMF covers the guidelines and procedures for environmental and social
screening, designed to help avoid, minimize or mitigate impacts resulting from
unbalanced use o f agrochemicals, such as eutrophication in irrigation canals and
downstream waterways, and irrigation- specific impacts, such as water logging,
salinization, and water-borne or related diseases. The ESMF also discuss institutional
arrangements for implementing and monitoring safeguard measures, along with any
capacity strengthening and awareness raising measures deemed necessary for relevant
stakeholder groups. The ESMF is considered both as a planning tool and as a way to
maximize the positive effects of this operation.

E.      IMPLEMENTATION PLAN ARRANGEMENTSANDFINANCING

41.     The project will be implementedusing the existing FCPMF institutional set-up,
which includes the joint Government-Donor Committee (CRC) and the CCA which it
oversees. As part of the FCPMF, three facilities have been created: The Donor Basket
Fund(FCD) whichreceivesdonors financial contribution; the FoodSecurity Fund(FSA),
which is fed by the FCD and direct contributions from bi-laterals and whose purpose is
limited to buying and distributing food during crises; and the National Food Security
Stocks (SNS) which receives in-kinddonations and may also be replenished with funds
from the FSA. The CCA is responsible for managing FCD and FSA while OPVN
manages the SNS.

42.     The grant will be entirely disbursedto the FCD. The CCA will be the managing
body. CCA will contract out to CA for the procurement of fertilizer. Capacity-building
activities under Component 2 will require a longer implementation period than
Component 1.

43.     Financialmanagementarrangements:The FM arrangements for the grant will
be based on the existing FCPMF. Under the guidance and the responsibility of the Prime
Ministry,the CCA is responsible for financial management and for preparing audits of
accounts, systems and procedures acceptable to the Donors pooled funds. The National
Coordinator i s the authorizer (ordonnateur) of expendituresof the FCD and therefore will
also be the authorizer of the grant expenditures. He approves related commitment
documents and warrants. He authorizes cash transactions of the FCD bank account and
shares that duty with the Cabinet Director of the Prime Ministry.Records are kept for all
FCD-related expenditures following generally accepted accounting principles. The
annual financial statements prepared by the CCA are audited annually, following
international auditing standards, by independent auditors acceptable to the Donors Pool.
The CCA also prepares Interim Un-AuditedFinancial Reports (IFR). The CA would
maintain satisfactory controls over the procurement and distribution of fertilizers, and
collection of cash receipts; and will strengthenits procedures on these aspects. The CA
would also prepare and submit IFRs, and annual audited financial statements for its
activities underthe project.

44.     Disbursementarrangements:The CCA manages the designatedPool account in
which the grant will be entirely disbursedfor the FCD. It will be in charge of preparing
paymentsto fertilizer suppliers contractedby the CA and will also manage cash receipts


                                             10

from the fertilizer operations carried out by the C A andbe responsible for allocatingthem
for financing the safety net program.


ProcurementAssessment

45.     Procurement activities will be managed by the C A for Component 1 (fertilizers)
and the CCA for Component 2. Fertilizers will be procured using appropriate methods in
response to this operation (Annex 5). An assessment o f the capacity o f the two entities
was carried out by IDA in July 2008. The assessment reviewed the organizational
structure for implementing the project, the interaction between the project staff
responsible for procurement and the Ministry's relevant Central Administration and
Finance Division.

46.     The evaluationrevealed the following:

9                 The CCA is a public office under the responsibility o f the Prime
Minister Cabinet; for consulting services, a procurement commission appointed by the
Prime Minister i s responsible. There is no specific procurement unit; and CCA has
limited experience in procurement with other donors, particularly in areas covered by
component 2, and no experience with World Bank procedures (hence the contracting out
to CA).
>                 The CA does not have a specific procurement unit, has prepared few
biddingdocuments and all procurement actions are supervised bythe centralprocurement
division in the Ministry o f Agricultural Development, which is led by a staff with
experience in World Bank procurement procedures. The evaluation commission i s
appointed by the Ministry.

47.     Given the large volume o f fertilizers to be procured under the grant and the need
for a rapid response, a Fast Track Limited International Bidding with 14 days o f
submission i s proposed to be applied.

48.     The key procurementrelated issues andriskswithregardto the implementationo f
the project have beenidentified and include: (i)      possible confusion between the national
procurement rules and IDA procedures by executing agencies; (ii)         the implication o f the
private sector representatives in the evaluation stage in addition to their participation in
the A M P sessions, which increases the risk o f unjustified complaints delaying the
contract award and signature; (iii) the procurement process control and approval by staff
inexperienced inIDA procedures, which may result inrigidity inthe interpretation o f the
texts; and (iv) delays in the review o f procurement decisions by Niger's DGCMP and
their approval bythe proper authority.

49.     The corrective measures proposed are: (i) fertilizer procurement specialist
                                                      employ
to assist CCA, and organize quick procurement training for CCA staff involved in
procurement; (ii)  non-application o f the list o f clauses o f the National Procurement Code
which are not entirely consistent with the World Bank's procurement guidelines. The list



                                              11

of clauses is included inAnnex 5; and (iii) project supervision by Bank staff based
                                             close
inthecountry office.

50.     The overall project risk for procurement is substantial.

51.     Supervision arrangements. Quarterly supervision mission will be carried out,
commencing with the first supervision mission after project signing. The Bank
supervision team is composed of two technical specialists (including the TTL), a
procurement specialist and a financial management specialist based inthe field, and will
get support from a senior operations officer and safeguards specialist based in HQ,as
well as from consultants inthe specific areas of safety nets and food security monitoring,
evaluation and reporting. Project supervision will be largely performed by staff based in
Niamey. Bank staff based in the Country Office will also participate in CRC semi-
monthly meetings. The Bank will require that CCA report on the FPCR grant
implementation on a quarterly basis. The report will serve as a basis for a formal
supervisionmission.

52.     The project closing date is December 31, 2009. The implementation timetable is
as follows.

RVP approval                                         August 1,2008
Effectiveness                                        August 15,2008
Contracts for fertilizer and seeds                   August 16,2008
Delivery of fertilizers and seeds                    August 25,2008
Contracts for technical assistance to CCA            September 31,2008
Assessment of distributionhe of fertilizers          January 30,2008
Completion of designing safety nets programs         February20,2009
Evaluation of Project Performance                    November, 2009
Project closing                                      December 31,2009
Project Completion Report                            March2010


F.      PROJECTISKSANDMITIGATINGMEASURES
                   R

53.     Risks associated with CA are related to fiduciary and governance issues and are
consideredto be substantial, with political interests possibly leading to poor targeting of
farmers that most need fertilizer, or fertilizer ending up in traders' stores. To mitigate
fiduciary risks, FCPMF procedures will be used, which will require CCA to provide
quarterly reports on the fertilizer operation and for net sales to be returned back to the
Food Security Fund. Distribution and use of fertilizers will also be monitored by
cooperatives and associations under advisory support of ONAHA extension agents, as
well as through reporting to the CCA and FPCMF. The project will also use radio
broadcasting and public meetings facilitated by ONAHA to raise awareness about the


                                             12

program, contribute to transparency and to monitor the program, in addition to quarterly
reporting andspot audits.

54.     Other specific provisions to ensure transparency in the distribution of fertilizers
and targeting eligible users include (i)
                                       involvement of rice grower cooperatives and their
apex association (Federation des Unions de Cooperatives de Riz, FUCOPRI) in the
distribution and repayment process. Each cooperative will keep records on number of
beneficiaries and size of respective plots, volumes of fertilizer received, amount paid to
CCA, volume of paddy harvested. CCA, in collaboration with FUCOPRI, CA, and
ONAHA (Office Nige'rien des Ame'nagemnt Hydroagricoles) will ensure periodic
disclosure of such informationusing national TV and local radio broadcasts. Inaddition,
technical audits would be carried out to assess how the fertilizer has been distributed.



G.      TERMSAND CONDITIONS FORPROJECTFINANCING

55.     The project will be financed on 100 percent grant terms using funding from the
Food Price Crisis Response Trust Fund (FPCR TF). The project may retrofinance, in
accordancewith OP 8.00, the pre-purchase of fertilizers for rice production, procured as
partofthe FCPMFresponse, for upto 40 percentofthe total grant amount.

56.     The CA would implementthe agreed on action during negotiations to strengthen
its financial management system.

57.     There are no conditions of effectiveness.




                                            13

                  Annex 1.DetailedDescriptionof ProjectComponents

              Niger EmergencyFoodSecuritySupportProject(FPCR TF)

1.       The grant inits entirety will be disbursedto the Donor Basket Fundto support the
following activities clusteredunder two components:
ComponentI:      ProcurementandDistributionof Fertilizers($6,5million):
2.       The component will support costs associated with the urgent procurement of
4,000 metric tons of fertilizers (urea anddi-ammonium phosphates) to be used on 10,000
ha of irrigated rice inthe current cropping season. Fertilizer will be procured by the CA
in August 2008 using agreed upon procedures under the Food Crisis Prevention and
Management Framework (FCPMF). This includes the cost of fertilizers and operating
costs of CA and CCA associatedwith the procurement and the distribution of fertilizers.
3.       CA will deliver the fertilizers to paddy producers at subsidized price in line with
current government's inputs subsidy policy (e.g. up to 40 percent of subsidy on selling
price).
4.       The component will be executed by the Food Crisis Coordination Unit (CCA)
which will contract out CA for the procurement and distribution of fertilizers, and for
recovering payment from producer associations.
Component 11: Support to the National Food Crisis Prevention and Management
Framework($0.5 million):
5.       This component will contribute to strengthening management capacity of the
CCA, the permanent secretariat for the FCPMF, and provide technical assistance to
ensure sustainability of the project over time by building bridges with medium to longer
term operations. Activities will include:
    o adequate management o f FPCMF, monitoring food security (including accurately and
         timely reporting on food prices across the country and along the borders with Nigeria),
         and o f OPVN grain storage facilities ($200,000);
    o technical assistance for designing and          implementation of sustainable safety nets
         programs to tackle permanent food insecurity which affects 3 million people in Niger
         ($100,000);
    o support to inputs market reforms and restructuring of the CA. These activities will be
         carried out in collaboration with EU and FA0 supported community based inputs
         marketingprogram($100,000); and
    o     Capacity building and improvement of fiduciary systems (financial management and
         procurement) o f project executing agenciesto ensurethat the funds are properly managed
         and accounted ($100,000).
6.       The grant will cover costs associated with technical assistance (consultants),
incremental additional cost for monitoring relevant food prices and OPVN storage
facilities in targeted areas, technical audits, preparation of CA's FM Manual and
upgrading of its accounting software and, workshop and training for staff of CCA and
institutions participating inthe implementationofthe project's activities.



                                                 14

                         Annex 2. ResultsFrameworkandMonitoring

               Niger EmergencyFood Security SupportProject(FPCR TF)




The objective o f the grant i s to  0 increase inrice yieldinplots         Measure efficacy o f rice
support the government efforts        treated with recommended dose        intensificationthrough adequate
to mitigate the impact o f the        o f fertilizers                      fertilization
food mice crisis


Component 1                         0 Tons o f fertilizers procured and    Track progress o f use of
Procurementof fertilizers             distributedto rice paddy farmers     fertilizers andtargeting o f rice
                                      at a subsidized price                producers
Improvement inirrigatedrice         0 ha o f irrigated rice fields treated
productivity                          with adequate dose o f fertilizers

Component 2                           Regular reporting on relevant        Measure improved M&E
Support to the National Food          food prices and national food        capacity.
Crisis Preventionand                  security stocks.
ManagementFramework
                                      Preparation and implementation       Gauge government commitment
Improved capacity o f CCA to          o f sustainable safety nets          to make to address permanent
manageFCPMF facilities and            programs                             food insecurity
designedof safety nets
programs


1.       Arrangements for results monitoring:Under the Food Crisis Prevention and
Management Framework, the Government has developed with donors' support an
effective food security monitoring systemwhich will be useful to assess the impact of the
project. The Systemi s composed of an Early Warning System(SAP) which uses weather
data and surveys on the ground to identify areas and population at risk, and an
Agricultural MarketsInformationSystem (SIMA) which monitors prices of major cereals
and staples across the country.

2.       The CCA is responsible for monitoring and evaluation of project activities, and
will formally report on progress in project implementation (outcomes and output
indicators) on a quarterly basis. To that aim, CCA will collate datawith CA, the National
IrrigationDevelopment Office (ONAHA), and the Rice Producer Cooperatives regarding
distribution and use of fertilizers as well as production and yield estimates at the end of
the cropping season. CCA is already managing information regarding the food security
stocks in collaboration with OPVN, and both CCA and OPVN will benefit under the
grant from capacity building activities to improve managementand M&E of the national
security stocks. Results monitoringtable is presentedbelow.




                                                      15

increaseinrice      2.5 tons    3.0 tons   3.5 tonsper     Endof                          ONAHA and
yield inplots       per ha      per ha     hectare         cropping    cooperatives       CCA
treatedwith         (without
recommended                                                season+1

doseoffertilizers   fertilizati                            month
                    on)                                    (January
                                                           2008 and
                                                           February
                                                           2009
Intermediate        Baseline    Year1      Year2           Frequency   Data Collection    Responsibility
Outcomes            2008        (12131/08) (6/30/09)        of Reports Instruments        for Data
                                                                                          Collection
Tons of fertilizers 0           4,000                      By endof    CA procurement     CA andCCA
procuredand                                                September   records, invoices
distributedto rice                                         2008        andreceipts
paddyfarmers at
asubsidizedprice
haof irrigated      0           6,000      4,000           Endof       Farmers            ONAHA and
rice fields treated                                        cropping    Cooperatives,      CCA
with adequate                                              seasons     ONAHA data base
dose of
fertilizers
Regular             Weekly      Report on  Reporton        Quarterly    SAP And EWS       CCA andOPVN
reportingon         bulletin    Food       Foodsecurity                bulletins,
relevantfood        on prices   security   andproject                  +data from OPVN,
prices and          andareas    and        implementatio               ONAHA andCA
national food       at risk     project   nincludingon
securitystocks      from        implemen food security
                    SAP and     tation     stocks
                    EWS         including
                                on food
                                security
                                stocks
Preparationand      None        Programs   GoNstarts       Quarterly   progressreportedin CCA
implementation                  prepared   implementing                CCA quarterly
of sustainable                  and        programs                    report
safetynets                      validated  usingnet
Pro@-                           by the     revenuesfrom
                                FCPMC      the fertilizers




                                                         16

b
3

           Annex 4. FinancialManagementand DisbursementArrangements

             Niger EmergencyFoodSecuritySupportProject (FPCR TF)


Summary of the FinancialManagementAssessments

1.     Financial management assessments were carried out in accordance with the
Financial Management Practices Manual issued by the Financial Management Board on
November 3, 2005. The objective o f the assessments was to determine whether the
National Food Crisis Coordination Unit (CCA) and the Centrale d'Approvisionnement
(CA), the implementing agencies o f the FCD, have acceptable financial management
arrangements, which will ensure: (1) the funds are used only for the intended purposes in
an efficient and economical way; (2) the preparation o f accurate, reliable and timely
periodic financial reports; and (3) safeguard the implementing entities' assets. CCA will
remain the Budget Management and Accounting Center (BMAC) o f the FCD and will
receive revenues from fertilizer operations carried out by the C A to finance safety net
programs. The C A procures fertilizers, manages related stocks and receives cash
revenues generated from sales. It transfers a part o f these cash receipts to the CCA for
financing the safety net program.

2.     The FMmission assessedthe capacity o f the Food Crisis Coordination Unit (CCA)
at Niamey and found that the Chief Finance Officer (CFO) has previous experience in
World Bank FM procedures through First Private Irrigation Project (PIP1) and the
Accountant also has good experience and competence in accounting. A FM manual and
software are already in place at the CCA and internal controls are strong. The annual
financial statements are audited and acceptable IFRs are regularly produced. The opinion
on 2006 financial statements is unqualified; those for 2007 are not yet available because
the process o f appointment o f auditors by EU i s underway. The harmonized FM
procedures    applied   on the     FCD     operations   are  acceptable.    The   Centrale
d'Approvisionnement(CA) has a weak internal control system andthe scope o fits audit is
narrow. Procedures o f procurement, inventory and delivery management, and cost
recovery are not documented. However, it is well staffed and has reliable software in
inventory management. It produces annual financial statements (balance sheet, income
statement and uses and sources statement) and practices related to inventory management
are in place. The conclusion o f the assessments is that the CCA and C A financial
management capacity meet the World Bank's minimumrequirements under OPBP 10.02
and are therefore adequate to provide, with reasonable assurance, accurate and timely
information on respectively the status o f the FCD and C A as required by the Donors
Pool. However, the capacity o f C A needs to be strengthened on an urgent basis with
regard to documenting satisfactory procedures o f inventory and delivery management o f
fertilizers and cash recovery from fertilizer sale. Other major areas o f improvement are:
developing an FM manual, ensuring a satisfactory audit scope (to be expanded from the
current practice to include internal controls review) and appointing an experienced
internal auditor (see Table on FM actions plan). Considering the existing FM
arrangements, the overall FMrisk is substantialfor the C A and moderatefor the CCA.



                                             18

CountryIssues

3,    A Public Expenditure Management and Financial Accountability Review
(PEMFAR), including a CFAA was carried out for Niger in November 2003. Its report
was finalized in June 2004 and published by the Bank in December 2004 under number
29752-NE. The report identifies a number o f areas where additional steps need to be
taken to strengthen existing institutions and/or accelerate the reform process. These
include (i)budget preparation and execution; (ii)  computerized financial information
systems; (iii)cash management; (iv) domestic debt management; and (v) internal and
external controls.

4.    Improving Niger's Public Finance Management requires a long-term reform
program, which should be implemented in phases and requires the full support o f the
government and the donor community. The PEMFAR includes a table presenting a list o f
essential reforms as key recommendations that shouldbe implementedover the next three
years and beyondto improve the structure o fpublic expenditures and strengthenfiduciary
capacity. As o f today, the government i s making great strides in improving financial
management through a series o f RSRCs.

5.    The Niger CPPR held on June 20-21,2008 concluded on no major shortcomings in
implementing internal control procedures in most o f the projects and on financial
management statements.

6.    As of today, the fiduciary compliance of the World Bank portfolio in Niger
indicates no overdue audit report.

7.    At present, the overall country risk rating in Niger is substantial. The situation
described above may have some effects on the Niger GFRP implementation because o f
the fiduciary concerns mentionedabove by the PEMFAR report.




                                          19

               RiskAssessmentandMitigation
                                                                                RiskMitigatingMeasuresIncorporatedinto
                                                                    Risk                        Project Design                     Overall
                               Risk                                Rating                                                         Residual
                                                                                                                                   Risk
                                                                                                                                   rating
     Inherent risk                                                                                                                S
Country level:                                                                InSeptember/October2006, the government             S
qualityofPFM, standardof financial accounting, reportingand                   strengthenedthe internalcontrols ofthe
auditing; andquality of accountingprofession.                                 expenditurecircuit by removingall the Financial
                                                                              Controllersandreplacedthem by new senior staff.
                                                                              InJuly 2007, aFinancialControlManualwas
                                                                              developed. Guidelinesandaudit techniques for
                                                                              Court ofAccounts are now documented. Actions
                                                                              are foreseen to producereliableaccounts ontime.
                                                                              Butthe issue aboutthe accuracy offinancial
                                                                              information remains. However, the implementation
                                                                              ofthe PFMreform program(PEMFAR) is
                                                                              underwaythroughexecutionofRSRCsseries.
,ntitylevel:                                                                  There is astronginvolvementofthe DonorsPool        M
idependenceof entity's managementandappropriateness of                        inthe FCDmanagementandthe FCPMFisrunning
rganizationalstructure.                                                       well. Also, the implementation ofthe PFMreform
                                                                              program(PEMFAR) will contribute alotto address
                                                                              related issues.
`rojectlevel:                                                          S      The CCA and CA are the mainbudgetmanagement         S
`heproject involves the procurementanddistribution of                         and accountingcenters ofthe operation. An action
xtilizers to dispersed locations, and cashcollections.                       planexiststo strengthenthe CAFMcapacity
:ontrol Risk:                                                         M                                                           M
Iudgeting:                                                       S for theCA  For the CA, relatedprocedureswill be documented     M

       lack of clear definition of budget preparationprocess                  later inthe F Mproceduresmanualto be developed,
                                                                              and usedto customizethe existingaccounting
       absence of authorization and monitoring of budget                      software accordingly. The newly recruited internal
     variationswith aview to makingdecisions                    Mfor the CCA  auditor will betrained to befamiliar with F M
                                                                              proceduresofBank-financedprojects. The internal
                                                                              auditor's recommendationswill help strengthenFM
                                                                              capacity ofthe CA inbudget preparationand
                                                                              execution, accountingandmonitoring.
Lccounting                                                       S for theCA   For the CA, relatedprocedureswill be documented    M

       delays inbookkeeping                                                   later inthe F Mproceduresmanualto be developed,
                                                                              andusedto customizethe existingaccounting
       lack of adequatedocumentedpolicies and procedures        Lfor the CCA  software accordingly.

       software not customized on the basis of the project's
     accountingneeds

iternal Controls                                                 S for the CA For the CA, the proceduresrelatedto inventory and   M

       lack of quality and documentation of policies and                      delivery managementand cashrecovery will be

     procedures                                                               developedon an urgentbasisandstaff will be
                                                                Mfor the CCA  trained accordingly. The newly recruited internal
       Absence of internalaudit function.                                     auditor will betrained as well to be familiar with
                                                                              F Mprocedures.
unds Flow                                                       Mfor the CCA  The grant proceeds will be depositedinthe FCD      M

       cash flow constraints due to delayed fund flows affecting   and CA     Poolbank accountunder the CCA control.The

     project implementation;                                                  cashreceiptsmanagedby the CCA from fertilizer
                                                                              operationsofthe CA will be depositedinaseparate
       complicatedfund flow arrangements not functioning well                 accountto financethe safety netprogram.Related
                                                                              proceduresfor this separateaccount management
                                                                              will be documentedat the FCD level.    .
inancialReporting                                                S for the CA IFRsare already producedby the CCA to the          M

       lack of quality and documentation of F M reporting                     benefitofthe FCD with slight delays. The CA does
                                                                              not producethem, but developmentofrelated


                                                                    20

    responsibilities, form, content and periodicityTf I F G d                   procedureswill be made later.However,the CCA
    annualfinancialreports                                        Mfor theCCA   andCA preparetheir annualfinancial statementson

       delays in preparation and production of IFRs and annual                  aregularbasis.

    financialreports

Auditing                                                           S for the CA The audit TORs will be developedto take into    M

       inadequate institutional arrangements in place for the                   account the CA needs (to be expandedto internal

    appointmentof externalauditors                                              controlsreview). The financialstatementsofthe
                                                                                CCA andthe CA are annuallyauditedby private
       inadequateTORSfor the CA                                   Mfor the CCA  audit firms respectivelyappointedby the Donors
                                                                                Poolandthe CA.
       limited capacityofnationalexternal auditors                              Court ofAccounts isbeingstrengthenedthrough
                                                                                RSRCs

Overall FMRiskRating                                               S for the CA The functioning of allthese FMarrangements      M
                                                                                will be followed-up during upcoming
                                                                    Mfor the    supervisions.



               Strengths

               8.      The CCA and CA, as main budget management and accounting centers, are
               composed of key FM experienced staff. The CCA has FM harmonized procedures
               manual and software inplace.

               9.      The annual financial management statements of both Centers are audited on a
               regular basis.

               Weaknesses and Action Plan


                    Significant Weaknesses                     Action           Responsible                Completion
                                                                                    body

               For the CA,
                     lack    of     quality    and To develop procedures       CA                   Byten days after
                   documentation of policies and     for inventory control                          effectiveness.
                   procedures.                       anddistribution of
                                                     fertilizers, and cash
                                                     recovery fkom
                                                     fertilizers sale

                                                     Develop procedures
                                                     Manual                    CA                   September 30,2008




                     Absence of internal audit
                   function.                         To appoint an internal    CA                   September 30,2008
                                                     auditor


                     Narrow audit scope              To develop relevant
                                                     audit TORs: to expand     CA                   August 3 1,2008
                                                     the scope to internal
                                                     controls review.



                                                                       21

Financial Management InstitutionalArrangements

10.   The FMarrangementsfor the grant would be basedon the existing FCPMF. Under
the guidance and the responsibility of the Prime Ministry, the CCA is responsible for
financial management and for preparing audits of accounts, systems and procedures
acceptableto the Donors Pool. The National Coordinator is the authorizer (ordonnateur)
of expenditures of the FCD and therefore will also be the authorizer of the grant
expenditures. He approves related commitment documents and warrants. He authorizes
cash transactions of the FCD Pool bank account and shares that duty with the Cabinet
Director of the Prime Ministry. Records are kept for all FCD-related expenditures
following generally accepted accounting principles. The annual financial statements
preparedby the CCA are audited annually, following international auditing standards, by
independentauditors acceptable to the Donors Pool. The CCA also prepares InterimUn-
Audited Financial Reports (IFRs). The CA would maintain satisfactory controls over the
procurement and distribution of fertilizers, and collection of cash receipts; and will
strengthen its procedures on these aspects. The CA would also prepareand submit IFRs,
andannual audited financial statementsfor its activities underthe project.

StafJing and Training

11. The project fiduciary staff of the CCA is composed of the National Coordinator,
the CFO, two Accountants (funds and assets) and the support staff. This team works
under the supervision of the National Coordinator. The CA is sufficiently staffed through
3 directorates in charge of fiduciary duties, which are (i)
                                                          Revenues and Accounting, (ii)
Staff and Assets, (iii) Management. Itwill also appoint an Internal Auditor.
                      Stock

12. A training program will be drawn up to continue to strengthen fiduciary
management capacity. Training is mainly conducted through the World Bank's local or
sub-regional training institutions (CESAG and ISADE in Dakar). The CA will require a
consultant to develop the FMmanual.

Budgeting

13.   The budget preparation process and its monitoring is clearly defined and
documentedinthe FMmanual of the CCA that will develop the subsequent Annual Work
Programand Budget (AWPB).

AccountingPolicies and Procedures

14.   Accounting standards applied by the CCA and CA are similar to the International
Public Sector Accounting Standards (IPSAS) issued by the Public Sector Committee of
the International Federation of Accountants (IFAC-PSC). Any significant difference will
be adequately disclosed and explained inthe notes of the financial statements. The CCA
and CA preparetheir project financial statementsfor auditing.




                                           22

15.   Accounting Software: A computerized financial management system i s developed
and put inplace at the CCA and CA. The CFOs use a satisfactory and sound accounting
package capable o f producing all the accounting and financial data required, including
financial statements, bank reconciliation statements, and all financial reports, such as the
Interim Un-Audited Financial Reports (IFRs). The books o f accounts also are maintained
electronically inthis software.

16. Internal auditing: The General Inspection Finance o f the Ministry o f Finance will
retain the right to carry out any control at the levels o f the CCA and CA. They would
carry out reviews o f transactions from time to time, based on their mandate for Public
Sector Control Institutions. An internal auditor will be appointed for the CA.

17.   Internal control: On an urgent basis, procedures for inventory and delivery
management o f fertilizers and cash recovery from fertilizer sale will be documented
within 10days o f effectiveness. This is to ensurethat satisfactory controls over these key
areas are in place. The rest o f the FM procedures manual o f C A will be developed by
September 30, 2008 in conjunction with an appropriate customization o f existing
accounting software. This action aims to cover the C A needs, documenting the detailed
FM procedures, and ensuring a robust internal control arrangement, including
procurement duties and activities assigned to the CA.

FundsFlow andDisbursementArrangements

18.   DisbursementArrangements: The CCA manages the designated Pool account in
which the grant will be entirely disbursed for the FCD. It would be incharge o fpreparing
payments to fertilizer suppliers contracted by the CA. The CCA would also manage cash
receipts from the fertilizer operations carried out by the C A and would allocate them to
finance the safety net program.

19.    Disbursement Methods: Disbursement would be based on Interim Financial
Reports (IFRs). IFRs would be submitted quarterly and have forecasts for the next 2
quarters.   The first disbursement would be made after effectiveness covering the
forecasted cash needs for the first 2 quarters.

Indications and instructions on applications

20.   The indications and instructions o f withdrawal applications submitted under the
grant will be documented inthe Letter o fDisbursement o fthe Niger GFRP.

Reporting on Use of Loan Proceeds

21,   Disbursements for all expenditures should be made against a documentationfiled at
the level of the CCA and to be documented inthe Letter o f Disbursement of the Niger
GFRP.




                                             23

DesignatedAccount

22.    The DesignatedPool Account is the present one of FCD, managedby the CCA. It
i s located in a commercial bank at Niamey. The currency of this account i s the CFAF
(XOF).

Allocation of theproceeds of Niger GFRP

                                                                Percentageof Expenditures
               Categories                Amount inUS$ millions        to be financed
  1.Procurementand distribution                    6.50        100percent includingtaxes
  of fertilizers
  2. Supportto the National Food                   0.50        100percent includingtaxes
  Crisis Preventionand
  ManagementFramework
  TOTALAMOUNT                                      7.00

Flow of funds:




                                     Account of FCD in
                                     commercialbank and
                                     managedby the CCA


         commercial bank,
         managed by the CCA
         for flnancing the
         safety net program




Leeend: Report-basedh d s transferredinthe FCDbank accounts
          Paymentsto fertilizer andrelatedservice suppliers




                                                   24

 Financial Reporting and Monitoring

 23.   The CCA is responsible for the overall reporting of the FCD. It produces interim
 un-audited financial reports (IFRs) on a periodic basis, and the annual financial
 statements requested. The accounting software already installed at the CCA level will
 provide these financial reports.

 24.   The CFO of the CCA would make sure that, the Interim Un-Audited Financial
 Reports (IFRs) are produced on quarterly basis andtransmittedto the Donors Pool within
 45 days of the end o f the quarter following related reporting procedures of the existing
 FMmanual of the FCD. The CA would provide quarterly IFRs showing the amount of
 cash receipts from fertilizer sale, and the amount remitted to the CCA, within 45 days
 from the endofthe quarter.

 25.    The reporting format and procedures documented in the CCA's FM Manual are
 composedof financial reports such as (i) and uses of funds by funding source and
                                             sources
 nature of expenditures; and (ii) of funds by components/activities o fthe project.
                                   uses

 26.    IFRs and annual financial statements of the CCA will cover all activities financed
 through the FCD. The annual financial statements will be subject to external audit as
 describedbelow. The CCA and CA are requiredto produce, not later than June 30 of the
 following borrower fiscal year, audited annual financial statements.

 External audit:

 27.   External auditors from a Private Firm in accordance with international auditing
 standards acceptable to the Donors Pool will conduct an annual audit of the financial
 statements prepared by the CCA. The CA will be audited as well under the same
 requirements.The Bank would expect to receive two separate audit reports, the one for
 the CCA and another for the CA

                       Audit Report                                       DueDate
CCA: Externalauditors' opinion on Financial Statements      Submitted withinsix months after the
(annual financial statements, designated account statements end of each financial year.
and IFRs). Letter to Management prepared by the external
auditors andcontainingfindings and recommendations on
internal controls would also be submitted.


CA: Externalauditors' opinion on Financial Statements      Submittedwithin six months after the
(annual financial statements andIFRs).Letter to            endof eachfinancial year.
Management prepared bythe external auditors and
containing findings and recommendations on internal
controls would also be submitted.

 In addition to the opinion on Financial Statements, the CA audit will put emphasis on
 implementationo fproceduresof inventory anddelivery management, cashrecovery from



                                                25

fertilizer sales, and remittance of these revenues to CCA for financing the safety net
program.

Financingconditions

28.     Inorder to strengthen its financial management system, CA would implement the
following action planwhich has beenagreed on at project negotiations.

FinancialManagementActionsplan




satisfactory procedures for      2008              on August 04,2008.
inventory control and delivery
management o f fertilizers, and
cashrecovery from sale o f
fertilizers

Develop Procedures Manual        By September 30,                          CA
                                 2008
Recruitment o f an internal      By September 30,   Process started        C A
auditor with satisfactory terms  2008              within 10 days o f
o freference and qualifications                     effectiveness
andexperience satisfactory to                       (August 15,2008)
the DonorsPool
Revise and submit TORSfor        By August 31,      Process o fvalidation  C A
external audit to the Joint      2008.              andapprovalstarted
Govemment-Donor Committee                          within 10 days o f
(CRC) for technical review                          effectiveness
                                                    (August 15,2008)
Appointment        o f   External By October   31, Selection process       C A
Auditor with qualification and 2008                 startedwithin 25
experience satisfactory to the                    I (August
                                                    days o f effectiveness
Donors Pool.                                                 30,2008)



29.     Furthermore, Government: (i)will compliant with all the rules and procedures
requiredfor disbursements inthe Designated Pool Account ofthe FCD; (ii) maintain
                                                                               will
the financial management system including records, accounts and preparation o f related
financial statements in accordance with accounting standards acceptable to the Donors
Pool and to be audited; and (iii) prepare and furnish to the Donors Pool Interim Un-
                                    will
AuditedFinancialReports (IFRs).

Supervisionplan

30.     Given the urgency o f the GFRP operational response needed, the FCD would
require intensified financial management supervision, which should be budgeted for.
Howeyer, intensity o f supervision could be reassesseduponthe evolution ofthe rating for
the overall FMrisk.



                                               26

31.  Financial management supervision will jointly be carried out by the Donors Pool's
FinancialManagement Specialists who will carry out the followingtasks:
   0  Conduct a financial management supervision before effectiveness/disbursement;
      Reviewthe financial managementaspects o fthe IFR;
   0  Review the Audit Reports and Management Letters from the external auditors and
      follow-up on material accountability issues by engaging withthe task team leader,
      Client, andor Auditors; the quality o fthe audit (internal and external) also i s to be
      monitored closely to ensure that it covers all relevant aspects and provides enough
      confidence on the appropriate use o f h d s by recipients;
      Provide assistance to buildor maintain appropriate financial management
      capacity;
   0  Reviews o f controls; and
      Reviews o f transactions, including a sample o ftransactions.




                                           27

                         Annex 5: ProcurementArrangements

            Niger EmergencyFoodSecuritySupportProject(FPCR TF)

A.      Background   - Procurementreform
1.      A Country Procurement Assessment Report (CPAR) for Niger has been finalized
in 1998; following this assessment, the Government has developed a new procurement
code CMP (in 2002) and created the National Procurement Regulation Agency (ARMP).
The procedures and mechanisms for addressing bidders' complaints are handled by the
Disputes Settlement Committee (CRD) within ARMP. While the Government
Procurement Code defines procurement procedures in conformity with good practices
that are deemed acceptable by the Bank, in contrast there are a number o f major
implementing texts for the CMP that are not in place, in particular the Government
Procurement Procedures Manual that should establish efficiency standards, procedures,
and the delegation o f powers and responsibilities throughout the institutional chain.
Niger followed strictly the UEMOA guidelines by clearly separating the control functions
and the regulation process. Thus the ARMP composition, organization and operation
were defined by the decree NO190 PRNREF dated July 6, 2004. The texts related to the
organization and functioning o f the Central Directorate for Public Procurement
(Direction Centrale des March& Publics) are under examination by the Government.
The overall procurement context in Niger i s considered satisfactory and no major
problem has been identified in the IDA financed projects. However, to allow a full
application o f the provisions o f World Bank's procurement and selection and
employment guidelines, IDA has provided to the project preparation team the list o f the
national procurement clauses which are partially or entirely inconsistent with World
Bank's guidelines (see end o fthis annex).

B       Guidelines

2.      Procurement for the proposedproject would be carried out inaccordance with the
(i) Bank's "Guidelines: ProcurementUnderIBRDLoansandIDACredits"dated
    World
May 2004, revised October 2006; (ii)"Guidelines: Selection and Employment o f
Consultants by World Bank Borrowers'' dated May 2004, revised October 2006; (iii)
Requirements o f OP8.00 for Rapid Response to Crisis and Emergencies; and (iv) the
provisions stipulated in the Grant Financing Agreements. The various items under
different expenditure categories to be financed are described below. For each contract to
be financed by the Grant, the different procurement methods or consultant selection
methods, the need for prequalification, estimated costs, prior review requirements, and
time frame are agreed between the Government and the Bank in the Procurement Plan.
The Procurement Planwill be updated at least annually or as requiredto reflect the actual
project implementationneeds andimprovements ininstitutional capacity.

C. Procurement Methods

3.        Procurement of Goods. Goods procured under the project include (i) mT    4,000
o f fertilizers for irrigated rice including operating cost for delivery; and (ii) during
                                                                                cereals
crisis but not financed directly by the Bank. Inresponse to the new Framework for Rapid
Response to Crisis and Emergencies captured in OP8.00, and to facilitate project
implementation and quick delivery o f results, no objections will be given, where
appropriate, to the application o f the following: Using fast track competitive procedures
as procurement methods (fast track LIB) for procurement o f goods; using lists o f pre-
qualified suppliers with good track record to whom periodic invitations are issued. For
all procurement o f goods, the SBD and biddingdocuments acceptable to the bank will be
used.

4.        Selection of Consultants: Consultancy services include the hiring o f individual
consultants and firms for the Food security M&E and technical assistance. The project
has been classified as a rapid response program where, in conjunction OP8.00,
Accelerated and Streamlined Procedures may apply to improve the flexibility, speed, and
effectiveness o f the Bank's emergency response. The use o f a "pool o f experts," or a list
o f "pre-selected' consulting firms, and/or individuals may, therefore, be an appropriate
method for supporting project implementation. Such a method will remain consistent
with QCBS, CQS, and/or the Selection o f Individual Consultants. No-Objection will also
be given for sole-sourcing (single-sourcing) o f consulting firms, where it presents a clear
advantage over competition. Firms already working inthe area and which have a proven
track record in similar assignments may be the most suitable; Selection o f consulting
firms through Consultants' Qualification Selection (CQS) method for contracting firms
already working in the area and which have a proven track record for the provision o f
technical assistance. The nature o f the assignments i s described inh e x 1para 5 and the
estimated cost for each contract is below $100,000.

  o    The selection process would be conducted by the CCA For all contracts to be
       awarded following QCBS, LCS and FBS, the Banks Standard Request for Proposals
       will beused.

  o Short lists o f consultants for services estimated to cost less than US$lOO,OOO
       equivalent per contract may be composed entirely o f national consultants in
       accordance with the provisions o fparagraph 2.7 o f the Consultant Guidelines.

  o Consultancy services estimated to cost above US$ 200,000 per contract for firms,
       and single source selection o f consultants (firms and individuals) will be subject to
       prior review by the Bank. Prior review o f the evaluation process o f the selection o f
       individual consultants (i.e. comparison o f three CVs) will only be carried out in
       exceptional circumstances, for example when hiring an Advisor for the entire
       project duration which could result ina substantial contract amount. Such contracts
       will be identified inthe procurement plan.




                                                29

5.     Training and Workshops:Training will be carried out on the basis of approved
programs on a yearly basis. The programs will identify the general framework o f training
and similar activities for the year, including the nature and objectives o f training and
workshops as they relate to the project objectives.

6.     Incremental Operation Costs: In addition, projects will finance incremental
project implementation-related expenditures such as transportation, in-country travel, per
diem, office supplies, office rentals, utilities, maintenance, consumables, communication
costs, etc. These will be financed by the project, and would be procured using the CMP,
where appropriate.


D      Assessment of the agency's capacityto implementprocurement

7.     Procurement activities would be managed Food Crisis Coordination Unit (Cellule
de CriseAlimentuire, CCA) for component 2.

8.     Procurement for fertilizers will use the rapidprocurementmethod.

9.     An assessment of the capacity of these entities has been carried out by IDA in
July 2008. The assessment reviewed the organizational structure for implementing the
project and the interaction between the project staff responsible for procurement and the
Ministry's relevant central unitfor administration and finance.

10.    The evaluation revealed the following points :

     9 The CCA is a public office under the responsibility ofPrime Minister's Cabinet;
       for consulting services, a procurement commission appointed by the Prime
       Minister is responsible. There is no specific procurement unit and CCA has
        limitedexperience inprocurement withother donors particularly inareas covered
       by component 2, andhas no experience with World Bankprocedures.

     P The CA is a public office under the responsibility of the Ministryof Agriculture
       Development; it does not have a specific procurement unit; C A has prepared few
       bidding documents hence all procurement actions are closely supervised by the
       centralprocurement division inthe Ministry o f Agriculture Development which i s
       led by a staff with experience in World Bank procedures. The evaluation
       commissionis appointed by the Ministry.

11.      Given the large volume o f fertilizers to be procured under the grant and the need
for a rapid response, a Fast Track Limited International Bidding with 14 days o f
submission i s proposed to be applied.

12.    The key procurement related issues and risks with regards to the implementation
o f the project have been identified and include: (i)      possible confusion between the
national procurement rules and IDA procedures by executing agencies; (ii)the
implication o f the private sector representatives inthe evaluation stage inaddition to their


                                               30

participation inthe ARMP sessions, that may lead to unjustified complaints delaying the
contract award and signature; (iii) the procurement process control and approval by staff
not experienced in the IDA procedures, which may bring a risk o f rigidity in the
interpretation o f the texts; and (iv) slowness in the examination o f the procurement
decisions by DGCMP andtheir approval by the proper authority.

13.     The corrective measures proposed are: (i)   employ fertilizer procurement specialist
to assist CCA and organize quick procurement training for CCA staff involved in
procurement; (ii)  non-application of the list of clauses o f the National Procurement Code
which are not entirely consistent with the World Bank's procurement. This list is
included inthis annex; and (iii)  close project supervision by the procurement division in
the Ministryo f Agriculture and development andBank staff based inthe country office.

14.     Inorder to mitigate the risks identified inparagraph 12,the Governmentagreedto
use the joint Government       - Donors Food Crisis Committee, comprised o f several
experienced partners in the area o f emergency procurement of agricultural inputs or
commodities (such as FAO, WFP, EU, USAID etc.) and key administration services, to
conduct and supervise the procurement process for fertilizers. From this perspective, the
joint committee will appoint a technical sub-committee (TC) chaired by a representative
o f the Ministry o f Agricultural Development to prepare the bidding document and the
evaluation report. All o f the documentation related to this procurement should be cleared
by the joint committee before requesting the Bank's N o Objection. The overall project
residual risk for procurement is moderate.
E. ProcurementPlan
15.     The Borrower, at appraisal, developed a procurement plan for project
implementation which provides the basis for the procurement methods. The plan has
been agreed between the Borrower and the Bank Team and i s available at CCA in
Niamey. It will also be available in the project's database and in the Bank's external
website. The Procurement Plan will be updated in agreement with the Bank Team
annually or as required to reflect the actual project implementation needs and
improvements ininstitutional capacity. All procurement will be carried out inaccordance
with the formally agreedprocurementplans (original andformally up-dated).
F. FrequencyofProcurementSupervision
16.     Inaddition, it is recommended to carry out supervisionmissions to conduct post
review of contracts which are not subject to the above prior review requirements at the
end of the project. The procurement post-reviews should cover at least 20 percent o f
contracts subject to post-review.


Detailsof the ProcurementArrangementsInvolvingInternationalCompetition

17.     Goods, Works, and Non Consulting Services. (a) List o f contract packages to be
procured following ICB, anddirect contracting:




                                              31

 1           2                   3      4        5         6             7            8           9

Ref. Contract          Estimated     Proc.     Pre-   Domestic     Review         Expected   Comments
No.  (Description)     Cost          Method    Qual. Pref.         by Bank        Bid-
                       US%                             (yedno)     Prior / Post   Opening
                                                                                  Date
Goods
 1   Fertilizers         4500000      LIB        No       No           Prior       16Aug     ByCA
     (4000 metric                                                                   2008
     tons)

    (b) Prior Review:      All goods contracts to cost US$300,000 and above, all direct
    contracting, the first two contracts o f each procurement method irrespective o f the
    amount will be subject to prior review by the Bank as determined mandatory in
    paragraphs 2 and 3 o f Annex 1o fthe Bank's procurement Guidelines.

    c) Post Review: For each contract for works and goods not submitted to the prior review,
    the procurement documents will be submitted to IDApost review inaccordance withthe
    provisions o f paragraph 4 o f Annex 1 o f the Bank's procurement Guidelines. The post
    review will be based on a ratio o f at least 1to 5 contracts.

    18.     Consulting Services

    (a)     List o f consulting assignments with short-list o f international firms.

        None

    (b)     Consultancy services estimated to cost above US$200,000 per contract for firms,
    and single source selection o f consultants (firms and individuals) will be subject to prior
    review by the Bank. Prior review o f the evaluation process o f the selection o f individual
    consultants (Le. comparison o f three CVs) will only be carried out in exceptional
    circumstances, for example when hiring an Advisor for the entire project duration which
    could result in a substantial contract amount. Such contracts will be identified in the
    procurement plan.

    c)      Post Review: for each contract for services not submitted to the prior review, the
    procurement documents will be submitted to IDA post review in accordance with the
    provisions o f paragraph 4 o f Annex 1 o f the Bank's procurement Guidelines. The post
    review will be based on a ratio o f at least 1to 5 contracts.

    (d)     Short lists composed entirely o f national consultants: Short lists o f consultants for
    services estimated to cost less than US$lOO,OOO           equivalent per contract may be
    composed entirely o f national consultants in accordance with the provisions o f paragraph
    2.7 o fthe Consultant Guidelines.

    19.     Provisions o f CMP which should not apply:


                                                  32

          Theprovision on article 03 on DirectContracting shall not apply.
          The obligation to provide evidence that the bidder has satisfied all its tax
          obligations to the Recipient as a condition to make a proposal for the
          procurement of works, goods and non consulting services (notwithstanding
          any contrary provisions of article 10 of the Procurement Code) shall only
          apply to national bidders.
          The obligation to provide a certificate of eligibility as a condition to make a
          proposal for the procurement of works, shall only apply to national bidders
          (notwithstanding any contrary provisions of article 11 of the Procurement
          Code); the eligibility criteria for international bidders shall be limitedto those
          includedinthe bidding documents.
          The division of expendituresinaccordancewith article 34 of the Procurement
          Code shall be subject to Prior Review by the Association.
          The national preference provided for by article 36 of the Procurement Code
          shall not apply.
          Inaddition to the provision of article 40 of the Procurement Code, the short
          list of bidders shall be subject to Prior Reviewby the Association.
          Each contract procured through direct contracting in accordance with article
          42 of the Procurement Code shall be subject to Prior Review by the
          Association.
          The amount of the bidder's guarantee provided for in article 79 of the
          Procurement Code shall be determinedas a percentage (1 to 2 percent) of the
          estimatedcost of the contract.
          No representatives of the private sector shall be included in the Recipient's
          committee for the bid evaluation and award (despite the provisions of Articles
          3, 15 and 26 of the Recipient's arr&ti 113 dated October 10,2006).
          The conditions of application of the various methods of procurement under
          the National Competitive Bidding shall be determined in the Procurement
          Plan (notwithstanding any contrary provisions of articles 5 and 7 of
          Recipient's arr&te`270/CAB/PM/ARMP dated October 24,2007).

Additional definitions:

"Procurement Code" means the Recipient's procurement law entitled"CodeNational des
Marchis Publics" adoptedby OrdinanceNo2002-007 dated September 18,2002.




                                             33

               Annex 6. ImplementationandMonitoringArrangements
             NigerEmergencyFoodSecuritySupportProject(FPCR TF)

41.      The project will be implementedusing the existing FCPMF institutional set-up,
which includes the joint Government-Donor Committee (CRC) and the CCA which it
oversees. As part of the FCPMF, three facilities have been created: The Donor Basket
Fund (FCD) which receives donors financial contributions; the Food Security Fund
(FSA), which is fed by the FCD and direct contributions from bilateral partners and
whose purpose is limitedto buying and distributing food during periods of food shortage;
and the National Food Security Stocks (SNS) which receives in-kinddonations and may
also be replenishedwith funds from the FSA. The CCA is responsible for managing the
FCD and FSA while OPVN managesthe SNS. The grant will be entirely disbursedto the
FCD at project effectiveness, andthe CCA will bethe managing body.
42.      Implementationof activitiesunder Component1:CCA will contract out to CA
the implementation of Component 1, e.g. for the procurement and distribution of
fertilizers. Current CA's procedures will be used for distribution of fertilizers to eligible
producers. These proceduresneed however to be documented in a manual of procedures
as indicated in Annex 5 of this document. CA will sell fertilizers on priority to rice
producer's cooperatives at subsidized prices, and all transaction documents will be kept
inCA andCooperativesbooks for monitoring andtechnical andfinancial audits. CAYin
collaboration with the umbrella organization of rice producer cooperatives (FUCOPRI)
and relevant bodies within the Ministry of Agricultural Development, will report on a
weekly basis to CCA on progress in delivery of fertilizers to and targeting of producers,
and cost recovery as well. CA in collaboration with FUCOPRI will also ensure
appropriate dissemination of such information using appropriate local broadcasting
channels.
43.      CDA will return net sale revenues from the sales of fertilizers to FSA. The
recovered fund will contribute to the implementation of safety nets programs to be
designedunder component 2.
44.      Implementation of activities under component 2: Capacity-building activities
under Component 2 will require a longer implementation period than Component 1.CCA
will be responsible for implementation of such activities, which include inter alia hiring
of consultants, covering operating cost, and conducting stakeholder consultation for
improving the monitoring of food security, designing and implementing safety nets
programs, supporting the restructuring of agricultural input market system, upgrading
CCA andCA financial management systems.
45.      Upon grant effectiveness and no later than August 15, 2008, CCA and CA will
preparea detailed work plancovering the project eighteenmonthtimeframe, along with a
financial planand the updatedprocurement plan.




                                           34

           Annex 7. Project PreparationandAppraisalTeam Members

           NigerEmergencyFoodSecuritySupportProject(FPCR TF)




         Name                                Title                    Unit
ElHadjiAdama Tour6     Sr. Agricultural Economist (Task Team Leader) AFTAR
Amadou Alassane        Sr. Agriculture Services Specialist           AFTAR
Joelle Dehasse         Sr. Operation Officer                         AFCCI
Mamadou Yaro           Sr. Financial ManagementSpecialist            AFTFM
Trichur K.Balakrishnan Lead Financial ManagementSpecialist           AFTFM
LuisSchwarz            Senior Finance Officer                        LOAFC
Amadou Ibrahim         Sr. Economist                                 AFTP4
IbrahRahmaneSanoussi ProcurementSpecialist                           AFTPC
IrinaLuca              Lead ProcurementSpecialist                    AFTPC
Ericjean YobouC        Sr. ProcurementSpecialist                     AFTPC
T. Mpoy-Kamulayi       Lead Counsel                                  LEGAF
Amadou Konare          Sr. Environmental Specialist                  AFTEN
Gilles MarieVeuillot   Sr. Counsel                                   LEGAF
Setareh Razmara        Lead Social ProtectionSpecialist              AFTH2
Carlo delNinno         Economist Principal                           AFDSN
HadidiaDjimba          TeamAssistant                                 AFMNE
ElisabethMekonnen      LanguageProgramAssistant                      AFTAR




                                        35

                                                                                                               I
                                                                                    sub-
Key Development Indicators                                                       Saharan           Low
                                                                       Niger        Africa      income           Age distribution, 2006
(2006)                                                                                                                       Male              Female

Population,mid-year (millions)                                         14.4           770        2,403
Surfacearea (thousand sq. km)                                         1,267        24,265       29,215
Populationgrowth (Oh)                                                    3.3          2.3           1.8
Urbanpoptilation(% of total population)                                  17            36           30

GNI (Atlas method, US$ billions)                                         3.7          648        1,562
GNI percapita (Atlasmethod, US$)                                        260           842          650
GNI per capita (PPP, international$)                                    830         2,032        2,698

GDP growth (%)                                                           5.2          5.6           8.0
GDP per capita growth (%)                                                1.8          3.2           6.1

(most recent estimate, 20052006)

Povertyheadcountratioat $1 a day (PPP,%)                                  61a          41
Poverty headcount ratioat 52 a day (PPP, Sa)                              86           72                       Under-5 mortality rate (per 1,000)
Lifeexpectancyat birth(years)                                             45           47           59
Infantmortality(per 1,000 live births)                                  150            96           75           3507

Child malnutrition(% of childrenunder 5)                                  40           29                        300
                                                                                                                 250
Adult literacy, male (% of ages 15 and older)                             43           69           72           200
Adult literacy,female(% of ages 15 and older)                             15           50           50
Grossprimaryenrollment,male (%of age group)                               54           98           108          150

Grossprimaryenrollment,female (Ohof age group)                            39           86           96           100
                                                                                                                  50

Accessto an improvedwater source (% of population)                        46           56           75             0
Accessto improvedsanitationfacilities (% of population)                   13           37           38                     1990   1995   2000   2005


                                                                                                                      0Niger          Sub-SaharanAfrica


Net Aid Flows                                             1980         1990         2000          2006
                                                                                                               IIjT
(US$ millions)
Net ODA and officialaid                                     165         388           208          515          Growth of GDP and GDP per capita (%)
Top 3 donors (in 2005):
  France                                                     49           80           41           70          15
  UnitedStates                                                9           31             5          31
  Germany                                                    22           39            12          25          10

                                                                                                                 5

Aid (% of GNI)                                               6.7        16.0         11.7          15.2          0
Aid percapita (US5)                                          27           46            18          37           5

                                                                                                               -I0

Long-Term EconomicTrends                                                                                       -15
                                                                                                                     90          95         00          05
Consumer prices(annual% change)                                         -2.9          2.9           0.3
GDP implicitdeflator(annual % change)                      20.8         -1.6          4.5           1.8            &GDP             -GDP       per capita

Exchangerate(annual average, local per US$)              211.3        272.3         712.0        522.9
Terms of trade index (2000= 100)                                        152           100           95
                                                                                                                  1980-90 1990-2000          200046
                                                                                                                        (average annualgrowth %)
Population,mid-year (millions)                               6.2         8.5         11.8          14.4                 3.1          3.3          3.4
GDP (US5 millions)                                       2,509        2,481         1,798        3,597                 -0.1          2.4          3.9
                                                                         (% of GDP)
Agriculture                                                45.4        36.2          38.7         40.9                  1.7          3.0         6.4
Industry                                                   24.2         16.6         18.2          17.2                -1.7          2.0         3.1
  Manufacturing                                              3.9         6.8          7.0           6.7                -2.7          2.6         3.9
Services                                                   35.8        49.9          45.4         44.5                 -0.7           1.9        3.7

Householdfinal consumptionexpenditure                      75.1        83.8          83.4          80.8                -0.6          1.5
Generalgov't final consumptionexpenditure                  10.4         15.0         13.0          11.7                 4.4          0.8
Grosscapitalformation                                      28.1          8.1         11.4          18.9                -7.1          4.0

Exportsof goods and services                               24.6         15.0         17.8          15.4                -2.9          3.1
1mpOrt.SOf goodsand ServiceS                               38.1        22.0          25.7         24.8                 -6.3         -2.1
Grosssavings                                               17.1         -2.1          2.8          12.2

Note: Figuresin italicsare for years other than those specified. 2006 data are preliminary. .. indicatesdata are not available.
a. Country povertyestimateis for earlier period. b. Aid data are for 2005.

DevelopmentEconomics,DevelopmentDataGroup (DECDG).

                                                                                                                                                                 Niger

Balance of Payments and Trade                          2000       2006

(US$ miilions)                                                                        Qovernance indicators, ZOO0 and 2006

Total merchandiseexports (fob)                           283       438
Total merchandise imports(ci9                            402       830                  Voice and accountability
Net trade in goodsand services                          -135      4 0 9                        Politicalstability
Current account balance                                 -147      -397
  as a Yoof GDP                                         -8.2      -11.0                       Regulatory quality


Workers' remittances and                                                                            Rule of i w
  compensationof employees(receipts)                      14        60                     Contmi of corruption

Reserves.includinggold

CentralGovernment Finance                                                                      2006                        Country'spercentile rank (0-400)
                                                                                               2000                          hlgher values implybsner relrngs

(% of GDP)
Current revenue(includinggrants)                        10.3       11.5
  Tax revenue                                             8.0      10.1
Currentexpenditure                                      11.2       10.8
                                                                                   Technology and Infrastructure                                         zoo0     2006
Overaii surplus/deficit                                  -5.7      -8.5
                                                                                   Paved roads (% of total)                                                7.9    25.0
Highestmarginaltax rate    ( O h )                                                 Fixed line and mobile phone
  Individual                                                                         subscribers(per 1,000 people)                                           2      23
  corporate                                                                        Hightechnologyexports
                                                                                     (% of manufacturedexports)                                            3.0     3.2
External Debt and Resource Flows
                                                                                   Environment
(US$ millions)
Total debt outstandingand disbursed                    1,677       820             Agriculturalland (% of land area)                                        30      30
Totaldebt service                                         26         58            Forestarea (% of landarea)                                               1.0     1.0
Debt relief (HIPC, MDRI)                                 798       489             Nationally protectedareas (% of landarea)                                       7.7

Total debt (% of GDP)                                   93.2       22.8            Freshwaterresourcesper capita (cu. meters)                                ..    251
Total debt service 1% of exports)                         7.4      10.0            Freshwaterwithdrawal (     O h of internalre sou^)                     62.3

Foreigndirect investment (net inflows)                      8         0            C02 emissionspercapita (mt)                                            0.10    0.09
Portfolioequity (net inflows)                               1         0
                                                                                   GDP per unit of energy use
                                                                                     (2000 PPP $ per kg of oil equivalent)
      omposltlonof totalexternal debt, 2006
                                                                                   Energyuse per capita(kg of oil equivalent)
                                       IBRD, 0 IDA' la2




                                                                                    (US$ mrliions)

                                                                                    IBRD
                                                                                     Totaloebt outstandingand oisDurseu                                               0
                                                                                     Disbursements                                                           --       0
                                                                                     Prinapalrepayments                                                      ."      0
                                                                                     Interestpayments                                                        -        0




Private Sector Development                              zoo0      ZOO6

Time requiredto start a business(days)                               24
Costto start a business                                     --
                         ( O h of GNi per capita)                 416.8
Time requiredto register property (days)                    -        49

Rankedas a majorconstraintto business                                                Portfoliosales, prepaymentsand
  ( O hof managerssurveyed who agreed)                                                 repaymentsfor IFGawn acccunt                                          0        0
     Tax rates                                                    32.8
     Anticompetitiveor informalpractices                    ....  20.8              MIGA
                                                                                     Grossexposure                                                           -        -
Stock marketcapitalization (% of GDP)                                                NEWguarantees                                                           -
Bank capital to asset ratio (%)                                                                                 9 - r l % l '                    &*A%\..      .

Note:Figures in italicsare foryears other than those specified. 2006 data are preliminary.
..indicatesdata are notavailable. - indicatesobservationis notapplicable.                                                                                       3/21/08


DevelopmentEconomics. DevelopmentData Group (DECDG)




                                                                    37

Millennium DeveloDment Goals                                                                                                                      Niger


Withselected targets to achieve between 1990and 2015
(estimate closest to date shown, +/- 2 years)


Goal 1: halvethe rates for $1a day poverty and malnutrition                                    .                                                  - __ .
                                                                                                                                                   2005
                                                                                                  II" "_
                                                                                                       1990. _       1995            2000
 Povertyheadcountratioat $1 a day (PPP, % of population)                                               41 7          60 6
 Povertyheadcountratioat national povertyline ("10of population)                                                     63 0
 Share of incomeor consumption to the poorestqunitiie ("YO)                                             7 5            2 6
 Prevalenceof malnutrition (% of childrenunder5)                                                       42 6                           40 1

Goal 2: ensure that children are able to complete primary schooling                                               - " " ~ ~
                                                                                                                          I_                         I
 Primaryschool enrollment (net, %)                                                                      22                              25           40
 Primarycompletion rate ("YO of relevant age group)                                                      15            13               17           2a
 Secondaryschool enrollment (gross, %)                                                                    6                              6            9
 Youth literacyrate (% of people ages 15-24)                                                                                                         37




                                                                ulturalemployment)



                            ..
 Infant mortality rate (per 1,000 lite births)
                    I                                                                                   191           176              159          150
 Measlesimmunization(proportion of one-year olds immunized, %)                                           25            40               34           83

Goal 5: reduce maternal mortality bythree-fourths
 Maternal mortality ratio (modeled estimate,Der 100,000live births)                                                                  f ,600
  Births attended by skilled healthstaff (% of total)                                                    15                             16

Goal 6: halt and begin to reverse the spread of HIV/AIDSand other major diseases                       --.I       . .-                     -
  Prevalenceof HIV(% of population ages 15-49)                                                                                                       1 1
 Contraceptiveprevalence (% of women ages 15-49)                                                          4                              14
  Incidenceof tuberculosis (per 100,000people)                                                          128           139               151         164
 Tuberculosis casesdetectedunder DOTS("YO)                                                                             29               30           50


Goal 7: halvethe proportion of people without sustainable access to basic needs
 Access to an improvedwater source ("YO of population)                                                   39            42               44           46
 Access to improved sanitationfacilities (% of population)                                                7              9              11           13
  Forest area ("YO of total landarea)
  Nationally protectedareas (% of total landarea)
 C02 emissions (metrictons per capita)
 GDP per unit of energy use (constant 2000 PPP$ per kg of oii equivalent)




  Internet users her 1 000 oeoDle\
             -                                                                                            0              0               0            2
  Personalcomduters'(per `1,000 people)                                                                                 0                0            1
 Youth unemployment(% of total labor force ages 15-24)


    iducation indicators ("h)                            Measlesimmunization (% of I-year olds)               CT indicators (per 1,000 people)

    too
                                                         loo  1                                               301
     7 5 1




             2000        2002               2005

                                                                    1990    I995    2000   2005                      2000        2002         2005
         -0-    Primary net enrollmentratio

         -43-   Ratio of girlsto boys in primary&               0Niger          Sub-SaharanAfrica                     c3 Fixed+ mobilesubscribers
                secondaryeducation                                                                                    %l Internetusers



Note: Figuresin italicsare for years other than those specified. ..indicates data are not available.                                             3/21/08

DevelopmentEconomics, Development Data Group (DECDG).

                                                                                                                                                                  10E                                                      15E
                                   NIGER                                                                                                                                                                    L I B Y A
                                                                                                                                                                     To Djanet                                             To Tajarhi


                                SELECTED CITIES AND TOWNS                                                                                 A L G E R I A

                                DEPARTMENT CAPITALS

                                NATIONAL CAPITAL                                                          NIGER

                                RIVERS                                                                                                                                                                              Madama

                                MAIN ROADS

                                DEPARTMENT BOUNDARIES

                                INTERNATIONAL BOUNDARIES

                                                                                                                                                                            T
                                                                                                                                                                              
                                                                                                        To Tamanrasset
               This map was produced by the Map Design Unit of The World Bank.                                                                                                 n                                                            20N
               The boundaries, colors, denominations and any other information
               shown on this map do not imply, on the part of The World Bank                                                                      Mont Greboun                            A G A D E Z
               Group, any judgment on the legal status of any territory, or any                                                                    (1,944 m )
               endorsement or acceptance of such boundaries.                                                                                                                     r 

                    0       50      100     150      200 Kilometers                                                                              A i r M t s .                      D
                                                                                                                                   Arlit                                             e                     Bilma
                    0            50           100           150 Miles                                                                                                                 se

                                                           M A L I                                                                                                                      rt


                                                                                                                                              Agadez

                                                                                                  T A H O U A                 Ingal
                                                                                                                                                                                                          D I F F A

                                           To
                                           To                                                                       Tchin-
                                          Gao                                                                       Tabaradene




              15N                                                                                                                                               Z I N D E R                                                     C H A D
                                                                                                    Tahoua                                             Tanout                                                                               15N
                                                                                                                   Keta
                                                                                                                   Keta
                                                            T I L L A B  R I
                            To
                            To                               Tillabri
                                                             Tillabri                               Illla
                                                                                                     Illla                       Dakoro
                      Ouahigouya                                                                                         Bouza
                                               TTra
                                                 ra                                    Filingu
                                                                                        Filingu
                                                                 Niger                                                         M A R A D I       S         a         h              e       l        Nguigmi

                                                                                                    Birnin                                                              Gour
                                                                                                                                                                        Gour                      Mts.
                                                                      NIAMEY                        Konni
                                                                                                                                                           Zinder
                               NIAMEY                                                                                                     Agui
                                                                                                                                          Agui                                            Manga
                                                                               Kollo                                              Maradi                                                      Man- Diffa
                                                                                                                                                                                              Man-
                                                                                                                                                                                              Soroa
                                                                                       Dosso                                                                                                           1963 Level                  Lake
                                                                                                             To
                                                                                                             To                                           Magaria                                        1973 Level
SEPTEMBER        B U R K I N A                                                    D O S S O              Kontagora                                                                                        2001 Level               Chad
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 IBRD
                       F A S O                            To
                                                          To                                                                                                 N I G E R I A
                                                  Ouagadougou                                                                                                                                                                                        33457
         2004                                                                                                                                 To
                                                                                                                                              To

                               0                                              BENIN                                                        Kaduna
                                                                                                     5E                                                           10E                                                             15E

