                                   Document of
                               The World Bank




                                                  Report No: ICR00001518



          IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION AND RESULTS REPORT
                            (TF-92835)



                                 ON A GRANT

          UNDER THE GLOBAL FOOD CRISIS RESPONSE PROGRAM

                     IN THE AMOUNT OF US$7.0 MILLION

                                    TO THE

                             REPUBLIC OF NIGER

                                   FOR THE

              EMERGENCY FOOD SECURITY SUPPORT PROJECT



                                  June 28, 2010




Agricultural and Rural Development Unit (AFTAR)
Sustainable Development Department
Country Department AFCF2
Africa Region
                          CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS

                      (Exchange Rate Effective June 22, 2010)

                         Currency Unit = Franc CFA
                                US$1 = 535 CFAF

                                 FISCAL YEAR
                             January 1 - December 31

                     ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS

AFTQK   Operational Quality and Knowledge Services
AHA     Aménagements Hydroagricoles (Irrigated areas)
ARD     Agriculture and Rural Development
ASPEN   Africa Safeguards Policy Enhancement
BCR     Benefit/Cost Ratio
BEEI    Bureau des Evaluations d'Etudes d'Impact Environnemental (Office for the
        Evaluation of Environment Impact Studies)
CA      Centrale d'Approvisionnement (Central Agricultural Inputs Procurement
        Unit, within the Ministry of Agricultural Development)
CAADP   Comprehensive African Agriculture Development Program
CAS     Country Assistance Strategy
CCA     Cellule Crises Alimentaires (Food Crises Coordination Unit)
CFA     Communauté Financiaire Africaine
CIC     Communication and Information Center
CIF     Cost Insurance and Freight
CMU     Country Management Unit
CRC     Joint Government­Donor Food Crises Committee
DAP     Diammonium Phosphate
DGA     Direction Générale de l'Agriculture (General Directorat of Agriculture)
DRC     Domestic Resource Cost
EPP     Emergency Project Paper
ESMF    Environmental and Social Management Framework
ESW     Economic and Sector Work
FCD     Fonds Commun des Donateurs (Food Crises Donor Basket Fund)
FCPMF   Food Crisis Prevention and Management Framework
FM      Financial Management
FPCR    Food Price Crisis Response
FPCRTF  Food Price Crisis Response Trust Fund
FSA     Food Security Fund
FUCOPRI Fédération des Unions Coopératives des Producteurs de Riz (Rice
        Producers' Apex Organization)
GAFSP   Global Agriculture and Food Security Program
GDP     Gross Domestic Product
GNI     Gross National Income
GFRP    Global Food Crisis Response Program
                                        ii
IBRD     International Bank for Reconstruction and Development
ICR      Implementation Completion and Results Report
IDA      International Development Association
IFR      Interim Financial Reports
INRA     Institut National de Recherche Agronomique (National Agricultural
         Research Institute)
MDA      Ministry of Agricultural Development
M&E      Monitoring and Evaluation
OPVN     Office des Produits Vivriers du Niger (Office of National Food Security
         Stocks)
ONAHA    Office National des Aménagements Hydroagricoles (National Irrigation
         Development Office)
PAD      Project Appraisal Document
PAM      Policy Analysis Matrix
PDO      Project Development Objectives
PMP      Pest Management Plan
PMT      Proxy Means Testing
PPF      Project Preparation Facility
PRODEX   Programme d'Exportation des Produits Agro-Pastoraux (Agro-Sylvo-
         Pastoral Exports and Markets Development Project)
PRSP2    Poverty Reduction Strategy 2
RDS      Rural Development Strategy
SAP      Système d'Alerte Précoce (The FCPMF's Early Warning System)
SE-SDR   Secrétariat Exécutif de la Stratégie du Développement Rural (Executive
         Secretariat of the Rural Development Strategy)
SIMA     Système d'Information pour les Marchés Agricoles (Agricultural Markets
         Information System)
SRP      Subsidy Ratio to Producers
TTL      Task Team Leader
UEMOA    Union Economique et Monétaire Ouest Africaine (West African Economic
         and Monetary Union)
VAT      Value Added Tax




                         Vice President: Obiageli Katryn Ezekwesili
                       Country Director: Madani M. Tall
                         Sector Director: Inger Andersen
                        Sector Manager: Karen McConnell Brooks
                    Project Team Leader: El Hadj Adama Touré
                      ICR Team Leader: Soulemane Fofana




                                       iii
                                  NIGER
                  EMERGENCY FOOD SECURITY SUPPORT PROJECT




                                                      CONTENTS


Data Sheet

  A. Basic Information....................................................................................................... v
  B. Key Dates ................................................................................................................... v
  C. Ratings Summary ....................................................................................................... v
  D. Sector and Theme Codes........................................................................................... vi
  E. Bank Staff.................................................................................................................. vi
  F. Results Framework Analysis ..................................................................................... vi
  G. Ratings of Project Performance in ISRs .................................................................viii
  H. Restructuring (if any) ..............................................................................................viii
  I. Disbursement Profile ................................................................................................. ix
  1. Project Context, Development Objectives and Design............................................... 1
  2. Key Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcomes .............................................. 4
  3. Assessment of Outcomes .......................................................................................... 10
  4. Assessment of Risk to Development Outcome......................................................... 14
  5. Assessment of Bank and Borrower Performance ..................................................... 14
  6. Lessons Learned........................................................................................................ 15
  7. Comments on Issues Raised by Borrower/Implementing Agencies/Partners........... 16
  Annex 1. Project Costs and Financing.......................................................................... 17
  Annex 2. Outputs by Component.................................................................................. 18
  Annex 3. Economic and Financial Analysis ................................................................. 20
  Annex 4. Bank Lending and Implementation Support/Supervision Processes............. 23
  Annex 5. Beneficiary Survey Results ........................................................................... 25
  Annex 6. Stakeholder Workshop Report and Results................................................... 26
  Annex 7. Summary of Borrower's ICR......................................................................... 30
  Annex 8. Comments of Co-financiers and Other Partners/Stakeholders...................... 41
  Annex 9. List of Supporting Documents ...................................................................... 42
  MAP




                                                               iv
A. Basic Information
                                                                          Niger : Emergency
Country:                Niger                   Project Name:             Food Security Support
                                                                          Project
Project ID:             P113222                 L/C/TF Number(s):         TF-92835
ICR Date:               06/29/2010              ICR Type:                 Core ICR
Lending Instrument:     ERL                     Borrower:                 REPUBLIC OF NIGER
Original Total
                        USD 7.0M                Disbursed Amount:         USD 6.9M
Commitment:
Revised Amount:         USD 7.0M
Environmental Category: B
Implementing Agencies:
 Cellule Crises Alimentaires (CCA)
 Centrale d'Approvisionnement (CA)
Cofinanciers and Other External Partners:

B. Key Dates
                                                                               Revised / Actual
     Process             Date             Process              Original Date
                                                                                   Date(s)
Concept Review:       06/25/2008     Effectiveness:             08/26/2008        09/16/2008
Appraisal:            07/11/2008     Restructuring(s):
Approval:             08/26/2008     Mid-term Review:           06/08/2009
                                     Closing:                   06/30/2009        12/31/2009

C. Ratings Summary
C.1 Performance Rating by ICR
Outcomes:                                       Satisfactory
Risk to Development Outcome:                    Moderate
Bank Performance:                               Satisfactory
Borrower Performance:                           Satisfactory

C.2 Detailed Ratings of Bank and Borrower Performance (by ICR)
         Bank                   Ratings           Borrower             Ratings
Quality at Entry:       Highly Satisfactory Government:        Satisfactory
                                            Implementing
Quality of Supervision: Satisfactory                           Satisfactory
                                            Agency/Agencies:
Overall Bank                                Overall Borrower
                        Satisfactory                           Satisfactory
Performance:                                Performance:




                                                v
C.3 Quality at Entry and Implementation Performance Indicators
    Implementation                           QAG Assessments
                             Indicators                                            Rating
     Performance                                 (if any)
 Potential Problem Project                         Quality at Entry
                           Yes                                              None
at any time (Yes/No):                              (QEA):
 Problem Project at any                            Quality of
                           No                                               None
time (Yes/No):                                     Supervision (QSA):
DO rating before
                           Satisfactory
Closing/Inactive status:

D. Sector and Theme Codes
                                                                  Original            Actual
Sector Code (as % of total Bank financing)
Crops                                                                 93                   93
Public administration- Agriculture, fishing and forestry               7                    7


Theme Code (as % of total Bank financing)
Global food crisis response                                           100              100

E. Bank Staff
        Positions                         At ICR                             At Approval
Vice President:            Obiageli Katryn Ezekwesili           Obiageli Katryn Ezekwesili
Country Director:          Madani M. Tall                       Madani M. Tall
Sector Manager:            Karen Mcconnell Brooks               Karen Mcconnell Brooks
Project Team Leader:       El Hadj Adama Toure                  El Hadj Adama Toure
ICR Team Leader:           Soulemane Fofana
ICR Primary Author:        Soulemane Fofana
                           Carlo Del Ninno
                           El Hadj Adama Toure


F. Results Framework Analysis

Project Development Objectives (from Project Appraisal Document)
The objective of the Project is to support the Recipient's efforts to mitigate the impact of
the food price crisis by: (a) increasing the production of the rice in irrigated farmlands;
and (b) enhancing its capacity to respond adequately to future food security threats.

Revised Project Development Objectives (as approved by original approving authority)
Not revised.



                                                vi
(a) PDO Indicator(s)

                                                Original Target     Formally      Actual Value
                                                 Values (from        Revised       Achieved at
   Indicator           Baseline Value
                                                    approval         Target      Completion or
                                                   documents)        Values       Target Years
Indicator 1 :     Increase in rice yield in plots treated with recommended dose of fertilizers
Value
                  2.5 tons per ha
quantitative or                             3.5 tons per ha                    5.4 tons per hectare
                  (without fertilizers)
Qualitative)
Date achieved     08/26/2008                12/31/2009                         12/31/2009
Comments
(incl. %          54% over the target and 116% over the baseline.
achievement)

(b) Intermediate Outcome Indicator(s)

                                               Original Target                       Actual Value
                                                                     Formally
                                                Values (from                          Achieved at
   Indicator          Baseline Value                                  Revised
                                                  approval                          Completion or
                                                                  Target Values
                                                 documents)                          Target Years
Indicator 1 :     Tons of fertilizers procured and distributed to rice farmers at subsidized price
Value
(quantitative     0                         4000 metric tons                   4000 metric tons
or Qualitative)
Date achieved     08/26/2008                12/31/2009                         12/31/2009
Comments
(incl. %          100%
achievement)
Indicator 2 :   Hectares of irrigated rice fields treated with adequate dose of fertilizers.
                                                                                9265 ha, including
Value                                                                           8239 ha by
(quantitative   Not determined              10,000 ha                           Cooperatives, and
or Qualitative)                                                                 1025 ha by
                                                                                individuals.
Date achieved 08/26/2008                    12/31/2009                          12/31/2009
Comments
(incl. %        93%
achievement)
Indicator 3 : Regular reporting on relevant food prices and national security stocks
                                                                                Information on food
                                            Report on Food                      prices, production
                Weekly bulletin on prices security and                          and interventions
Value
                and areas at risk from the project                              published by the
(quantitative
                FPMF's Early Warning implementation                             FCPMF's
or Qualitative)
                System.                     including food                      Information and
                                            security stocks.                    Communication
                                                                                Center (CIC).



                                                 vii
Date achieved   08/26/2008                 12/31/2009                        12/31/2009
Comments        Partially achieved. The system still needs to be improved with an effective
(incl. %        monitoring of food stocks managed by the Office des Produits Vivriers du Niger
achievement)    (OPVN- Office of National Food Security Stocks).
Indicator 4 :   Preparation and implementation of sustainable safety nets programs
                                                                             The preparation of
                                           Government starts                 the pilot cash
Value                                      implementing                      transfer program
(quantitative   None                       programs using net                has been completed
or Qualitative)                            revenues from the                 and Government
                                           fertilizers                       started rolling it out
                                                                             in June 2010.
Date achieved 08/26/2008                   12/31/2009                        12/31/2009
Comments
(incl. %        Fully achieved.
achievement)

G. Ratings of Project Performance in ISRs

                                                                                    Actual
         Date ISR
 No.                              DO                         IP                 Disbursements
         Archived
                                                                                (USD millions)
  1     12/12/2008            Satisfactory        Moderately Satisfactory                  0.00
  2     05/29/2009            Satisfactory        Moderately Satisfactory                  6.85
  3     12/10/2009            Satisfactory            Satisfactory                         6.85


H. Restructuring (if any)
Not Applicable




                                               viii
I. Disbursement Profile




                          ix
1. Project Context, Development Objectives and Design

1.      Niger is a very poor country that faces many hardships and struggles with significant
levels of poverty and household food insecurity. A Sahelian landlocked country, Niger is
confronted by a harsh climate, with nearly 90 percent of the territory receiving less than 350
mm of rainfall yearly, resulting in recurrent natural disasters and high exposure to climate
change. With a per capita Gross National Income (GNI) of US$ 260 and an estimated 62
percent of the population living below the poverty line, Niger is one of the lowest-ranked
countries on the United Nations' Human Development Index. The incidence of poverty has
remained constant since the early 1990s.
2.      Low agricultural productivity and uncontrolled population growth make the country
seasonally and chronically food insecure. Only 10 percent of Niger's territory, or 120,000
km2, benefits from rain-fed agriculture. Meanwhile, in a context of declining rainfall and
cyclical droughts, unsustainable land management practices abound, with communities
overexploiting natural resources in order to preserve or increase their level of production to
feed a rapidly growing population.
3.      While over 60 percent of households rely in part on their own production to meet their
consumption needs, 68 percent of households are net buyers of staples such as millet and
cowpeas. Drought also often results in increases in the prices of millet, sorghum, and other
staple foods, and dramatic decreases in prices of livestock, contributing to food insecurity.
Furthermore, supply and demand conditions in Nigeria, especially the northern regions, have
a major influence on prices and availability of staple food crops in Niger.

1.1 Context at Appraisal

4.       Reducing vulnerability and ensuring food and nutrition security are an overarching
priority for the Government of Niger. It has, therefore, set up its strategic vision, policies, and
institutional framework to address these objectives in the Rural Development Strategy (RDS),
as well as in the Accelerated Development and Poverty Reduction Strategy 2 (PRSP2).
Indeed, the RDS Action Plan, adopted in 2006, identified various instruments to address food
insecurity, including efforts to increase staple food crop production, market interventions, and
a variety of safety net programs, especially after emergencies. This includes a food crisis
contingency plan to cope with drought episodes and a National Strategy to Support
Vulnerable Population for times of increased food prices.
5.      In order to improve the institutional and operational framework for food security of
Niger, the development partners, jointly with the donors, set up three facilities, as part of the
FCPMF, and under the oversight and management of the Cellule Crises Alimentaires (CCA-
Food Crisis Coordination Unit): a) a Donor Basket Fund, b) a Food Security Fund; and c) the
National Food Security Stocks. In this context, food aid has served as an important resource
for the Government and is considered to be integral to providing safety net interventions,
especially for emergency responses.




                                                1
                                                     Table 1: Variation in Food Prices in Niamey


6.        The rise in international oil and food
                                                                    Monthly    June08/Average
prices, low cereal production in 2007 because                    (June/May08)     2003-2007
of drought, and increased demand for cereals Millet                  18%             7%
and other agricultural products in neighboring Sorghum               18%             3%
countries -- namely Nigeria -- contributed to a Maize                51%            31%
sharp increase in food prices in 2008. In June Rice                  18%            21%
2008, the early warning system of the joint Niebe                    20%            23%
Government-Donors' Food Crisis Prevention Source: Agricultural Market Information System,
and Management Framework (FCPMF) stated Ministry of Commerce
that about three million people were living in areas identified as vulnerable to soaring food
prices.Around one million people were affected by serious food insecurity, implying an
urgent need for relief measures to prevent another human disaster three years after the 2005
crisis.
7.      The Government responded swiftly to the food price crisis. In June 2008, the
Parliament adopted a supplemental Budget Law which included tax exemptions on rice, wheat
flour, edible oil, sugar, and milk, which led to a loss of tax revenues of CFAF 12.4 billion
(about USD 30 million), equivalent to 0.56 percent of GDP. The Government also requested
the Bank to help with its efforts to mitigate the impact of the crisis, resulting from sharply
rising global food prices, to which the Bank responded by making available USD 7 million of
special financing through the Emergency Food Security Project.
8.     The Bank's response which is under the Bank's Global Food Crisis Response Program
(GFRP), and is aligned with the Government's strategic approach as well as the coordinated
and joint donor framework focused on measures to address the short and medium to long-term
implication of the global food crisis for Niger.

1.2 Original Project Development Objectives (PDO) and Key Indicators

9.      The objective of the Project was to support the Recipient's efforts to mitigate the
impact of the food price crisis by: (a) increasing the production of the rice in irrigated
farmlands; and (b) enhancing its capacity to respond adequately to future food security
threats. The key performance indicators were as follows:
       (i) Outcome indicator: Rice yield in metric tons per hectare is expected to increase by
           20 percent in the irrigated plots treated with the recommended dose of fertilizers at
           the end of the project.
       (ii) Intermediate outcomes :
           (a) With 4,000 tons of fertilizer procured under the grant, and distributed at an
               affordable price to farmers, 10,000 ha of paddy are expected to be adequately
               fertilized over the project time frame.
           (b) The management capacity of the CCA and OPVN for monitoring food security
               will be strengthened.
           (c) A comprehensive safety net program is prepared and being implemented with
               the FCPMF instruments.




                                              2
1.3 Revised PDO (as approved by original approving authority) and Key Indicators, and
reasons/justification

10.    The PDO and key indicators were not revised.

1.4 Main Beneficiaries

11.     The project's primary beneficiaries were the paddy producers in Niger, who had been
identified through their cooperatives to receive, at affordable prices the fertilizers procured
under the Project. Project executing agencies, namely the Centrale d'Approvisionnement
(CA- Input Procurement Unit) and the Office National des Aménagements Hydroagricoles
(ONAHA- National Irrigation Development Agency) within CCA were also targeted for
capacity building in the areas of fiduciary management and monitoring and evaluation.

1.5 Original Components

12.    The Project had the following two components at appraisal:
13.     Component I: Procurement of Fertilizers (USD 6.5 million). The objective of the
component was to support the CA's and the CCA's operating costs associated with the
procurement and distribution of 4,000 metric tons of fertilizers to be used on 10,000 ha of
irrigated rice on time for the July- December 2008 cropping season, and with an anticipation
of using the fertilizers in subsequent cropping seasons, in case delivery was delayed due to
any reasonable reason. These fertilizers were planned to be procured by the CA and and
delivered to rice producers at affordable price using CA's current subsidy policy (a 30 to 40
percent subsidy for fertilizer).
14.     Component II: Support to the National Food Crises Prevention and Management
Framework (USD 0.5 million). The objective of this component was to: (a) contribute to the
strengthening of the CCA, as the permanent secretariat for the FCPMF, to manage the grant,
and monitor and evaluate the grant funded activities; these activities include the monitoring
of targeting eligible beneficiaries of fertilizers procured and distributed under the grant, and
adequate information disclosure regarding the distribution process; (b) provide technical
assistance to CCA, CA and the Office des Produits Vivriers du Niger (OPVN- Office of
National Food Security Stocks) (and ONAHA; (c) ensure adequate monitoring of food
security, including accurately and timely reporting on food prices across the country, and
along the borders with Nigeria; (d) support management of grain storage and early
identification of population and areas at risk of starvation; (e) support the design of safety net
programs to permanently tackle food insecurity affecting 20 percent of the population in
Niger; and (f) ensure close advisory services to cooperatives and rice farmers during the two
successive irrigation campaigns covered by the project. This would include providing basic
instructions on proper use of fertilizers, as well as adequate quantities of application.

1.6 Revised Components

15.    The components have not been revised

1.7 Other significant changes

16.    There was no change in project design, scope and scale, implementation arrangements,
or funding.


                                                3
2. Key Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcomes

2.1 Project Preparation, Design and Quality at Entry

17.     The quality at entry is assessed as satisfactory, given that the Project has been
implemented according to plan and has achieved its development objective. Inclusion of
representatives of rice producer cooperatives ensured adequate targeting of beneficiaries, i.e.
farmers with 0.25 hectares or less. Therefore, the Project reached 20,788 farmers through their
cooperatives and contributed to the food security of 124,728 people1 in areas targeted by the
Project. Involvement of the FCPMF's Joint Government-Donors Committee (CRC), as
envisaged under the agreed project implementation arrangements, turned out to be
instrumental in guaranteeing good governance in the procurement of fertilizers, resulting in
timely delivery of good quality products to farmers. Also, the envisaged sequencing of project
activities, starting with the urgent procurement of fertilizers and focusing later on the
preparation and the implementation of safety nets, proved to be an effective approach to
getting the best results out of limited resources. In this context, the up-front agreement that
the proceeds of the fertilizer sales would be used for the establishment of the safety net
program needs to be noted.
18.     Using the emergency procedures under OP8.0, it took only one month to prepare the
project and obtain approval, following GFRP procedures adopted in June 2008. The Bank
brought together a multi-sectoral, high level team, including a country office-based task team
leader (TTL) working together with the Country Management Unit (CMU), social protection
staff and country office-based Agriculture and Rural Development and fiduciary teams, with a
strong and permanent back-stopping from the Quality and Knowledge (AFTQK) Department
and the Environment and Social Development team (ASPEN). This ensured good quality
documentation and swift processing of clearances and approval of the project.
19.     The Bank team worked closely with the CRC to ensure coordination among partners,
and the use of adequate procedures for procurement of goods in a situation of emergency. The
Government also set up an ad hoc high level counterpart team to work with the Bank team
which was chaired by the Secretary General of the Ministry of Agricultural Development, and
included CCA Coordinator and Financial Manager, the Director General of Agriculture,
Director of CA and the Director of Development Department (Mise en Valeur) ONAHA. The
Fédération des Union Coopératives des Producteurs de Riz (FUCOPRI- Federation of Rice
Producer Cooperatives) also participated in the preparation and was invited by the
Government to take part in the technical discussions and negotiations, which was
unprecedented in Niger. The inclusion of FUCOPRI and CRC ensured improved project
targeting, transparency and good governance, which is critical in emergency operations.
20.    Project preparation took lessons from similar operations in the Africa region,
including the Africa Emergency Locust Project. The preparation team worked well together
and made good use of management support and cross-sectoral collaboration. It facilitated the
Recipient's ownership at inception through responding to its urgent need and sharing the
responsibility of project preparation with a tight schedule.




1
 Considering an average number of 6 dependents per farmer's household as provided by FUCOPRI
and ONAHA.

                                              4
2.2 Implementation

21.      Under Component I (92 percent of the grant proceeds), the delivery of fertilizers was
fully completed on November 12, 2008, i.e. two months after the contract was signed and
three months after project approval. Delivery could have occurred two to three weeks earlier
if settlement of taxes and duties between the supplier and the Ministry of Finance had been
expedited, and without the advance enforcement by the Government of Niger of the new
WAEMU2 regulations on truck loads, which became effective on January 1, 2009. However,
even without this delay of two to three weeks, only part of the fertilizers would have been
used in 2008, as the cropping cycle started well before in July 2008. As anticipated in the
Emergency Project Paper (EPP), the fertilizers were envisaged to be primarily used in the
following crop cycles, including in the off-season in 2008 and the rainy season in 2009.
22.     The Government established the price of fertilizers after a consultative process with
farmer's cooperatives. The price (13,500 CFA Franc per bag of 50kg, both for urea and NPK)
was kept slightly above the price before the crisis peak in early 2008 (13,000 CFA Franc/bag)
and well below the 17,000 CFA Franc that CA announced in May 2008 to reflect the sharp
increase in international markets. This resulted in a 54 percent subsidy compared to what it
would have been without government intervention. This decision, a consequence of the
soaring prices of fertilizers in the international markets helped farmers face the
unprecedented increase in fertilizers prices in 2008 and kept alive rice production, which
assures food security and revenues of rural households in the targeted areas. It is worth noting
that CA fully recovered the payments from farmers and the net revenues of the sales, i.e. cost
of fertilizers nets of subsidies and CA 10 percent fees for transportation and management,
were transferred to the FCPMF's account to support the safety nets programs.
Figure 1: International and domestic prices of fertilizers




Source: FAO Outlook, June 2008.




2
  West Africa Economic and Monetary Union, which includes Benin, Burkina Faso, Cote d'Ivoire, Guinea
Bissau, Mali, Niger, Togo, and Senegal.
                                                      5
Figure 2: Diammonium Phosphate (DAP) Prices




23.     Under Component II, the Project: (i) assisted CA to develop a Procurement and
Financial Management Procedures Manual, which did not exist prior to project intervention;
(ii) contributed to enhancing the FM system of CCA by upgrading its FM software and
providing related training to its accounting staff; and (iii) supported ONAHA and DGA with
communications and M&E, including to carry out farm surveys and to document performance
of beneficiary cooperatives.
24.     Following on the key recommendations from the Bank-supported study on Food
Security and Safety Nets in Niger (Report No.44072-NE, February 18, 2009), the project
assisted the Government in outlining TORs for studies and in preparing a detailed action plan,
including milestones and time line for delivering the reports. In order to facilitate the process,
the Government set up an ad hoc Steering Committee under the supervision of Prime
Minister's Office, and put in place arrangements with clear assignment of responsibilities
among relevant government bodies for the execution of agreed actions. The Government has
fully implemented the work plan before project closing, including the completion of four
background analytical reports to support the development of a safety-net system and the
launch of a cash transfer pilot that will make use of the sales revenue of the fertilizers
distributed by the Project. The four preliminary reports included: (i) a review of existing
safety net programs; (ii) the feasibility and identification of a pilot safety net program; (iii) an
analysis of the characteristics of poor households (chronic and seasonal) and targeting
mechanisms; and (iv) a proposal for the improvement of the information system on food
security and government programs.
25.     Originally, a fifth study was planned to improve the monitoring system of the
management of the national food security stocks in Niger, but the Office of National Food
Security Stocks (OPVN), which is responsible for managing the stocks, did not express an
interest in participating in the proposed activities.

2.3 Monitoring and Evaluation (M&E) Design, Implementation and Utilization

26.     The design of the M&E system was simple and focused on measuring project
performance indicators as identified in the Project's Results Framework. To carry out this
task the Project provided incremental support in terms of additional equipment (one vehicle,


                                                 6
two computers, and four electronic scales) to ONAHA and DGA for the measurement of rice
productivity at the end of each cropping season.
27.     Monitoring was done on a weekly basis. For this purpose, CA collected data from its
own accounting system and from local fertilizer distribution committees (composed of
representatives of CA, the local administration, the regional directorate of agriculture, and
beneficiaries). The tabulated data were regularly sent to the Bank to feed into the GFRP bi-
weekly update, and included volumes of fertilizers sold by category (urea and NPK),
payments recovered and modalities (through Bank credit/guarantee or in cash), for each
cooperative and in each irrigated perimeter. As a result, the Government completion report
(see summary in Annex 7) adequately documented the project's achievement against agreed
indicators as set in the result framework. Overall, the M&E system was strong and provided
good quality information on project's outcomes, implementation, and fiduciary management

2.4 Safeguard and Fiduciary Compliance

28.     Safeguards. From an environmental and social safeguards standpoint, the Project was
classified as B, requiring a Partial Environmental Assessment, and the following two policies
were triggered: (i) the Environmental Assessment Policy (OP 4.01) and the Pest Management
Policy (OP 4.09). The triggering of OP 4.09 was predicated on the basis of the procurement
of a large amount of fertilizers, which was expected to lead to an intensification of
agricultural production and productivity and an increased use of pesticides on the part of
producers.
29.     The existing Environmental and Social Management Framework (ESMF) and the Pest
Management Plan (PMP) that had been developed in 2008, in the context of the preparation of
Agro-sylvo-pastoral Exports and Markets Development Project (PRODEX) were considered
appropriate for the Project. It was agreed during project preparation that these existing ESMF
and PMP were to be updated within six months of grant effectiveness to address project
specific safeguards issues. It is noted that the Government submitted an Environmental
Impact Assessment report in September 2009, well after the six months post-effectiveness
approval deadline agreed on during project preparation. The delay was due to: late submission
of the terms of reference due to lack of clear leadership for the study between involved
agencies within the Ministry of Agricultural Development, namely the Ministry's General
Secretariat, CA, ONAHA, and DGA; and the lengthy approval procedures for approval of
environmental impact-related documents by the Bureau des Evaluations d'Etudes Impact
Enviornnemental (BEEI -the National Bureau for Environmental Impact Assessment). The
TORs were submitted and approved by the Bank in June 2009. A training session on
integrated rice production management, including pest management aspects, was delivered in
July 2009 to the frontline extension agents ­ both of ONAHA and the Department of
Agriculture, by specialists from the National Agricultural Research Institute (INRA). No
significant negative environmental impacts were reported during project implementation.
30.     Procurement. Procurement under the Project was of satisfactory quality; the final
review of the project procurement system concluded that: (i) a Procurement Plan has been
prepared during preparation, updated and approved in June 2009; (ii) the filing of
procurement documents within CA and CCA was of good quality and allowed for easy
tracking of the procurement processes, though some room for improvement was identified;
and (iii) all contracts were pre-reviewed and adequately implemented.
31.    The main challenge was the acquisition of a large amount of fertilizers (92 percent of
the Grant amount) on a tight schedule. The bidding documents were prepared during project
preparation and the Limited International Competitive Bidding was appropriately appraised as
the method to use to ensure urgent delivery of the products while safeguarding fair
                                             7
competition in an emergency context. The process was completed within a month, from
preparation of bidding documents to contract approval and signing, including Bank clearances
and no objection at required stages, as shown in Table 2 below.
32.    The fertilizer procurement process was a good example of what can reasonably be
done in terms of improving project implementation when there is strong commitment on both
the Bank and Government sides.
Table 2: Timetable for the procurement of fertilizers under the Project
Steps                            Date                        Remarks/Quality assurance
Preparation and submission to    August 3-6, 2008            By CA upon receiving of
the Bank of bidding                                          template sent by the Bank
documents                                                    team; endorsed by the Ad Hoc
                                                             Commission set up by the
                                                             FCPMF's Join Government-
                                                             Donor Committee prior to
                                                             sending to the Bank
Bank No Objection on the         August 7, 2008              Following a review by The
bidding documents                                            Country Office Procurement
                                                             Specialist and cleared by the
                                                             designated Procurement Hub
                                                             Coordinator
Opening and evaluation of        August 25-27, 2008          By the Ad Hoc Commission
bids
Bank No Objection on             August 29, 2008             Following a review by The
Evaluation report and proposal                               Country Office Procurement
for contract award                                           Specialist and cleared by the
                                                             designated Procurement Hub
                                                             Coordinator
Contract signing                 September 4, 2008           Signing by the supplier and
                                                             relevant parties within the
                                                             MDA on September 4,
                                                             approved by the Ministry of
                                                             Finance on September 9,
                                                             2008.
Delivery Dates                   October 24- November 12,    Load was shipped from Mali
                                 2008                        on Oct 8, and delivered in
                                                             Niamey during the period of
                                                             October 24-November 12,
                                                             2008.

33.    Financial management. The financial, administrative, and accounting resources and
tools were in place within the Food Crisis Unit (CCA), which managed the Grant's
Designated Account. CCA provided to the Bank the required information on financial
management through the quarterly Interim Financial Reports (IFRs) which were of adequate
quality and responsive to Bank's recommendations. The final IFR was received with no
comment from the Bank.

34.     At the preparation stage the overall fiduciary risk was assessed as substantial for the
CA and moderate for the CCA. In line with the recommendations provided as a result of the
FM assessment, the Project included provisions to strengthen the respective FM system
through training of staff and upgrading the accounting software and mainstreaming through a
financial reporting system to track the use of the proceeds on a quarterly basis. CCA
successfully implemented its new financial management system. The Ministry of Agricultural

                                                   8
Development's Inputs Procurement Unit (CA) also implemented the agreed action plan to
correct weaknesses that were identified in its financial and management system during
preparation. Indeed, CA developed a detailed manual of procedures for accounting and
procurement, and included the audit of its accounts for years 2008 and 2009 in the terms of
reference of the external auditor of the project-designated account, even though it did not
manage project proceeds. However, despite the progress made, CA still needs to improve its
internal control system through hiring of an internal controller as recommended in the action
plan.

35.     Ninety-eight percent of the grant proceeds had been disbursed at project closing, of
which 94 percent through direct payment for the fertilizers procured under the Project. To
conduct an external audit of the designated account, which handled 6 percent of the grant
proceeds, as well as the financial statements of CA for 2008 and 2009, a firm was only
selected in April 2010. The audit report was submitted to the Bank on June 18, 2010, and it
was unqualified.
36.     The final rating for project financial management was moderately satisfactory, taking
into account the good management of the project-designated account on the one hand and
factoring in delays and shortcomings in the implementation of the action plan for improving
CA's financial management system and the contracting of the external auditor on the other
hand.

2.5 Post-completion Operation/Next Phase

37.    The project design was able to capitalize on the key recommendations from the Bank-
supported study on Food Security and Safety Nets in Niger (Report No.44072-NE, published
on February 18, 2009) and included a component on the development of a safety net system
that addresses chronic food insecurity that impacts the life of 20 percent of the total
population in Niger. Indeed, the Project assisted the Government in preparing food safety net
programs under Component II. To this end, the net revenues from the sales of fertilizers
procured under the project (about USD 2 million) were transferred to the FCPMF to support
the implementation of the safety net programs on a pilot basis. The Government and
stakeholders welcomed this sequencing approach which proved to be relevant in the current
context of a severe food crisis which affects half of the population.
38.     As a result of the activities of the Project, the steering committee and the CCA have
shown a real commitment towards the setup and implementation of the safety net programs.
They received the approval by the CRC on April 12, 2009, for the use of the funds for the
development of a cash transfer pilot. The preparation of the pilot cash transfer project is
underway and should start in the third quarter of 2010. In view of locally high food prices
caused by recent droughts in Niger, the Bank and the Government are also discussing further
Bank assistance to the Government's Support Plan to Vulnerable People, and subsequent
assistance is envisioned to be delivered early in Fiscal Year 2011 using available IDA or other
resources including from available trust funds under the GFRP or from the newly established
Global Agriculture and Food Security Program (GAFSP).
39.     The Project also contributed to improving CA's procurement and financial
management procedures through the preparation of a comprehensive manual of procedures for
accounting, financial management, and procurement, which CA did not have before the
Project.




                                              9
3. Assessment of Outcomes

3.1 Relevance of Objectives, Design and Implementation

40.     The Project was relevant and timely with respect to the global food prices crisis, and
the unprecedented soaring prices of agricultural commodities in 2008, including fertilizers.
The response, which consisted of focusing on supporting food production in combination with
safety nets, fitted well into the Rural Development Strategy's Action Plan (adopted in 2006
and updated in September 2009 in the context of the CAADP roundtables), especially as
related to Risk Prevention, Improvement of Food Security, and Sustainable Management of
Natural Resources. Doing so allowed the Government to mount an immediate response to the
effects of the food price crisis, while laying the basis for enhanced preparedness to deal with
future food security threats. In view of the newly unfolding food crisis in 2010 in Niger
caused by extreme drought conditions, project support for enhancing this preparedness turns
out to be highly relevant.

41.     Echoing the ESW on food security and safety nets referred to earlier, the Bank's
Country Assistance Strategy (CAS FY08-FY11) for Niger stressed the need of a "balanced
mix of policies and programs that simultaneously: (i) address the production and marketing
constraints to food availability and access, and (ii) provide safety nets to help those who are in
a situation of chronic food insecurity". By focusing on both aspects, the design of the Project
was closely aligned with the overarching orientation of the CAS.
42.    The design of the Project was also consistent with the broader objectives of the GFRP
which were to: (i) reduce the negative impact of high and volatile food prices on the lives of
the poor in a timely way, (ii) support governments in the design of sustainable policies that
mitigate the adverse impacts of high and more volatile food prices on poverty while
minimizing the creation of long-term market distortions, and (iii) support broad-based growth
in productivity and market participation in agriculture to ensure an adequate and sustainable
food supply response.
43.     In terms of operational procedures, the Project also built on the guidelines and
instruments set in the GFRP Framework document, approved by the Board in May 2008. In
particular, Component I of the Project was aligned with Component III of the GFRP
Framework (Enhancing Domestic Food production and Marketing Response), while
Component II was inspired by Component II of the Framework (Ensuring Food Access and
Reducing Nutritional Vulnerability which listed an array of safety net instruments to use).
The swift timetable that was followed for the procurement of the fertilizers under the project
also reflects the pro-active steps that were taken during preparation to ensure adequate
implementation readiness that allowed the Project to go into effect immediately once
approved.

3.2 Achievement of Project Development Objectives

44.     Achievement of project objectives is measured based on the key performance
indicators in the Emergency Project Paper. The main outcome indicator was defined as
"increase in rice yield by 20 percent in plots treated with recommended dose of fertilizers".
Data were collated from the Ministry of Agricultural Development yearly surveys for yield
and production estimates. For the purpose of project M&E, and with incremental support
from the Project, specific surveys in rice production areas along the Niger Valley were
                                               10
conducted by ONAHA and DGA to ensure appropriate documentation of project
performance.
45.      Table 3 below summarizes the results of the surveys, which take into account both
irrigated areas cropped by rice producer cooperatives and individuals which received
fertilizers procured under the Project for the first 2009 season (January-June cycle, during
which 86 percent of the fertilizers was distributed), and the rainfall season (July-December
cycle, during which 14 percent of the fertilizers was distributed). At the end of the project,
rice yields in irrigated plots treated with the recommended dose of fertilizers was 5.4 tons/ha
on average, thereby exceeding the baseline yield of 2.5 tons/ha by 116 percent and outpacing
the project's target of 3.5 tons/ha by 54 percent.
46.    According to the stakeholders interviewed during the ICR mission, the difference in
yield came from the availability of quality fertilizers at the very beginning of the cropping
cycle, while all other production parameters, including irrigation conditions, planting
materials, and labor, remained the same. Because rice response to minerals is almost linear
up to a limit of productivity, timely available fertilizers augmented yield per hectare (see
Annex 2 for more details).
                                    Table 3: Summary of project outcomes

                                  Baseline         Projection    Results at         Rate of realization
      Outcome Indicator           (July 2008)        target      project
                                                                 completion
      Increase in rice yield in   2.5 tons per     3.5 tons      5.4 tons per       116 percent over the
      plots treated with          ha (without      per hectare   hectare (by        baseline and 54
      recommended dose of         fertilization)                 farmer             percent over the
      fertilizers                                                cooperatives)      target


47.     Intermediary outcomes indicators or outputs3 agreed under the Project included:

        (i)       For Component I: (a) the total envisaged volume (4,000 tons) of fertilizers was
                  procured and distributed; (b) a total of 9,265 hectares was treated with those
                  fertilizer, including 8,239 hectares by farmer cooperatives and 10264 hectares
                  by individuals who accessed fertilizers at CA open selling points; against the
                  expectation that at total of 10,000 hectares would be treated, this target was
                  achieved at 93 percent;

        (ii)      For Component II: (a) regular reporting on relevant food prices and national
                  food security system stocks by FCPMF; the FCPMF information system
                  (including data collection and dissemination aspects) is effective, and a first
                  bulletin was published by the Communication and Information Center (CIC) in
                  April 2010; and (b) the preparation and implementation of a safety net program
                  by CCA, the studies were completed and a pilot safety net program was
                  launched.



3
  See Annex 2 for details on project outputs per component. Figures on production estimates may differ from
those in the Government summary report, as the ICR take only into account data in conjunction with fertilizers
procured and distributed under the Project.
4
  The M&E system of ONAHA has fairly good information on cooperatives, but is not yet able to monitor
individuals who are not affiliated to cooperatives. Areas cropped by this category of farmers are estimated based
on the amount of fertilizers bought at CA open selling points.
                                                       11
48.     However, the monitoring of security stocks under OPVN management needs to be
made more transparent. Unlike other FCPMF-related bodies such as the CRC, CCA, SAP,
and CIC, OPVN did not collaborate on the background studies with other stakeholders to
improve the food security stocks monitoring as planned under the Project. It is expected that
the recent change in OPVN's management and the new Government's orientation towards
more openness and transparency on food security-related information will help improve the
situation in the short term. As for the safety net-related activity, the studies were done, and a
pilot program is being implemented using the net revenues from the sales of fertilizers. This is
very timely in the current context of a severe food crisis in Niger.

3.3 Efficiency

49.     A Policy Analysis Matrix (PAM; Monke and Pearson, 1989) model was used for the
ex-post economic analysis of the Project, though not required under Bank's operational policy
for emergency operations (OP 8.0). The analysis concluded that the Project produced
significant private and social profits, with important transfers to paddy farmers as expected.
The low Domestic Resource Cost (DRC) ratio (0.64<1) suggests an efficient use of domestic
factors such as labor and land for production of rice in Niger.

50.     The Subsidy Ratio to Producers (SRP) is a single measure of all transfer effects. It
indicates the extent to which the system's revenues are increased or decreased because of
transfers. The SRP for paddy production in the context of the project is 0.18, meaning that
the net transfer could be created solely by a tariff on rice of 18 percent (i.e. the current level of
VAT in Niger) if all other divergences were eliminated.
51.       While the DRC and the SRP give an idea of the efficiency and competitiveness in
general of the rice production system in Niger, they do not measure the project efficiency
itself, i.e. whether the project investment, in particular investing in fertilizers as in Component
1, was profitable or not. In this context it is worthwhile looking at Benefit/Cost Ratio (BCR),
i.e. the producer benefit per hectare. The analysis (with details presented in Annex 3)
indicates that the BCR is 1.20, i.e. for each dollar invested in fertilizers, producers gain USD
1.20. Net benefits (difference in profits with and without project, which is 209,258 FCFA/ha)
exceed 7.3 times incremental costs induced by the Project (calculated as net subsidy on
fertilizer per hectare, i.e. 28,620 FCFA/ha).
52.      These ratios indicate that irrigated rice production in Niger is competitive and
efficient. However, further support to rice development in Niger should closely look at
longer-term sustainably of the intervention in terms of the scope, nature, and profitability of
public investments, especially if currently high international rice prices would return to levels
that reflect historic trends.

3.4 Justification of Overall Outcome Rating

Rating: Satisfactory
53.    The overall project outcome is rated as satisfactory. The rating is based on the
continuing high relevance, the achievement of agreed performance indicators, and explicit
evidence of the efficiency of the Project. The supporting data are also of good quality.




                                                 12
3.5 Overarching Themes, Other Outcomes and Impacts
   (a) Poverty Impacts, Gender Aspects, and Social Development
54.    The Project effectively targeted poor rural households with less than 0.25 hectares.
Indeed, 88 percent of the fertilizers were distributed to producers' cooperatives, while only 12
percent were sold at open selling points in the project intervention areas.
55.     The development of a safety net strategy as one of the outcomes of the Project is
expected to lay the groundwork for a permanent safety net program that can address the needs
of the chronically poor population (close to 20 percent of the population) in terms of
emergencies as well as during normal times. The lessons from the on-going pilots contribute
and are factored into the dialogue about the design of an effective system. In this context it is
worthwhile to highlight the results of the study on the "Analysis of the characteristics of poor
households (chronic and seasonal) and targeting mechanisms" which was completed in
December 2009. This activity, led by the Système d'Alerte Précoce (SAP - Early Warning
System) of the FCPMF, provides concrete findings and recommendations for improving the
targeting system, including: (i) most targeting methods are based on communities' targeting,
and there are also good experiences with the collection of quantitative information; (ii) in a
country like Niger geographic targeting is very important to identify disadvantaged areas with
higher levels of chronic poverty and facing risks of drought; and (iii) within a geographically
determined area (including an estimate of the number of beneficiaries), community methods
and quantitative methods (proxy means testing - PMT) can be used to classify and select
beneficiaries.
56.    It is somewhat unfortunate to note, though, that most of the cooperatives' members are
men, with less than 3 percent of women, mostly widows, who inherited plots from their
deceased husbands. Gender is a general issue in Niger, in particular in the rural areas, which
needs to be addressed with a comprehensive and multi-sectoral approach. Subsequent
operations may take advantage of the upcoming Poverty and Gender Assessment to tackle
more aggressively gender inequality in Niger.

(b) Institutional Change/Strengthening

57.     Thanks to the project, the FCPMF is now working beyond emergency situations to
tackle chronic food insecurity. Also the strengthening of CCA financial management system
has increased its capacity to better reporting on the use of Donors' contributions to the Fonds
Commun des Donateurs (FCD - Donors' Basket Fund), and the Fond de Sécurité Alimentaire
(FSA- Food Security Fund). The project assisted the MDA's CA to move to a modern
management system with a new manual of procurement, accounting and financial
management procedures.
(c) Other Unintended Outcomes and Impacts (positive or negative)

N/A

3.6 Summary of Findings of Beneficiary Survey and/or Stakeholder Workshops

58.    No formal beneficiary assessment was performed, but results from supervision
missions indicate that beneficiaries praised timely delivery and quality of fertilizers and
affordable prices. This has been confirmed by the Government's completion report (see the
summary of the report in Annex 7).

                                               13
4. Assessment of Risk to Development Outcome

59.    Rating: Moderate. The major risks to development outcomes are the following:

       (a)     High fertilizer subsidies which entail a financial sustainability issue, but the
       PAM analysis indicates that, overall, the operation is beneficial to the whole economy,
       provided that the international prices for rice remain high, which is likely in the near
       future.

       (b)     The new Government has shown an interest in tackling chronic food insecurity
       and to set up a safety net system and develop an institutional framework separate from
       the emergency response system. The Government has already made several steps
       towards the development of the system through the setup of a steering committee, the
       preparation of a safety net strategy, and the implementation of a safety net pilot
       program under the leadership of CCA, which is the FCPMC permanent secretariat.
       However, the conversion of a temporary steering committee into a permanent inter-
       ministerial coordinating body presents many challenges that may take time to be
       addressed adequately, thereby running the risk of undermining preparedness in the
       short run.

5. Assessment of Bank and Borrower Performance

5.1 Bank Performance

(a) Bank Performance in Ensuring Quality at Entry

60.     Rating: Satisfactory. As mentioned earlier in section 2.1 above, Bank management
provided what it required to adequately prepare the Project including: (i) putting in place a
multi-sectoral team from the CMU, SDN, HD, and PREM, with high-level support on
fiduciary, legal, disbursement, and safeguards. An appraisal mission was carried out in July
2008 to discuss the Government request and reach agreement on the project design. All
parties from within the Bank, up to and including the Region's Front Office, made necessary
arrangements, including an effective backup system, to ensure continuity and to keep up the
momentum in the project preparation process, using emergency procedures under OP 8.00.
61.     Inclusion of the producer cooperatives through their APEX organization, FUCOPRI,
in the project design also paid off. They were able to contribute to the fertilizer distribution
arrangements during preparation and were invited by the Government to the technical
discussions and negotiations of the Grant Agreement, which is unusual in the Bank
cooperation with the Government of Niger in the agriculture and rural development sector.
FUCOPRI representatives also participated to the supervision missions and the final
evaluation and were instrumental in the Project's M&E system as well as for the quality of
information collected for the ICR.

(b) Quality of Supervision

62.     Rating: Satisfactory. The Bank ensured quality supervision of the Project, mainly
from the field, with regular interaction with the MDA and project implementing agencies.
Supervision missions were undertaken in October and June 2008, and the final one in late
November 2009, one month before the closing date. The ICR mission was carried out in April
2010. Meetings, and audio- or video-conferences with relevant specialists from Washington,
                                             14
as necessary, mostly with the environmental and safety net specialists, were organized from
time to time as the need arose.

(c) Justification of Rating for Overall Bank Performance

63.     Rating: Satisfactory. Overall Bank performance is rated as satisfactory, especially
taking into account the high quality and fast speed of project preparation.

5.2 Borrower Performance

(a) Government Performance

64.    Rating: Satisfactory. The Government was swift in preparing the Project, putting in
place a technical team coordinated by the Secretary General of the Ministry of Agricultural
Development, and later setting up a Steering Committee led by Director of Cabinet of the
Prime Minister to supervise the studies and activities on the safety nets under Component II.
The Government also agreed that the CRC play a key role and ensured transparency and good
governance in the procurement of the fertilizers.

(b) Implementing Agency or Agencies Performance

65.      Rating Satisfactory. Overall, the implementing agencies, namely CCA and CA, have
delivered on their commitments and were responsive to Bank requests in terms of monitoring
project performance and in implementing recommendations from missions and reviews.
There were some delays in starting the implementation of Component II as both institutions
initially were not familiar with Bank procedures. CA did not implement the recommendation
to hire an internal auditor, as agreed in the financial management action plan. However, this
did not impact overall management of the grant proceeds as CA did not manage the
designated account, and direct payment was used for the acquisition of fertilizers. The
external auditor could also have been selected earlier by CA and CCA. The audit report was
submitted to the Bank on June 18, 2010, and it was unqualified.

(c) Justification of Rating for Overall Borrower Performance
66.     Rating is Satisfactory. The Borrower's overall performance is rated as satisfactory,
taking into account Government commitment and leadership in preparing the Project, and
satisfactory implementation of project activities by implementing agencies according to initial
plans.

6. Lessons Learned

67.     High level commitment, both by the Bank and Government, is instrumental in
increasing effectiveness and speed of preparing emergency operations.

68.     A simple design of emergency operations is a key for success: the design of the
Project, which rightly focused on responding to the Government's short-term priority and to
the urgent needs of the beneficiaries, was a key factor in the Project's successful
implementation.

69.      An emergency project should not undermine governance issues: there were
substantial governance-related risks associated with the procurement of a large amount of
fertilizers. Involving a competent third party, namely the CRC, in the procurement process


                                              15
and getting beneficiaries involved in critical steps of the project cycle helped safeguard
transparency and ensured accountability.

70.    Emergency operations may provide an opportunity for crafting longer-term
responses to vulnerability: the Project was used as an opportunity to move forward the long-
standing agenda for developing safety nets in a country which definitely needs a
comprehensive and long-term response to recurrent food crises and chronic food insecurity.

71.     Availability of analytical work on risks and safety net schemes in Niger facilitated
the design and preparation of the operation.

72.     Sustained and continuous capacity building is needed for implementing agencies
in their learning curve regarding Bank procedures during preparation and implementation.
This technical assistance was provided by the Bank team and has proven to be demanding,
given the short project implementation time frame. Supplementing government agencies with
personnel with adequate skills and experience of Bank operations and procedures would
contribute to improving project execution.

7. Comments on Issues Raised by Borrower/Implementing Agencies/Partners


(a) Borrower/implementing agencies

73.    Annex 7 summarizes the Borrower's ICR which is in line with the Bank assessment.
(b) Co-financiers

N/A.

(c) Other partners and stakeholders
(e.g. NGOs/private sector/civil society)

74.     Annex 5 presents the minutes of the stakeholders' workshop held in May 2010 which
aimed at reviewing and validating the Government's draft report. Unfortunately, the
Federation of Rice Producer cooperatives (FUCOPRI) did not participate at the workshop, in
spite of its critical contribution to the Project's preparation and implementation. The Bank
team raised the issue with FUCOPRI and requested from its Director General a written
summary of their assessment of the project which was not yet received by submission of this
ICR. Per Bank request, a summary of the discussions with cooperatives has been prepared by
the Government's consultant and added to the document as Annex 6.




                                            16
                             Annex 1. Project Costs and Financing

(a) Project Cost by Component (in USD million equivalent)
                                                            Actual/Latest
                                     Appraisal Estimate                          Percentage of
          Components                                        Estimate (USD
                                      (USD millions)                              Appraisal
                                                               millions)
Procurement of Fertilizers                   6.50                   6.45             99%
Support to National Food Crisis
                                             0.50                     0.40           80%
Management Framework

              Total Baseline Cost            7.00                     6.85           98%
Physical Contingencies                       0.00                     0.00           N/A
Price Contingencies                          0.00                     0.00           N/A
               Total Project Costs           7.00                     6.85           98%
Front-end fee PPF                            0.00                     0.00           N/A
Front-end fee IBRD                           0.00                     0.00           N/A
       Total Financing Required              7.00                     6.85           98%




(b) Financing
                                                          Appraisal     Actual/Latest
                                         Type of Co-      Estimate        Estimate Percentage of
           Source of Funds
                                          financing        (USD            (USD       Appraisal
                                                          millions)       millions)
Borrower                                                    0.00            0.00        N/A
Special Financing                                           7.00            6.85        98%




                                                17
                                           Annex 2. Outputs by Component

Table 2.1: Project's Performance Indicators (from the Result Framework in the
Emergency Project Paper)
         Outcome           Baseline                        Projection target          Results at project        Rate of
        Indicators         (July 2008)                                                completion                realization
                                                                                      (12/31/2009)

     Increase in rice      2.5 tons per ha           3.5 tons per hectare             5.4 tons per hectare      54 percent over
     yield in plots        (without fertilization)                                                              the target and
     treated with                                                                                               116 percent over
     recommended                                                                                                the baseline.
     dose of fertilizers

     Component 1-Procurement of Fertilizers (USD 6.5 million)
     Tons of fertilizers   0                         4,000 metric tons                4,000 metric tons         100 percent
     procured and
     distributed to rice
     paddy farmers at
     a subsidized price
     Hectares of           0                         10,000                           9,265 hectares            93 percent
     irrigated rice                                                                   including 8,239 ha by
     fields treated                                                                   cooperatives and
     with adequate                                                                    1,025 by individuals
     dose of
     fertilizers
     Component 2- Support to the National Food Crisis Prevention and Management Framework (USD 0.5 million)

     Regular               Weekly bulletin on        Report on food security and      Information bulletin      Partially
     reporting on          prices and areas at       project implementation           on food prices,           achieved. There
     relevant food         risk from SAP and         including food security stocks   production, and           is still a need for
     prices and            EWS                                                        interventions             improvement in
     national food                                                                    published by the          monitoring of
     security stocks                                                                  FCPMF's CIC               food stocks
                                                                                                                managed by
                                                                                                                OPVN.
     Preparation and       None                      Government starts                The preparation of        Fully achieved.
     implementation                                  implementing programs using      the pilot cash transfer
     of sustainable                                  net revenues from the sale of    program has been
     safety net                                      fertilizers                      completed, and the
     programs                                                                         program is expected
                                                                                      to be made effective
                                                                                      in June 2010.




Additional Information on Outputs under Component 2 -- Support to the National Food
Crisis Prevention and Management Framework
                 A. Studies/reports
1.         The following background reports on safety nets were produced:
           (i)     Review of existing safety nets programs (December 2009). This activity was
           led by the Executive Secretariat of the Rural Development Strategy (SE-SDR). The
           main findings included: (a) spending on social safety nets is very low except during
           the crisis years (2005-2006 and 2008); and (b) the majority of expenditures were for
           emergency programs in 2005-2006 and for universal programs (non-targeted) for
           importing food products and supporting the price of petroleum products.
           (ii)   Improvement of the information system on poor households and safety net
           programs (December 2009). This activity was led by Communication and
           Information Center (CIC) of the FCPMF, which will be responsible for the analysis
                                              18
      and the dissemination of basic information. Main conclusion: the need to disseminate
      existing information is requested by several actors.
      (iii) Identification of pilot safety net program (December 2009). CCA led this
      activity for a feasibility analysis to pilot direct transfers. These pilot programs will be
      financed by the sales revenues of the fertilizers as approved by the CRC. Main
      conclusions: (a) experiences in other countries confirm the effectiveness of transfers;
      (b) the experiences in Niger are recent and limited in coverage but with positive
      results; (c) the introduction of a cash transfer program in Niger is desirable and
      feasible, but still as a pilot phase to test and validate the approach, and to capitalize on
      the experience already acquired, while adapting to different contexts; (d) preliminary
      proposals suggest a transfer program for the poorest households for a period of at least
      18-24 months; (e) complementary activities for Prevention/Protection and
      Promotion/Transformation should also be considered.
      (iv)    Analysis of the characteristics of poor households (chronic and seasonal)
      and targeting mechanisms (December 2009). This activity, led by the Early Warning
      System (SAP) of the FCPMF, includes a review of existing information systems and
      targeting mechanisms and will provide recommendations for improving the targeting
      system. the study found that the percentage of chronically poor (households that are
      expected to be always below a minimum level of consumption) is at least 20 percent
      of the population even during non-crisis periods. The main conclusions for the
      targeting are: (a) most targeting methods are based on communities' targeting, and
      there are also good experiences in the collection of quantitative information; (b) in a
      country like Niger geographic targeting is very important to identify disadvantaged
      areas with higher levels of chronic poverty and facing risks of drought; (c) within a
      geographically-determined area (including an estimate of the number of beneficiaries),
      community methods and quantitative methods (proxy means testing - PMT) can be
      used to classify and select beneficiaries.
2.     The Government prepared a strategic document and a summary report based on the
above background reports and policy papers:
      (i)     Strategic document for the setup of a system of a safety net action plan to
      protect the poor and vulnerable groups (December 2009). This activity was led by
      the Executive Secretariat of the Rural Development Strategy (SE-SDR). It provided
      recommendations for preparing an action plan and for setting up a monitoring system
      of the safety net programs.
      (ii)   Summary report (April 2010). The CCA led this activity which included a
      synthesis of the background reports.
             B. Workshops and other outputs
      (i)    November 2009 ­ Presentation of the preliminary background reports and
      discussion of key aspects of their conclusions and recommendations.
      (ii)      May 2010 ­ presentation of synthesis report and the action plan.
      (iii)   April 2010 - Information bulletin on food prices, production, and interventions
      published by the FCPMF's Information and Communication (Center CIC).




                                              19
                         Annex 3. Economic and Financial Analysis

1.     An economic analysis was not required under Bank's operational policy for
emergency operations (OP 8.0). It was, however, assumed in the Project Paper that increases
in paddy yields would result in increased farmers' revenues over the marginal cost associated
with the procurement of fertilizers at subsidized prices.
2.      An economic analysis was undertaken ex post by comparing actual farm-level data for
project beneficiaries with a farm budget assuming that farmers that did not benefit from the
Project. In addition, the question of the sustainability of the high subsidy level (54 percent of
CIF prices) on fertilizers was addressed in light of Government's financing capacity and the
social benefit/cost for the country as a whole.
3.      A social cost-benefit analysis was conducted using the Policy Analysis Matrix (PAM)
approach in Table 1 to assess the farm-level productivity (private profit ­ Cell D), economic
efficiency (social profit ­ Cell H), and subsidies (effects of divergences ­ Cells I to L).
                                Table 3.1: The PAM structure

                              Revenues                          Costs              Profits
                                                    Inputs              Factors
Private prices                       A                B                   C           D
Social prices                        E                F                   G           H
Effects of divergences               I                J                   K           L


4.      Farm budget data was collected from the farm survey and production estimates and
additional data from FUCOPRI and the MDA (Strategie Nationale de Devéloppement de la
Filière Riz, Novembre 2009), as well as from the Ministry of Trade's Agricultural Markets
Information System (SIMA) which provided detailed information regarding imported rice
(including taxes, transportation costs, and margins). This information was utilized to estimate
international parity price of paddy produced in the Niger River Valley. Given that there are
two production seasons in a year, Table 3.2 indicates how annual figures were calculated.
                           Table 3.2: Basic data for extrapolation

                   Cropped areas         Average Yields      Fargate prices
                       (ha)                 (kg/ha)             (private)

Counter season               7,649                  5,436                181
Rainy season                 1,616                  5,132                194
Total/Average                9,265                  5,378                184


5.       Assumptions for the situation without the project include: (i) a decrease in the use of
fertilizers -- but not less than the quantities used in the previous production cycle -- which
would be less available and more expensive; (ii) fertilizer prices before project are maintained
at FCFA 17,000 per 50 kg bag, instead of FCFA 13,000 as in late 2007 (to partially reflect
soaring prices in international markets); (iii) yield per hectare is as in the previous production
cycle, i.e. average weighted yield per hectare of the off-season and the rainy season in 2008.
Table 3.3 shows with and without project scenarios at the farm level.


                                     Table 3.3: Farm budgets
                                                20
                                                            WITH PROJECT                                     WITHOUT PROJECT


    Designation /unit of quantities                           At Private        At social
                                            Quantities                                       Quantities       At Private prices At social prices
                                                                prices           prices
                                            per hectare                                      per hectare         (FCFA/ha)        (FCFA/ha)
                                                              (FCFA/ha)        (FCFA/ha)

Fertilizer (kg/ha)
                                   Urea           242.7              65,529        142,295         200.0                 68,000         117,260
                                   NPK            242.7              65,529        139,310         200.0                 68,000         114,800
Chemicals
             Liquid pesticide (liters/ha)             4.0            20,000         16,750             4.0               20,000          16,750
          Granulated pesticide (kgs/ha)            50.0             125,000        104,690           50.0               125,000         104,690
Seed (kg/ha)                                       60.0              28,000         28,000           60.0                28,000          28,000
Electricity (kwH)                                     -              30,000         25,210             -                 30,000          25,210
Labor (hr/ha)
                           Seedbed Prep            16.0              20,000         20,000           16.0                20,000          20,000
      Crop Care/ canals Maintenance                72.0              90,000         90,000           72.0                90,000          90,000
                             Harvesting            32.0              40,000         40,000           32.0                40,000          40,000
                             Threshing             32.0              40,000         40,000           32.0                40,000          40,000
                        Irrigation-labor           32.0              40,000         40,000           32.0                40,000          40,000
Capital                                               -                                                -                      0             -
           Working Capital (FCFA/ha)           304,058.2             18,243         25,863      309,000.2                18,540          18,540
                Tractor Services (hr/ha)           10.0              20,000         20,000           10.0                20,000          20,000
                Amortization irrig equip              -              10,000         10,000             -                 10,000          10,000
Land (rent price per ha)                              1.0                  0        80,000             1.0                    0          80,000
                                 (kg/ha)         5,377.5            989,694      1,026,326        4,269.0               785,674         814,755
Total Cost (excluding land) (FCFA/ha)                               612,302        742,118                              617,540         685,251
      Profit excluding land (FCFA/ha)                               377,392        284,208                              168,134         129,504
  Net Profit including land (FCFA/ha)                               377,392        204,208                              168,134          49,504




                     Table 3.4: PAM analysis for "with-project" scenario (FCFA/ha)

                                           Revenues                                Costs                                   Profits
                                                                   Inputs                    Factors
Private prices                              989,694               334,058                    278,243                       377,392
Social prices                              1,026,326              456,256                    365,863                       204,208
Effects of divergences                      (36,632)              (122,197)                  (87,619)                      173,185




            Table 3.5: PAM analysis for total area cropped by project beneficiaries
                                      (in USD million)

                                                                                   Costs
                                        Revenues                                                                           Profits
                                                                   Inputs                     Factor
Private prices                              20.376                  6.878                      5.729                         7.770
Social prices                               21.131                  9.394                      7.533                         4.204
Effects of divergences                      (0.754)                (2.516)                    (1.804)                        3.566


6.    Table 3.5 above indicates that rice production was privately profitable (at FCFA
168,134 per hectare) and marginally economic (at under FCFA 50,000 per hectare) before the
                                           21
Project. Under project assistance, however, fertilizer use increased. Together with improved
quality and timing of fertilizer application, yields increased substantially. Table 3.4 indicates
that private profit more than doubled to FCFA 377,392 per hectare, and social profit also
increased. The latter indicates that, despite fertilizer subsidies (indicated in Cell J), the paddy
system remains efficient. The Domestic Resource Cost (G/E-F) is greater than zero, indicating
economic efficiency. The Subsidy Ratio to Producers (SRP) is positive at 0.17, implying a net
transfer to paddy producers.
7.      Private and social benefit-cost ratios, respectively 1. 2 and 1.1, also indicate that the
Project is financially profitable for producers as well as for the whole economy. The net
benefit-cost ratio, calculated as incremental benefit divided by incremental cost as in Table 6
below, is even more favorable.

Table 4: Benefit/Cost analysis (in FCFA per ha)
Private Project Benefits                     377,392
Private Project investment*                  313,397
Private Benefit/Cost Ratio                      1.20
Social Project Benefits                      284,208
Social Project investment**                  255,222
Social Benefit/Cost Ratio                       1.11
Incremental benefits                         209,258
Incremental cost ***                          28,620
Ratio of Net Benefit/Net cost                   7.31

*Project investment is calculated as total cost of fertilizers at private price procured under the Project
divided by total areas cropped.
**Social project investment is total cost of fertilizers without transfers, plus social cost of
transportation to production areas.
*** Incremental cost is computed as the additional subsidy on fertilizers per hectare of paddy.




                                                   22
      Annex 4. Bank Lending and Implementation Support/Supervision Processes

(a) Task Team members
                                                                         Responsibility/
           Names                          Title                  Unit
                                                                           Specialty
Lending
El Hadji Adama Touré      Sr. Agricultural Economist            AFTAR Task Team Leader
Amadou Alassane           Sr. Agriculture Services Specialist   AFTAR
Joelle Dehasse            Sr. Operations Officer                AFCCI
Mamadou Yaro              Sr. Financial Management              AFTFM
                          Specialist
Trichur K. Balakrishnan   Lead Financial Management             AFTFM
                          Specialist
Luis Schwarz              Senior Finance Officer                LOAFC
Amadou Ibrahim            Sr. Economist                         AFTP4
Ibrah Rahmane Sanoussi    Procurement Specialist                AFTPC
Irina Luca                Lead Procurement Specialist           AFTPC
Eric Jean Yoboué          Sr. Procurement Specialist            AFTPC
T. Mpoy-Kamulayi          Lead Counsel                          LEGAF
Amadou Konare             Sr. Environmental Specialist          AFTEN
Gilles Marie Veuillot     Sr. Counsel                           LEGAF
Setareh Razmara           Lead Social Protection Specialist     AFTH2
Carlo Del Ninno           Principal Economist                   AFDSN
Hadidia Djimba            Team Assistant                        AFMNE
Elisabeth Mekonnen        Language Program Assistant            AFTAR
                                   Supervision/ICR
El Hadj Adama Touré       Sr. Agricultural Economist            AFTAR Project TTL
Soulemane Fofana          Operations Officer                    AFTAR ICR Primary Author
Amadou Alassane           Sr. Agricultural Specialist           AFTAR
Carlo Del Ninno           Senior Economist                      AFTSP
Hadidia Diallo Djimba     Program Assistant                     AFMNE
Amadou Konare             Sr. Environmental Specialist          AFTEN
Karima Laouali Ladjo      Program Assistant                     AFMNE
Elisabeth Mekonnen        Program Assistant                     LCC3C
Janet M. Owens            Consultant                            AFTP3
Setareh Razmara           Lead Social Protection Special        AFTSP
Ibrah Rahamane Sanoussi   Procurement Specialist                AFTPC
                                                                LCSHS-
Ludovic Subran            Social Protection Economist
                                                                 DPT
Nko Etesin Umoren         Resource Management Analyst           AFTRM
Mamadou Yaro              Sr. Financial Management Specialist   AFTFM
Marie Claudine Fundi      Language Program Assistant            AFTAR




                                           23
(b) Staff Time and Cost


                                      Staff Time and Cost (Bank Budget Only)
Stage of Project Cycle                                      USD thousands (including
                                   No. of staff weeks
                                                           travel and consultant costs)
Lending
                          Total:         12.37                     35,399
Supervision/ICR
                          Total:         16.75                     89,267




                                       24
                                                                   5
                            Annex 5. Beneficiary Survey Results

Dans leur intégralité les coopératives et la FUCOPRI ont avancé les avantages et les points
faibles du PUASA suivants:
Points forts:
    - L'engrais a été disponible et accessible en quantité et à temps et aussi à un prix
        raisonnable
    - La mise des producteurs à l'abri des commerçants usuriers qui leur fournissaient de
        l'engrais de mauvaise qualité et très cher
    - L'assurance de la disponibilité et de l'accessibilité de l'engrais qui a fait augmenter les
        superficies mises en valeur car l'exploitant qui ne dispose pas de moyens pour
        acquérir l'engrais ne s'aventure pas à repiquer sa parcelle: en exemple les superficies
        mises en valeur pendant la SH 2009 dépassent celles exploitées pendant la SH 2008 de
        736 ha.
    - L'amélioration appréciable de la sécurité alimentaire
    - La multiplication d'effets secondaires positifs (augmentation du fourrage pour le
        bétail, du travail salarié)
    - Le repiquage à temps du fait que les producteurs sont assurés de la disponibilité de
        l'engrais et par conséquent d'un accroissement certain du rendement
    - la formation à l'endroit des cadres et des élus très appréciée
    - la reprise des activités de suivi de la campagne et de l'évaluation de la production qui
        étaient délaissées auparavant faute de moyens
    - Lors de la mission de terrain, les élus formés ont reconnu le bien fondé de cette
        formation et de la nécessité de son élargissement aux autres membres des comités de
        gestion des coopératives, aiguadiers, pompistes,
    - Les différents documents supports de la formation sont utilisés au niveau des
        coopératives et renouvelés au besoin depuis leur mise en place par l'ONAHA au cours
        des années de la réhabilitation (1987-1990). Le problème est le manque de missions de
        suivi particulièrement des coopératives non membres du Centre de promotion de
        services (CPS) qui au nombre de neuf (9) bénéficient de l'appui de ce centre en
        matière de formation et suivi de gestion.

        Point faible:
    -   Le retard accusé pour la mission d'information et de sensibilisation qui a joué sur les
        résultats attendus car ils auraient été plus avantageux si la mission s'était déroulée
        avant le démarrage du projet

Dans leur ensemble, les coopératives visitées et la Fucopri ont souhaité le renouvellement
de l'opération et sa pérennisation par la mise en place de structures de suivi et de gestion
appropriées.




5
 Summary of beneficiary of discussions with representatives of beneficiary cooperatives as in the
Government Completion report (May, 2010).

                                               25
                Annex 6. Stakeholder Workshop Report and Results


République du Niger
Ministère de l'Agriculture et de l'Elevage
Direction Générale de l'Agriculture




                 Projet d'appui à la Sécurité Alimentaire (PUASA)

(Compte rendu des travaux de l'atelier de validation du rapport d'achèvement)




                                              Mai 2010




                                        26
INTRODUCTION
L'an deux mil dix et le mardi 18 Mai, s'est tenue dans la salle des Banquets de la Primature,
l'atelier de validation du rapport d'achèvement du projet d'urgence d'Appui à la Sécurité
alimentaire (PUASA). L'atelier a vu la participation des membres du comité de pilotage du
projet ainsi que plusieurs invités. (Voir liste de présence en annexe).
Avant de commencer les travaux, un bureau de séance a été mis en place. Le bureau est
composé de :
Président : Mr Ahmed ALI : DG/CA
Rapporteurs:
-Mr Ekoye Amadou: ONAHA
-Yaro Iddé: DGA
Les travaux se sont déroulés en plénière. Après l'exposé du consultant sur le contenu du
rapport provisoire, les observations, conclusions et recommandations suivantes ont été
formulées:

I : Observations de forme

A la page 38 paragraphe 1 et première ligne, lire « engrais » au lieu de « semences ».

II. Observations de fond

1. La réunion constate qu'une grande différence existe entre la couverture des besoins en
   engrais de la campagne SS 2009 et la campagne SH 2009. Elle recommande au consultant
   d'expliquer cette différence; de nuancer certaines de ses conclusions, puis de compléter les
   informations sur les quantités d'engrais reçues toute sources confondues;

2. La réunion constate qu'en matière d'évaluation des productions, le rapport a fait ressortir
   les quantités d'engrais vendues ou placées en prêt de campagne aux coopératives. A la
   lecture des chiffres liés à ces placements, la réunion estime qu'il aurait fallu accorder une
   attention particulière aux exploitants qui ont des difficultés d'acquérir les engrais tout en
   garantissant les chances de remboursement des prêts de campagne;

3. Par rapport à la durabilité de l'intervention du projet d'urgence, la réunion constate que le
   rapport provisoire est resté muet sur cette question qui reste et demeure le noeud des
   problèmes des coopératives sur les AHA ;

4. La réunion constate que les études réalisées sur les thématiques des filets sociaux de
   sécurité n'ont pas été traitées dans le rapport. Pourtant, au vu de l'intitulé même du sujet,
   en dehors des aspects d'input, toutes les questions d'output doivent y être intégré;      1

5. La réunion constate que le rapport n'a pas suffisamment décrit le contexte et justifie: les
   conditions dans lesquelles le gouvernement du Niger à solliciter le financement dudit
   projet par la Banque Mondiale;

6. le rapport provisoire dans certains cas, apparait plus descriptif qu'analytique. Les analyses
   sur la situation socio économique des producteurs, des périmètres et enfin des
   coopératives n'ont pu être établit et donc n'apparaissent pas suffisamment dans le rapport.
   L'établissement de cette analyse plus fine, a pourtant été vivement demandé lors de la
   deuxième mission de supervision du projet. A ce sujet, des TOR restés sans suite, ont été
                                               27
     établis et envoyés pour non objection;

7. A l'issue des travaux, la réunion constate que le temps n'a pas permis aux participants de
   mieux se prononcer sur le rapport. Elle recommande donc aux participants de faire suivre
   leurs observations qui pourront être intégrées par la suite dans le compte rendu.

     III. Conclusions et recommandations

En conclusion, la réunion estime que le rapport d'achèvement du projet d'urgence d'appui à la
sécurité alimentaire est adopté sous réserve de la prise en compte des observations ci-dessus
évoquées. En conséquence de quoi elle formule les recommandations suivantes:

3.1 A l'endroit du consultant de :

a)          nuancer d'une part certaines des conclusions et compléter les informations sur les
            quantités d'engrais reçues sur les AHA toutes sources confondues;
b)          traiter dans le rapport les questions des études réalisées sur les thématiques des
            filets sociaux de sécurité;
c)          expliquer la différence de taux de couverture des besoins en engrais entre la
            première et la deuxième campagne;
d)          décrire le contexte dans lequel le gouvernement du Niger à solliciter le
            financement dudit projet par la Banque Mondiale.

3.2 : A l' endroit des participants :

Faire suivre leurs observations qui pourront être intégrées par la suite dans le compte rendu
des travaux de l'atelier.

3.3 A l'endroit de la CCA et de la Banque Mondiale

Prendre les dispositions pour délibérer sur le reliquat de fonds du projet et examiner la
faisabilité de conduire les enquêtes socio économiques et l'évaluation environnementale
paysanne demandées lors de la deuxième mission de supervision du projet dont les TDR sont
élaborés et transmis pour non objection.

                                          Ont signé :

                                                                                   2ème rapporteur




                                 Vu le Président : Ahmed ALI




                                               28
Appendix of Annex 6: List of Participants

      Nom et Prénom                         Structures
l.    Amadou Djibo                          DRDA/Niamey
2.    Hassane Saley                         CIC
3.    Djibo Kinguigé                        DDA/Say
4.    Amadou Badjé                          DDA/kollo
5.    Hamidou Adamou                        CA
6.    Chaibou Dadi                          Consultant/PPFS
7.    Iddé Vara                             DGA
8.    Adamou Ekoye                          ONAHA
9.    Djibo Banaou                          CCA/Cabinet du PM
10.   Aboubacar Omar Farouk                 CCA/Cabinet du PM
ll.   Ousmane Arbonkana                     CCA/Cabinet du PM
12.   Harauna Mahamane                      DGE/Finances
13.   DR Aboubacar Mahamadou                DN/MSP
14.   Saidou OUA                            CC/SAP
15.   Moukara Yacouba                       CIC
16.   Moukara Hamidou                       CCA/Cabinet du PM
17.   Mme Rabiatou Chaoulani                DDR/E
18.   Mahamane Sani Abdou                   SE/SDR
19.   Mahamane Ousmane                      RINI
20.   Kango Moctar                          CCA/Cabinet du PM
2l.   Mounkaila Adamou                      CCA/Cabinet du PM
22.   Saidou Anattché                       OPVN
23.   Bacharau Salissou                     CIC
24.   Adamou Seydou                         DDA/Tillabéri
25.   Assoumane Doka                        Consultant/PUASA
26.   Ahmed Ali                             DG/CA




                                    29
                         Annex 7. Summary of Borrower's ICR

Face à l'augmentation des prix des denrées alimentaires sur le plan international et au
déficit céréalier de la campagne d'hivernage 2007, le gouvernement du Niger a pris un
certain nombre de mesures pour répondre aux besoins des populations vulnérables et
accroître de façon durable la production agricole nationale. Ainsi, le Niger a transmis une
requête auprès de la Banque Mondiale dont l'objectif est de solliciter l'appui de la Banque
Mondiale pour couvrir les besoins en engrais de la campagne rizicole saison pluvieuse
2008.
La demande du Niger auprès de la Banque Mondiale afin de mettre en oeuvre son plan de
contingence et de gestion des crises alimentaires a été approuvée sous la forme d'un don
pour le financement d'un projet d'urgence d'appui à la sécurité alimentaire pour un
montant d'environ sept millions de dollars US. Le but visé par le projet à terme est
d'augmenter la production du riz à hauteur de 20percent. Le PUASA s'inscrit dans le
cadre de la Stratégie de Développement Rural (SDR) et est inscrit au programme
structurant 11: « Lutte contre l'insécurité Alimentaire par le Développement de
l'Irrigation ». Ainsi, il cherchera à traduire concrètement l'objectif de la SDR à savoir
« favoriser l'accès des ruraux aux opportunités économiques pour créer les conditions
d'une croissance économique durable en milieu rural ».
Au Niger, le potentiel riz cultivable est estimé à 24.000 ha dont seulement 8.500 ha sont
exploités en Aménagements Hydro agricole (A.H.A.). La production nationale du riz
paddy est estimée à 70.000 tonnes soit 45.500 tonnes de riz blanc.
Selon les informations collectées par la Douane, les volumes de riz importé s'établissent
autour de 200.000 tonnes en 2002 et 300.000 tonnes en 2005 avec des valeurs CAF
respectives de 35,5 milliards et 43 milliards de francs CFA.
Devant cette tendance généralisée de diminution des stocks mondiaux et d'accroissement
des prix sur le marché international d'une part et dans un souci de réduction de la
pauvreté en milieu rural et de dépenses de devises étrangères dues aux importations du riz
d'autre part, le Gouvernement du Niger a trouvé qu' il y a une impérieuse nécessité de
réhabiliter la filière rizicole dans son ensemble.
Du fait que la maîtrise totale de l'eau permet de sécuriser la production, les cultures
irriguées (rizicoles principalement) sont aujourd'hui la solution adéquate pour contribuer
à la recherche de la sécurité alimentaire des populations et améliorer leurs revenus.
Cet objectif ne peut être atteint sans une fertilisation optimale des terres cultivées.
Les besoins évalués pour cette campagne s'élèvent à 4 000 tonnes d'engrais, soit:
-   2 000 tonnes d'Urée et 2000 tonnes de NPK pour la riziculture moderne dans les
    périmètres encadrés par l'ONAHA (8 500 ha) et les exploitations à titre privé (1 500
    ha)
-   Cette quantité permettra la fertilisation de 10 000 ha à raison de 400kg/ha/campagne
    (200kg d'Urée et 200 kg de NPK)
Les périodes d'utilisation de ces engrais sont les suivantes:
       - premier apport (NPK):       en mi- août 2008
       - deuxième apport (Urée): en mi-septembre
                                          30
Ainsi la satisfaction de la présente requête rendra possible la couverture des besoins en
vue de :
-   relever, à un niveau acceptable, la fertilité des terres agricoles;
-   mettre à la disposition des agriculteurs les quantités d'engrais vendues à des prix
    modérés;
- contribuer à la lutte contre l'insécurité alimentaire et la pauvreté en milieu rural par
  l'augmentation de la production agricole;
- améliorer la balance commerciale en réduisant les importations alimentaires
  notamment du riz grâce à l'augmentation des productions.
L'objectif du projet est de soutenir la production rizicole irriguée et la sécurité
alimentaire des ménages par:
    a) l'acquisition et la distribution d'engrais minéraux à des prix modérés aux
    producteurs de riz
    b) la fourniture de l'assistance technique au renforcement des capacités du dispositif
    national de prévention et de gestion des crises alimentaires et des structures mises en
    place.
Le groupe cible est constitué par les producteurs de riz localisés dans les zones agro
écologiques de la vallée du fleuve et de la Komadougou organisés au sein des
aménagements hydro agricoles.
La durée du projet est de 18 mois afin de lui permettre de couvrir les 2 campagnes
réalisées dans l'année à savoir la Saison sèche (SS) et la saison d'hivernage (SH).
Les zones agro écologiques concernées par les actions du Projet d'urgence de soutien à la
sécurité alimentaire sont les vallées du fleuve Niger et de la Komadougou yobé.
Le projet d'urgence d'appui à la sécurité alimentaire est placé sous la tutelle du Ministère
du Développement Agricole (MDA) et est exécuté sous la responsabilité conjointe de : (i)
la Cellule crises alimentaires (CCA), (ii) la Centrale d'approvisionnement (CA), (iii) la
Direction générale de l'Agriculture (DGA) (iv), et l'ONAHA.
 La CCA a eu la charge de la coordination de l'exécution technique des différentes sous
composantes, le suivi et l'évaluation des résultats.
Dans le cadre de la mise en oeuvre du PUASA, la stratégie d'acquisition d'engrais, l'appui
au dispositif national de prévention et de gestion des crises alimentaires (DNPGCA) et
aux structures de mise en oeuvre du projet ont été réalisés au niveau des composantes.
Le projet s'articule autour de deux (2) composantes telles                que définies dans le
document du projet:
La Composante 1: Acquisition, distribution-vente et recouvrement des coûts                 de
l'engrais par la Centrale d'Approvisionnement (CA)
La Centrale d' Approvisionnement a été retenue pour l'exécution de cette composante à
travers l'acquisition et la distribution de 4000 tonnes d'engrais au niveau des
bénéficiaires ainsi que le recouvrement et le versement du produit de la vente dans un
compte spécial ouvert à cet effet. Cette composante a été réalisée à 100percent au plan
financier pour une valeur d'achat d'engrais TTC fourni aux magasins de la CA de
                                           31
6 452 400 dollars US soit deux milliards neuf cent vingt neuf millions trois cent
quatre vingt neuf mille six cents (2 929 389 600) FCFA.
Les étapes de l'appel d'offres ont été conformes aux procédures de la Banque Mondiale :
   -   Après le lancement de l'appel d'offres, international restreint N°
       003/2008/MDA/SG/CA relatif à la fourniture d'engrais au Ministère du
       développement agricole sur financement IDA, la commission ad hoc chargée de
       l'évaluation des offres créée le 25 août 2003 par arrêté N° 143/MDA/CA du 25
       août s'est réunie le même jour afin d'évaluer sur les offres réceptionnées.
   -   Quatre soumissions ont été réceptionnées le même jour : Groupe DEC/Midnight
       Sun, Fertilizer Bénin et Yara France, DFA et DSA, Multi Média Récolte.
   -   Au vu des résultats de la vérification des pièces demandées et de la vérification
       par rapport aux spécifications techniques, la commission a proposé comme
       adjudicataire le groupement DEC/Midnight Sun pour un montant total TTC de
       6 452 400 dollars US soit deux milliards neuf cent vingt neuf millions trois cent
       quatre vingt neuf mille six cents (2 929 389 600) F CFA.
   -   La réception de l'engrais a débuté le 12 novembre 2008 dans les magasins de la
       CA et de l'OPVN Gamkalé.
Les différentes étapes du marché ayant accusé du retard principalement la
réception de l'engrais intervenue en novembre, n'ont pas permis son utilisation au cours
de la campagne SH 2008 à laquelle il était destiné. Cependant la période s'est avérée
propice pour sa mise en place au niveau des bénéficiaires et par conséquent son
accessibilité et sa disponibilité pour la saison sèche 2009.
Dans le document de projet de l'IDA, la précaution a été prise de mentionner
l'utilisation de l'engrais en SS 2009 au cas où une raison de force majeure
l'imposerait.
        Les opérations de distribution ont été réalisées sur la base des besoins exprimés
par les coopératives des aménagements hydro agricoles (AHA) d'une part et d'autre part
des mises en place effectuées au niveau des départements pour le besoin des producteurs
privés en hors AHA La fédération des unions de coopératives productrices de riz
(Fucopri) n'a pas été associée lors du montage du projet mais au moment de la
négociation du contrat de financement. Elle a refusé de participer à la mission de
sensibilisation tant que le prix de cession de l'engrais aux coopératives n'est pas réduit.
C'est ainsi que lors d'une rencontre avec le Ministre de l'Agriculture, le prix de cession a
été ramené à 13 500 F subventionné de ce fait à hauteur de 55percent.
        Le suivi de l'opération de distribution des engrais et le recouvrement des fonds
ont été coordonnés par la direction de la CA aux niveaux régional et national.
Les modalités de cession des engrais (subventionnés par l'état) sont la vente au comptant
pour les coopératives ou la vente à crédit cautionné par une banque commerciale de la
place.
Les 4000 tonnes d'engrais ont été vendues aux coopératives des AHA rizicoles et aussi
en détail aux producteurs de riz hors AHA de la Communauté urbaine de Niamey, à
SAY, Gaya, Kollo, Tillabéry, ainsi qu'à la fédération Mooriben.

                                            32
        Le suivi évaluation a été réalisé sous la responsabilité de l'ONAHA avec la
participation de la Direction Générale de l'Agriculture (DGA). L'ONAHA a eu en charge
l'information et la sensibilisation des acteurs et bénéficiaires, le suivi de la mise en place
et de la distribution des engrais, le suivi de la campagne, l'évaluation de la production.
Il a été convenu que l'engrais sera attribué sur la base de 85percent aux AHA et
15percent aux producteurs privés ; la réalisation comme le montre le tableau ci-dessous
démontre le quasi respect de ce quota.
Tableau: prévision et réalisation de la distribution de l'engrais
NPK                                               Urée
AHA                                               AHA
Prévision (T)   Réalisation (T) %                 Prévision (T)     Réalisation(T) %
1700            1754,78           87,7            1700              1711,95          85,6
Hors AHA                                          Hors AHA
300             245,22            12,3            300               288,05           14,4
Total           2000              100             Total             2000             100


L'opération de vente à prix subventionné des 4000 tonnes d'engrais par la Centrale
d'Approvisionnement a été bouclée en fin août 2009. Les engrais ont été distribués et
utilisés comme suit:
   -    3423 tonnes, soit 86percent, pour la production rizicole de la campagne de saison
        sèche 2009 (Janvier à juin 2009)
   -    577 tonnes pour la saison humide 2009 (Juillet-décembre).
Le prix de cession ayant été ramené à 13 500 F lors d'une rencontre les partenaires du
Projet et notamment la Fucopri avec le Ministre de l'Agriculture, les détails des coûts ont
été établis ainsi qu'il suit :
   -    Montant à recouvrer par la CA: 13 500*4000 FCFA = 1 080 000 000 FCFA
   -    Coûts opérationnels de la CA (10%): 1 080 000 000*0,1=108 000 000 FCFA
   -    Montant à verser par la CA: 1080000000- 108000000= 972 000 000 FCFA
Les coûts ont été recouvrés à 100% à travers l'OPVN grâce au mécanisme mis en place
entre la Fucopri, le Riz du Niger, et l'OPVN;
Le montant de la récupération d'une valeur de neuf cent soixante douze millions de
francs (972 000 000) CFA a été versé dans un compte ouvert par la CCA et sera destiné
au financement d'autres opérations d'appui entrant dans le cadre de la sécurité
alimentaire en concertation avec la Banque.

La Composante 2: Renforcement des capacités du dispositif national de prévention et de
gestion des crises alimentaires ainsi que des structures de mise en oeuvre du
projet d'urgence d'appui à la sécurité alimentaire (DNPGCA).

                                             33
L'objectif global de la composante 2 du projet est le renforcement des capacités des
structures d'appui à la mise en oeuvre du projet d'appui à la sécurité alimentaire.
Un des objectifs spécifiques est d'améliorer l'efficacité du DNPGCA en ciblant deux
domaines d'intervention:
   -   le renforcement des capacités de gestion de la CCA.
   -   la réalisation de 2 types d'études dans le domaine des filets sociaux qui sont :
           o l'élaboration d'un programme de filets sociaux pour la protection des
             pauvres et des groupes vulnérables.
           o l'amélioration de l'information et le renforcement de la réponse d'urgence
Cette composante mise en oeuvre par la CCA qui a assuré la coordination technique et la
mise en oeuvre des actions du projet d'urgence, a regroupé les activités contribuant à
l'amélioration de l'efficacité du DNPGCA à travers le renforcement des capacités de son
secrétariat exécutif et permettant l'atteinte des deux(2) résultats suivants: (i) R1-la
gestion des outils du Dispositif et le suivi évaluation des activités sont renforcés, (ii) R2-
l'équipement adéquat pour l'atteinte du R1 est acquis ; Pour parachever les activités
prévues, il sera nécessaire de les accompagner par la formation des acteurs concernés.
Ainsi il a été acquis le logiciel de gestion Tompro et les outils de gestion ont été
paramétrés. Le Directeur financier a été formé à son utilisation.
Dans le domaine des filets sociaux quatre (4) études plus une synthèse ont été réalisées et
validées.
        Au niveau de la Centrale d'Approvisionnement, trois (3) activités ont été prévues
au titre du renforcement des capacités afin de lui permettre d'améliorer sa performance
en matière d'opérations comptables et de gestion administrative et financière à savoir : (i)
élaboration d'un manuel des procédures administrative, comptable et financière, (ii)
recrutement d'un auditeur interne (iii), recrutement d'un auditeur externe. La CA étant en
instance de réorganisation n'a pas jugé dans l'immédiat la nécessité de recruter un
auditeur interne et l'élaboration du manuel de procédures a été réalisée sur financement
propre car non engagé au niveau du PUASA. Seule le recrutement d'un auditeur externe
est en cours.
         Au niveau de l'ONAHA et de la Direction Générale de l'Agriculture: Afin de
garantir la participation des structures qui contribuent aux activités de suivi-évaluation, le
projet a appuyé le renforcement de leurs capacités par l'achat d'un véhicule 4*4 au profit
de l'ONAHA, de deux unités informatiques (une à l'ONAHA et une autre à la DGA) et
de quatre (4) balances électroniques pour la pesée des carrés de rendement.
En outre pour faciliter une meilleure participation des exploitants et des cadres de terrain
(DP et agents de vulgarisation de l'agriculture) dans la recherche des informations, il a
été prévu et réalisé une formation sur le remplissage des fiches.
Malgré le retard on peut retenir les résultats suivants:
   ·   La diffusion des informations et la sensibilisation à travers le lancement par le
       Ministre du Développement Agricole des activités du projet pour porter à la
       connaissance des populations nigériennes en général et des bénéficiaires en
       particulier, les objectifs poursuivis ainsi que les résultats attendus après la mise en
                                             34
       oeuvre du projet. les informations et la sensibilisation du personnel de
       l'encadrement des AHA et des membres élus des coopératives ont eu lieu au
       niveau des trois régions concernées (Niamey, Tillabéry, Gaya) et ont regroupé
       133 participants dont 103 élus des coopératives et 30 agents d'encadrement. Les
       travaux ont été couverts par l'Office de la Radio et de la Télévision du Niger
       (ORTN) et la Télévision Nationale (Télé Sahel) ainsi que la Radio Rurale
       FARA'A à Gaya.
       Les travaux ont été couverts par l'Office de la Radio et de la Télévision du Niger
       (ORTN) et la Télévision Nationale (Télé Sahel) ainsi que la Radio Rurale
       FARA'A à Gaya.
   ·   les résultats de la campagne saison sèche 2009 (première des deux qui doivent
       être concernées par le projet) ont été portés à l'assistance en vue de sa large
       diffusion et recueillir la réaction de l'assistance par rapport à la démarche du
       projet
   ·   la formation des membres élus des coopératives en gestion des stocks ainsi
       que de l'encadrement (Directeurs de périmètre et agents de vulgarisation de
       l'agriculture) sur la gestion intégrée de la riziculture.
   ·   L'évaluation de la production en vue de déterminer le rendement par périmètre
       ainsi que la production. Cette activité a été réalisée en saison hivernage 2008 et
       saison sèche 2009.
   ·   Le matériel de collecte et de traitement de données (ordinateurs, sacs, balances) a
       été aussi fourni comme prévu par le PUASA à l'ONAHA.
   ·   le fonctionnement du véhicule lors des missions de suivi de la campagne pour
       identifier les différents problèmes au cours du cycle végétatif du riz et y apporter
       des solutions en rapport avec les responsables des coopératives et les producteurs.
       Le véhicule a été réceptionné en octobre 2009.
Evaluation de la production
Il est important de souligner en préalable que l'évaluation n'a concerné que les AHA qui
ont bénéficié de 87,7% de l'engrais NPK et 85,6% de l'Urée. Par conséquent les
productions de paddy résultant du privé en hors aménagement (bénéficiaires du reliquat
du pourcentage) ne sont pas prises en compte.
La procédure utilisée par l'encadrement de l'ONAHA et de la Direction générale de
l'agriculture pour l'évaluation de l'impact du projet a été unique pour les deux campagnes
sèche et hivernage et comporte deux aspects à savoir la pose aléatoire de carrés de
rendement conformément à la méthodologie mise au point sur les aménagements
rizicoles et les interviews. La pose des carrés a été réalisée selon une densité de 1 carré de
1 m2 pour une superficie cultivée de 5 ha, avec un minimum de 30 carrés par
aménagement. Les interviews ont été réalisées au moyen de 2 types de questionnaires : (i)
d'un questionnaire administré aux membres des comités de gestion de l'ensemble des
périmètres et (ii) d'un questionnaire administré à un échantillon de 10% des producteurs
par périmètre pendant la commercialisation auprès des coopératives. Ces interviews ont
été réalisées pour obtenir des données complémentaires sur le déroulement des activités


                                             35
du projet sur le terrain. C'est un taux de 194% soit environ le double des carrés
réglementaires à poser qui ont été traités sur les 220% posés.
Dans la requête du Gouvernement il a été question de 8500 hectares de riziculture qui
seront concernés par le projet au niveau des AHA.
Les superficies repiquées en SS et SH 2009 ont été respectivement de 6802 Ha soit 80%
de celle projetée dans le projet et de 6861 Ha soit 81 % de la projection.
La différence de la production en paddy de la campagne SS 2009 de 36 930 tonnes
contre 26 666 tonnes en SS 2008 année sans projet équivaut à un taux de variation
de la production de 38,5% supérieure à celle de 20% attendue par le projet.
La production en paddy de la campagne SH 2009 a été de 32908 tonnes contre 25 826
tonnes en SH 2008 année sans projet soit une production additionnelle de 7082
tonnes de plus.
La production en paddy de la campagne SH 2009 comparée à celle de la SH 2008, fait
ressortir une augmentation de 27,4% supérieure à celle de 20% attendue par le projet.
La production enregistrée au cours des deux campagnes de 2009 couvertes par le projet a
été de 69837 tonnes de paddy contre 52492 pour l'année de référence, soit une variation
positive de 33.04%.
Le rendement a varié globalement de 21.50 % passant de 4207 kg/ha à 5111 kg/ha alors
que la prévision du projet était de 4500kg/ha.
Nos sources de données de la DMV/ONAHA établies depuis 1992 indiquent que ce
rendement n'a jamais été atteint.
En plus de la production de paddy on peut y ajouter celle du son et de la paille de riz qui
sont utilisés dans l'alimentation animale notamment des gros ruminants. Dans les zones
rizicoles la paille de riz est de plus en plus prisée et son rôle dans le complément
fourrager notamment en année 2010 après l'important déficit fourrager résultant du
déficit pluviométrique de l'hivernage 2009. Le tallage étant en corrélation positive avec
le rendement6 l'utilisation de l'engrais au cours des 2 campagnes de 2009 a aussi tout
comme le rendement provoqué l'augmentation proportionnelle de la production de la
paille de riz par rapport à l'année de référence (2008).
Plusieurs travaux de recherche ont aussi démontré l'équivalence de poids de paddy et de
celui de la paille de riz d'où la déduction que l'apport additionnel de paille en année
2009 a été de dix sept mille trois cents quarante cinq mille tonnes (17345) tonnes et la
production additionnelle de la SH 2009 qui intervient dans l'atténuation du déficit
fourrager de l'année 2009 a été de sept mille quatre vingt deux (7082) tonnes de paille
de riz.



Trois (3) indicateurs et leurs niveaux requis ont été retenus pour évaluer la performance
des AHA:

6
    A. Angladette; Maisonneuve & Larose.

                                            36
Indicateurs              Niveaux requis Niveaux enregistrés
intensité culturale      160 %             164,27 %
rendement                4500 kg/ha        5111 kg/ha
taux de recouvrement 95 %                  Réalisation en SS09 et SH09: 25 AHA sur 31


Le constat est que l'intensité culturale pour l'année 2009 couverte par le projet est de
167.27%, alors qu'elle a été de 155% pour l'année 2008 sans projet. On observe non
seulement que le taux de l'intensité culturale à augmenté mais surtout qu'il a atteint un
niveau très satisfaisant dans un système de double culture avec vingt deux (22)
périmètres sur 32 (73,3%) qui dépassent le seuil requis de 160%. Ainsi il a été enregistré
treize (13) périmètres (40%) qui ont obtenu des taux d'intensité culturale qui sont
supérieurs à 180% alors que la norme acceptable est de 160%.
Sur le plan de vue des impacts environnementaux et sociaux, certes que un plan de
gestion environnementale et sociale a été proposé et validé, mais sa non réalisation pour
raison de calendrier n'est pas en contradiction avec l'atteinte des objectifs du projet du
fait que :
   -   le problème le plus important posé par l'utilisation des produits phytosanitaires et
       des engrais ne se situe pas au niveau des doses appliquées par les producteurs
       mais concerne les origines douteuses de certains produits provenant de circuits
       incontrôlés. Ces produits peuvent causer des problèmes sur la santé des
       populations et ne permettent pas d'avoir les effets recherchés donc des impacts
       négatifs sur le plan sanitaire et économique.
   -   les producteurs des AHA au Niger ont une culture de la conduite des traitements
       phytosanitaires et d'application des engrais
   -   la complexité de l'assimilation des éléments nutritifs en riziculture irriguée ainsi
       que de leur nécessité, la faible teneur des sols en éléments fertilisants, font de la
       fertilisation minérale un élément incontournable pour obtenir des rendements
       satisfaisants.
   -   l'utilisation des herbicides et pesticides suivant les doses recommandées ne
       constitue pas de risques majeurs du fait de leur faible rémanence (30 à 40 jours),
       et les doses utilisées en moyenne par an au Niger sur les AHA du fleuve ne
       dépasse pas 8 000 tonnes ce qui est très infime par rapport aux utilisations
       d'autres pays qui partagent le bassin du Niger.
        Les effets constatés du fait de l'intervention du PUASA sont nombreux et
sans être exhaustifs on peut citer: l'accroissement des revenus distribués (emplois), les
taxes affectées aux produits et impôts liés à l'activité, les résultats d'exploitation pour les
sociétés de transformation de paddy.
       La mise en oeuvre du PUASA au cours des deux campagnes de 2009 a
enregistré d'importants impacts positifs sur les plans financier, économique,
sécurité alimentaire, social et environnemental. L'impact général du projet est sa
contribution au programme structurant 11 de la Stratégie de Développement Rural (SDR)
                                              37
« Lutte contre l'insécurité Alimentaire par le Développement de l'Irrigation ». Cette
contribution s'est traduite par une augmentation des rendements, de la production et de
l'intensité culturale en année de projet par rapport à l'année de référence. Sur le plan
financier, le projet a engendré d'importantes recettes financières telles que : les recettes
au niveau du budget de l'Etat (taxes, douane, et impôts), les recettes financières
additionnelles par rapport à l'année sans projet au niveau des exploitants bénéficiaires, et
les recettes financières générées par l'augmentation de la distribution de revenus aux
agents intérieurs (main d'oeuvre journalière, meuniers, transformatrices,
transporteurs). Sur le plan économique et social on peut citer:
-   l'amélioration de la sécurité alimentaire de par la production additionnelle de paille et
    paddy engendrée qui de fait a amélioré la disponibilité, l'accessibilité, le pouvoir
    d'achat, ainsi que la qualité nutritionnelle,
-   l'amélioration du revenu disponible et l'accès aux biens et services non agricoles
-   l'apport du Projet dans la réduction sensible de la pauvreté et l'amélioration des
    conditions de vie par la création d'emplois ruraux additionnels qui ont facilité l'accès
    aux marchés et aux services publics de base (santé, éducation etc.)
-   l'amélioration de la balance commerciale en réduisant les importations alimentaires
    notamment du riz du fait de la production additionnelle enregistrée.
L'exécution du PUASA a enregistré beaucoup de Points forts tels que:

    -   L'atteinte de tous les objectifs fixés
    -   l'acquisition et la distribution d'engrais minéraux à des prix modérés
        subventionnés par l'Etat aux producteurs de riz
    -   L'excellence de la collaboration entre la Fucopri et la CA qui a permis le succès
        du projet
    -   L'utilisation par toutes les coopératives des engrais de la CA à hauteur de 88%
        pour l'urée et 86% pour le NPK (15-15-15) ce qui est un gage de leur bonne
        qualité.
    -   L'engrais a été disponible et accessible en quantité et à temps
    -   La mise des producteurs à l'abri des commerçants usuriers qui leur fournissaient
        de l'engrais de mauvaise qualité et très cher
    -   Le recouvrement des coûts à 100% grâce au mécanisme Fucopri, Riz du Niger,
        OPVN
    -   L'assurance de la disponibilité et de l'accessibilité de l'engrais qui a fait
        augmenter les superficies mises en valeur car l'exploitant qui ne dispose pas de
        moyens pour acquérir l'engrais ne s'aventure pas à repiquer sa parcelle: en
        exemple les superficies mises en valeur pendant la SH 2009 dépassent celles
        exploitées pendant la SH 2008 de 736 ha.
    -   L'amélioration appréciable de la sécurité alimentaire
    -   La multiplication d'effets secondaires positifs (augmentation du fourrage pour le
        bétail, du travail salarié.)

                                                 38
   -   Le repiquage à temps du fait que les producteurs sont assurés de la disponibilité
       de l'engrais et par conséquent d'un accroissement certain du rendement
   -   la formation à l'endroit des cadres et des élus très appréciée
   -   la reprise des activités de suivi de la campagne et de l'évaluation de la production
       qui étaient délaissées auparavant faute de moyens
   -   le renforcement des capacités du dispositif national de prévention et de gestion
       des crises alimentaires ainsi que des structures de mise en oeuvre du
       projet d'urgence d'appui à la sécurité alimentaire
   -   la réalisation d'études dans le domaine des filets sociaux.


Des points faibles du projet ont aussi été enregistrés tels que:
   -   Le retard accusé pour la mission d'information et de sensibilisation qui a joué sur
       les résultats attendus car ils auraient été plus avantageux si la mission s'était
       déroulée avant le démarrage du projet
Il serait aussi important de mentionner les facteurs ayant intervenu dans la réussite du
projet tels que:
   -   l'implication des acteurs à tous les niveaux de décision et particulièrement à la
       bonne collaboration entre les structures: Fucopri, Centrale d'approvisionnement,
       OPVN, RINI,
   -   la cohésion au niveau de l'équipe d'exécution du Projet
   -   le besoin des exploitants rizicoles d'intrants de qualité et accessibles à moindres
       coûts
Il est à remarquer que le PUASA est un projet d'urgence dont l'exécution a répondu
aux attentes malgré les exigences des procédures et des impératifs du calendrier.
Au cours de la mission de terrain les préoccupations enregistrées auprès de
l'encadrement et des bénéficiaires membres élus des coopératives auxquelles
s'ajoutent nos propres analyses, se résument à :
L'achat d'engrais
   ·   L'opération ayant eu des effets et impacts positifs et appréciés, il s'avère
       nécessaire de la renouveler et de mettre en place un mécanisme fort afin de la
       rendre pérenne
   ·   la sensibilisation préalable des coopératives dans l'élaboration des projets futurs
   ·   la mise en place de mécanismes de garantie auprès des banques pouvant jouer le
       rôle de crédit de campagne associant la Fucopri et d'autres parties prenantes
La formation
Vu l'importance de la formation et de l'appréciation qui en est faite, il s'avère nécessaire
de la répliquer à tous les niveaux (coopératives, pompistes, aiguadiers) et de façon
périodique


                                             39
Le suivi évaluation qui doit jouer son rôle d'activité permanente grâce à l'acquisition de
moyens logistiques nécessaires afin de le rendre permanent notamment au niveau des
régions.
En conclusion il a été constaté que malgré l'urgence, les objectifs du PUASA ont été
atteints dans leur quasi-totalité.




                                           40
Annex 8. Comments of Co-financiers and Other Partners/Stakeholders

                               N/A




                               41
                           Annex 9. List of Supporting Documents


1.      Banque Mondiale - Aides mémoire de mission de supervision du Projet d'urgence
        d'appui à la Sécurité alimentaire, Octobre, 2008, Juin 2009, Décembre 2009.
2.      DAMEC Sarl-Cabinet d'Expertise. Rapport d'inspection de 4000 tonnes d'engrais
        relatif au marché /Commande No. 003/MDA/SG/CA. Niamey, 29 Décembre 2008.
3.      FAO/WFP/WB- Initiative sur la flambée des prix agricoles. Mission multi-agences
        de consultation avec le Gouvernement et les partenaires au Développement pour la
        définition d'un plan d'action national pour le court et moyens termes. Rapport de
        mission, décembre 2008.
4.      Reports on safety nets prepared with the project's support :
      a) Andrea Borgarello (Consultant). Les filets de Sécurité Sociale au Niger. Rapport de
         synthese. Répulique du Niger, Cabinet du Premier Ministre, Décembre 2009. (Review of
         existing safety nets programs).
      b) Assoumana SAMAILA (Consultant). Analyse et dissémination de l'information pour la
         prise de décisison. Répulique du Niger, Cabinet du Premier Ministre, Centre
         d'Information et de Communication (CIC), Décembre 2009. (Improvement of the
         information system on poor households and safety net programs).
 c)       Justin BEM (Consultant). Insécurité alimentaire chronique, transitoire et ciblage au
          Niger. Décembre 2009. (Analysis of the characteristics of poor households -chronic and
          seasonal -and targeting mechanisms).
      d) République du Niger, Cabinet du Premier Ministre, Cellule Crises Alimentaires (CCA).
         Projet Pilote de Transfer en espèces au Niger, Avril 2010. (Identification of pilot safety
         net program).
      e) République du Niger, Cabinet du Premier Ministre, Comité de Pilotage Filets Sociaux-
         les filets sociaux de sécurité, vers un plan d'action, Document de synthèse, Mai 2010.
         (Toward a Safety Nets Action Plan, a Summary Report).
5.      République du Niger, Cabinet du Premier Ministre. Plan de Soutien aux groupes
        vulnérables. Février 2010.
6.      République du Niger - Enquête Nationale rapide sur la situation alimentaire des
        ménages au Niger, Résumé exécutif, Décembre 2009.
7.      République du Niger, Ministère de l'Agriculture et de L'Elevage. Projet d'Urgence
        d'Appui à la sécurité Alimentaire (PUASA). Rapport d'Achèvement du Projet. Mai
        2010.
8.      République du Niger, Ministère du Développement Agricole (MDA) - Marché-
        Commande No. 0003/2008/MDA/SG/CA pour la Fourniture de 4000 tonnes
        d'engrais. Septembre 2008.
9.      République du Niger, Ministère du Développement Agricole (MDA) -Appel
        d'offres international restreint (No 0003/2008/MDA/SG/CA) pour la fourniture de
        4000 tonnes d'engrais. Aout 2008.



                                                 42
10.   République du Niger, Ministère du Développement Agricole (MDA), Centrale
      d'Approvisionnement-Situations récapitulatives hebdomadaire des mouvements
      d'engrais (don de la Banque Mondiale) - Octobre 2008 à Juillet 2009.
11.   République du Niger, ministère du Développement Agricole (MDA),
      ONAHA/DGA /INRAN/, Juillet 2009 ­ Gestion intégrée de la riziculture irriguée
      au profit des directeurs de périmètres (ONAHA) et agents d'encadrement (DRDA,
      DDDA).
12.   République du Niger, ministère du Développement Agricole (MDA), PUASA
      Programme d'Activités, Plan de Passation des Marchés, et Plan de Trésorerie,
      Documents finals, Novembre 2008.
13.   République du Niger, ministère du Développement Agricole (MDA), PUASA
      Programme d'Activités, Plan de Passation des Marchés, et Plan de Trésorerie,
      Documents finals, Novembre 2008.
14.   République du Niger, Ministère du Développement Agricole (MDA), Division des
      Statistiques Agricoles. Evaluation de la campagne 2009/2010 et résultats définitifs
      février 2010.
15.   République du Niger, Ministère du Développement Agricole (MDA), Office
      Nationale des Aménagement hydroagricoles (ONAHA), Projet d'Urgence d'Appui
      à la sécurité Alimentaire (PUASA): Evaluation du programme d'activités de
      l'ONAHA et la DGA-Fiche de Suivi de la campagne.
16.   République du Niger, ministère du Développement Agricole (MDA),ONAHA :
      Formation des élus des cooperatives rizicoles en gestion des stocks.
17.   The World Bank. Niger Emergency Food Security Support Project Under the
      Global Food Crisis Response Program. Emergency Project Paper. August1, 2008.
18.   The World Bank. Niger Food Security and Safety Nets (Report No.44072-NE,
      February 18, 2009).




                                           43
MAP




      44
