Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No.:    20713
IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
(33260)
ON A
LOAN
IN THE AMOUNT OF US$ 54 MILLION
TO THE
FEDERAL REPUBLIC OF NIGERIA
FOR A HEALTH SYSTEM FUND PROJECT
JUNE 30, 2000
Human Development 3
Africa Region
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of their
official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
(Exchange Rate Effective June 16, 2000)
Currency Unit = Naira
Naira 1.00 = US$ .00966184
US$ 1.00 = 100.3 Naira
FISCAL YEAR
January 1 - December 31
ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
CBN         -        Central Bank of Nigeria
DPRS        -       Department of Planning, Research and Statistics
EDL         -       Essential Drug List
EDP         -       Essential Drug Policy
EDRF        -        Essential Drug Revolving Fund
FCT         -       Federal Capital Territory
FGN         -       Federal Government of Nigeria
FMF         -       Federal Ministry of Finance
FP          -        Family Planning
FMHSS       -       Federal Ministry of Health and Social Services (Formerly FMOH - Federal Ministry of Health)
HIF         -        Health Infrastructure Fund
HMB         -       Hospital Management Board
HMIS        -       Health Management Information System
HR          -       Human Resource Policy
HSF         -       Health System Fund
IBRD        -        International Bank for Reconstruction and Development
IEC         -        Information, Education and Communication
LGA         -        Local Government Authorities
MCH         -        Maternal and Child Health
MTR         -        Mid-Term Review
NGO         -        Non-Govemmental Organization
PFI         -        Participating Financial Intermediaries
PHC         -        Primary Health Care
PHN         -       Public Health & Nutrition
PIU         -       Project Implementation Unit
PTF         -        Petroleum Trust Fund
SAR         -        Staff Appraisal Report
SHC         -        Secondary Health Facilities
SLA         -        Subloan Agrreements
SMF         -        State Ministry of Finance
SMOH        -        State Ministry of Health
SOE         -        Statement of Expenditure
TA          -        Technical Assistance
UNICEF      -        United Nations Children's Fund
WHO         -        World Health Organization
Vice President:     Callisto E. Madavo (AFR)
Country Manager/Director:        Yaw Ansu (AFC 12)
Sector Manager/Director:       Rosemary Bellew (AFTH3)
Task Team Leader/Task Manager:    Elizabeth Morris-Hughes (AFTH3)



FOR OFFICLAL USE ONLY
IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
FEDERAL GOVERNMENT OF NIGERIA
HEALTH SYSTEM FUND PROJECT
Ln 2106-UNI
CONTENTS
Page No.
1. Project Data                                                                       1
2. Principal Performance Ratings                                                      1
3. Assessment of Development Objective and Design, and of Quality at Entry            1
4. Achievement of Objective and Outputs                                               5
5. Major Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcome                                10
6. Sustainability                                                                    12
7. Bank and Borrower Performance                                                     13
8. Lessons Learned                                                                   14
9. Partner Comments                                                                  15
10. Additional Information                                                           16
Annex 1. Key Perfonnance Indicators/Log Frame Matrix                                 22
Annex 2. Project Costs and Financing                                                 28
Annex 3. Economic Costs and Benefits                                                 30
Annex 4. Bank Inputs                                                                 31
Annex 5. Ratings for Achievement of Objectives/Outputs of Components                 33
Annex 6. Ratings of Bank and Borrower Performance                                    34
Annex 7. List of Supporting Documents                                                35
IThis document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the
perfonmance of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without
World Bank authorization.






Project ID: P002106                                       Project Name: Health System Fund
Team Leader: Elizabeth M. Morris-Hughes                   TL Unit: AFTH3
ICR Type: Core ICR                                        Report Date: June 30, 2000
1. Project Data
Name: Health System Fund                             L/C/TFNumber: 33260
Country/Department: NIGERIA                                              Region: Africa Regional Office
Sector/subsector: HB - Basic Health
KEY DATES
Original           Revised/Actual
PCD: 01/28/88                                 Effective: 01/06/91           03/13/92
Appraisal:  01/03/91                                  MTR: 03/13/94              11/01/93
Approval:  05/21/91                                Closing: 12/31/99            12/31/99
Borrower/lmplementing Agency: GOVERNMENT OF NIGERIAIFMOHIPARTICIPANT STATES
Other Partners: Government of Japan.
STAFF                Current                                   At Appraisal
Vice President:      Callisto E. Madavo                        Kim Jaycox
Country Manager:     Yaw Ansu                                  Edwin Lim
Sector Manager:      Rosemary Bellew                           Janet de Merode
Team Leader at ICR:   Elizabeth M. Morris-Hughes               V.Srinivasan
ICR Primary Author:   Elizabeth M. Morris-Hughes
2. Principal Performance Ratings
(HS=Highly Satisfactory, S=Satisfactory, U=Unsatisfactory, HL=Highly Likely, L=Likely, UN=Unlikely, HUN=Highly
Unlikely, HU=Highly Unsatisfactory, H=High, SU=Substantial, M=Modest, N=Negligible)
Outcome: S
Sustainability: L
Institutional Development Impact: H
Bank Performance: S
Borrower Performance: S
QAG (if available)       ICR
Quality at Entry:                        S
Project at Risk at Any Time: Yes
3. Assessment of Development Objective and Design, and of Quality at Entry
3.1 Original Objective:
The primary objective of the proposed project was to improve health services for a wider base of
Nigeria's population by creating a wholesaling mechanism, called the Health System Fund (HSF), to
finance health system improvements in a larger number of States than would be possible through individual
State projects. The objectives of these improvements were, however, to be similar to those of the earlier
single State health projects, i.e., to: (a) improve the quality, coverage and efficiency of State and LGA



health and family planning; (b) promote the development of populations programs, and (c) strengthen the
institutional and financial capacity of States and LGA's to plan, implement, monitor and evaluate their
health, nutrition and family planning programs. Private 'Participating' Financial Institutions' (PFIs) were to
be used to both cofinance and provide technical assistance on appraisal and implementation.
The primary objective was clear but ambitious, given the increasingly precarious state of Nigeria's
banking sector. The objectives for the improvements in State and LGA health systems were responsive to
the borrower's development priorities for the provision of basic health, nutrition and family planning
services, but the project was risky given the range of sectoral policies and programs involved, the
involvement of all 3 levels of Federal, State and Local Government, the potential number of participant
States, 12 at the time of Project Identification and 20 at Effectiveness, and the involvement of the PFls.
These risks were recognized, although underestimated by the Bank during Project appraisal.
3.2 Revised Objective:
The restructuring of the project at the Mid-Term Review (MTR) in November 1993 resulted in an
agreement to cancel the uncommitted portion of the IBRD Loan (US$16 million). The original role of both
the Fund and the PFI's changed. The PFI's responsibilities for the provision of technical assistance and
financial resources were in future to be assumed by the FMHSS and the Project States. Regarding the
objectives for the improvements in State and LGA health systems, the restructuring reduced the range of
project activities by dropping the population and nutrition programs, while adding provision for secondary
health care services and expanding the technical assistance and monitoring role of the FMHSS's Project
Implementation Unit.
3.3 Original Components:
The project consisted of three Parts: Part A: State Health Sub-Projects; Part B: Assistance to the
Federal Ministry of Health and Social Services (FMHSS); and Part C: Federal support to the States. Each
of these three Parts were divided into sub-components.
Part A: State Health Sub-Projects - Assisting Project States to carry out health and family planning
sub-projects, including the extension of a line of credit to the Project States for the following:
(a) Institutional Development Sub-Projects designed to strengthen the capacity of State and local
government authorities to plan, carry out and monitor community-based health, family planning
and nutrition programs and to improve resource mobilization and financial management including:
(i) in service training in supervisory methods, acquisition of equipment, vehicles, training
materials and other logistical support items and installation of a management information
system;
(ii) improving coordination between State ministries of health (SMOHs) and local government
authorities;
(iii) assisting each SMOH to strengthen its financial management planning and management
capability through the development of an annual financing plan for the health services,
including cost recovery from drugs and medical services, an annual work plan, and;
(iv) provision to the SMOH's of technical assistance, staff training, office equipment and funds
for operational research.
-2-



(b) Health Services Improvement Sub-Projects, including:
(i) upgrading, renovation and construction of primary health care (PHC) facilities;
(ii) support for provision of basic health services including pre-and post-natal maternal health
care (MCH), family planning (FP) services immunizations, and health and nutrition education;
(iii) improvement of drug supply and distribution, including support for essential drug
programs developed by Project States with FMHSS's assistance, renovation of pharmaceutical
stores of hospitals, States and the local government authorities, and acquisition of essential
drugs and vaccines;
(iv) establishment of disease surveillance and diagnostic services including the renovation or
construction of facilities for public health laboratories and the provision of technical
assistance, staff training, equipment and supplies;
(v) improvement of MCH and FP services, including strengthening of the MCH/FP Units in
the Public Health Divisions of the SMOH's of the SMOHs, acquisition by the said Units of
vehicles, equipment and provision of staff training; and the development of FP services in the
private sector;
(vi) information, education and communication (IEC) activities, including the development of
an integrated IEC plan to increase: (a) the practice of preventive health care, family planning
and better nutrition in the home; (b) demand for MCH services; and (c) awareness of and
demand for family planning;
(vii) nutrition activities including: (a) promotion of nutrition education to improve infant
feeding practices; (b) testing of pilot feeding programs for vulnerable groups; (c) development
of regular nutrition surveillance systems for monitoring and evaluating nutrition activities, and;
(d) the development of improved weaning foods and their distribution, and;
(viii) support for non-governmental organizations (NGOs) including: (a) promotion of the
involvement of the NGOs in the health care system, and; (b) establishment of a nodal point in
government for financial marketing and procedural assistance to NGOs.
(c) Future Sub-Projects Preparation Activities, including:
(i) facility mapping and planning from renovation and upgrading;
(ii) facility utilization studies;
(iii) staffing norms studies;
(iv) studies on SMOH organization and the State health delivery system, and;
(v) epidemiological studies, and
(vi) other feasibility studies.
- 3-



Part B: Assistance to the Federal Ministry of Health and Social Services (FMHSS)
(i) Strengthening of FMHSS's Department of Planning, Research and Statistics (DPRS) including:
(a) the assignment to DPRS of a Project officer exclusively for the Health System Fund (HSF)
activities; (b) acquisition by DPRS of office equipment, materials and vehicles; (c) appointment to
DPRS of a local Project Advisor, and; (d) the appointment of an internationally recruited adviser to
promote local consultancy and work with local firns employed to assist the Project States.
(ii) Establishment of a Health Management Information System (HMIS) including the provision of
the services of an internationally recruited HMIS advisor assisted by adequate staff, hardware,
equipment and materials for FMIHSS and the Project States.
(iii) Technical assistance, training and studies including: (a) a project performance audit; (b)
studies to examine the Health System Fund Policy Statement of the Borrower, project and credit
guidelines and project preparation procedures; (c) studies into ways of strengthening local
consultancy skills, and; (d) a local and/or overseas training program which emphasizes project
development skills, management and project implementation.
Part C: Federal Support to the States - Provision by the Borrower to the Project States of technical
assistance and other support for:
(i) the training of health planners and other key officials employed by the Project States to
strengthen their health agencies; and
(ii) the preparation by the Project States of their three year rolling plans, annual implementation
plans, and first phase sub-projects.
3.4 Revised Components:
Consequent to the agreements at the MTR on an expanded role for the FMHSS, Parts B and C
were merged into one part as follows:
Part B: Support to the Federal Ministry of Health and Social Services
(1) Strengthening the HSF Project Implementation Unit (PIU) of the FMHSS's Department of
Planning, Research and Statistics (DPRS) and Project States through provision of technical
assistance, vehicles and equipment, materials, incremental operating costs and training to: (a)
appraise new State sub-projects, including the appraisal of equipment and maintenance needs of
secondary health care facilities; (b) conduct two supervision visits per year to each of the Project
States; (c) conduct four zonal meetings per year for eligible States; (d) conduct annual review
meetings; (e) provide regular communication with Project States, and; (f) produce and distribute
project implementation libraries for the Project States.
(2) Strengthening the Planning Division of the DPRS and Project States through provision of
technical assistance, vehicles and equipment, materials, operating costs and training to: (a) develop
and distribute guidelines for national and State health planning; (b) develop and distribute
management manuals for Federal and State program managers, including a journal for health
planning and management; (c) develop and distribute guidelines for monitoring and evaluation of
- 4 -



State health plans; (d) conduct workshops for State health planners to use the planning, management
and monitoring guidelines, and; (e) on-site assistance to States to develop three-year health rolling
plans and the annual implementation plans, including the development of annual work plans for HSF
sub-projects, in collaboration with the PIU.
(3) Strengthening the Research and Statistics Division of the DPRS, through provision of technical
assistance, equipment, materials and operating costs to: (a) establish a national health management
information system (HMIS), including the appointment of an internationally recruited HMIS advisor
and (b) sponsor key research in the following areas: (i) assessment of primary health care (PHC)
financing, including public, private and household sources; (ii) a practical guide to efficient resource
allocation in the health sector; (iii) cost structure analysis for health care services at primary and
secondary health care facilities; (iv) an inventory of personnel, facilities and equipment, and
organizational structures of secondary health care institutions; (v) a descriptive study of private
health care practices and financing, and (vi) a pilot population-based survey to assess levels and
types of mental illness in Nigeria.
3.5 Quality at Entry:
NA
4. Achievement of Objective and Outputs
4.1 Outcome/achievement of objective.
Annex 1 includes the ratings, by component and by objective/outcome of the results achieved by
the individual states. Most ratings are "satisfactory". However, six of the 20 states achieved a highly
satisfactory rating for the preparation of state health plans and for staff training.
The over-arching project objective was improvement of the quality and efficiency of health services
of participant States and LGA's. The financial mechanism adopted was the "wholesaling" of the loan
proceeds to the PFIs, which would on-lend to the participating states. The interest rate spread would
contribute to the creation of a rolling fund to finance priority state projects. The main objective was
finally eventually achieved because the International Bank for Reconstruction and Development (IBRD)
and the Federal Government of Nigeria (FGN) agreed to redesign the project at mid-term, dropping the
initial financing approach.
The Loan. The FGN requested IBRD assistance in establishing a wholesale mechanism for
financing improvements in state health systems in order to attain a more even distribution of sector
resources and thus serve a wider base of the population than possible in the past. The project, patterned on
the Infrastructure Development Fund (IDF) project (Loan 2925-UNI), was to utilize PFIs to appraise,
supervise and co-finance state health subprojects and to assist the states in improving health system
investment planning. The Bank loan (US$70 million) provided a line of credit to FGN for financing the
health subprojects in various states and their local government administrations (LGAs). Total project costs
were estimated at US$94.5 million, of which state governments would finance US$13.5 million, PFIs
US$9.0 million, FGN US$0.7 million and a Japanese grant US$1.3 million. The proposed Bank loan of
US$70 million was to cover 74% of the total required financing and 99% of total foreign exchange. The
project consisted of three main activities: (i) line of credit for State health and family planning subprojects;
(ii) assistance to the Federal Ministry of Health and Social Services; and (iii) training and technical
assistance support to the State Ministries of Health. The line-of-credit approach sought to respond quickly
-5-



to small, relatively low cost projects, well within their capacity to implement, typically in the range of
US$1 to 5 million, to be completed within 18 months for such activities as institutional development,
improvement of existing PHC facilities - though not civil works for new facilities, an essential drugs
program, and preparation for a follow-on project. Specific criteria were established for subproject
selection, appraisal and implementation.
The PFIs and the Fund. It was proposed that the PFIs help the States appraise priority projects
and participate in their financing, via on-lending of the IBRD loan. Part of the interest spread between
private on-lending and the IBRD loan was to replenish the central bank account and contribute to new
lending. The original premise that the PFIs would take the lead did not prove successful. Few PFIs had
skills in appraisal and experience in procurement of goods and civil works and implementation. These
deficiencies were recognized at appraisal. However, the operational difficulties of the PFIs branching out
into a new line of business and recruiting ad hoc expertise were not fully appreciated and the approach had
not been field tested during the three years of preparation. In the end, only four states made such
arrangements, but there is no evidence as to the effectiveness of the arrangements. Some of the PFIs billed
for services rendered for which no supporting documentation could be produced and the expenditures were
declared ineligible. On the one hand, the states found it difficult to put together viable projects, leading to
the PFIs' reluctance to take new staff on board in the absence of a pipeline. On the other hand, the high
interest rates put forward by PFIs caused the states to hesitate. Consequently, mutual distrust worked
against partnerships. This innovative partnership with the private banks probably seemed feasible during
the rapid expansion of the banking sector after the second oil boom. But by 1993 - two years after
effectiveness - an internal Bank report identified serious problems in the sector due to weak portfolios,
non-performing loans, foreign exchange difficulties and the overall decline in the economy. By 1994, the
four states working with the PFIs found difficulties in accessing their project funds and their bank
statements. This prompted a rapid re-appraisal in 1995 of the nine PFIs initially selected. The findings
were that the PFIs' head offices in Lagos had become almost skeleton operations in some cases, while
most branches in major cities outside Lagos were nothing more than post boxes, neither able nor
authorized to handle foreign exchange or project lending. By the time of the Mid-Term Review (1993) only
US$3 million of the US$70 million IBRD loan had been committed.
New Roles for States and FMHSS. The project was redesigned and the IBRD loan was reduced
to US$54 million. Implementation now became the responsibility of the States, with success dependent on
rapid enhancement of their capacity in the areas of appraisal, budgeting, financial management,
procurement and local supervision and reporting. The Bank recognized that the new strategy's success
would depend on intensive capacity-building at the federal and state levels in key areas such as project
appraisal, budgeting, financial management, procurement and local supervision and reporting.
Consequently, the Bank increased its supervision coefficient for the project, allocating both more RM and
HQ time of staff with strong operational experience, in order to backstop the "implementation clinics"
organized by the FMHSS. Addressing small, compatible groups of States, these clinics created the
conditions for self-help networking to solve current problems. Additionally, the RM took a proactive
stance, encouraging State PIU staff to "walk in" with their operational problems. By April 1996, there was
much improved assistance by the FMHSS to the States despite an increase in the number of participating
States. By October 1997, procurement was seen as generally under control and the States were providing
counterpart funds for their sub-project on a more timely basis. By June 1998 financial management and
counterpart funding in all States had improved. The FMHSS, however, lost ground in terms of institutional
capacity, due in large part to the frequent changes in senior staff. This was amply compensated for by the
new strength of the States in implementation which began to match the earlier devolution of power in the
health sector from the federal to the state and LGA levels. The States now had overall responsibility, with
- 6 -



delegation of PHC to the LGAs, while the FMHSS retained a role in national policy formulation and
technical advisory services. Six additional states signed subsidiary loans - Benue, Enugu, Katsina, Kogi,
Ondo, Osun in 1994 and three newly created states -Bayelsa, Ebonyi and Ekiti- joined the project in 1997,
increasing coverage to 44% of Nigeria's 36 States. This was followed by a continued improvement in
implementation at the state level, particularly in the area of procurement.
The LGAs. The achievements in building State capacity were not mirrored at the LGA level for
several reasons. To a large extent, state capacity building was and is a prerequisite for outreach to the
LGAs. The outreach potential of the States toward LGAs was limited by their capacity, the large number
(770) of LGAs and the difficult security and travel conditions, which also impinged on IBRD supervision
* The LGAs and their PHC network had been starved of funds and there had been little occasion or
incentive for them to be proactive. The strong grassroots organizations, such as the NGOs and women's
cooperative movement, laid low during the military dictatorship, avoiding official circles.
The good news is that Nigeria's vibrant civic society is now reclaiming a more active role, with
NGOs eager to participate in project planning at the State level, as they have done in the current process
of preparation of the second Health Systems Loan.
Recurrent Costs. The new design required states to incorporate incremental recurrent costs in
their three-year rolling plans and annual budgets. Essentially, the burden of recurrent costs had been
transferred from the Health Fund to the individual state budgets. Initially, the states had two options for
assuring counterpart funds - deduction at source from the quarterly Federal Statutory Warrants (federal
transfers to the states), or ad hoc allocations by the Secretaries to the State Government.
By 1997 twelve of the sixteen HSF states had opted for the first and more favorable option.
Federal allocations to the states were continually delayed or paid only in part. The HSF states applied to
the newly established Petroleum Trust Fund (PTF) as a complementary source of counterpart financing.
Only Akwa-Ibom State was successful. Unpredictable funding continued to plague implementation during
the year of transition to civilian rule (June 1998 to May 1999). However, the inauguration of civilian
govermnent (mid-1999) resulted in immediate improvement in release of funds to 14 of the 16 states.
Timely provision of counterpart funds remains a challenge and is identified as such in the state proposals
submitted during preparation of HSF II. Actual budget allocations for both capital and recurrent
expenditures are still well below authorizations, with a disruptive effect on recurrent expenditures, and
hence on crucial health services, as well as on state-funded capital projects with construction and
procurement interrupted and out of phase.
Access and Utilization. Achievement of the objective to expand access to health services was
satisfactory but utilization rates are more difficult to assess. Coverage of health care facilities expanded
faster than originally foreseen. By closing, all 16 of the HSF states (44% of all the states) had improved
access and utilization, including three states which had only been established in 1996. Primary health care
services are now available closer to home. Access is no longer a problem in the cities - with the exception
of metropolitan Lagos - and distances are down to a range of 2 - 10 kms. Utilization has been difficult to
measure because the monitoring systems at the grassroots designed to provide data for the new Health
Management Information System (HMIS) only came on stream in 1998. Qualified observers document
increased utilization in the two states where data collection has been in place longest - Bomo and Kwara.
This has implications for HSF II since utilization rates of facilities/services are key to guiding future
investment.
Enhanced State Capacity for Planning. Achievement of the capacity building objectives is
- 7 -



satisfactory. Good progress was made in developing planning capacity. States now have a reasonably
clear assessment of the incidence of disease through improved health statistics and a clearer grasp of
financing needs, as evidenced by the state proposals for HSF II. For example, one state graphs most
convincingly the increase of malaria cases against the decline in the associated budgets. As the MIUS
becomes operational, planners will have much improved data.
Human Resource planning also improved. During the period 1993-98, the instability of the state
governments and the frequent, often arbitrary dismissal or transfer of staff made systematic planning of
human resources difficult. However, the HSF annual work plans have highlighted the need for projection of
the skill mix and associated recruitment, to meet attrition and expansion of services. The groundwork is in
place for annual updating of staffing needs which will become an integral part of the HMIS. A specific
related objective was to improve the retention of newly trained staff in the areas of planning,
pharmaceuticals and MIS where competition from the private sector is acute. Staff in all three fields who
received training/upgrading have so far been retained. However, paying salaries on time and maintaining
competitive salaries and work conditions relative to the private sector will be essential to their continuity.
4.2 Outputs by components.
Health Fund. This component was not implemented beyond four states where it proved
unsatisfactory. The retro-fitting of the project at the mid-term review placed the loan proceeds directly at
the disposition of the states, transferring the burden of recurrent cost financing, which the health fund was
to have financed, directly on the budgets of the individual states.
Primary Health Care (PHC) Facilities. The 1988 National Health Policy and Strategy spelled
out the roles and functions of the local governnent authorities with regard to the provision and
maintenance of primary health services and environmental sanitation. The challenge was to meet the WHO
objective of I PHC center per 10,000 population. Shortly after loan effectiveness, a system of direct
federal payments to LGAs was established. Originally, it was foreseen that States and the 452 LGAs
would collaborate in preparing project proposals for PFI review, financing and implementation. After the
mid-term review, with the plan for the PFIs to provide technical assistance to the LGAs no longer on the
table, many states took back the responsibility for PHC, in the face of weak planning and implementation
capacity at the LGA level, and the results varied from state to state. The following states can be singled
out for their performance: Enugu worked with all of its 17 LGAs; Ebonyi built a new center and
renovated another in each of its 11 LGAs: in the Delta, Rivers worked with 21 of its 23 LGA's and Bayelsa
built! renovated 44 facilities/sites for 32 LGAs. Overall, a total of 204 PHC centers were assisted by the
loan.
Secondary Health Care (SHC). This project component was rated satisfactory. Initially, the
loan provided exclusively for strengthening PHC. By the mid-term review, states had been given the
responsibility for SHC. The loan agreement was amended to finance SHC facilities on the basis of
specific operational guidelines. The National Health Policy commits each State to providing at least one
SHC facility in each LGA. Seven of the 16 states financed renovation of SHC facilities. Additionally,
all States except Bayelsa completed construction and/or renovation of selected tertiary facilities - Quality
Assurance Facilities and Health Training Schools (Annex 1).
All new and renovated PHC and SHC facilities were equipped, as were the tertiary facilities.
Additionally, other facilities were re-equipped on the basis of need. The systematic programming of
maintenance and repairs was introduced, with involvement of the local communities in security measures.
- 8 -



State-specific facilities. Although outside the original scope of the project, these works meet the
criteria for increased quality of basic services as foreseen by the revised project. Some of the states had
urgent specific needs. For example, Lagos' maternal care facilities were under severe population pressure
as were its trauma center and pharmaceutical testing laboratory. Ebonyi faces endemic sleeping sickness
while Ondo has a high leprosy case load. Given increased implementation capacity, these states were able
to draw down on the loan to expand or renovate relevant facilities.
Related Staff Training and Upgrading. Outputs of this component are rated as satisfactory.
Despite the difficult climate of governance including arbitrary dismissals and transfers of personnel, and
the lack of any systematic state-level human resource planning, the HSF annual work programs provided a
useful framework for analyzing staffing needs and implementing training. By 1996, training plans became
a standard feature of the annual work program. Training was conducted at the community, state and
federal levels (1203 trainees) and overseas (302 trainees). Priority at the state and community levels was
given to training the staff of new or renovated facilities and the staff of key state-wide services such as
essential drug supply and the HMIS, either overseas or at the federal, state and community levels. There
was a good deal of sharing of ideas and approaches between states. One example was training the
members of local theatrical groups to help get key health messages across to communities. Yet another
trained health personnel in advocacy techniques to enable them to deal more effectively with local
government.
Capacity Building. The project had a significant impact on capacity building as demonstrated by
progress in six areas - reporting, annual work plans, implementation and supervision, preparation of state
health plans, improved state health data bases, preparation of investment proposals for the proposed HSF
II and in the area of audits. By 1994 participant States were successfully providing timely progress
reports. By the end of 1996, all states but one (Akwa-Ibom which was suspended for financial
mismanagement) presented annual work plans in time for the annual project review, with good overall
quality. The capacity of the state PIUs in implementation, procurement and supervision had significantly
improved by 1998 due to implementation clinics convened by the FMNHSS, direct TA by IBRD and
increased retention of key staff. The collection of standardized health data in line with HMIS
specifications improved significantly. By 1998 all audits were received on schedule and outstanding audits
completed.
Capacity building was most successful at the federal level in the areas of implementation and the
HMIS. The FMHSS ran workshops on implementation which helped the PIUs become operational and by
1995, the FMHSS's capacity to manage the HMIS and to provide technical assistance to the six
participating pilot states had been significantly strengthened. As a result, standardized and computerized
data collection formats were designed and tested at the state level, and LGA, and private health care
providers were trained in the collection and processing of key HMIS data. Additionally, states updated
and published disease status information which had been unavailable for some time. The implementation of
the HMIS also enabled half of the states to develop State Health Profiles which provided important
contextual information for the HFS II investment proposals. Less successful were the FMHSS's efforts to
develop capacity for supervising/monitoring the state work programs and a capacity in research. In terms
of supervision, the FMHSS was hampered by the lack of counterpart funding, by staffing problems and to
some degree by the increasing independence of the states which resented the FMIHSS looking over their
shoulders. Finally, only 10 % of the research agenda was implemented. The quality of the products is not
clear.
Essential Drugs. All states except one (Kogi) adopted essential drugs policies while all states
established essential drugs lists, with provision for regular updating. Success was largely due to the
-9-



cooperation between the State Pharmaceutical Officers who established a mutual support network,
particularly helpful to the newer participant states. Initially, under the aegis of the National Essential
Drugs Loan, the FMHSS had been expected to be a source of technical assistance in this area but it did not
develop the necessary outreach capacity and finally the Federal component of this Loan was canceled. The
establishment of new state essential drug funds and the re-vitalization of existing funds proved much more
challenging. The National Essential Drugs Loan which had financed the states' purchase of essential drugs
closed in 1997. Also, the LGAs now became responsible for the purchase, storage, distribution and
pricing of drugs for the PHC centers. Some worked with state funds while others participated in the
UNICEF-funded Bamako Initiative. Finally, the Petroleum Trust Fund began to bypass the state funds by
directly purchasing and distributing drugs, albeit with little planning, resulting in the delivery of quantities
in excess of demand, creating storage problems, or in qualities and types which did not meet the
requirements of the essential drugs list. Consequently, developing effective procurement, distribution and
pricing policies for essential drugs at the state level, remains a task for the proposed HSF II.
4.3 Net Present Value/Economic rate of return.
N/A
4.4 Financial rate of return:
N/A
4.5 Institutional development impact:
The HSF Loan had significant institutional development impact.
Community impact. The project had marked impact on the mindset of beneficiary communities.
In addition to their appreciation of the Government's provision of accessible and adequate PHC services,
communities took on more responsibility for security of facilities and equipment and for oversight of
financial aspects.
State impact. The State's significantly developed their capacity to plan, implement, manage and
monitor public health services at the state and LGA levels. The technical capacity of the states was
greatly strengthened in the areas of HMIS, health planning, management of pharmaceutical Supplies and in
research.
FMHSS impact. The FMHSS developed an increased technical capacity in HMIS and benefited
from in-service training. However, the frequent changes in leadership (five ministers during the project
period) and related changes at the director level meant that training/upgrading did not achieve its full
impact since staff were frequently re-assigned or inappropriately placed.
5. Major Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcome
5.1 Factors outside the control of government or implementing agency:
Political Instability. The disruptive and unstable political environment, substantially and
negatively affected all stages of the project at both the State and Federal level. The military regime,
launched in 1988 under Head of State Babaginda, gave way in 1991-1992 to civilian government at State
level with Senate and House of Representatives in place at the national level, but the military heads of
states remained. The June 12th annulment of the 1993 Presidential elections led to six months of civil strife
in many parts of Nigeria. An interim civilian Head of State, Sonekan, took office August 1993, and was
- 10-



toppled by General Abacha who led a military regime from November 1993 until his death June 1998.
During this time, state military administrators were changed every 18 months. There was also a
reoccurrence of civil strife in the Southwest of Nigeria following the death in July 1998 of Abiola, winner
of the 1993 election. Project implementation activities ground to a halt during such periods of political
instability and physical danger to citizens. Moreover, the international technical assistance identified
during appraisal as an important element in implementation became unavailable as firms closed their
Nigerian branches and ceased to do business in the country.
5.2 Factors generally subject to government control:
Macroeconomic factors. Frequent changes in the exchange rate and the policy of "official" rates
and controls favored selected individuals and firms and affected the performance of suppliers and
contractors. Many of these suppliers and contractors went bankrupt having become dependent on imported
inputs, which were subject to frequent price adjustments. The serious deterioration of the financial sector
ultimately eliminated the role of the PFls while continuing to impact negatively on project accounts.
Administrative governance. Frequent changes in the military administration and in state health
commissions had adverse effects on the continuity of state PIU staff. This serious problem was corrected in
1995 when the Federal Ministry of Finance (FMF) decided that staff changes in future would require
clearance from both the Minister of Finance and the Bank, thus ensuring increased stabilization of the
PIUs for the remaining years of implementation.
5.3 Factors generally subject to implementing agency control:
Bureaucratic procedural requirements. The cumbersome multi-level clearances required by the
state health ministries delayed implementation, particularly during the first six years. These bureaucratic
obstacles diminished over time as the PIUs developed more managerial capacity and as a result of
persistent follow-up by Bank missions at the level of the military administrators and state commissioners.
Procurement Capacity. The fact that neither the States nor the FMHSS/PIU had any previous
experience with regard to Bank procurement procedures was a substantial obstacle to implementation.
Similarly, the states lacked experience in project identification and preparation. The implementation clinics
and Bank technical assistance solved these problems.
Financial Management. Initially, there was no capacity in financial management at the state and
federal levels. This problem was alleviated through training and the assistance of the resident mission
financial management specialist. As soon as state PIUs acquired basic computer skills, a tailor-made
software was developed to enable their financial officers to effectively monitor the loan and counterpart
funds. The financial officers also received short term training overseas. Capacity remained an obstacle at
the federal level. The FMHSS/PIU, although only managing two loan categories, did not develop
comparable competence, nor did the FMF maintain accurate records of the unallocated funds.
5.4 Costs andfinancing:
The total cost was projected as US$94.50 million at appraisal. It was planned that the Bank would
finance US$70.00 million, the State Governments US$13.50 million, the PFI's US$9.00 million, the
Federal Government US$0.7 million and the Japanese Grant facility US$1.30 million. However, both the
total projected cost and the financing plan changed early into implementation. States were unwilling to
borrow from the PFIs due to their high interest rates and due to their lack of capacity to appraise projects.
At re-structuring projected costs were re-estimated at US$68.8 million, with the Bank's loan amount set at
US$ 54.00 million. At Loan closure the total project cost was estimated at US$74.77 of which the Bank
- 11 -



financed US$52.76 million, the States and the Federal Government US$20.71 million and the Japanese
Grant US$1.30. In the period CY 1994 through second quarter 1996, quarterly disbursements averaged
US$ 0.5 million; from the third quarter 1996 through 1997, US$ 1.6 millions and through the first two
quarters of 1998, US $ 2.35 millions. The 97 percent disbursement (est. US$ 52.4 million) achieved by the
third quarter of FY 2000 reversed a disbursement lag which had stood -at 89 per cent at the time of the
mid-term review.
6. Sustainability
6.1 Rationale for sustainability rating:
The sustainability of the project is rated as "likely" on the basis of the following rationale:
Government commitment During the year of transition to civilian rule, all the 16 HSF State
teams were specifically consulted by the government-elect as to the recurrent budget requirements for
sustaining activities assisted by the loan. All 36 governors-elect have now confirmed their intention to
participate in a follow-on project, aiming at national coverage.
Policy environment. The Federal government's emphasis on poverty alleviation and investment in
the social sectors, the first visit in 10 years by a Minister of Health of Nigeria to the World Bank in
February 2000, together with the recent formal passage of the federal government's anti-corruption bill by
the legislature are important indicators of the continued improvement in the policy and governance
environment.
Institutional and management effectiveness. Sixteen (44 %) of the 36 States of Nigeria now
have a core team of technically sound, well trained and motivated health professionals, with competency in
planning and management of basic health services at State and local community level and experience in
providing technical assistance to neighboring States. At the Federal level the national HMIS program is
well established and well managed. In October 1999 the FMHSS convened its first consultation with other
health care providers and development partners to discuss the main sectoral reform issues to be tackled.
Social Impact and participation. The steps taken by the state teams to ensure a community sense
of responsibility for the newly accessible health services and facilities will be an important factor in
ensuring sustained accountability by the LGA's and SMOH for the maintenance of such services.
A persistent issue is that of recurrent funding. In the event of a follow-up project it will be
important to make firm arrangements, reflected in the Credit Agreement, relative to the timely provision of
counterpart funds as agreed by IBRD and the borrower states. To the extent possible, availability of these
funds should be an annual trigger for IBRD disbursements or as a trigger for proceeding with the next
"tranche" of procurement since works and goods would likely be phased in a project of national scope.
6.2 Transition arrangement to regular operations:
Given the most recent transition to civilian rule and the long term efforts require to reverse the
effects of the past decades of economic and political instability, the Federal and State Governments have
recognised that the most effective way to ensure the mainstreaming of the programs and capacities
strengthened with the assistance of HSF I is for all States to participate in a second program of comparable
assistance. For the HSF I States, with their State Health Plans and results of their Phase 2 studies, initial
preparatory discussions were held June 1999, and HSF Phase 2 Preparatory activities involving the
- 12 -



participation of all States and FMHSS began January 2000, shortly after Loan closure.
7. Bank and Borrower Performance
Bank
7.1 Lending:
Given the innovative nature of the proposed HSF financial mechanism, and the complexity of the
envisaged coordination between the PFI's, the Central Bank, the State and Federal Ministries, and the
private sector consulting resources, the Bank played a leading role in guiding project preparation and
appraisal. During the first identification mission, consultations were held with all the concerned financial
and consulting agencies and the FMHSS. The three subsequent missions helped thirteen of the 20 States
development their sub-projects. The Bank also carried out a detailed assessment of the banking sector
during preparation to determine the feasibility of involving the private sector.The range of technical skills,
mix and continuity of the Bank team were generally appropriate. However, the presence of a health
specialist with skills in M&E would have been desirable in retrospect.
7.2 Supervision:
Early missions in the period 1992-94 were clearly not adequately nor consistently staffed with the
required range of technical and operational skills. Nor was the Resident Mission able to provide adequate
procurement and financial management advice at that time. The latter would perhaps have permitted
earlier identification of the rapid structural and financial deterioration of the PFIs. From 1995 onwards, all
missions included the full range of technical skills required and the Resident Mission was strengthened in
the areas of physical implementation,procurement and fnancial management. Also, decision-making was
largely decentralized. The period of proactive supervision, also began at this point. Annual reviews
conducted by HQ staff, encompassing all states over a period of up to three months, were backstopped by
ad hoc, "on call" missions by field staff who also held "on demand" implementation clinics. This
supervision approach, though successful, was expensive in staff time and budget, while security and travel
conditions placed great stress on staff. This was also a period in which supervision was hampered by
inadequate access to reliable and timely pouch and electronic mail. Finally, the excessive demand on the
time of disbursement staff should be recognized. The loan included 94 expenditure categories, special
accounts were frequently blocked by banks or by officials and cases of financial mismanagement had to be
investigated (Akwa-Ibom).
7.3 Overall Bank performance:
The Bank's overall performance was satisfactory although uneven. Supervision can be rated highly
satisfactory from 1995 onward.
Borrower
7.4 Preparation:
The performance of the Borrower at all levels and with all agencies was satisfactory during
preparation. The FGN was fully committed to minimizing the social costs of recent macroeconomic
measures by supporting the preparation of the HSF as additional to the National Essential Drugs Project
and the National Population Project. Thirteen of twenty states participated actively in the three workshops
on the preparation of project proposals.
- 13 -



7.5 Government implementation performance.
Throughout implementation both at the Federal and State levels, the project was plagued by
political instability and governance problems. The frequent changes at the federal ministerial level also
resulted in lack of consistency in sectoral policy and dialogue. At the state level, the frequent changes in
military administrators and health commissioners led to interference with the agreed practices and
procedures with regard to procurement, consultancies and the use of vehicles and equipment. It is notable
that HFS state PIUs consistently rate political interference in the procurement process and arbitrary staff
policies as major factors hindering implementation. However, as noted above (capacity building), the PIUs
gradually gained in competence, to the point of executing their responsibilities in a timely and satisfactory
manner. The PlUs also became better integrated in their ministries and developed sound working relations
with the key services of the ministries, avoiding the isolation and jealousies which have sometimes
characterized "PIUs."
7.6 Implementing Agency:
In the early years of the Loan, the FMHSS was most successful in the area of provision of support
for the states in implementation and after 1995 in the development of the HMIS and development of State
Health Plans. The FMHSS ran workshops on implementation which helped the PIUs become operational.
By 1995, the FMHSS's capacity to manage the HMIS and to provide technical assistance to the six
participating pilot states had been significantly strengthened. As a result, standardised and computerised
data collection formats were designed and tested at the state level and state, LGA, and private health care
providers were trained in the collection and processing of key HMIS data. Consequently, states were able
to update and publish disease status information which had been unavailable for some time. In 1996-1998
the FMHSS assisted the states to develop their State Health Plans. Progressively, however, the states
assumed the responsibility for implementation. This is the most positive feature of the Borrower's
performance. None of the HSF States had borrowed from the Bank for health before. Nonetheless, they
demonstrated a rapid learning curve in response to Bank technical assistance and training. By 1997 their
PIUs had mainly become proficient in procurement of works, goods and services and the state planning
departments were generating annual plans and timely progress reports.
7.7 Overall Borrower performance:
Like the Bank's performance, the Borrower's performance was uneven but satisfactory despite a
very difficult implementation climate. The momentous political events of the decade directly impacted not
only implementation and the govemance of all the agencies involved but also the livelihood and physical
security of their staff.
8. Lessons Learned
Restructuring
*   Working closely with the client was an essential ingredient in successful restructuring. The IDA team
spent up to three months in the field, holding implementation clinics for the state PIU staff and the
Resident Mission operated a walk-in trouble-shooting service in areas such as procurement and
financial management.
*   The development of self-help support networks between, for example, the more experienced and less
experienced PIUs can be an effective method of capacity-building.
- 14-



*   Strengthening the Resident Mission through the appointment of well-qualified sector and procurement
specialists who were able to organize implementation clinics and provide clearance on procurement
and financial matters greatly facilitated implementation.
Supervision
* In the context of an eventual follow-on project, possibly broader in scope, the supervision
arrangements adopted by IDA would likely require new approaches, given Bank budget constraints.
A possible strategy would be to contract local firms to train and deploy supervision support teams -
sector specialists, architects/engineers, accountants, quantity surveyors - to provide technical
assistance to the state PIUs and to carry out site supervision.
Project Design
*   Operationally complex arrangements, such as those for retailing project financing through the PFIs
should be field-tested. This would have been possible during the two years of project preparation with
PPF or grant financing.
*   It is important to design and implement monitoring and evaluation early and to ensure that measurable
indicators are established and that staff are trained in data collection procedures. These issues were
tackled only in the last two years of the project.
*   Where significant expansion of physical infrastructure for health service coverage is planned, a
reliable "health map" or an adhoc survey is indispensable for appraising investment. Coverage should
include, inter alia: existing facilities to be renovated/repaired, proposed sites for new facilities, public
utility availability, location relative to target populations clients and the relative location of private
sector facilities.
9. Partner Comments
(a) Borrower/implementing agency:
The main conclusions of the ICR have been discussed with the Federal Minister of Health who has
confirmned his agreement for us to proceed on that basis. Each of the participant states provided their own
evaluation reports on the implementation of HSF and have already incorporated the "lessons learned" at the
state level in their draft PCDs for the second Health Systems loan which have already been reviewed by the
Bank.
(b) Cofinanciers:
A copy of the draft ICR was sent to the Government of Japan for their review.
(c) Other partners (NGOs/private sector):
- 15-



10. Additional Information
Studies Included/Undertaken by the Proiect
S/N    State           Study                                        Purpose of Study                     Status
1.     Akwa-lbom       Implementing the Minimum Local Government    To achieve implementation of the    Completed
Health for all package (1997-2005)           PHC programmes
2.     Bavelsa         Prototype State Health Plan                  To develop a health plan motivating  Completed
the LGAs to think along the same
lines
3.                     Implementing the Minimum Local Government    To improve health plan status       Completed
Health for all package (1997-2005)
4.     Benue           Implementing the Minimum Local Government    Discussions aimed to improve health  Completed
Area Health for all Package                  plans status
5.                     Development of Local Government Health Plans    To develop appropriate health    Completed
for:                                         packages for local governments
Gboko; Agatu; Ado; Vandeikya; Ushongo; Ukum;
Tarkar;
Okpokwu; Otukpo; Oju; Ohimini; Ogbadibo; Obi;
Makurdi; Apa; Katsina-Ala; Gwer; Gwer-West;
Guma; Buruku; Logo; Kwande; Konshisha (June
1999)
6.                     Health Human Resource Survey Reports for the  To determine and obtain manpower   Completed
20 LGAs: Public & Private: Production, Training,   distribution and training needs per
Distribution & Utilization                   facility
(March, 1999)
7.                     Health Profile (November 1997)               To attain the diseases profile of the  Completed
State
8.     Borno           Health Plan of Action for Implementing the   To harmonize roles and activities to  Completed
Minimum Local Government Area for all package   achieve implementation of the PHC
(1997-2005)                                  programmes
9.     Ebonvi          Prototype of State Health Plan               To obtain implementation of health   Completed
(1997-2005)                                  plan
10.                    Study On Essential Drugs                     To detect problems in DRF           Completed
sustainability
I.    Ekiti           Health Information Digest (Ist edition, Vol. 1,  To serve as information about Health    Completed
1998)                                        Institutions at both levels
12.    Enu2u           Survey of Health Facilities to Receive HSF Drugs   To determine the readiness of the  Completed
and Medical Equipment                        designated facilities
13.    Kaduna          Prototype State Health Plan                  To obtain statistics planning of health    Completed
(1997-2005)                                  services
- 16 -



S/N    State           Study                                    Purpose of Study                    Status
14.    Kaduna(cont)  Implementing the Minimum Local             To improve health plans status      Completed
Government Health for all package
(1997-2005)
15.                   Integrating and Strengthening Kaduna State  To establish a national health    Completed
Health Management Information System     information system by governments of
the Federation
16.    Katsina         Health Profile (1992-1996)               To obtain statistics planning of health    Completed
services
17.                   Health Profile (1997-2005)                To obtain statistics planning of health    Completed
services
18.                   Prototype State Health Plan               To improve health plan status       Completed
(1997-2005
19.                   Implementing the Minimum Local                                                Completed
Government Area Health for all package
(1997-2005)
20.    Kot-i           Health Statistical Bulletin (1992-1997)  To stimulate improvement of health  Completed
plan
21.                   Implementing the Minimum Local             Workplan to strengthen the         Completed
Government Health for all package        implementation of PHC
(1997-2005)
22.    Kwara           Inventory of health Institutions & Personnel  To determine and obtain manpower  Completed
distribution and training needs per
facility
23.                    Health Manpower Survey                   To determine areas requiring skill and   Completed
equipment procurement
24.                    Survey of Health Facilities              To obtain inventory of health       Completed
(September 1995)                         facilities, equipment and health
manpower resources
25.                    Strengthening of the schools Of Nursing and    To design health care system: skills  Completed
School of health technology              and health service improvement
26.                    Annual Health Statistical Bulletin                                           Completed
(1998-1992) and
Health Statistical Bulletin (1993-1996)
27.                    Study on Problems of the Handicapped and                                     Completed
the Nomadic
28.    Lagos           Survey of Schools of health Services in Lagos   To obtain inventory of schools of  Completed
State: Public/Private                    health facilities in the state
29.                    Comprehensive health Manpower/Facility    To obtain inventory of health facilities   Completed
Survey in Public/Private health facilities in    to determine what is available and
Lagos State                              obtainable
- 17 -



SiN    State           Study                                    Purpose of Study                    Status
30.    Lagos( cont)    Medical Equipment Survey of 23 Selected  To provide baseline data to determine    Completed
health care Facilities in Lagos State    equipment requirements
31.                    Established Functions and Complementary  To determine equipment requirements   Completed
Equipment Required in 23 Selected health  in the selected facilities for
care facilities in Lagos State           procurement under the project
32.                    Review of Existing Primary Health Care    To establish priority renovations to be   Completed
facilities in Lagos State for            carried out under the project
Renovation/Rehabilitation/Completion
33.                    Comprehensive Survey Of Drugs Sources &  To determine affordability of drugs  Completed
Distribution in Lagos                    and track sources of fake drugs
34.                    Preparation of Operational Workplan for  For the design of a Management      Completed
Implementing the National Health         Information System
Management Information System in Lagos
State
35.                    Establishment of A WHO medium Size Drug    To provide documentation for the  Completed
Quality Control Laboratory               establishment of a public health
laboratory
36.                    Prototype State Health Plan              To obtain statistics planning of health    Completed
(1997-2005)                              services
37.                   Implementing the Minimum Local
Government Area Health for all package   To improve health status            Completed
38.    Ondo            Health Statistical Bulletin (1997)       To stimulate improvement of health  Completed
plans
39.                   Implementing the Minimum Local            To improve health status            Completed
Government Area Health for all Package
40.                    Prototype State Health Plan              To obtain statistics planning of health    Completed
(1997-2005)                              services
41.    Osun            Osun Health Bulletin, draft                                                  Draft
(1991-1998)
42.                    Health manpower Survey of Public/private  To obtain inventory of health      Completed
health Institutions                      facilities, equipment to determine
(March 1999)                             what is available and obtainable
Equipment Survey and specifications for 22
Secondary health care facilities (March 1999)
43.                    Training Needs Assessment for health      Skills and Health service          Completed
Workers and Health Training Institutions  improvement
44.                    Geo-Physical Survey of 6 Zonal Hospitals for                                 Completed
a sinking of Boreholes                   To provide the data for the
I construction of boreholes
- 18 -



S/N    State           Study                                     Purpose of Study                    Status
45.    Osun (cont.)    Prototype State Health Plan (1997-2005)   To obtain statistics planning of health    Completed
services
46.    OYO             Implementing the Minimum Local            To improve health plan status       Completed
Government Area Health for all package
47.                    Detailed Cost Analysis Of Selected health  To determine cost of the inputs    Completed
Facilities Oyo (September 1996)
48.                    Issues and Options for health Care Financing    To provide requisite data to develop  Completed
in Oyo State                              guidelines to determine appropriate
(November 1996)                          fees to be charged at government
facilities
49.                    Inventory & health facilities and mapping In    To obtain inventory           Completed
Oyo State                                 of facilities
(November 1996)
50.                    Deployment of Health personnel in Oyo State   To know what types of personnel are    Completed
health Facilities                         required by cadre
51.                    Prototype State Health Plan               To obtain statistics planning of health    Completed
(1997-2005)                               services
52.    Rivers          Implementing the Minimum Local            To improve health plan status       Completed
Government Health for all package
53.                    Prototype State Health Plan               To obtain statistics planning of health    Completed
(1997-2005)                               services
54.                    State Health Plan                         To improve health services          Completed
55.                    Integrating and Strengthening Rivers State  To establish a national health    Completed
Health Management Information System      information system by govemments of
the Federation
56.                    Rivers State Health Bulletin                                                  Completed
(1988-1992)
57.                    Rivers State Health Profile                                                   Completed
(1993-1996)
58.                    Baseline/Needs Assessment Survey on Health   To obtain requisite data         Completed
Facilities, Manpower and Equipment
59.                    Administrative Management Problems in six                                     Completed
selected Secondary Facilities in Rivers State
60.                    Knowledge Attitude Practice of FP by      To establish the level of immunization   Completed
mothers attending immunization centers in  coverage and awareness
Port-Harcourt
61.                    AIDS incidence and trend in Rivers State  To determine approximate prevalence    Completed
with Special reference to Screening Center  rate and use of screening centers
- 19-



S/N    State           Study                                    Purpose of Study                    Status
62.    Rivers(cont.)    Three year study on Trend on Non                                            Completed
Communicable Diseases in three selected
Health Facilities in Port-Harcourt(1999)
63.    Other States    Prototype State Health Plan              To obtain statistics planning of health    Completed
(1997-2005)                              services
Abia
64.                    Prototype State Health Plan              To obtain statistics planning of health    Completed
(1997-2005)                              services
Adamawa
65.                    Prototype State Health Plan              To obtain statistics planning of health    Completed
(1997-2005)                              services
Anambra
66.                    Prototype State Health Plan (1997-2005)  To improve health plan status       Completed
Cross River
67.                   Implementing the Minimum Local                                                Completed
Government Health for all package
Edo            (1997-2005)
68.                   Integrating and Straightening Edo State   To establish a national health      Completed
Health Management Information System     information system by governments of
the Federation
69.                    Prototype State Health Plan              To obtain statistics planning of health    Completed
(1997-2005)                              services
Yobe
70.                   Integrating and Strengthening Yobe State  To establish a national health      Completed
Health Management Information System     information system by govemments of
the Federation
71.                    Prototype State Health Plan              To obtain statistics planning of health    Completed
(1997-2005)                              services
Zamfara
72.                    Nigeria Country Plan of Action for                                           Completed
implementing Minimum District Health for
Federal        all package (1995-2000)
73.                   Inventory of Health Research & Workers in  To obtain inventory of research and  Completed
the Universities, Medical Research Institute  medical schools manpower
& Centre of Excellence (March 1996)
74.                    National Health Management Information   To revise NHMIS forms               Completed
System (NHMS)
75.                    NHMS-Forms Instruction and Operational                                       Completed
Reference Ma'nual (June 1997)
- 20 -



S/N                    Study                                      Purpose of Study                    Status
76.                    Policy, Programme, Strategic Plan of Action  To obtain new health data information   Completed
system
77.                    Health in Nigeria 1994-1995                To report on the state health services    Completed
(June 1996)                               and population health
78.                    Handbook of Planning and Managerial        To expand discussion of health       Completed
Process for National Health Development   planning
79.                    Handbook on Monitoring and Evaluation of   To help monitoring and controlling of    Completed
Health Development Programmes and         health plans
Projects (April 1997)
80.                    Accounting System for DRF Scheme in all    To effective implementation of the   Completed
HSF Participating States                  DRF scheme
(April 1997
- 21 -



Annex 1. Key Performance Indicators/Log Frame Matrix
Outcome / Impact Indicators:
Indlcatolat$               ;r*Ject~t 0      Iin0|u007  0 7 0 t.ti PR       AMt       stlmate
Objective ia)Establishment and financing of
an Health System Fund.( HSF)
-Incorporation of post-project recurrent costs -3/16 States (Katsina, Kwara, and Lagos) by -9/16 States historical Health Sector Budget
in States 3 year Rolling Plan.         12/98, have already provided for post -project allocation data, as % of total State budget.(
recurrent costs in their respective Rolling    9498) and as an indicator of management
Plans. All 16 State HSF Loan Teams had    capacity for recurrent cost coverage is now
been consulted on this issue by their State  available. Ondo and Lagos are stable ranging
'Transition Teams" prior to the 6/99   6.6%-9.3% and 5.6- 7.3% respectively;
handover to civilian rule.             Kwara uniquely consistently above 10%
ranging 13.7-21.0%;all others either
declining to below 10% or changes range
3-15%. Two States only received 100% of
allocation (Ebonyi and Lagos) all others
received 20-60% of the allocated funds
Objective ib) Improve the quality and
efficiency of Health Services of participant
States and local governments(LGA's).
-Documented new/increased user rates of  -Only 2/16 States have documented   Increased accessibility to health care;
the health services of such facilities.  utilization of completed site-specific  distance for user population now ranges from
facilities;todate(Borno PHC's utilization  less than 2km to 1 Okms (Oyo and
increase ranges 16-60%; Kwara SHC's   Akwa-lbom)
increase 40-80%)
Objective iia) Strengthen capacity of
participant States to plan, carry out,monitor
and evaluate their PH programs.
-Retention of Trained staff in Health  -all trained staff retained to date; in light of  -the previous 20 years has witnessed the
Planning/Pharmaceutical/HMIS.         the 3/99 minimum wage increase, the 6/99   collapse of Nigeria's management of training
civilian State govemments management of  and deployment of all levels/cadres of Health
Budget % allocations to Health Sector, will be Care professionals. Oyo and Bomo States
one determining factor of trained staff  are the exception with 200+Medical
remaining in the public sector health  Practitioners and 30+ Pharmacists(Private
services.                              and Public); majority of remaining States
have less then 50 General Practitioners and
less than 20 Pharmacists;
only 2/16 todate have qualified
Epidemiologists. All States overwhelmingly
depend on various nursing cadres to
maintain health services.
-State Plans for Training/             -The 9/16 HSF State Health Plans (plus 7/20 -The State Health Plans provide the
Retraining required Health personnel.  non HSF States) & 10/16 States Phase Two framework for addressing the status of
studies now provide a robust information  heafth service staffing noted above, and now
base for SMOH's to adopt formal        need to be presented and formally approved
Recruitment/Career development HR Plans  by civilian State Assembly
Objective iib) Strengthen the institutional and
financial capacity of the participant States.
-Retention of State support for improved
programs in HMIS, Health Planning,    -All incoming State Govemors-elect and  -16/16 States have signalled their strong
Research and EDP.                      State Health Commissioners confirmed their intention to continue to support HMIS, Health
intention to continue support for the  Planning, Research and EDP through formal
strengthened State capacity in these 4  confirmation of their participation in the HS2
domaines at 6/99 Seminar.              at the 10/99 National Council of Health.
- 22 -



Output Indicators:
I~~~~~~~~~~~~Poce _                          t'"  Is,P.-tPSR,=                           ,.
Objective ia) Establishment and financing of
an Heaflth System Fund.
-Adequate, regular provision of counterpart  -the % of counterpart funds received  -imrmediate improvement following June 99
Funds for States HeaHth Services/HSF.  todate(6/99) ranged from FMHSS 5% only,  handover to civilian administration ranging
to 9/16 States at less than 50%,with 2 over  from 5 States at 1 000h-4 others above 50%,
90%. Duing the year of transition to civilian  but still 2 below 20%.
rule, FY99, Benue, Ebonyi, Kogi and Lagos
States Loan assisted activities were
particularly slowed by the delay in
counterpart fund provision.
Objective ib) Improve the quality and
efficiency of Health Services in participant
States and LGA's.
-Number of renovatedlextendedlupgraded   -149 PHC facilities/sites          -Completion of 55 outstanding works giving a
constructed Primary Health Care Facility    (13/16 States to complete outstanding works total of 204 PHC facilities/sites
sites (PHC)                           12/99)
-Number of renovated/ extended/upgraded   -9 CMS, 2Public Health Labs, 2 Drug Quality -outstanding works completed: adding 1
constructed Secondary Health Care Facility  Control Labs, 51 Hospitals/SHC's, 8 State   Drug Quality Control Labs,
sites (SHC's).                        Training Schools, 3 HMIS Units, 1 Medical  14 Hospitals, 1 HMIS Unit and 5 Boreholes
Equipment Maintenance Workshop. Three  to 6/99 total
SMOH,2 PIU's, 35 Boreholes (for PHC/SHC
facilities), 32 Generators/Connection to
National Grid.
-As of 6/99 these have included completion
-Range and category of Location-specific   of Upgrading Matemity            -as per 6/99.
needs.                                Hospital/establishment of Trauma
Emergency Centrel Drug Quality Control Lab
(Lagos State); X-Ray Theatre & Isolation
ward for TB/
Leprosy Referral Centre (Ondo State);
Health Centres to provide full range
(curative & preventive) of services, due to
physical riverine isolation of large delta
populations (Bayelsa State)"sleeping
sickness" wards (Ebonyi State); Public
Health Labs (Kogi and Lagos)
-All 225 PHC/SHC Health facilities
completed todate, comissioned and in use.
-Number of PHC/SHC Facilities re-equipped, An additional 104 PHC/SHC Faclities have  -55 outstanding facities/ sites commissioned
commissioned and in use.              been equipped, partially re- equipped.  12/99; equipment distribution
continued-4/2000.
-10,600 staff received new/upgrading
-Number/categories of staff from/for such   training through workshops, seminars etc
facilities received upgrading training.  (LGA councillors, LGA/PHC Coordinators,  -as per 6/99
Pharmacy Techni-ians,HMIS Officers,
General Practitioners, Paramedics, Nurses,
Environmental Health officers, TBA's) with
local communities and NGOs.
- 23 -



Objective iia) Strengthen the capacity of
participant States to plan, carry out, monitor
and evaluate their PH programs.
-Timely completion of Annual Progress  -As of 12/95, all participant States have  -as per 6/99
Reports.                               provided timely Annual Progress reports
-Timely formulation of realistic coherent  -As of 12/96, all participant States have  -as per 6/99
Calendar- Year Workplans/Budgets       provided realistic coherent Calendar-Year
Workplans/Budgets.
-Formulation of State/LGA Plans.       -9/16 State Health Plans and 1/16      -as per 6/99
completed LGA Health Plans (Benue)
-Formulation of State Essential Drug Policy  -15/16 have EDP's (Kogi); 16/16 have EDL's; -as per 6/99
(EDP) & Essential Drug List(EDL).      5/16 already reviewed EDL's.
-EDP & EDL formal statutory approval by    -14/16 formally approved.          -as per 6/99
State Executive Council
-Establishment/upgrading of Essential Drugs -16/16 have one/combination DRFs;  -as per 6/99
Revolving Fund.
-Establishment/upgrading of State/Federal  -16/16 have HMIS (8/16 established since   -as per 6/99
Health Management Information System    '97)
(HMIS).
-No/Categories of Staff trained/upgraded to  -312 staff completed Overseas Training,    -as per 6/99-
ensure maintenance of these activities by    1203 completed NationaV State level skills
States and FMHSS.                     training: all State HSF/PIU stafft candidates
from each of the SMOH departments; other
sectoral ministries implicated in
HSF(Finance, Public Works, Justice). HMIS
technical capacty strengthened with FMHSS
and broad but unsystematic inservice training
for members of PIU and staff of other
FMHSS departments
-Specification/completion of Phase 2 studies. -9/16 completed Phase 2 Studies.  - 10/16 completed Phase 2 Studies
-% Completion of Annual Work Plan.
-(96-98)15/16 completed(Akwa-lbom); as of - as per 6/99
98, Workplans 100% completed by midyear
-% Completion of respective activitles of    -Facilities renewaV equipping,and staff
Annual Work Plan.                      training and HMIS 100% completed; Phase 2 - as per 6/99
studies 62% completion.
- 24 -



Objective iib) strengthen the institutional and
financial capacity of the participant States.
-Maintenance of regular quality supervision
amd monioring visits to HSF participant    -(94-97) biannual monitoring State visits    -as per 6/99
States by FMHSS/PIU.                  were completed by FMHSS/PIU.
Discontinued thereafter due to lack of funds
and capacity.
-Implementation Clinics and Pre Annual    -(94-97) Clinics and prep workshops
Review preparatory workshops convened by organised by FMHSS; thereafter States did  -as per 6/99
FMHSS/PIU                             not need prep workshops and specific needs
as appropriate.                       based clinics organised by IBRD
in Abuja.
-Timely coherent realistic Anuual Workplan  -Timely Annual Workplans
from FMHSS/PIU including all Components  (i.e. by Dec of preceding year) was never   -as per 6/99
for State outreach from Research/Health    achieved. Coherence and realism achieved
Planning/ HMIS.                       after several revisions.
-% Completion of such Workplans.      -(97-98) Health Planning & (97-99) HMIS
were 100%;                            -as per 6/99
Research never exceeded 10%.
-Timely provision of all State and    -by 6/98 for the first time all Audits were
FMHSS/PIU Audits.                     received on schedule, and two outstanding  -by 6/30/2000,17/17 Audits received
Audits completed. 6/99 Five months civil
servants strike/transition to civilian
govemment delayed finalization of 10 State
Audits.
-Provision of EDP/TA on matching funds   -Not achieved
basis with States. (Calendar 97 onwards)                                     -as per 6/99
End of project
- 25 -



Federal Ministry of Health
Objective ii a)
Strengthen capacity of participant States to plan, carry out,
monitor and evaluate their PH programs
Outputs                                                               S
Formulation of State / LGA Plans
Formulation of State Essential Drug Policy (EDP) and                 US
Essential Drug List (EDL)
Establishment / upgrading of State / Federal Health                  HS
Management Information System
No / Categories of Staff trained / upgraded to insure                 S
maintenance of these activities
Objective ii b)
Strengthen the institutional and financial capacity of the
participant states
Outputs                                                              LS
Maintenance of regular quality supervision
amd monitoring visits to HSF participant States by
FMHSS/PIU.
Implementation Clinics and Pre Annual Review preparatory             LS
workshops convened by FMHSS/PIU
as appropriate.
Timely coherent realistic Annual Work plan from                      US
FMHSS/PIU including all Components for State outreach
from Research/Health Planning/ HMIS.
% Completion of such Work plans.                                     LS
Timely provision of all State and FMHSS/PIU Audits.                   S
Provision of EDP/TA on matching funds basis with States.             US
(Calendar 97 onwards)
Code: US - Unsatisfactory
LS - Less Satisfactory
S - Satisfactory
HS - Highly Satisfactory
-26 -



Health Svstem Fund Project: Participant States
Objective   Outcome.      Obiective ib)    Outcome:      Obiective it a)   Outcome:    Outcome        Objective ii b}  Outcome:
ii          Post-project   Improve the     Documented   Strengthen      Retention of   Status of      Strengthen the   Retention of
Establish    procurement   quality and     new/user      capacity of    Trained Staff  State Plans for  institutional /   State support
Ca gpot A,    ment /           costs         efficiency of H.   rates of the    participating    in Health  Training,'   financial       for improved
financing   incorporated   Services of     health        States to plan,   Planning /  Retraining     capacity of the   programs
of Health   in States 3   participating    services of    carry out,     Pharnaceuti  required        participant     HMIS I Health
System     year Rolling   States and local  such         monitor and     cal           Health         states          Planning /
Fund        Plan          gov. LGSs        facilities    evaluate their                Personnel                      Research &
_                                              ___rrr                                                                                     FDP
___ _      __                              S                             S..  _  , * _           ______
Akwa-lbom                          LS                              S        _S                                 LSS
Borno                               S                              Li HS                         S              S.S
Kaduna                             LS                              S             .S                            LS                              S
Kwara                              HS-                            HS -_S_ _                                    HS                              S
Oy_                                 S                              S                             S             HS                              S
711 5    _        _ _ _ _   _ _  _ _  _                        S                             SH                -
.___.__  _________                                                            s        _
Benue                               S                              S   _                         S               S                           .S
Enugu                              LS   _                          S                             S             LS                              S
Katsina                            HS                              S                             S             HS                              S
_agos  -         S                              S  _ _                        S             HS                              S
Olndo                                                              S                             S             HS                              S
OSU S_    _                                                                HS _ 
. _      _ _ _ _ _   _ _ _ _ _ _ _                                      S              S......  .   _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _....... 
Bayeba                                              S          _                  S                      S         S                           S
Ebonvi                                                                                           s S  SSS
Ekiti                               S                                                              _SS
Code  LS - Less Satisfactory
S - Satisfactory
HiS - Highly Satisfactory
- 27 -



Annex 2. Project Costs and Financing
Proect Cost by Component (in US$ million equivalent)
Component A.State Health Sub-Projects                    90.30            58.81           0.65
Component B.Assistance to the Federal Ministry            1.90             5.54           1.31
of Health
Component C.Federal support to the States( this           2.30
component was combined with Component B at MTR)
Total Baseline Cost                                      94.50            64.35
Total Project Costs                94.50            64.35
Total Financing Required                 94.50            64.35
Project Costs by Procurement Arrangements (Appraisal Estimate) (US$ million equivalent)   ___
1. Works                      0.00         41.60          4.00          0.00         45.60
(0.00)       (27.00)       (2.60)        (0.00)       (29.60)
2. Goods                      22.30         16.20         2.00          0.27         40.77
(21.70)       (9.80)        (2.00)       (0.27)        (33.77)
3. Services                   0.00          0.00          7.10          0.80          7.90
(0.00)        (0.00)       (6.90)        (0.80)        (7.70)
4. Miscellaneous              0.00          0.00          0.00          0.23          0.23
(0.00)        (0.00)       (0.00)        (0.23)        (0.23)
5. Miscellaneous              0.00          0.00          0.00          0.00          0.00
(0.00)        (0.00)       (0.00)        (0.00)        (0.00)
6. Miscellaneous              0.00          0.00          0.00          0.00          0.00
(0.00)        (0.00)       (0.00)        (0.00)        (0.00)
Total                      22.30         57.80         13.10         1.30         94.50
(21.70)       (36.80)      (11.50)       (1.30)        (71.30)
Project Costs by Procurement Arrangements (Actual/Latest Estimate) (US$ million equivalent)
1. Works                      0.00          4.31          0.37          0.00          4.68
(0.00)       (17.25)       (1.50)        (0.00)        (18.75)
2. Goods                      0.00          2.49          1.36          0.51          4.36
(4.00)        (9.99)       (5.45)        (0.51)        (19.95)
3. Services                   0.00          0.00          11.82         0.79         12.61
(0.00)        (0.00)       (11.82)       (0.79)       (12.61)
-28 -



4. Miscellaneous                  0.00           0.00            0.36           0.00            0.36
(0.00)         (0.00)         (1.45)          (0.00)         (1.45)
5. Miscellaneous                  0.00           0.00            0.00           0.00           0.00
(0.00) (0.00)  (0.00)         (0.00)          (0.00)
6. Miscellaneous                  0.00           0.00            0.00           0.00            0.00
_    (0.00)        (0.00)         (0.00)         (0.00)          (0.00)
Total                          0.00           6.80           13.91           1.30           22.01
(4.00)         (27.24)        (20.22)         (1.30)         (52.76)
" Figures in parenthesis are the amounts to be financed by the Bank Loan. All costs include contingencies.
2'Includes civil works and goods to be procured through national shopping, consulting services, services of contracted
staff of the project management office, training, technical assistance services, and incremental operating costs related to
(i) managing the project, and (ii) re-lending project funds to local government units.
Project Financing by Component (in US$ million equivalent)
:r ..    .e  v_k'igL__ t=u'....iCE !-._' 
State Health Sub-Projects    49.90  30.73       9.67                                     0.0    0.0    0.0
Assistance to Federal     1.20       0.07      0.63                                      0.0    0.0    0.0
Ministry of Health
Federal Support to the    1.10       1.20       0.00                                     0.0    0.0    0.0
States
Post MTR:                                                 48.65      19.47      0.00     0.0    0.0    0.0
State Health Sub-Projects
Assistance to Federal                                     4.11        1.24      1.30     0.0    0.0    0.0
Ministry of Health and
Federal Support to States
-29 -



Annex 3: Economic Costs and Benefits
- 30 -



Annex 4. Bank Inputs
(a) Missions:
Stage of PrqiectCycle                   No. of Persons and Sp0cialt                   Performance Rating
(eg.   Economists, I NS, etc.)         implementation       Development
Monear          Count        Specilt y                           Progress           Objective
Identification/Preparation
11/87                            2    ML/SOO,PH                               S                    S
04-5/89                          8    ML/HP,HFI,SOO,PH,                        S                   S
4CON(1Inst,lFin,2PH)
Appraisal/Negotiation
06-7/89                          8    ML/HP,SOO,FM,PH,4                        S                   S
CON(l Inst, lFin,2PH)
10/89                            8    ML/HFI,PH,CO,DO,CON(HP)                  S                   S
Supervision
06/91                             1   ML                                       S                   S
06/92                             2   CON(PS)                                  S                   S
03/93                             2   ML/PH,CON(PS)                            S                   S
09/93                             3   ML/PH,OO,FM                              S                   S
12/93                             7  ML/DV,PH,ECON,OO,PS                       S                   S
09/94                             3   ML/PH,OO,PS                              S                   S
06/95                             4   ML/PH,OA,SOO,CON(AR)                     S                   S
12/95                            6   SOO,OO,PS,PA,CON(AR),                     S                   S
FM(INT)
12/96                            5   ML/PH,OO,DA,PA,CON(AR)                    S                   S
09/97                             5   MLIPH,FA,OO,PA,DA,                       S                   S
CON(AR)
12/97                             6   ML/PH,FA,OO,PA,DA,                       S                   S
CON(AR)
07/98                             6   ML/PH,OO,FA,PA,DA                        S                   S
CON(AR)
06/99                             6   ML/PH,OO,FA,PA,DA,                       S                   S
CON(AR)
ICR
05                               5    ML/PH,OO,PA,FA,CON                       S                   S
(AR)
AR=Architect,BA=Banking,CO=Counsel,CON=Consultant,DV=Division Chief,ECON=Economist,DA=Disbursement Assistant,DO=Disbursement
Officer,FM=Financial Management,FI=Finance,HFI=Heaith Financing/lnstitutions,HP-Health Planner,HS=Health
Specialist,INST=Institutional,INT=Intem,ML=Mission Leader,OA=Operations Assistant,OO=Operations Officer,OS=Operations Specialist,
PA=Procurement Analyst,PS=Procurement Specialist,PH=Public Health,SOO=Senior Operation Officer
-31 -



(b) Staff3?
Stage of Pro c  Cycle    ___                        __ 777____a____________
________________   No. Staf~weeksus$ (,OM)
Identification/Preparation             47.95                       124.11
AppraisaVNegotiation                    23.25                      46.20
Supervision                           500.06                     1,017.79
ICR                                     12.03                      29.12
Total                                 583.29                     1,217.22
- 32 -



Annex 5. Ratings for Achievement of Objectives/Outputs of Components
(H=High, SU=Substantial, M=Modest, N=Negligible, NA=Not Applicable)
Rating
Macro policies                          O H  OSUOM  O N  * NA
Sector Policies                        O H  *SUOM  O N  o NA
3 Physical                               O H  *SUOM  O N  O NA
3 Financial                              O H  OSUOM  O N  * NA
Z Institutional Development              0 H  O SU O M  0 N  0 NA
Z Environmental                          O H  OSUOM  O N  * NA
Social
3 Poverty Reduction                O H  OSU*M  O N  O NA
ZGender                           O H OSUOM O N O NA
O Other (Please specify)           0 H  O SU O M  O N  0 NA
F Private sector development             0 H  O SU 0 M  0 N  0 NA
F Public sector management               0 H  O SUO M  0 N  0 NA
O Other (Please specify)                 O H  OSUOM  O N  O NA
- 33 -



Annex 6. Ratings of Bank and Borrower Performance
(HS=Highly Satisfactory, S=Satisfactory, U=Unsatisfactory, HU=Highly Unsatisfactory)
6.1 Bank performance                                 Rating
I Lending                                            OHS OS OU OHU
C Supervision                                        O HS * S   OU  OHU
O Overall                                            OHS OS O U O HU
6.2 Borrower performance                             Rating
O Preparation                                        O HS * S   O  U  O HU
O Government implementation performance               0 HS O S  0  U  0 HU
E Implementation agency performance                   O HS * S   O  U  O HU
L Overall                                             OHS OS  OU  O HU
- 34 -



Annex 7. List of Supporting Documents
1.    Maps IBRD 20709R and 30707.
2.    Staff Appraisal Report No. 8080-UNI dated April 3, 1991.
3.    Loan Agreement dated August 6, 1991.
4.    Report of Mid-Term Review dated December 23, 1993.
5.    Aide-memoires of Bank supervision missions Jun/19/91; Jun/30/92; Mar/01/93; Sept/24/93;
Dec/23/93; Sept/16/94; Jun/29/95; Apr/24/96; Jun/19/97; Oct/29/97; Feb/27/98; Jun/30/99;
12/30/99 and 05/10/00.
6.    List of Studies undertaken during Loan implementation (Section 10.).
7.    Borrower's Completion Reports from all 16 HSF States , received February 2000.
8.    "Lessons Learned from HSF 1" (Section from proposals by all 16 HSF prepared for participation
in a second Health Systems Credit); reviewed May-June 2000.
9.    Technical summaries of implementation issues/lessons learned from World Bank Procurement
Specialist, Financial Management Specialist and Consultant Architect.( May and June 2000).
10.   The National Health Policy and Strategy to Achieve Health for All Nigerians, October, 1988.
11.   Impact of World Bank Assisted Projects in Nigeria 1958-1998.Volume V; September 98, Report
on Health Sector; BIFEX Consultants Ltd., Lagos, Nigeria for Federal Ministry of Finance.
12.   Evaluation Study of World Bank assisted Health Sector Projects in Nigeria 1984-1998 Study
conducted by COLNIG (NIG) Ltd. Health Care Financing and Management Consultants, October
2nd 1998; for the Federal Ministry of Finance.
- 35 -






MAP SECTION






NIGERIA                                   CtiAD
ADMINISTRATIVE DIVISIONS
BUIRKINA                                       N  I G  F R
(; FAS() O                                 \,
5I(KOTO
SOKOTO                       IKANO
MAIDGR
BENIN                                                      BU-
/~~~K N                 GE                              BAUCHIu
eervo:r     N' R KKADUNA)                 1   0INNA
ILORIN                I                      GNGCA 
t ~ ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~                                    Stat Cap  e  tal3  r
Y,                                                    (-'(  A " " c4     Ste Boundarie
41~~~~~~~~~~~               1 1t*\                          Otj    
*                                                                  Mto  I  0  60 A  100N
4 < + ft (~~ir                                                            Stato Capitals
LAvGOS          N;1 /~rv <                          Ao4*%tesv                 sational Capital
<, ,,5,< 4?) .~~~~~~~~~~~~~ Rive-rs
\ ,>WERt t 2 <ALAB R                                 Svt^ State Boundaries
0~~~~~~,             \_l7            Jt1u    ~       nsmlo<p_o                  International      i
49;A"f 4of 4Gfjnea               4     }     <     ,                               BoundariesT
s             gasf                   |            ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~KILWMETiR a go 8 12C 160 
e                      ; !2L>tfS 7 BOX               ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~MILES 020 40 60 sot 10   O






-IA'4                                                   6"                            8"                            tO                                                                                          16"               14"
N  I    G  E  R                                                            ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~This mop was produced by the
-  -                 '.    \~~~~~~~~~ ~~~2 ~Mop Design Unit of The World Bank.
5   K                                                                                                               ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~The boundaries, colors, denominat'ions
--,,So oto                                                                                                             ~ ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ond any other information shown on
/r-A              Yobe ~~~R.                                .Cfd           timpdonot imply, on the part of
-                                 The W~~~~~~~~~~~~ordBnk Group, any judgment
Bir  ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~ ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~edrement or acceptance of
Ke                                      JiG~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~'  ntelglsou o n ertr,o
"N ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~.                                                                                                          onaries.
12"
Do-.f~~~~~~adutr
B  E N"l N"  R                                                                                                  m. RIOR"NASA        7"n'0                                    OTE  SLCTDTON
Minna                                                       AWA~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~EPESWY
----STATE BONARIEA S
E A                                                     ~~~~~~~~~~~~~NATERNATIONPIALBUDRE
6"                                                                                                                                                                                          NIGER /~~~~orn  IVR
A                                                                                8.~~~~~~~~~~~~~ 
Guf 0            Gune                                                                     '                                                                                      '-                     ,RPUrI
QtilofGu0    GINTERATINLONDRE
0~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ID1



