Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No. 8080-UNI
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
FEDERAL REPUBLIC OF NIGERIA
HEALTH SYSTEM FUND PROJECT
APRIL 3. 1991
Western Africa Department
Population and Human Resources Operations Division
This docment has a restricted dibutn ad may be used by recipins only in the performance of
their offlicial duties. Its coptents may no otheo se be disclosed wihot World Bauk authrzatI



FEDEPAL REPUBLIC OF NIGERIA
HEALTH SYSTEM FUND PROJECT
CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
Currency Unit            =           Naira (N)
US$ 1.00                 =           N8.0
N 1.00                               US$0.12
WEIGHTS AND MEASURES
Metric System
ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
CBN     -  Central Bank of Nigeria
DPRS    -  Department of Planning, Research and Statistics (FMOH)
DRF     -  Drug Revolving Fund
FGN     -  Federal Government of Nigeria
FMFED   -  Federal Ministry of Finance and Economic Development
FMOH    -  Federal Ministry of Health
HMB     -  Hospital Management Board
HSF     -  Health System Fund
ICB     -  International Competitive Bidding
IDF     -  Infrastructure Development Fund
IEC     -  Information, Education and Communication
IMR     -  Infant Mortality Rate
LCB     -  Local Competitive Bidding
LGA     -  Local Government Authorities
MCH     - Maternal and Child Health
MIS     - Management Information System
NGO     -  Non-Governumental Organization
PFI     -  Participating Financial Intermediaries
PHC     -  Primary Health Care
RMN     -  Resident Mission, Nigeria
SMLG    -  State Ministry of Local Government
SMOH    -  State Ministry of Health
SOE     -  Statement of Expenditure
UNFPA   - United Nations Fund for Population Activities
UNICEF  - United Nations Children's Fund
WHO     - World Health Organization
FISCAL YEAR
January 1 - December 31



FEDERAL REPUBLIC OF NIGERIA        FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLI
HEALTH SYSTEM FUND PROJECT
TABLE OP CONTENTS
Page
LOAN AND PROJECT SUMMARY ......................................  i - lit
I.     INTRODUCTION   ..............ls**...*t#.... 
II.    POPULATION. HEALTH AND NUTRITION IN NIGERIA  ..................  2
A. Profile .                                                       2
B . Health Sec to r .         041     ........2
1. organization ..........2
2. Health Services Delivery ..............         ........ 3
3. Health Expenditures and Financing ......................  5
C.  Sectoral Issues ...........................................  6
D.  Government Policies and Strategies ........,..*............  7
E.  The Bank's Strategy and Role .............................  9
III.   THE PROJECT . ................ ..       ........... . ........... ... .... . 10
A.   Project Objectives ............ ..... . ... . ...... . 10
B.   Project Description ....................................... 11
1. Line of Credit for State Subprojects        .............. 11
2. Assistance to the Federal Ministry of Health .... ...... 14
3. Support to the States  ............ . . ........ .... 14
C.   Project Costs and Financing Plan         ......................... 15
D.   Credit Demand .............................................. 17
E.  Institutional Framework ..... .................. .. ..... ....* 17
1. Federal Government's Role ...................... 18
2. Role of Participating Financial Intermediaries (PFIs).. 19
3. The State's Role ....................... * .... ......... 21
4. LGAs ' Role ........ . . . . . . . . . ..   . ... . . . ... ....21
5. Local Consultants' Role ................. .. ....... . 21
This report is based on the findings of preappraisal and appraisal miasions
which visited Nigeria in April/May and June/July, 1989. The mission
members included V. Srinivasan (Health Planner, mission leader), J.
Upadhyay (Health Financing and Institutional aspects), G. Faillace
(Finance), Khadijat Mojidi (Public Health), R. Jarquin (Institutional,
Cons.), B. Kurtz (Finance, Cons.), F.T. Pollard (Public Health, Cons.) and
W. Reinke (Public Health, Cons.). Mr. F. Golladay, Principal Health
Economist, was the lead advisor. Mmes. Erika Bond, Mena Rios and Betty
Casey-Hayford provided secretarial support in the preparation of the
report. Mrs. Janet de Merode and Mr. Edwin Lim are the managing Division
Chief and the Department Director, respectively, for the operation.
This document has a restricted distribution and-may be used by recipients only in the performance
of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



TABLE OF CONTENTS (cont'd)
Pae
F.    Organization and Finances of PFls  ........................ 21
1. Organization ........... ...........................                   21
2. Finances and Impact of Project ......................... 23
G.    State Finances and Financial Eligibility                ................. 24
IV.      PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION                 ................................ ..... 24
A.    Project Management and Coordination .........* ............   24
B.    HSF Project Development                .................................. 25
- Policy Statement,  Project and Credit Guidelines  ........ 25
- Subproject Preparation Procedures  .............    .           ....... 25
C.    HSF Technical Assistance,  Training and Studies  ....              ....... 27
D.   Procurement  ..................... ......................... 28
E.   Disbursement         ............................................. 30
F.    Accounting and Auditing .................................... 31
G.    Mid-Term Review  ............0    ............................ 31
H.    Status of Project Preparation ............................. 31
V.    PROJECT BENEFITS AND RISKS ........................ 32
VI.      AGREEMENTS.  CONDITIONS AND RECOMMENDATION .............                ........ 34



ALNEXES
2-1   Comparative Socio-economic Indicators
2-2   Common Causes of Morbidity and Hospital Admissions in Nigeria
2-3   Organization Chart - Federal Ministry of Health
2-4   Health Responsibilities of Various Government Institutions in
Nigeria
2-5   Health Establishments in Nigeria
3-1   Detailed Description - Training and Technical Assistance
Support to States
3-2   Detailed Description - FMOH Support
3-3   Estimated Project Costs by Component
3-4   Institutional Framework and Roles
3-5   Organization, Finances and Performance of Participating
Financial Intermediaries (PFIs)
3-6   Eligibility Criteria for Selection of Additional
Financial Intermediaries
3-7   Subproject Preparation Procedures:
Provisions for Maintenance of Quality of Appraisals
4-1   Statement of Policy
4-2   Project Guidelines:
Criteria for Subproject Selection and Appraisal
4-3   Credit Guidelines and Functions of PFIs
4-4   Standard Subproject Conditions for State Compliance before
Appraisal/Negotiations/PFI Board Presentation/Effectiveness
4-5   Summary of Technical Assistance
4-6   Project Implementation - Training and Technical Assistance
Support to States
4-7   Project Implementation - FMOH Support
4-8   Implementation Schedule
4-9   Disbursement Schedule
4-10 Analysis of Subproject Proposals in Pipeline
4-11 Documents in the Project File
MAP
IBRD 2W09R - NIGERIA Administrative Divisions



FEDERAL REPUBLIC OF NIGERIA
HEALTH SYSTEM FUND PROJECT
LOAN AND PROJECT SUMMARY
Borrowers           Federal Republic of Nigeria
Beneficiaries:      State Governments, Local Government Administrations
(LGAs), Federal Ministry of Health (FMOH), and
Participating Financial Intermediaries (PFIs).
Amount:             US$70 million.
Terms:              Twenty-years, including a five-year grace period, at
the Bank's standard variable interest rate.
On-lending Terms:  FGN would onlend US$67.8 million to the States, to
carry out health and family planning sub-projects,
at the IBRD interest rate for a period of seven to
fifteen years with a two to three year grace period.
FGN would bear the credit risk except that the PFIs
would assume at least ten percent of the credit risk
of sub-loans to the States for which the PFIs would
charge guarantee fees. The sub-loans for these sub-
projects would need to be approved by the Bank
except that free limits would be established for
sub-loans of US$0.5 million equivalent or less
excluding the first sub-loan in each State. FGN
would pass on US$2.2 million equivalent to its FMOH
and States to finance training, consultant services,
studies, vehicles and equipment.
Proiect
Descriptions        The primary project objectives are to finance
improvements in State health systems by the
establishment of a wholesaling mechanism utilizing
PFIs to appraise, supervise and cofinance State
health subprojects; and to assist the States in
improving health system investment planning.
The project comprisess (a) a line of credit, called
the Health System Fund (HSF), for health subprojects
in the various States to include one or more of the
following components: (i) institutional development;
(ii) strengthening of health services, including
facility upgrading and new facilities; (iii)
essential drug programs; (iv) strengthening of
MCH/FP service delivery; (v) disease surveillance;



- ii -
(vi) information, education and coumunication
programs; (vii) nutrition; (viii) promotion of non-
governmental organizations (NGOs); and (ix)
preparation work for future projects; (b) assistance
to FMOH, for the strengthening of its Department of
Planning, Research and Statistics, and the
establishment of a management information system in
FMOH; and (c) support to the State Ministries of
Health by providing technical assistance and
training.
Economic Rate of
Return:             Not applicable.
Proiect Benefits
and Risks           The principal benefit of the project is that it
would considerably expand the access of the States
and LGAs to health sector financing. This is
consistent with FGN's and the Bank's objective of
mitigating the social costs of structural
adjustment. It would also improve implimentation,
since State governments would take up a sequence of
modest subprojects, ta be implemented over shorter
cycles and at lower cost. The use of the financial
institutions for the wholesaling mechanism should
improve financial discipline on the States; this
should also improve the management and cost recovery
at State and local government authority (LGA)
levels. The main risk is that the PFIs may not
pr-e to be effective wholesaling intermediaries for
the health subprojects. This risk has been
addressed by (a) establishing firm guidelines for
;FI subproject selection and approval; (b) training
PFI staff in appraisal techniques; (c) obtaining
Bank's prior approval of most of the PFI-appraised
subprojects; and (d) keeping subprojects small,
simple and implementable within the context of each
State's health plan. Involvement of the Nigerian PFI
staff, who are gaining valuable experience in
implementing the Infrastructure Development Fund
Project (Loan 2925-UNI), is also expected to address
this risk.



- iii -
Proiect Costs and Financing a/
Estimated costs:                               Local      Fcreign   Total
------(USS millions)-----
State Subprojects                              40.4        49.9     90.3
Assistance to FMOH                              0.7         1.2      1.9
Support to SMOHs                                1.2         1.1      2.3
Total project costs                      42.3        52.2      94.5^
Financing Plan:
Federal Government                              0.7          -       0.7
State Governments                              13.5          -      13.5
PFIs                                            9.0                  9.0
World Bank                                     18.4         51.6    70.0
Japanese Grant Facility                         0.7          0.6     1.3
Total                                    42.3         52.2    94.5 a/
a/ Includes taxes and duties estimated at US$6.8 million.
Estimated Loan Disbursements:
World Bank Fiscal Years
1991   1992   1993   1994   1995   1996   1997    1998
------------------- (USS Million) --------------------
Annual        0.70   4.90   11.20  14.00  12.60  10.50  11.20   4.90
Cumulative   0.70   5.60   16.80  30.80  43.40  53.90  65.10  70.00



FEDERAL REPUBLIC OF NIGERIA
HEALTH SYSTEM FUND PROJECT
I. INTRODUCTION
1.01.       The Federal Government of Nigeria (FGN) is strongly
committed to improving the health status of all its people and in
achieving 'Health for All by the Year 2000." In this context, the
Federal Government has requested Bank assistance in establishing a
wholesaling mechanism for financing improvements in state health systems
in order to attain a more even distribution of sectoral resources and
thus serve a wider base of the population than has been possible in the
past. This proposed Health System Fund (HSF) project, patterned after
the Infrastructure Development Fund (IDF) project (Loan 2925-UNI), would
utilize a number of participating financial intermediaries (PFIs) to
appraise, supervise and cofinance state health subprojects and to assist
the states in improving health system investment planning. The Bank
loan (US$70 million) would provide a line of credit to FGN for financing
the health subprojects in various states and their local government
administrations (LGAs). Total project cost is estimated at US$94.5
million, of which state governments would finance US$13.5 million, PFIs
US$9.0 million, FGN US$0.7 million and a Japanese grant US$1.3 million.
The proposed Bank loan of US$70 million would cover 74t of the total
required financing and 99Z of total foreign exchange.
1.02.       The project is consistent with the Bank's sectoral strategy
to support the Federal and state governments' efforts to make primary
health care available to all Nigerians and to strengthen family planning
and maternal/child care programs. This is also consistent with FGN's
and the Bank's objective of minimizing social costs of recent
macroeconomic adjustment measures. Together with two other projects --
the National Essential Drugs (Loan 3125-UNI, effective in August 1990),
and the National Population (proposed for FY91) -- the project would
help to extend to a number of states and LGAs the introduction of
important policy reforms and institution building measures, with
emphasis on improving efficiency, rehabilitating existing assets, and
mobili.ing additional resources through cost recovery. The three
projects would complement and reinforce each other as part of the
coordinated package of assistance to Nigeria's health and population
sectors.



II. POPULATION. HEALTH AND NUTRITION IN NIGERIA
A.    Profile
2.01.       DemoRraphy.  Nigeria's population of 117 million (1990
estimate) makes it the most populous country in Africa and the tenth
most populous in the world. Densities reach as high as 700 people per
sq. km in parts of the southern states. The crude birth rate is
estimated at 46 per 1,000 population and the crude death rate at 15 per
1,000. Growing at an annual rate of about 3.11, Nigeria's population is
expected to double every 23 years; such rapid growth seriously i.nperils
the country's development.
2.02        Health status.  While there have been substantial gains over
the past two decades, health conditions in Nigeria are poor by
international standards. In 1988, life expectancy averaged only 51
years -- several years below the average for countries with similar per
capita income and near the levels prevailing among Nigeria's poorer
neighbors. The comparative socioeconomic indicators are given in Annex
2-1. The infant mortality rate (1C3 per 1,000 live births) and the
child death rate (21 per 1,000 children ages 1-4) remain high. Infants
and children under age five account for more than half of all deaths.
About 80X of recorded deaths in 1984 were due to preventable diseases.
The major causes of death are pneumonia, diarrhea, measles, malaria,
diphtheria, tuberculosis, cholera and polio. The most common causes of
morbidity are infectious, parasitic and respiratory diseases. Frequent
pregnancies and closely spaced births are also causes of high mortality
and morbidity rates among mothers and children. Annex 2-2 gives
information on the common causes of morbidity and hospital admissions in
Nigeria.
2.03.       Nutritional status.  Malnutrition is extensive in Nigeria
despite its relatively high per capita income compared to other African
countries.  The proportion of low-birth weight babies is estimated at
25Z of live births.  Stunting and wasting are relatively high across the
population; wasting incidence is estimated at between 8.02 to 34.1Z in
rural areas and between 3.42 to 36.3Z in urban areas.  Factors
contributing to this situation include low food production, insufficient
purchasing power among large segments of the population, interaction
between disease and malnutrition, nutritionally harmful traditions and
food taboos, poor infant feeding practices, lack of education, and rapid
population growth.
B.    The Health Sector
1.    Oraanization
2.04.       Federal.  Responsibility for health services and programs in
Nigeria is shared concurrently by all three government levels --
Federal, state and local. The Federal Ministry of Health (FMOH), with
overall responsibility for the sector, provides policy guidance and
strategic support to the 21 states and the Federal Capital Territory
(Abuja), coordinates state efforts towards a nationwide health system



and, in collaboration with the states, monitors and evaluates
implementation of the national health strategy. Recently reorganized
and now with eight departments (organization chart is at Annex 2-3), the
Ministry has di-ect operational responsibility for training medical
doctors; operating teaching, psychiatric and orthopedic hospitals;
monitoring and controlling contagious and communicable diseases; and
controlling vaccines and essential drugs. Formal linkage between FMOH
and the states occurs through the National Council on Health, chaired by
the Federal Minister of Health and composed of the State Commissioners
of Health.
2.05.       State.  In each state responsibility for health programs is
shared by the State Ministry of Health (SMOH), the Hospital Management
Board (HMB), and the Local Government Authorities (LGAs).  The SMOH is
headed by the State Commissioner of Health, who is responsible to the
State Executive Council and is assisted by the Director General in the
SMOH.  Its main responsibilities include:  (a) planning and coordinating
the state health system; (b) operating and maintaining secondary and
non-specialized tertiary hospitals and some primary health care
facilities; (c) implementing public health programs; (d) training
nurses, midwives and auxiliary staff; and (e) assisting the LGAs with
the management and operation of some primary health care facilities.
The HMB administers the state's hospitals and, in some cases, health
centers and urban clinics; its main responsibilities are personnel
administration and the financing and management of logistical support
systems, including drugs, supplies, equipment and maintenance. The HMB
is headed by a Chairman, who in some states reports to the State
Commissioner of Health and in others to an independent board.  The SMOH
establishes the policies under which the HMB functions, while
maintaining overall responsibility for the state's health programs.
2.06.       Local Government Authorities (LGAs).  Each of the 452 LGAs
in Nigeria is responsible for operating the health facilities within its
area, including the provision of basic outpatient, community health,
hygiene and sanitation services. The SMOH coordinates these activities
and provides technical support. In each LGA the responsibility for
health rests with the Health and Social Welfare Councillor, whose unit
typically comprises four sections: (a) preventive health, including
public health and information programs and public sanitation; (b)
curative health, including the operation and supervision of health
facilities; (c) leprosy treatment; and (d) social welfare. The States
have provided special grants or seconded staff to the primary health
care (PHC) facilities until recently as many local governments have
lacked the institutional and financial capacity to carry out their
mandate to provide primary health care. In addition, as LGAs attain more
autonomy, they are also being handed over basic health centers and
hospitals. A more detailed description of the Federal, state and local
government responsibilities is set out in Annex 2-4.
2.    Health Services Delivery
2.07.       Health service facilities.  Nigeria's health delivery system
comprises an extensive network of public and private facilities. In
1987, primary health care was provided by about 4,000 health clinics and



- 4 -
dispensaries. Secondary care facilities included about 740 health
centers and 3,090 maternity centers and homes with 26,650 beds.
Tertiary facilities consisted of 14 university teaching hospitals with
about 7,100 beds, 16 military hospitals with about 3,000 beds, 27
specialized hospitals with about 4,600 beds, 760 general hospitals with
about 50,100 beds and a further 4,300 beds in other specialist
facilities. The FMOH has estimated about one hospital bed per 1,150
people; these figures represent an availability of one hospital bed per
1,600 people. While great efforts have been made to expand basic health
services throughout the country, the quality of services and the
distribution of facilities pose serious problems. Many of the
government health establishments, especially those of the primary level,
are in poor condition, inadequately staffed and under-supplied. About
80 of the health establishments and 702 of bed capacity are in the
public sector. The urban population is generally better covered by the
health network and has available a wider range of health services than
the rural population; about 30? of the rural population do not have
access to any health facility, compared to 15? of urban dwellers still
lacking adequate services. Fewer than 302 of pregnant women are
estimated to receive any form of modern ante- and post-natal care. In
1982, there were some 1,700 private and church-related health
establishments in Nigeria. Private facilities are heavily concentrated
in urban areas, with church-related facilities concentrated in the
southern States. Annex 2-5 summarizes data on health facilities in
Nigeria.
2.08.       Health manpower.  Nigeria has made rapid progress in
training and deploying health manpower. During the period 1975-87, the
number of doctors in Nigeria quadrupled from about 4,248 to 16,145, of
whom one-fifth were foreign. Over the same period, the number of nurses
increased sharply from 17,904 to 56,120, and the number of midwives
increased from 13,101 to 45,852. The number of pharmacists tripled to
4,446, dentists increased six fold to 1,000 and all categories of health
technicians increased nine fold to 8,186. The number of community health
workers rose from about 1,000 in 1979 to 21,742 in 1987. Nigeria's
health manpower training capacity is well developed and capable of
producing more manpower than can be economically absorbed by the sector
at this time. In 1986 there were 14 medical schools (with about 800
annual graduates), 54 general schools of nursing (with about 5,200
annual graduates), 46 specialized schools of nursing, and 63 schools of
midwifery. The school of health technology in each state trains
community health supervisors, assistDnts and aides.  Despite the
seemingly adequate supply of health manpower, there remain two major
unresolved issuest the quality of health training, and the inadequate
distribution of health personnel to service rural populations.
2.10.       Health services.  Where health facilities do exist, the mix
of services is often inadequate. For example, although maternal and
child health (MCH) is an essential part of the country's health
improvement efforts, MCH services often are not available even in
facilities that provide primary health care services. While the Federal
Government is strongly committed to an Expanded Program of Immunization
(EPI! against the six communicable diseases of children (measles,
diphtheria, pertussis, tetanus, polio and tuberculosis), the number of



- 5 -
children fully protected against these diseases remains low, largely
because of the administrative constraints in organizing immunization
programs and because of technical factors, mostly related to cold chain
maintenance. However, according to recent FMOH estimates, the
immunization against all six EPI diseases increased dramatically from a
low 2.5 percent in 1984 to 23.3 percent in 1987.
2.11.       Drug supply.  Since 1980 the supply of drugs needed for
preventing and curing the diseases most commonly suffered by Nigerians,
has fallen dramatically. Nigeria is totally dependent on imports of
finished drugs and raw materials for local drug production; yet from
1980 to 1984 the foreign exchange allocated for these imports decreased
from N170 million to N76 million. The Nigerian pharmaceutical industry
is operating at below a third of its capacity. As a result of this
situation the public health facilities are often out of stock and drugs
at commercial pharmacies are in short supply. Patients in public
facilities often have to purchase privately the drugs required in
surgery. The chronic shortages and frequent lack of drugs, plus the
limited use of generics, have resulted in Nigerians paying several times
world market prices for pharmaceuticals. For the past several years,
the acute drug shortage has been a major cause of rapidly declining
utilization rates of public health facilities and has eroded the
effectiveness of the health delivery system and public confidence in its
preventive and curative programs.
3.    Health Expenditures and Financing
2.12.       Public financing.  Revenues, both oil and non-oil derived,
are shared among the three levels of government through a complex
sharing formula. The revenues, except a minor amount directly retained
by the Federal Government, are deposited into the Federation Account
and allocated as follows: FGN, 50Z; the 21 States, 322; the local
governments, 15Z, and the Special Fund 3Z. (Until recently, the
residual Federation Account funds were allocated to mineral-producing
States and to special reserves for national disasters and environmental
control.) In addition, State and local governments levy user fees,
charges and taxes of their own (e.g. income taxes, motor vehicle fees,
market and motor park fees, property taxes, and business licenses).
State Governments are required to distribute 1O2 of internal revenues to
LGAs, but these are not always paid.
2.12.       As a share of the total Federal budget, health care shows a
distinct downward trend in the allocation of resources, from an average
of 2.9 percent of the approved allocation in the early 1980s to around
1.7 percent in the late 1980s. In 1987, the latest year for which
actual data is available, the FMOH received 1.4 percent of the total
actual Federal budget. However, it is estimated that around two-thirds
of public expenditure on health care occurs at the State and local
levels. During the 1980s, public expenditures for health declined in
real terms at all three levels of government as a result of high
inflation and the fall in oil revenues, upon which government budgets
depend. In real terms, the FMOH allocation in 1990 was worth about one-
third of its value in 1981. Virtually all public financial resources



- 6 -
for health are derived from budgetary sources, with only nominal sums
generated through user charges, sanitary inspections and licensing fees.
2.13.       Within the Federal budgets, while the nominal current
allocations by FMOH have shown a fairly steady increase, nominal capital
allocations have been much less regular. The contrast between these two
aggregates is most apparent in the early 1980s when the influx of oil
revenues enabled FMOH to initiate a major hospital construction program.
Personnel costs have assumed an increasing share of recurrent
expenditures, particularly in the States and LGAs. In these
circumstances, the States and LGAs face a major problem in trying to
meet the needs of the health sector for a rapidly growing population
with resources drastically squeezed by heavy debt service and by a lack
of reliable sources of funding on appropriate terms for even high-
priority projects. Hence, the Federal Government recognizes the need
for an appropriate mechanism for the health financing systems of the
States and LGAs, as well as for increased resource mobilization by the
States.
C.    Sectoral Issues
2.14.       Major issues in Nigeria's health sector includes
(a) institutional constraints, (b) urban and curative bias of health
care, (c) constrained budgetary resources, and (d) limited efforts to
expand family planning programs. These are discussed below.
2.15.       Institutional constraints.  The health sector suffers from a
number of institutional problems. At all three government levels there
is a multiplicity of organizations, with overlapping and often
conflicting areas of responsibility. Health planning and management
data are almost nonexistent, especially at the State and the LGA levels.
The State health ministries suffer from shortages of trained manpower,
essential tools (like a management information system), and necessary
equipment and material.
2.16.       Urban and curative bias of health care.  Since the mid-
1970s, the thrust of national health policy has been towards preventive
care. However, curative care in urban and rural areas still accounts
for a disproportionate share of public expenditures, with a large part
of the resources going to urban-based hospitals. More than 75? of all
major health facilities and manpower are in urban areas, which account
for about 30? of the country's population, whereas only about 35S of the
rural population have access to a public health facility. Where
facilities are available, there are many constraints, including lack of
equipment and adequately trained staff, shortages of drugs, and limited
funds for maintenance. These constraints handicap efforts to provide the
rural population with priority preventive and health promotion programs,
such as immunization, family planning, health education, and sanitation.
2.17.       Constrained budgetary resources.  Since independence,
Nigeria has provided largely free health services, financed almost
entirely from budgetary resources. In the 1970s the combined Federal,
state and local government expenditures were adequate to operate
hospitals and basic health facilities; budgets generally were balanced



between preventive and curative care, services were adequate and
facilities well utilized. With the economic crisis beginning in 1980,
financing for sectoral development and recurrent expenditures declined
and allocations between wage and non-wage costs became skewed. This
situation has led to shortages of drugs and other supplies,
deterioration of facilities and equipment, cutbacks in preventive health
programs and low morale among health workers. As the quality of health
seivices declined, the utilization of facilities also fell.
2.18.       Limited efforts to expand family planning programs.  Faced
with the implications of high population growth for economic
development, the Federal Government has launched a national population
policy that sets the stage for a major intersectoral family planning
program aimed at substantial reductions in the population growth rate.
This involves increasing public awareness of the consequences of
continued high fertility and making family planning services readily
available. Heretofore, the approach to family planning in Nigeria has
been cautious. The Government has given modest financial support for NGO
programs, and the private sector has provided limited services. The
public health facilities have sporadically provided family planning
services, but the contraceptive prevalence rate remains low, with only
about 5S of women using modern methods. Obstacles to the use of these
services include cultural and religious traditions, the low education
level of women, high infant mortality, and ignorance of modern methods
of contraception.
D.    Government Policies and Strategies
2.19.       Background.  Since 1960, the national health policy has
given priority to developing health manpower and training capacity,
strengthening preventive services, and expanding the health delivery
system, particularly in rural areas. By 1975, Nigeria enjoyed an
expanded health manpower base that contributed to the demand for
improving the quality and sophistication of care, especially hospital
care. This led to a widening gap between the national policy
objectives, which cor.tinued to emphasize the need to focus resources on
basic and preventive services, and actual expenditure patterns, which
increasingly favored capital-intensive programs oriented to curative
care. The Fourth Development Plan (1981-85), which adopted a strategy
of greater decentralization of planning to the states and LGAs, also
emphasized the development and expansion of basic services through the
Basic Health Services Scheme. Subsequently, the scheme was implemented
on a limited basis and evolved almost as a vertical program, isolated
from the regular state health systems.
2.20.       National health policy.  The overall goal of the current
national health policy (December 1986) is "Health for All by the Year
2000n in order to enable all Nigerians to lead socially and economically
productive lives. This goal is to be achieved by making primary health
care (PHC) the basis of the national health system. While the Fourth
Plan emphasized the extension of coverage through the Basic Health
Services Scheme, which involved building and equipping new facilities,
the new Fifth Plan (1990-94) focuses on rehabilitation and increased
utilization of existing facilities. While this is a familiar strategy



for countries facing budgetary constraints, it is particularly
appropriate for Nigeria where low facility utilization rates are common.
2.21.       The essential elements of the national health policy are to:
(a) give preventive and promotive measures high priority by
strengthening MCH, family planning and immunization programs and
promsting health, nutrition and family planning education; (b)
strengthen the health delivery system at all levels and ensure that PHC
services are supported by an efficient referral system and by ancillary
services including a reliable and sufficient drug supply, diagnostic and
laboratory services, and staff supervision and training; (c) encourage
self-reliance among individuals and communities in improving their
health status by involving them in planning and implementing health
services; and (d) improve the efficiency of public health services and
put them on a solid financial footing by strengthening the capacity of
the institutions that provide services, introducing a cost recovery
mechanism, and strengthening the capacity of the public facilities to
generate funds internally.
2.22.       The major responsibility for improving and expanding primary
health care rests with the local governments, with the active support of
the States. To assist the LGAs, the States need to make major
investments in the rehabilitation of facilities and the upgrading of
services in order to restore public confidence as a basis for
instituting cost recovery. The States also need to strengthen support
services such as technical supervision, in-service training, health
education, laboratory services, and management information. To assist
the LGAs in developing more effective PHC programs, the FMOH began a
major nationwide initiative in 1986, focusing on 100 LGAs located in all
21 States and aiming at covering all 452 LGAs by 1990. This program
comprises all PHC activities---MCH, family planning, immunization,
control of endemic and treatment of common diseases, health and
nutrition education, and provision of essential drugs. Emphasis is on
complete PHC coverage in each LGA, involvement of local communities in
program planning and implementation, and cost recovery with special
reference to drug revolving funds. The program has mobilized technical
specialists from FMOH departments and staffs of State health ministries,
State schools of health technology, and medical schools to support the
LGAs. Overall coordination is provided by FMOH's Department of Primary
Health Care, which was strengthened for this role in mid-1987. As each
LGA's plan is approved, the Federal Government releases a one-time-only
grant of N500,000 for the first five-year program; these funds are
complemented with external financing. FMOH's Department of
Planning, Research and Statistics has also taken a lead in developing a
health planning capacity and instituting the managerial process at all
government levels. It has prepared a health planning manual, guidelines
for preparing State and local health plans, and a model plan for Ogun
State. Subsequently, almost every State has prepared, for the first
time, a five -ear plan and from there a three year rolling plan and,
finally, annual implementation plans and budgets.
2.23.       National Population Policy.  The major objectives of the
recently approved National Population Policy are to improve living
standards, prevent premature death and illness among high-risk groups of



- 9 -
the infant mortality rate from over 100 to 30 per 1000 births by the
year 2000. The methods proposed for attaining the 2Z population growth
rate include reducing the number of marriages under age 18, decreasing
pregnancies of women below age 18 and over 35, increasing child spacing
to at least two years, and reducing the average number of children ever
born to a woman from more than six to four. Easily affordable, readily
available, safe and culturally acceptable family planning services are
among the most important strategies of the population pulicy, along with
improving health and living conditions. Implementation of the policy
comprises six main elements: (a) Family planning (FP) programs,
including promotion of public awareness of the consequences of rapid
population growth and the provision of FP services; (b) an aggressive
information, education and communication (IEC) campaign to educate
people concerning population issues and FP methods; (c) a "women and
development' program to raise the status of women as a strategy in
reducing fertility; (d) a youth component aimed at preparing young
people for responsible parenthood and reasonable family size; (e) a
related set of population, legal and sectoral policies to support and
advance the national policy; and (f) monitoring, evaluation, research
and data utilization activities to strengthen the implementation and
impact of the national population policy. FMOH has established a
Y)epartment of Population Activities to coordinate these various
activities and support implementation of the policy at all three
government levels. Special efforts are proposed to encourage the
participation of private and non-governmental organizations.
E.    The Bank's Strategy and Role
2.24.       The Bank's health and population strategy for Nigeria is
responsive to the sectoral issues and needs identified above, and offers
support at both the Federal and local levels. The Bank is working with
State governments to increase access to and improve the quality of
primary health care and to establish family planning programs. The
first Bank-assisted health project in Nigeria, the Sokoto Health Project
(Ln. 2503-UNI), was designed to help the Federal Ministry of Health to
develop institutional mechanisms for providing the LGAs with technical
support and better coordinating public sector health services. FMOH's
advisory capacity for sector planning and programming and its capability
for promoting PHC are also being strengthened. After some delays due to
project restructuring, implementation of the project is progressing
reasonably well. A similar project for Imo State (Ln. 3034-UNI) became
effective in December 1989. It has completed significant preparatory
work and laid the foundation for a good take off. The Bank is also
assisting the national programs. A National Essential Drugs Project
(Ln. 3125-UNI) became effective in August 1990. The Bank assisted the
Government in the formulation of the National Population Policy (para
2.23), and the Bank is expected to consider a National Population
Project in 1991 to help in implementing that policy.
2.25.       The efforts required for initiating and appraising the first
(Sokoto, FY85) and second (Imo, FY89) health and population projects
pointed to an urgent need for a "wholesaling" mechanism to fund health
and population activities in a large number of states. Such a mechanism
would prove more efficient than spending time and resources on financing



- 10 -
separate health and population projects on a state-by-stace basis which
would take too long to cover all 21 states and could result in uneven
development.
2.26.       Rationale for Bank involvement.  There are three major
reasons for Bank involvement in the proposed HSF project. First,
through the establishment of a wholesaling mechanism for State health
system financing, it would provide a unique opportunity to assist the
Federal Government in the nationwide introduction of important policy
reforms and institution building measures designed to improve PHC
services and to establish family planning programs. The project would
accelerate the rehabilitation and utilization of existing assets and
also improve institutional capacity, internal efficiency and cost
recovery in the health sector. This is consistent with FGN's policy of
increasing resource mobilization and introducing financial discipline in
State health programs. It is also consistent with the FGN's and the
Bank's objective of minimizing the social cost of the recent
macroeconomic adjustment measures. Second, the Bank has a comparative
advantage in the sector; it is relatively more capable of providing the
level of financing required by Nigeria and of dealing with the
complexities associated with the country's size and the sectoral
responsibilities spread among Federal. State and local governments.
Also, the Bank is best placed to mobilize and coordinate the support of
other donors and cofinanciers, local and international. Third, the
project would complement the National Essential Drugs Project (Loan
3125-UNI), that became effective in August 1990, and the National
Population project proposed for FY91. The three projects would combine
efforts within the health and population sectors.
III. THE PROJECT
A.    Proiect Obiectives
3.01.       The primary objective of the proposed project is to improve
health services for a wider base of Nigeria's population by creating a
wholesaling mechanism, called the Health System Fund (HSF), to finance
health system improvements in a larger number of States than would be
possible through individual State projects. The objectives of these
improvements would, however, be similar to those of the earlier single-
State health projects, i.e., to (a) improve the quality, coverage and
efficiency of State and LGA services for health and family planning; (b)
promote the development of population programs; and (c) strengthen the
institutional and financial capacity of States and LGAs to plan,
implement, monitor and evaluate their health, nutrition and family
planning programs.



B.    Proiect Description
3.02.       The project, as described in detail in the following
paragraphs, would consist of three main activitiess (i) line of credit
for State health and family planning subprojects; (ii) assistance to the
Federal Ministry of Health; and (iii) training and technical assistance
support to the State Ministries of Health. A major advantage of the
line-of-credit approach is that the State subprojects need not be
complex and multi-component; they can be smaller, simpler and within the
implementation capacity of the States. The first phase subprojects
would, therefore, involve three or four high priority components based
upon each State's long-term plan and involving loans in the range of
US$1 to 5 million for implementation over about 18 months. Most likely,
this would include: institutional development; improvement of existing
PHC facilities (to the exclusion of civil works for new facilities); an
essential drugs programme; and preparation for the subsequent phase.
This emphasis on simplicity is expected to enable widespread
participation and easier implementation. Criteria for subproject
selection, appraisal and implementation are outlined in para 4.4 and
detailed in Annexes 4-2 to 4-4.
1.    Line of Credit for State Health Subproiects
3.03.       The project would establish a HSF as a line of credit to
finance State health and family planning subprojects.   As in the IDF
Project (Loan 2925-UNI), the participating financial intermediaries
(PFIs) would identify, appraise, supervise and cofinance subprojects,
thereby assisting the States in improving resource mobilization,
financial management and project preparation in the health sector. PFIs
would provide these services for fees. The line of credit (US$67.8
million), which would be channelled directly by FGN to the States, would
finance State subproiects comprising a suitable package from among the
following components: (a) institutional development, to include staff
training and continuing education, technical assistance and logistical
support; (b) improvement of health services, to include facility
upgrading and new facilities, improved drug supply and distribution, a
disease surveillance and diagnostic service, improved MCH and family
planning services, and promotion of information, education and
communication (IEC) programs through schools, the mass media and the
health delivery system; nutrition development; promotion of non-
government organizations' participation in health, family planning and
nutrition; and (c) project preparation work for subsequent subprojects,
including prioritization studies. These components are described below.
3.04.       Institutional development.  The subprojects would support
this development at State and local government levels by strengthening
their capacity to plan, implement and monitor community-based health,
family planning and nutrition programs and to improve resource
mobilization and financial management. This could include
reorganization of functions and jurisdictions where appropriate, as well
as in-service training in supervisory methods and logistical support
(equipment, vehicles and training materials) and technical and financial
assistance for installing a management information system, focusing in
the first phase on monitoring and managing a limited number of health



- 12 -
and FP programs. At the State level, ways to improve coordination with
LGAs would be instituted. State ministries of health (SMOHs) would be
assisted in strengthening their financial plartning and management
capability through development of an annual financing plan for the
health ser'- es; the plans would include estimates of revenues from
Federal, State and local allocations and analyses of central budget
availability, wage to non-wage recurrent expenditure ratios, and cost
recovery from drugs and .adical services. When appropriate, a
subproject would assist the SMOH in strengthening its planning
capability through development of an annual work plan. To support the
planning, technical assistance, staff training, office equipment, and
funds for operations research would be provided. The SMOH accounts and
audit units would be provided micro-computer facilities, staff training,
and office equipment.
3.05.       Improvement of health services.  To assist the states in
improving access to and the quality of these high-priority services, the
subprojects would support the activities summarized below.
(a)   Uparadina, renovation and construction of facilities.  It is
proposed to undertake this component through phased
programs, starting with renovntion, repairs and maintenance
of selected facilities and completion of some incomplete
structures. In a later phase, new PHC clinics would be
built and equipped in under-served communities. When PHC
facilities are renovated, equipped and staffed, they will
provide basic health services, including MCH care (pre- and
post-natal), family planning services, immunizations, and
health and nutrition education. The project would assist
the community in undertaking community-based primary health
care activities, such as MCH/FP, water supply, sanitation
and health education, through in-service training and
support to the community's formal and informal structures.
(b)   Improvement of drug supplv and distribution.  The
subprojects would support essential drug (ED) programs
developed by the States with FMOH's assistance. A list of
essential drugs for each type of facility has been approved.
The drugs would be procured through local or international
competitive bidding, using generic names and financed
through a drug revolving fund. The subprojects would also
provide for the renovation of pharmaceutical stores at
hospitals, the central pharmaceutical store for States, and
LGA stores. To improve drug supply and serve as a base from
which to develop cost recovery, essential drugs and vaccines
would be provided as needed.
(c)   Disease surveillance and diagnostic service.  To establish
this service, the subprojects would support the renovation
or construction of a facility for a public health
laboratory. Technical assistance, staff training, equipment
and supplies, and funds for incsemental salaries and
operating costs would also be provided.



- 13 -
(d)   Improvement of MCH and FP services.  The MCH/Family Planning
Unit in the Primary Health Department of each SMOH would be
strengthened to enable it to coordinate the implementation
of FP activities through PHC. This component would
complement the proposed National Population Project,
especially when the MCH and the family planning activities
are included as parts of a larger health package for
financing under the proposed HSF Project. The MCH/Family
planning units would be provided with vehicles, equipment,
staff training, and funds for full or incremental operating
costs. They would oversee the development of a community-
based contraceptive distribution system, streamline the
registration system for family planning, develop a
monitoring system, oversee the production of information,
education and communication (IEC) materials, coordinate a
mass media campaign, and develop and supervise an IEC
training program for SMOH staff. In addition to supporting
FP services at the community level and in government
facilities, the subprojects would support the development of
these services in the private sector.
(e)   Information, education and communication (IEC) activities.
The subprojects would support the development and
implementation of an integrated IEC plan that would aim to
increase (i) the practice of preventive health care, family
planning and better nutrition in the home; (ii) demand for
MCH services; and (iii) awareness of and demand for family
planning services. The subprojects would introduce family
life education in schools and strengthen motivation and
communication activities through the mass media, indigenous
group media, and use informal networks and infrastructure
such as women's groups, mother's clubs, youth clubs,
farmer's groups, etc.
(f)   Nutrition activities.  The subprojects would support (i)
promoting nutrition education to improve infant feeding
practices; (ii) testing pilot feeding programs targeted at
vulnerable groups; (iii) developing regular nutrition
surveillance systems for monitoring and evaluation; and (iv)
the development of improved weaning foods and their
distribution.
(g)   Support for non-governmental organizations.  This component
would support government efforts to promote the involvement
of non-governmental organizations (NGOs) in the health care
system. This would consist of, among other things, (i)
establishing a nodal point in the government for financial,
marketing and procedural assistance to NGOs; and (ii)
establishing an institution to provide consulting services
to NGOs in such areas as finance and management,
institutional development, fund raising, volunteer
recruitment, etc.



- 14 -
3.06.       Preparation for subsequent subproiects.  Another critical
component of each State's subproject, particularly in the first phase,
would be the preparation work for subsequent phase subprojcets. For
example, this could include: facility mapping and planning for their
renovation and upgrading; facility utilization studies; studies of
staffing norms; studies on SMOH organization and the State health
delivery system; epidemiological studies; and other specific feasibility
studies.
2. Assistance to the Federal Ministry of Health (FMOH)
3.07.       The FMOH, through its Department of Planning, Research and
Statistics (DPRS), would provide the coordination, oversight and
technical assistance that are essential for the wholesaling under the
HSF. To enable FMOH fulfill this increased responsibility, the project
would provide the following (details in Annex 3-2):
(a)   Strengthening of DPRS.  The Department would be strengthened
by the addition of a Project Officer, exclusively for HSF
activities, assisted by four officers responsible for:
policy and programming, procurement, institutional
promotion, and financial operations. The project would also
finance office equipment, materials and vehicles. The
project would finance a Project Advisor (local). In
addition an internationally recruited adviser for local
consultancy promotion would work with the local firms
recruited to assist the States.
(b)   Management Information System (MIS).  The project would help
establish a ,crong health MIS through the provision of
services of an internationally recruited MIS advisor, a
local advisor, adequate staff, hardware, equipment and
materials for MOH and States.
(c)   Technical assistance, training and studies.  Technical
assistance and training provisions are built into the
activities discussed above. Additionally, specific programs
would finance a project performance audit and studies of the
HSF Policy Statement, Project and Credit Guidelines end
project preparation procedures. Other studies would include
the building of local consultancy skills, health system
planning, and several short-term specific-purpose
consultancies. The training program would be carried out
both inside and outside the country with emphasis on project
development skills, management and project implementation.
A number of special studies are also included in the project
(details in Annex 3-1).
3. Support to the States
3.08.       The States' needs for institutional development ultimately
would be met through the subprojects which would be implemented in
phases. The States would, however, need some support up front so that



- 15 -
they could participate in the HSF line of credit effectively. The
project therefore would provide the States with the technical assistance
and training for the following purposes (details in Annex 3-1)s
(a)   to train health planners and other key officials to
strengthen the State health agencies' capacity to plan, to
prepare projects and to implement them; and
(b)   to prepare the States' five-year plans and rolling three-
year and annual implementation plans and to prepare first
phase subprojects.
C.    Proiect nosts and Financing Plan
3.09.       The total cost of the project is estimated at US$94.5
million, with a foreign exchange component estimated at US$52.2 million,
or 55Z of total project cost. The Bank loan would finance 74 percent of
the project cost and 992 of the foreign exchange requirement. Project
costs by component are summarized below. Detailed cost tables are shown
in Annex 3-3.
Project Costs a/
(USS Million)
Project                                                      Z Foreign
Component                Local        Foreign      Total      Exchange
State subprojects
(Line of credit)         40.4          49.9        90.3           55
Assistance to FMOH        0.7           1.2         1.9           63
Support to SMOHs          1.2           1.1         2.3           48
Total project costs   42.3           52.2        94.5           55
a/    Includes taxes and duties estimated at US$6.8 million.
3.10.       This is a line-of-credit project in which over 952 of the
total project costs would be allocatel to the State-level subprojects.
Most of these subprojects would only be determined after this project is
effective. Therefore, a provision for physical and pri'e contingencies
is not appropriate.



- 16 -
3.11.       Project fin ncing.  The total project costs of US$94.5
million would be financed as followss Federal Government US$0.7
million; State Governments US$13.5 million; PFIs US$9.0 million;
Japanese Grant US$1.3 million and IBRD US$70.0 million. The IBRD loan
would cover 992 foreign exchange and 432 of local costs. The financing
of local costs is considered necessary because the project is in the
health sector and of key importance. This is consister.t with the Bank's
practice. The line of credit design. of the project provides the
flexibility towards the total project costs, by altering the period, the
geographical coverage or the size of individual State subprojects.
Therefore, it offers considerable scope for cofinancing which would be
pursued throughout the project period.
3.12.       Credit risk and onlendine terms.  FGN would onlend US$67.8
million to the states at the IBRD interest rate for a period of seven to
fifteen years with a two to three year grace period. The recoveries
from the States in excess of these due from the FGN to the World Bank
would constitute the corpus of a revolving fund in CBN, which will be
used to re-lend to States for the same purposes as the HSF. The foreign
exchange risk connected with the Bank loan would be borne by the States.
FGN would beer the credit risk except that the PFIs would assume at
least ten percent of the credit risk of the sub-loans made to the States
for which PFIs would charge guarantee fees negotiated within the Central
Bank of Nigeria guidelines. The States and the PFIs would set mutually
negotiated terms and rates, within the CBN guidelines, for the funds
they lend to the States from their cwn resources. During negotiations,
the FGN gave the following assurances thats
(a)   it would, not later than December 31, 1991, establish and
thereafter maintain a revolving fund in the Central Bank of
Nigeria, in a form and with procedures satisfactory to the
Bank, to be used for financing health sub-projects;
(b)   it would onlend the proceeds of the Bank loan to the project
states under the Subsidiary Loan Agreements whose terms and
conditions would have to be satisfactory to the Bank and
which would also include the following provisionss (i) a
project state would enter into a PFI Cofinancing Agreement
with a PFI under which PFI would agree to finance not less
than 10 percent of the total costs of each project, except
as the Borrower and the Bank otherwise agree; (b) the PFI
would execute a Deed of Guarantee under which PFI assumes at
least 10 percent of the credit ribk of a subloan made to the
project State; (c) and the project State would assume any
foreign exchange risks;
(c)   as a condition of loan effectiveness, it would execute at
least two Subsidiary Loan agreements; and
(d)   as  conditions of disbursement, it would ensure thats (i)
the subloan has been made in accordance with the agreed
terms and conditions of subloans; (ii) the project State has
entered into a Subsidiary Loan Agreement and a Cofinancing



- 17 -
Agreement; and (iii) a PFI Deed of Guarantee has been
executed in respect ot the subloan.
3.13.       Financing LGAs.  The LGAs are assuming increasing
responsibilities for health care although it can take several years
before the States transfer all primary health care services to LGAs. In
line with FGN's recent priorities, the LGAs appear to have been fully
funded up to their implementation capacity at this time. Therefore, the
first phase subprojects under the proposed HSF Project would concentrate
on the primary health and essential referral services managed by the
States. However, the health financing requirements of the LGAs would be
re-examined at the mid-term review with a view to rectifying any
deficiency in a manner satisfactory to FGN and the Bank (para. 4.17).
D. Credit Demand
3.14.       Public funding has been severely constrained in Nigeria
following the oil revenue slump of the 19808 (para. 2.12). The
reduction in public funding has adversely affected the quality of health
services. It has also resulted in recurrent costs assuming a larger
proportion of the health budget and funds not being available for
development expenditures. While the impact of the recent increase in
the oil revenue is yet to be fully assessed, it will be safe to assume
that the allocation to the health sector is unlikely to increase
dramatically. As a result, there is still a substantial pent-up demand
for funds for State health programs.
3.15.       The demand for the HSF project from the States has exceeded
early expectations. This was evidenced during the preparatory
discussions and the project workshops. At this time, eleven States are
actively finalizing their subproject proposals after receiving the
clearances from their authorities and a few other States are in the
process of selecting their project preparation consultants and the PFIs.
Although only some of these states are likely to be ready for immediate
participation, the others are likely to follow in the near future.
Dsmand for the line of credit from States is expected to remain strong
also because oft (a) earlier experience with the Essential Drugs and
IDF projects; (b) easy access provided by the multiplicity of PFIs; and
(c) competition among PFIs for HSF resources.
E. Institutional Framework
3.16.       In keeping with FGN and Bank policy, the principal
institutional design objective is to maximize the use of the existing
financial network and the institutional strength of the PFIs. At the
same time, the Federal Government ager.cies will focus on the essential
and appropriate roles of policy formulation and guidance, and
supervision of project implementation. Accordingly, the institutional
design of the project relies as much on the technical strengths and the
policy commitment of FMOH as on the demonstrated financial and
managerial strengths of the PFIs. The role and responsibilities of the
important project agencies are outlined below.



- 18 -
1. The Federal Government's Role
3.17.       The Federal Government would be responsible for policy
guidance, monitoring, and the designation of the PFIs that would be
eligible to participate in the project. Annex 3-4 presents a chart of
the roles of the various agencies.
3.18.        Federal Ministry of Health.  FMOH s%uld have the primary
responsibility for the project at the Federal level functioning through
the Department of Planning Research and Statistics. In consultation
with the Bank and the Federal Ministry of Finance and Economic
Development (F4FED), FMOH would determine which PFIs would be authorized
to participate in the HSF project. It would also administer the Policy
Statement, Project Guidelines and Credit Guidelines, monitoring their
application by the PFIs through annual, ex post performance audits
(para. 4.16) conducted by an independent consulting/accounting firm, and
would hold semi-annual meetings with FMFED and CBN to review the general
progress of the project. These three agencies would also meet annually
to review the annual performance audit and the overall financial status
of the project. On the basis of advice obtained from FMFED and CBN,
FMOH would provide policy guidance to the PFIs and the States, and
formulate any necessary adjustments to the HSF Policy Statement, Project
Guidelines and Credit Guidelines after consultation with the Bank. All
subprojects, with the exception of "free limit" subprojects, would be
subject to ex ante review by the Bank in consultation with FMOH because
of the limited prior experience of PFIs in health system lending. In
due course, as the PFIs demonstrate their capacity to appraise State
health system subprojects, direct Bank and FMOH involvement in the ex
ante reviews would decrease and free limits could be increased.  FM4OH
would also be responsible for coordinating the implementation of
training and studies for PFIs and the States in the operation of the HSF
project, as well as for coordinating the implementation of studies to be
undertaken by the States and future project preparation studies.  FMOH
is proposed to be strengthened to handle these functions, through
training, technical assistance, key staff and equipment (para. 3.07).
PMOH would administer a Special Account (para 4.13) to implement
activities concerning FMOH strengthening and the provision of Federal
support to the States.
3.19.        Federal Ministry of Finance and Economic DeveloRment.
FMFED would be a member of the Project Coordinating Comittee (para
4.02). It would also assist FMOH in reviewing the performance of the
PFIs and formulating and implementing changes needed in the HSF Policy
Statement, Project Guidelines and Credit Guidelines.
3.20.        Central Bank of Nigeria.  CBN would open and operate an
HSF Control Account (para. 4.i6) in which would be recorded all
transactions relating to Bank disbursements and PFI withdrawals from the
line of credit, as well as PFIs' payments of principal, interest and any
other charges and fees connected with the line of credit. This control
account, would enable CBN to provide FMOH, FMFED and the Bank with
timely data on the overall financial status of the HSF project and to
operate the Revolving Fund (para. 3.12). CBN would also undertake
regular monitoring of the banking aspects of the project, advise FMOH on



- 19 -
the financial perfoLmance of the PFIs, and assist FMOH in formulating
and implementing any changes needed in the HSF Policy Statement, the
Project Guidelines and the Credit Guidelines. During the negotiations,
assurances were received from FGN that it would cause CBN (a) to
establish and maintain a Control Account on the status of subloans; (b)
to review annually overall financial status of the subloans; and (c) to
prepare and furnish a report to FMFED, FMOH and the Bank no later than
six months after the end of each fiscal year.
2. Role of Participating Financial Intermediaries (PFIs)
3.21.        The PFIs would be responsible for:  assisting in project
preparation directly and through workshops organized from time to time
with FMOH and consultants; appraising and supervising State subprojects
so generated; and opening and operating Special Accounts (paras. 4.15-
4.16) through which the line of credit for approved State subprojects
would be disbursed. They would also be responsible for financing 1OZ of
subproject costs. The Banking Act and the charters of the PFIs permit
them to undertake subproject lending to the States. FMOH had initially
authorized five PFIs to participate in the project. As other financial
intermediaries showed strong interest, four other PFIs have been added -
- three with strong international affiliations and one local. Annex 3-5
presents details of PFI organization, staffing, procedures and finauces,
and Annex 3-6 the criteria for the selection of additional PFIs.
3.22.         The PFIs, as noted above, would select and appraise State
subprojects on the basis of Project and Credit Guidelines agreed to by
the Bank and the Federal Government. They would assist States in
subproject preparation by providing financing; guide the preparation of
terms of reference for studies and the employment of consultants;
process subproject disbursement; monitor procurement and accounting:
monitor subproject conditionality (Annex 4-4); and report annually to
CBN, FMOH and the Bank on the physical and financial status of the
subprojects. They would also submit their own audited accounts to the
Bank on an annual basis, together with any other documentation regarding
the status of their portfolios that the Bank may reasonably request, and
to liaise with FMOH in the conduct of annual ex post performance audits
of the project (para. 4.16). Finally, the PFIs would collect repayments
from the States on behalf of FGN and they would be responsible for the
credit risk to the ertent of their guarantee (para 3.12).
3.23.        The main contribution of the PFIs would be (a) as
financial intermediaries, accepting partial credit risk for subloans to
States and taking responsibility to collect repayment to FGN as well as
to maintain and manage sub-project accounts; (b) as development
agencies, guiding, advising and assisting in the process of project
preparation and implementation by the States; (c) as financial
institutions, providing the States access to the private capital market
and to their own resources. The professionalism of their staff and
their institutional strengths can be expected to add greatly to the
quality of the projects chosen and their implementation, and to
additi-nal resources flowing into this sector.



- 20 -
3.24.         Safeguards for quality.  The use of PFIs as intermediaries
in the proposed line of credit, though innovative, carries with it some
risks. Both by their training and their culture, PFIs are not equipped
to work in the health sector, particularly to look into policy and
institutional development issues. Their main thrust could be to get
loans approved and disbursed. The poli y and institutional changes
necessary might be of secondary concern to them. Similarly, the States
themselves may focus on hardware. This problem is addressed by
emphasizing (and enforcing in operations) the critical role of policies
and institutional development in the guidelines as well as by phasing of
subloans where appropriate. Thus, the first disbursements would be for
adequate implementation of policy and institutional development measures
before disbursing for other components. There is also provision for
training the PFI staff and for the promotion of local consultancy
development (para 3.07). Additionally, the processing procedures
provide (a) for systematic consultation with RMN and FMOH from the early
stages of discussion of the subproject concept, (b) for subproject
review and the setting of the free limit at the low figure of
US$500,000, (c) that the first subproject of any PFI will have no free
limit, (d) for a minimum of cofinancing by the PFIs, (e) for a standard
package of conditionalities to be explored for application in each
subproject (Annex 4-4), (f) for a rigorous annual review of PFI
performance, and (g) that the first subloan to a State shall not exceed
US$5.0 million. With these changes and the substantially strengthened
PHOH provided under the project (para 4.01), it is considered that PFIs
can be used effectively in this sector. The position of FMOH and the
Bank is also strengthened in this area by the fact that there are a
number of PFIs competing with one another and that, over time, the
annual review of performance would weed out the PFIs which do not
perform adequately (para 4.16). Annex 3-7 details the procedures aimed
at securing the quality of appraisal and supervision.
3.25.        IDF and Oyo Urban Proiects experience.  The Bank's
experience under the IDF project is still in its infancy. Nonetheless,
the PFIs have matched their commitment with many concrete actions. All
have created separate units, with specialist staff and occasional short-
term consultants, to improve their capacity to deal with the intricacies
of State finances and become familiar with sectoral issues. The PFIs
are working closely with the States in the preparation of subprojects.
It is evident that the States involved are already benefitting from
regular advice and other administrative and technical assistance from
the PFIs. The proposed HSF project has likewise benefitted from the IDF
experience. Two lessons incorporated in the project design are
particularly important: First, the PFIs are generally reluctant to be
involved in large subprojects (over N50-80 million), if they have to
bear the credit risk; and second, the design of relatively standard
subprojects would be helpful during the early stages of the PFIs' entry
into the health sector.



- 21 -
3. The States' Role
3.26.        States would be responsible fort subproject preparation
and implementation (generally undertaken by State Ministries of Health);
State hpalth system investment plans to be undertaken with technical
assistance grant provided through FMOH; selecting their PFIs and
negotiating subproject agreements with them; ensuring that the detailed
designs and contract documentation concerning the subprojects are
completed; awarding and administering contracts; maintaining subproject
accounts; and commissioning independent subproject audits. The States
would also be required to liaise with FMOH in the conduct of annual ex
post performance audits of the project.
4. LGAs' Role
3.27.        LGAs would be responsible for inputs into subproject
preparation for LGAs by the States in relation to the LGA facilities and
the way they would interlock with the State health delivery system.
They would be responsible for implementation of these subprojects. The
LGAs would be required to liaise with SMOH in the coordinated
implementation of the health system subproject covering the State and
LGA health delivery systems.
5.  Local Consultants' Role
3.28.        Locally available consultants, national or international,
have an important role to play in the PFIs' process of retailing the
line of credit to the individual States. Although the PFIs are expected
to have in-house capacity for appraisal and supervision, they will
depend extensively upon States securing the support of locally available
consultants both during project preparation and implementation. There
are two or three significant consultancy firms specially for the health
sector that are locally available. There are, in addition, a number of
excellent financial and management consultants (four of whom have
international partners) who by coopting individual consultants or local
NGOs can function effectively in the health sector. Provision exists in
the training program and FMOH support program fors special training and
seminars for participation in local workshops by consultants; technical
assistance to FMOH for special efforts to build local consultancy and
promote their foreign collaboration arrangements; and for technical
support and services like documentation center etc., to local
consultants, States, PFIs and FMOH.
F. Organization and Finances of PFIs
1. Organization
3.29.        Nine financial intermediaries are expected to participate,
including the five PFIs which were selected by FGN and the Bank for the
IDF Project -- Continental Merchant Bank Ltd., ICON Merchant Bank Ltd.,
International Merchant Bank Ltd. (IMB), Nigeria Merchant Bank Ltd.
(NMB), and NAL Merchant Bank Ltd. (NAL). These five PFIs were also
selected by CBN to participate, along with other banks, in the Bank-
financed Small and Medium Enterprise (SME) Project (Ln 2995-UNI). The



- 22 -
PFIs would qualify to participate in the HSF singly or through
syndication. Initially, only the above-mentioned five PFIs were
authorized for participation in the HSF project, because of their
experience and training received in Bank appraisal, procurement and
disbursement. However, FGN and the Bank have now agreed to add four
additional PFIs 1/. (Annex 3-6 outlines the criteria for
participation.) These nine PFIs have been selected on the basis of
their financial strength, technical capability and interest in the HSF
program. Together, they account for over 702 of the assets held by
merchant banks in Nigeria. Five of the banks are associated with
prominent international banks whose equity participation is generally
30-40Z. Even where the Federal Government retains majority
shareholding, the banks are relatively free of government intervention,
except for the appointment of managing directors. They operate on the
basis of commercial criteria and have the reputation of being among the
most profitable and efficiently run organizations in Nigeria.
3.30.         The PFIs are generally well organized and competently
staffed, with more than 502 of their middle and upper level management
holding master's degrees or equivalent qualifications in finance,
accounting or marketing. On average, managers have had at least 10
years of banking experience and have been in their present posts for
five years or more. They are well versed in project lending,
syndication and supervision. Their operating procedures are sound and
well documented. Also, the PFIs possess considerable experience in
project lending, particularly in the manufacturing, real estate and
construction sectors, and nearly all have been involved in project
lending in the various States of the Federation. Their experience with
direct State lending for other sectors is, however, limited; thus, their
staff are not well trained in public sector project appraisal or in the
intricacies of State finances, revenue mobilization and institutional
development. These deficiencies are being overcome by additional
recruitment, appropriate staff training programs (with Bank assistance),
and the utilization of consultants under the ongoing IDF project.
Additional recruitment and training of PFI staff are already underway
and are expected to be completed well before the effectiveness of the
proposed HSF project loan. The five PFIs which started work under the
IDF and the Oyo Urban Projects already have the basic capabilAies to
implement the HSF project. In addition, they have created special
project units staffed with qualified engineers and financial analysts;
they have indicated they will recruit additional staff or consultants,
as required, for the HSF project. These new units are in fact
development finance windows through which all Bank lines of credits
would be channelled. The experience being gained now by the PFIs in the
implementation of the IDF and Oyo urban projects -- from initial
discussions with states to project identification and appraisal -- and
their involvement in the discussions during the HSF project workshops
will greatly improve the effectiveness of PFIs in the proposed project.
1/     Nigeria International Bank (NIB, a Citicorp affiliate), Grindlays
Merchant Bank, Chartered Bank Ltd., and Merchant Bank of Africa
(an affiliate of Bank of America).



- 23 -
The four newcomers have indicated their willingness to build up their
capacity which the FGN and the Bank would closely monitor.
2. Finances and Impact of Project
3.31.         The PFIs have grown rapidly over the past eight years,
with an average annual rate of growth of total assets of 452 during this
period. The fastest growth took place during the 1981-82 period, during
which the PFIs grew at an unprecedented annual rate of 78Z. During the
1986-1988 period, the PFIs grew at an annual rate of 452; however, in
1988, when severe restraints on credit were applied by the Government,
growth dropped to 21Z. The financial structure of the PFIs is
characterized by relatively short-term deposits, with little medium- and
long-term debt. In general, cash, receivables, short-term loan and
advances, and other short-term assets account for over 60Z of total
assets during 1984-1988. Over three-fourths of total resources are
represented by short-term deposits. (See Annex 3-5 for details on the
PFIs, including the most recently audited financial statements and
financial structure.)
3.32.         Historically, the PFIs have maintained debt/equity ratios
of roughly 22:1, which is an acceptable level for a commercial-type
banking institution, but somewhat high for medium- to long-term lending
institutions. Given the expected future risk profile of their asset
structure (mainly medium-term) and the significant term transformation
that merchant banks continue to undertake, a higher level of
capitalization would be desirable. FGN and CBN intend to monitor the
financial performance (particularly the portfolios) of the PFIs
quarterly, and to take appropriate measures to improve their
performance.
3.33.         The profitability of the PFIs is adequate and their
portfolios are generally sound although some deterioration of the
portfolios appears to have occurred over the last two years. The recent
measures taken by the CBN for withdrawal of Government deposits from the
banking system has brought to light the need for a strict set of CBN
requirements related to loan classification, provision and accrual
policies. Nevertheless, nominal after tax rates of return on average
equity, of the initial five banks, during the 1981-88 period ranged from
18Z to 98Z. Returns during the 1987 and 1988 period have averaged about
452 and 58Z respectively for the five banks. The five PFIs earned very
positive real rates of return on equity during periods of low inflation,
but lost much ground during years of higher inflation due to the fixed
loan margins (caused by interest rate ceilings) which did not
distinguish adecquately between real and nominal profits of financial
intermediaries. All the nine PFIs were able to maintain their
profitability in spite of these restrictions through commissions, other
charges and other interest income. In general, administrative costs
expressed as a percent of average total assets have been kept in the
range of 12 to 4.4Z.



- 24 -
G. State Finances and Financial Eligibility
3.34.        The financial situation of the States deteriorated in the
19808 as national-source revenues declined and debt service on foreign
loans began to fall due. Information on Benue, Gongola, Imo, Niger and
Ondo States indicates that debt service ratios jumped from the 15-25Z
level of the 1980-1985 period to as high as 70S for 1986. It can be
reasonably assumed that all the States, with the possible exception of
Lagos, were in the same situation. Starting in late 1987, however, the
upturn of oil prices has led to an improvement in the finances of the
States. This was also aided by the sharp depreciation of the Naira
which has added to state revenues. The adverse impact of the
devaluation on the expenditure side has been less marked since State
expenditures are relatively less foreign exchange intensive, and State
external debt has been rescheduled at the London and Paris clubs.
3.35.        All States are financially eligible, but it is for the
PFIs to agree to provide partial credit guarantee to FGN for the HSF to
a particular State and to cofinance subloan to that State. A broad
framework for the decision on a State's acceptability is provided by the
standard subproject conditions and the data therefrom relating to the
health financing arrangements (Annex 4-4); however, the final decision
on lending to a State will be based on the PFIs assessment of a State's
financial plans, particularly of the health sector, and the PFIs'
conditions on their implementation.
IV. PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION
A. Proiect Manaaement and Coordination
4.01.        The primary responsibility for implementing the proposed
HSF project would lie in the FMOH Department of Planning, Research and
Statistics (DPRS). DPRS would oversee a newly created management
information system (see para 3.07). Furthermore, it would review each
year, through consultants, the HSF policy statement, the project and
credit guidelines and the procedures for subproject preparation,
appraisal and implementation. To carry out these tasks, the Director of
DPRS would be assisted by an Advisor and by a full-time Project Officer
who would head a newly created HSF Unit consisting of four sections
namely, the Policy and Programming Section, the Procurement Section, the
Institutional Promotion, and the Financial Operations Section. Two
internationally recruited consultants would assist the HSF Unit and the
management information system.
4.02.        A  Project Coordination Committee would be established as
a condition of loan effectiveness to ensure coordination among the
agencies directly connected with the project implementation process.
The Committee, which would have advisory functions rather than
sanctioning and approval authcrity, would include senior representatives
of the FMOH (Chairman), FMFED, the Central Bank of Nigeria and one
representative each of the states and PFIs. The Committee would also
review the implementation of HSF programs each quarter. It would also



- 25 -
mediate any issues arising between the 3tates and the PFIs concerning
the state subprojects.
4.03.        The heart of the project is the building up of the
wholesaling mechanism and the capacity of the financial intermediaries
in subprojects appraisal, procurement, disbursement and supervision.
Five of the PFIs have already set up special units which process line of
credit proposals making use of specialized sectoral expertise, as
appropriate. FMOH and Bank staff would be heavily involved in the
training and technical assistance to these institutions.
B.     HSF Project Development
4.04.        Policy Statement, Pro1ect Guidelines and Credit
Guidelines: The subproject development under the HSF project would be
guided by a Statement of Policy (Annex 4-1) that sets out the project
objectives, components eligible for financing, and the responsibilities
and roles of the participating agencies. The emphasis is on supporting
the goals of the National Health Policy (paras 2.20-2.21), which gives
high priority to making primary health care and the referral system
readily available, strengthening MCH and family planning programs, and
promoting the goals of the National Population Policy that includes the
reduction of premature death and illness among high risk groups of
mothers and children as well as the reduction of population growth
through voluntary family planning. In addition, the PFIs would be
required to follow a Bank-type approach to project preparation and
appraisal as set out in the Project Guidelines (Annex 4-2) which specify
the criteria for subproject selection and appraisal. The Credit
Guidelines for the PFIs prescribing the procedures and relationships
between FMOH, PFIs and the Bank are set out in Annex 4-3.  FGN and the
Bank have discuesed and agreed on the above mentioned Statement and the
Guidelines. During negotiations, FGN gave the assurances that it would
operate the proposed project in accordance with the Statement of Policy,
Project Guidelines and Credit Guidelines satisfactory to the Bank, and
that it would not make changas in the Statement or the Guidelines except
in consultation with the Bank. A set of standard conditionalities which
the PFIs would include in the State sub-loans are in Annex 4-4. The
conditions also spell out the sectoral policy and institutional
development requirements, together with enforcement measures. During
subproject review, the Bank would review the PFIs' recommendations
concerning these requirements, based on their discussions with the
States.
4.05.        Subproiect preparation procedures.  Project processing
would comprise three major steps:
(a)     Orientation. Periodically during project workshops, State
governments would be officially briefed on the program,
the type of components eligible for financing, the terms
of financing, and the procedures for application. States
interested in the program would then approach any of the
participating PFIs with a subproject proposal. The State
and the PFIs would review the subproject proposal, in the
light of HSF Project and Credit Guidelines (Annexes 4-2



- 26 -
and 4-3), and agree on whatever modification would be
required to maintain consistency with these Guidelines.
At this stage, an executive project susmary for the
project would be copied both to FMOH and the Bank.
Additionally, the eligibility criteria would be normally:
(i) satisfactory disbursement of any existing Bank loan;
(ii) completion of reviews of sector public expenditures
by FMOH or the Bank; (iii) agreement by the State on terms
of reference and schedule for a review of the States'
institutional development, where appropriate; (iv)
agreement by the State with the PFIs and F0OH on sector
policies and strategies for implement zJon of the
particular component programs (e.g. EDP, facilities
expansion) to be financed; and (v) no objection from FHFED
for the State to participate in the HSF.
(b)     Preparation.   Where a State and PFI reach general
agreement on the subproject proposal and its feasibility,
the PFI would conditionally commit the required portion of
its HSF funds to the subproject, taking into account
responses received from FMOH and the Bank.   Detailed
terms of reference for subproject preparation would be
agreed between the PFI and the requesting State
government. The PFIs would assist the State in preparing
terms of reference for project preparatior., which would
includes (i) an economic, technical, and social
justification for subcomponents to be financed, in the
context of the States' overall investment program; and an
assessment of individual components; (ii) the preliminary
design of civil works, and specifications of equipment and
technical assistance to be financed; (iii) details on
institutional arrangements for execution of the component;
supervision of execution, and operations and maintenance;
and (iv) financial arrangements for cost recovery and for
funding operations and maintenance.
(c)     AoDraisal and Approval.  Upon completion of subproject
preparation, the PFIs would appraise the subproject.
Appraisal would encompass the economic, technical and
social justification, the institutional and financial
arrangements, the ability of the States to meet
counterpart funding requirements, including recurrent
expenses to meet subproject activities, and to service the
proposed loan within the repayment period negotiated, and
financial targets for institutions concerned with the
subproject. During appraisal, the PIle would also
identify the sectoral and project conditionalities
necessary for project effectiveness, from an examination
of the project content, the Policy Statement and
Preparation Guidelines. A package of conditionalities
which should be fully explored and specifically
recommended upon by the PFI is in Annex 4-4. In the case
of "free limit' subprojects, PFIs would provide the Bank
with completed appraisals of the proposed subproject loan



- 27-
prior to subproject loan effectiveness. Completed
appraisal reports of all other subprojects would be
forwarded for the FMOH's and the Bank's prior review and
approval before presenting them for final approval of the
PFI's Board for cofinancing and guarantee. FMOH's consent
is presumed to be given, unless it has objected within 14
days of the submission of proposal. As PFIs gain more
experience, it is expected that prior approval could be
phased out, particularly in future lines of credit. Other
restrictions on the lines of credit operations ares (a)
total of "free limit' projects should not exceed US$10.0
million; (b) total of free limit projects for any one
State should not exceed US$1.4 million; (c) the ceiling
for any one State would be US$14.0 million under this line
of credit; (d) the first subproject through any PFI will
be subject to prior review, even if it is below the free
limit.
4.06.        Projects recommended for financing by the PFIs and cleared
by the Bank, would be formally submitted by resolution of the State
Executive Council, or appropriate procedure for the consideration of the
PFI's Board. The loan documents submitted for PFI Board approval would
be expected to incorporate various conditions for effectiveness,
including acquisition of land, opening of project accounts, deposit of
initial counterpart contributions, and preparation of tender documents.
Approval by the PFI Board would constitute authorization to begin
reimbursable expenditure, subject to satisfaction of these conditions.
C. HSF Technical Assistance, Training and Studies.
4.07.        The proposed HSF Project provides for a wide array of
technical assistance, training and special studies. Annexes 3-1. 3-2.
and 4-5 outline the scope of the training, technical assistance and
studies and are summarized as followst
(a)     Technical Assistance.  The project provides technical
assistance to the FMOH/DPRS, the States and PFIs. To
FMOH, the project provides 50 person months of
internationally recruited consultants, including 30 person
months for the MIS, 12 person months for the promotion of
local consultancy, and 8 months short-term; it also
provides 124 person months of local consultants (long-term
as well as short-term) for the FMOH implementation unit.
The States would benefit from about 1,5 person months of
consultants (111 local and 44 internationally recruited)
working on State health plans, developnent of subprojects
and performance audits.
(b)     Training.  The project provides on-the-job training by
consultants to the staff of FMOH, States and PFIs.
Several types of formal training would also be carried
out. Local seminars would be held to facilitate
understanding of project procedures and to promote plan
and subproject development. Limited overseas training



28 -
would also be provided at both certificate and degree
levels (details in Annexes 3-1 and 3-2). FGN's training
proposal has been reviewed and agreed by the Bank.
(c)     Studies.  For further improvements in the organizction,
management, delivery or financing of health care, the
project would support a number of special studies (Amex
4-7).
D.   Procurement
4.08.        The PFIs would be responsible for monitoring all
subproject procurement and for ensuring compliance .nder Bank
Procurement Guidelines. All bid documents and contract awards would be
subject to prior review and approval of the PFI. The first LCB document
through each PFI would be reviewed and cleared by the Bank. Prior Bank
review would be required for any individual procurement exceeding US$1
million, and the Bank would review smaller contracts by sampling prior
to award. Prior agreement would be reached to ensure that all LCB
procurement would be advertised in local newspapers, bid evaluation
criteria would be clearly specified, bids would be open in public, and
awards would be made to the lowest evaluated bidders. For ICB
procurement, a margin of preference would be granted to goods
manufactured in Nigeria in accordance with paras 2.55 and 2.56 of the
Bank Guidelines and paras 1 through 4 of Appendix 2 thereto. Procurement
arrangements are summarized belows
Procurement Methods
(US$ million)
ICB         LCB       Other    Total
Civil works                             -           41.6       4.0     45.6
(27.0)    (2.6)   (29.6)
Goods, equipment,                      22.3         16.2       2.0     40.5
furniture, vehicles                 (21.7)        (9.8)    (2.0)   (33.5)
Salaries, workshops,
other management costs                                       1.3      1.3
Technical assistance and training                               7.1     7.1
(6.9)   (6.9)
Totals:                           22.3          57.8      14.4    94.5
(21.7)       (36.8)    (11.5)  (70.0)
Note: Figures in parentheses are the amounts to be financed by the Bank
loan.



- 29 -
4.09.        Civil works.  Civil works under the project would be carried
out by the States as part of a large number of subprojects approved under
the line-of-credit arrangement. Civil works includes repairs and upgrading
of a large number of existing health facilities and construction of a
limited number of new facilities (total cost of approximately US$43.6
million) and repairs/construction of drugs storage facilities
(approximately US$2 million). Individual civil works would be small,
widely scattered, labor-intensive, and spread over six/seven years. They
do not lend themselves to grouping and are not expected to interest foreign
contractors, unless they are established in Nigeria. Therefore, the
contracts would be awarded on the basis of local competitive bidding (LCB)
conducted according to the current F6N and State Government practices and
consistent with the Bank guidelines. The bids would be advertised in local
newspapers, sufficient bid submission period (say about 45 days) would be
allowed, and the bids would be opened in public. Foreign contractors are
widely represented in Nigeria and, if interested, would not be precluded
from participation in LCB. Before the first LCB procurement is solicited,
the draft standard bidding documents to be used for all states would be
reviewed and cleared by the Bank. In any event, any individual civil works
procurement costing over US$2 million would be carried out under ICB
procedure, and the total LCB procurement of civil works under the project
would be below US$42 million. There are a number of cases where the
quantities of work cannot be defined in advance, the works are too
scattered and too small to attract private contractors, and work must be
carried out without disrupting ongoing operations. Force account would be
used in all such cases; however, the total value of such Bank-financed
force account works would not exceed US$2.6 million, and the individual
works would cost less than US$50,000.
4.10.        Goods. eauigment and vehicles worth about US$22.3 million
would be procured through international competitive bidding following Bank
Guidelines. Goods estimated to cost between US$200,000 and US$300,000 per
contract may be procured under competitive bidding advertised locally in
accordance with procedures satisfactory to the Bank. For materials and
equipment of less than US$200,000 per contract, international and local
shopping up to a total of US$2.0 million would be permitted. The remainder
of Bank loan (US$9.8 million) is intended to finance goods for a large
number of small subprojects scattered over the whole of Nigeria and spread
over six or seven years, for which it would not be possible to bulk the
equipment material and vehicles. Therefore, such items would be procured
through local competitive bidding in accordance with the States'
procurement practices consistent with the Bank Guidelines. Foreign
contractors are widely represented in Nigeria and are expected to
participate in LCB.
4.11.        Services.  The project involves 94 person-months of
internationally recruited and 235 person-months of locally recruited
technical assistance. It would also involve substantial training
activities. These services (total about US$7.1 million) would be procured
in accordance with the Bank Guidelines and in consultation with PFIs.
Recruitment of incremental staff (US$0.9 million) would be carried out
following the Federal and the States' existing practices. A substantial
portion of the consultancy services are of a nature and scope which allow
extensive use of Nigerian consultants and experts, and activities involving



- 30 -
foreign firms and specialists would be linked with specific training
programs for Nigerian staff. Training of local staff would also be fully
integrated with the technical assistance assignments to assure the maximum
transfer of expertise.
E. Disbursement
4.12.        Standard country profile was used to forecast the loan
disbursement as shown in Annex 4-9. Disbursement would be made on the
following basist (a) OOZ of foreign and 8OZ of local expenditures on
civil works, vehicles and equipment; and (b) 1001 of expenditures for
technical assistance, training, and studies. The estimated quArterly
schedule follows the regional profile for sector investment and maintenance
loans. To facilitate early start of critical project activities,
retroactive financing of up to US$2 million would be allowed for eligible
expenditures incurred after February 1, 1990.
4.13.        To facilitate project implementation, PFIs would open and
maintain subproject and Special Accounts on behalf of the concerned State.
The proceeds of the line of credit would be disbursed to the States through
these Special Accounts. A Special Account would also be established for
MOH for project components that would be managed by the DPRS. All Special
Accounts would be established in foreign currency and operated on terms and
conditions acceptable to the Bank. Periodic withdrawals would be made from
the respective Special Accounts to finance the Bank's share of approved
State subprojects. FMOH would be similarly entitled to make periodic
withdrawals from the FMOH Special Account to finance approved HSF project
support activities.
4.14.        The Bank would make an initial deposit of US$0.2 million into
the FMOH Special Account at project effectiveness, and would replenish this
account from time-to-time. Replenishment of this Special Account by the
Bank would require the submission to the bank of full documentation or
certified Statements of Expenditure (SOE) for smaller amounts for all
eligible expenditures by FMOH. The Bank would also make initial deposits
into the HSF Special Accounts of each PFI equivalent to three months
disbursements for each approved subproject. These initial deposits would
be made as and when the approved subprojects become effective, i.e., when
the Boards of the relevant lending PFIs and the appropriate authorities in
the relevant subproject States ratify a subprojent. Replenishment of a
PFI's Special Account by the Bank would require submission to the Bank of
full documentation or, in the case of smaller contracts, certified
statements of expenditure (SOEs) for all eligible subproject expenditures
by the relevant PFIs, as well as evidence that the PFI had submitted
duplicate copies of its disbursement requests and documentation to CBN.
4.15.        PFI disbursements to approved subprojects from the respective
Special Accounts would be on the basis of architects' or engineers'
certificates against approved contracts, or, where appropriate under Bank
Procurement Guidelines, against the certified SOEs of approved subproject
ministries or agencies. Disbursements against force account procurement
will require certification of work completion following agreed standards.
Full contract documentation would be required for all eligible expenditures
except for civil works contracts of less than US$50,000 equivalent and



- 31 -
other contracts of less than US$20,000 eo-ivalent.  Where a PFI's existing
disbursement documentation requirements itclude. and are more extensive
than those outlined above, these requirements may prevail. SOE limits
could be liberalized based on experience gained during the cource of
project implementation. The detailed contract and disbursement
documentation would be retained by PFIs and made available for inspection
by periodic Bank supervision missions.
F. Accounting and Auditing
4.16.        The States, through the concerned PFIs, would be required to
provide the Bank with independently audited subproject accounts (including
SOEs and special amounts), as well as audited financial statements of the
PFIs themselves--including details on arrearage and structure of
portfolios. The FMOH would be required to provide independently audited
accounts of its project components and to undertake an annual performance
audit of the entire HSF Project. These performance audits would include:
(a) an overall quantitative and qualitative assessment of the HSF project
(including assessments of subproject performance and PFI compliance with
HSF policies and guidelines); and (b) consolidation of the individual PFI
subproject and FMOH project accounts. In addition to its normal
supervisory functions under the B&nking Act, and on the basis of special
subproject reporting by the PFIs, CBN would open and operate a Control
Account for the project, and report annually to FMFED, FMOH and the Bank on
the PFIs' financial performance and the overall financial status of the
project. The PFIs' audits, CBN's report and the project performance audit
would be submitted to the Bank annually within six months of the close of
each fiscal year.
G. Mid-Term Review
4.17.        The proposed HSF project represents an innovative approach,
to the health service financing, which is not yet tested in the proposed
form. It is, therefore, fully recognized that the implementation process
can provide important lessons warranting correction in the project design
or the implementation mechanism. In order to build in this possibility of
examination and any amendments in the project, FGN and the Bank would
jointly carry out a mid-term review. Assurances were received during
negotiations that FGN would carry out jointly with the Bank a mid-term
review of the project between 18 and 24 months after the loan effectiveness
which, inter alia, would also examine the adequacy of financing primary
health services under the LGAs.
H. Status of Project Preparation
4.18.        Project preparation has proceeded in keeping with FGN's
objective of facilitating participation by maximum number of states in HSF.
To start the process, FMOH prepared drafts of basic documents specifying
HSF policy objectives and guidelines (see para. 4.04) and invited all
states to participate in the project. A project workshop was held in
December 1988 in which 13 states presented their subproject ideas. Based
upon the workshop's experience, FMOH created a technical assistance
facility, out of funds from the Sokoto Health Project (Ln. 2503-UNI), and a
panel of local consulting firms from which the participating states chose



- 32 -
their consultants to prepare subprojects. At the same time, the PFIs
started strengthening their project units and helping the states and their
consultants in the preparation process. During the HSF appraisal, in July
1989, a second workshop was held in which eleven states and their
consultants presented subprojects. Still another workshop was held in
November 1989. Since then, 11 States have continued to develop their
subprojects in agreed detailed format. Two additional States have also
expressed interest to join the Project. At least nine subprojects are
expected to be ready for PFI Board consideration by early 1991. Some of
these States intend to start implementation taking advantage of the
retroactive financing provision under the Loan. Annex 4-10 summarizes the
subproject proposals currently in the pipeline. The workshoia not only
demonstrated the States' eagerness to participate in the NSF, it also
showed that the States and the consultants had capacity to prepare
acceptable subprojects in a relatively short period of time. Execution of
at least two Subsidiary Loan Agreements, each covering one subproject, is a
condition of loan effectiveness.
V. PROJECT BENEFITS AND RISKS
Benefits
5.01.        The main advantage of this line of credit approach to health
care financing is to significantly expand the access of the States and LGAs
to health sector financing. The participation of competing PFIs with their
special competence in financial management, including cost recovery and
expenditure control, in earlier line of credit arrangements with the Bank
and FGN sho,uld lead to a speedier start and more even distribution of funds
among the states and be more efficient than using government agencies. In
addition, the PFIs would co-finance about 1OZ of subproject costs. State
governments could take up a sequence of modest subprojects, to be
implemented over shorter cycles and at lower cost. As a result, the
project should improve the quality and accessibility of health, nutrition
and family planning services. The health status of the population,
particularly women and children, is expected to improve, and the
population's knowledge and practice of family planning should increase.
The project's emphasis on institutional development should improve
planning, implementation and evaluation of health programs. Health
management and cost recovery should improve and help stabilize financing of
the sector.
5.02.        There are two major institution building advantagess  First,
by using well-established Nigerian institutions, this approach builds local
institutions and local capacity. Since local institutions compete against
each other, the proposed mechanism provides for efficiency of service to
the States and FMOH. The approved subprojects can be kept much simpler
with phased implementation resisting strongly the tendency of health
projects to become complex and administratively overwhelming. Secondly,
this would also help to minimize the burden on limited Bank staff resources
for subproject appraisal and supervision, which could be more effectively
used for intensive supervision of the PFIs.



- 33 -
5.03.        The approach would also put in place a mechanism to channel
resources of other external as well as local institutions (such as
insurance companies) to these sectors. Properly designed operations could
help instil a market approach and financial discipline into the system.
The project can be expected to lead to additional financing for the sector
by attracting funds through a market for bonds, issued by States with the
assistance of PFIs in which they are inv'olved actively in the bond
placement and rating process. Even as it is, a closed-circuit Fund would
be created by the recoveries from the initial loans to States not being
passed back to the Bank, by virtue of the difference in maturities (para
3.12). The Fund could in the long term be expanded to include
contributions from within the country's Ministries of Health and Finance,
life insurance companies and from external donors and multilaterals.
Risks
5.04.        The main risk is that the PFIs, although generally well
managed, might not appraise and supervise health and institutional
development aspects of subprojects adequately. This problem would be
addressed through subproject preparation guidelines, an emphasis on
smaller, simple and implementable projects, and a focus on policies and
institutional development in project preparation appraisal and
disbursement. Also, PFIs would recruit and train specialists staff, and the
HMOH and the Bank would provide technical inputs on a systematic basis
during appraisal and supervision. Lessons learned during the start-up of
the earlier IDF project would be incorporated as appropriate. All
subprojects above a low free limit of US$0.5 million would have to be
approved by the Bank. Subproject risks are virtually the same as for a
traditional PHN project. They include: (a) failure of the public services
to regain prior levels of public confidence and use; (b) failure to
implement effective financial management; (c) failure to redeploy essential
personnel and other resources to primary care facilities and outreach
programs; and (d) inability to make effective use of all available
resources. The project aims at minimizing these risks through staff
training, technical assistance, and close supervision by the strengthened
Federal Ministry of Health assisted by the PFIs.
5.05.         State capacity.  The risks involved in the project at the
State level are that exogenous factors will make it impossible for the
States to repay their loans; that the States will not be able to sustain
the political will to satisfy sub-loan financial and institutional
conditionality; and that implementation problems typical of Nigeria, such
as staff shortages, institutional weakness and procurement delays, will
prevent the timely implementation of the subprojects.
5.06.        Ricks at the State level are mitigated by the beneficial
impact of the Federal Government's medium-term adjustment program on the
Nigerian economy and on State finances. Also, health plans and investment
prioritization studies financed under the project should ensure more
rational financial planning and management by the States. The standard
conditionalities on sectoral policy and operation are also included to
minimize risks. Most important, the subprojects have been designed to be
simple and managesble and phased to minimize implementation problems.



- 34 -
VI.  AGREEMENTS, CONDITIONS AND RECOMMENDATION
A. Agreements Reached
6.01.        During negotiations, the Federal Government of Nigeria (FGN)
gave the following assurances that it woulds
(a)     not later than December 31, 1991, establish a
revolving fund in CBN, in a form and procedures
satisfactory to the Bank, to be used for financing
health sub-projects (para. 3.12);
(b)    relend the proceeds of the Bank loan to the project
States under the Subsidiary Loan Agreements whose terms and
conditions would be satisfactory to the Bank (para. 3.12);
(c)     re-examine jointly with the Bank the health financing
requirement of LGAs, during the mid-term review, with a view
to rectifying any deficiency in such financing in a manner
satisfactory to FGN and the Bank (para. 3.13);
(d)     would cause CBN to establish and maintain a Control
Account showing the status of subloans made to States, to
review annually the overall financial status of the subloans,
and to prepare and furnish a satisfactory report to
the FMFED, FMOH and the Bank no later than six months after
the end of each fiscal year (para. 3.20);
*e)     operate the proposed project in accordance with the Statement
of Policy, the Pro4ect Guidelines and the Credit Guidelines
satisfactory to the Bank as agreed with the Bank and not make
changes in their provisions except in consultation with the
Bank (para. 4.04); and
(f)     carry out, jointly with the Bank, a mid-term review of the
Project between 18 and 24 months after the loan becomes
effective (para. 4.17).
B. Condition of Loan Effectiveness
6.02.        The following are conditions of effectiveness:
(a)   Execution of at least two subsidiary Loan Agreements
(paras. 3.12 and 4.18); and
(b)   Establishment of the Project Coordination Committee
(para. 4.02).
C. Condition of Disbursement
6.03.        Disbursement from any subloan under the line-of-credit would
not be made unless:



- 35 -
(a)     the subloan has been made in accordance with the procedures
and on the terms and conditions agreed with the Bank (para.
3.12);
(b)     the project state has entered into (i) a Subsidiary
Loan Agreement and (ii) a PFI Cofinancing Agreement (para.
3.12); and
(c)     a PFI Deed of Guarantee has been executed in respect
of such subloan (para 3.12).
F. Recommendation
6.04.         Subject to the above agreements and conditions, the proposed
project would be suitable for a Bank loan of US$70 million for 20 years at
the standard variable interest rate.
AF4PH
April 3, 1991



FEDERAL REPUBLIC OF NICERIA
WEALTH SYSTEM RND PROJECT
CMARATIYE SOCIO-ECUIIMIC DIDICATlRS 1/
middle
Cot.    Burkina                 Income   Sub-Sahera
Nigeria  Cameroon      Ghana     d'Ivoir.     Faso      Kenya    Economies    Africa
Total Population                11t.1       11.2         14.8       11.2        8.5       22.4     1808.9      46.9
Urban Population (1)             34.8       47.8         38.0       45.8        9.J       22.0      658.        28.0
Crud. Birth Rate (per 1,08)      47.0       4C.8         45.8 J8.0             47.0       47.0       29.J       47.n
Crud. Death Rate (per 1,081)     15.8       13.0         13.0       14.8       1.80       11.8        8.J       18.0
Average Annual Growth,
Population (1968-8), in X)      3.8        8.2          3.4        4.8        2.6        3.8        2.2        3.2
Totel Fertility Rate              6.6        6.6          8.3        7.3        6.5        6.9        8.6        8.7
Infant Vbrtality Rate           188.        92.8         8.0       986.       187.0       70.8       52.t      16.J
Life Expctancy at Birth          51.0      S6.8          54.8       53.0       47.J   9   659.       66.        51.8
Population per Physeician (1984)  7998.8      .8 2/   1489.0         -     57228.0     9978.6     26298.    288560
Population per Mures (1984)    18.8    1986.8 2/        in..          -      1ow.8      58.8       9S.110    2460.8
Daily per Capita Calori;
Supply (1996)                2146.8     2828.8       1759.0     2369.0     2139.8     26160.0    2846.0     2886.0
Adult Illiteracy Rate (3) (1965)   58.0     44.8         47.8       57.8       87.0       41.8       26.0       52.8
Per Capita Inc.                 28.80    iSU.8         4ME.8       778.          -       210.8     1938.8      30.8
Averg Growth CD 1965-1968 (X)    8.9         8.7          1.6        0.9        1.2        1.9        2.8 a.2
Soure.: World Development Report, 198
1/ For oid-18, unlm otherwise indicated.
2/ 1911



37                                 ~~~~~~~Ann*x  2-2
- 37 -
FEDERAL REPUBLIC OF NIGERIA
HEALTH SYSTEM FUND PROJECT
COMMNN CAUSES OF MORBIDITY AND HOSPITAL ADMISSIONS IN NIGERIA
(in percentages)
1984
A.   Morbidity
1.   Infectious  and parasitic  diseases  ......................                                   38.22
2.   Nutritional  and metabolic  diseases                             .....................         1.8Z
3.   Respiratory  diseases    .                 .........................   ....                   12.7S
4.   Ill-defined  conditions  ....................................                                  9.22
5.   Skin  diseases              .............................................                      8.42
6.   Diseases  of  the  Digestive  system  .......................                                  4.7Z
7.   Accidents  .....................................................                               3.12
S.   Muscles  and  skeletal  diseases  ..........................                                   2.91
9.   Genito-urinary  diseases  ................................                                     2.7Z
10.   Blood  diseases  - anaemia,  etc.  ......                       ...................             2.5Z
11.   Diseases  of  the nervous  system  ...........sthe............                                  9.9Z
12.   Others  ......................................................                                  3.92
B.   HosDital Admissions
1.   Infectious  and parasitic  diseases  .....                        .................           31.3Z
2.   Nutritional  and metabolic  diseases  .........                      ..     ..........         2.81
3.   Pregnancy  and  child  birth                        ..............................            23.1Z
4.   Respiratory  diseases  .......                 ................... ..........                  9.81
S.   Genito-urinary  diseases  .............                       ...................              5.81
6.   Accidents  .....................................                                               5.31
7.   Digestive  system  diseases                         ..............................             5.OZ
8.   Diseases  of  the nervous  system  ......;.                                                    3.3S
9.   Blood  diseases  ....................................                               .          3.01
10.   Ill-defined  conditions  ...... ...........................                                     3.2Z
11.   Skin  diseases ,...................................................                             2.4Z
12.   Others             .................................................                            5.OZ
Source: Federal Ministry of Health



FEDERAL REPUBLIC OF NIGERIA
HEALTH SYSTEM FUND PROJECT
Structur, of the Federal Ministry of Health
(September 19B8)
|Mi;nister|
National Council|_
on Ho41 th    1 --- - ---------------- -- --
Drector                                  Int rno    L a       no" on    Buildng
Genral                                    Aui        nt|        U;              ni
Dopartment                    Department of   Department                       Department of    Department      Department                     co
of        Department of   Planning,        of Diseases     Department of   Food A Drug       of Hospital   of Primary
Porsonn-l    Finance and      Roearch and    Control and       Populotion      Administration   Services and   Health
M nagement   Supplies         Statistics      Int rnat;onnl   Activities       and Control      Training        Care
Helth



- 39 -
ANNEX 2-4
Page 1 of 2
FEDERAL REPUBLIC OF NIGERIA
HEALTH SYSTEM FUND PAOJECT
HEALTH RESPONSIBILITIES OF VARIOUS GOVERNMENT INSTITUTIONS IN NIGERIA
Federal Ministry of Health
1.          The Federal Ministry of Health shall be responsible for
health care services and for training institutions or other services of
common usage among the States or of national concern or character. Such
services and institutions include:
(a)   Special hospitals (orthopedic, eye, neuropsychiatric)
(b)   Teaching hospitals
(c)   National laboratories
(d)   Communicable and Endemic Diseases Control (designated as
National Programme)
(e)   International Health and Quarantine
(f)   Regulation and surveillance of standard training of health
personnel
(g)   Regulation, control and surveillance of health care
standards
(h)   External health relations
gi)   Drugs and poison control
Cj)   National intersectoral health care linkages
(k)   Primary health care support (national planning, training,
technical assistance, program support)
State Ministries of Health/Health Management Boards
2.          The State Ministries of Health and Health Management Boards
shall be responsible for the health care system and training
institutions as required for the well being of the people of their
States. To avoid overlapping of responsibilities, the State Government
shall provide:
(a)   Special care in wards of general hospitals especially for
acute service
(b)   General hospital services, including outpatient care
(c)   Training institutions especially for sub-professional levels
such as technologists, technicians, assistant and aide
levels
(d)   Public health programs
(e)   Intersectoral health care linkages at State level
(f)   State public health laboratories
(g)   Any health programs of particular relevance to the State
(h)   Primary health care support (State planning, training,
financial programming and operational support)



- 40 -
ANNEX 2-4
Page 2 of 2
Local Governments
3.          With the support of the State Ministry of Health, the Local
Government shall be responsible for:
(a)   Community organized health and health-related services
(b)   The provision and maintenance of infrastructure to provide
health services
(c)   The involvement of the local community in support of primary
health care
Local Autonomous Communities
4.          In many parts of Nigeria, local autonomous communities have
undertaken community health development activities. This is
particularly true in the southeastern states, such as Imo and Anambra,
where most of the existing PHC facilities have been financed and built
by communities.
Source:     Federal Ministry of Health, "The National Health Policy and
Strategy to Achieve Health for all Nigerians", Lagos, Nigeria, December
1986.
AF4PH
January 1991



- 41 -
ANNEX 2-5
FEDERAL REPUBLIC OF NIGERIA
HEALTH SYSTEM FUND PROJECT
HEALTH ESTABLISHMENTS  -  NIGERIA
(1987)
TIPe of Facilities                             Number            Beds
Primary Health Clinics and Dispensaries        4,080                0
Secondary Facilitiess
Health Centers                              740
}        26,650
Maternity Centers and Homes               3,090
Tertiary Facilities:
University Teaching Hospitals                14            7,100
Military Hospitals                           16            3,000
Specilaized Hospitals                        27            4,600
General Hospitals                           760           50,100
Other Facilities                                           4.300
Total                                                     97,750
Sources: Federal Ministry of Health



- 42 -
ANNEX 3-1
Page 1 of 3
FEDERAL REPUBLIC OF NIGERIA
HEALTH SYSTEM FUND PROJECT
DETAILED DESCRIPTION - TRAINING AND TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE
SUPPORT TO STATES
Introduction
1.        The success and sustainability of the project will depend in
large part upon the ability of the staff and personnel involved in its
implementation to carry out their functions in a competent and efficient
manner. To determine existing staff capabilities in the various agencies
connected with the project, a training needs analysis is being conducted at
the state and local government levels, and at the PFIs. In general, the
preliminary analysis indicates that most of the public officials
interviewed are reasonably qualified for the job and grade positions that
they hold. Likewise, staff of the PFIs and locally available consultancy
firms appear to be well qualified for their job positions, and the PpIs are
committed to in-service training and staff upgrading. The analysis also
indicates that most of the training required to meet project objectives can
be accomplished in-country through local seminars and workshops, on-the-job
training, and short courses at local institutions. In a few selected
cases, more extensive overseas training programs would be required. For
the successful implementation of these activities, it will be essential to
integrate the training with the technical assistance assignments to assure
the maximum transfer of expertise during the course of the project.
Training
2.        The general objective of the project training components would
be to ensure that all personnel associated with the project are able to
carry out their duties efficiently. Certain key personnel would gain in-
depth competence in the methods of planning, managemnet and evaluation.
Specific training objectives encompass:
(a) acquisition of skills in subproject preparation and Bank-type
appraisal including development of the sectoral background for
the Policy Statement, Project Preparation Guidelines and Credit
Guidelines, as well as carrying out specific Bank procedures for
procurement, disbursement, etc.
(b) the introduction of relevant management methods to assist
preparation, appraisal and especially implementation;
(c) the development and implementation of common standards, methods
and organization at all levels; and



- 43 -
ANNEX 3-1
Page 2 of 3
(d) the transfer of knowledge and skills to sustain project
performance after the departure of technical assistance.
3.        A one-week seminar would be held following project effectivenass
(or earlier, if appropriate) to take stock of progress made through
previous workshops. Participating state project implementation units, PFIs
and LCs would participate, along with key PHOH staff, to gain clarification
of current procedures and practice regarding: HSF objectives, policy and
organization, subproject preparation and appraisal guidelines, subproject
approval procedures, financial administration of subprojects, monitoring of
progress, performance auditing, and IBRD contracting procedures. A follow-
up seminar would be held approximately nine months later to reflect any
changes in procedures made as a result of review of experience up to that
time. Adequate training materials would be prepared in advance for all the
seminars. International consultation would be provided in preparation for
the first, but reliance would be placed upon local assistance thereafter.
4.        A more intensive course in planning, programming, scheduling and
budgeting would be held for state planners and local consultants. The
course would be led by FMOH through collaborating training institutions and
would be closely tied to field follow-up activities for plan preparation
and sub-project development. In order to help strengthen the collaborating
institutions, faculty exchanges for periods of three months would be
arranged with international academic institutions.
5.        Subproject proposals will be subject to systematic appraisal
according to well-defined criteria. While such review is a necessary and
integral part of the process of subproject development and implementation,
it also serves as a valuable means of practical inservice training for
personnel in the states responsible for the preparation of proposals.
Subproject review will therefore be treated as a type of informal training.
Wide dissemination of subproject results through documents and conferences
would also be instructive.
6.        PFI staff members and consultants would be encouraged to
parti_ipate at their own expense in a three month-period of overseas
training in health care finance and cost-effectiveness appraisal. The
training would include a one-month study tour of innovative health delivery
and financing systems in selected countries.
Technical Assistance
7.        Substantial technical assistance needed in support of training
has been included under that heading. Other forms of consultation noted
herein have an element of training as well inasmuch as consultancies are
intended to encourage development of in-house skills and independence.
Moreover, the project would utilize and strengthen local consultant
capacity to the maximum extent possible.
8.        To be eligible to draw upon the HSF, states must have prepared a
health plan. Further refinement and elaboration in the form of rolling
plans is desirable as a basis for setting priorities for subproject
development. The continuing planning and development effort would benefit



- 44 -
ANNEX 3-1
Page 3 of 3
from specialized technical assistance. This would be provided mainly by
LCs with international back-up.
9.        After the first few subprojects are essentially completed,
consultants would be engaged according to Bank procedures to review
existing policy and guidelines to confirm their appropriateness or to
recommend changes. A second review would take place during the third year
of the project after the scope of subproject components had been expanded.
10.       The project would finance approximately 130 staff-weeks of
consultant services to execute the annual project performance audit over
the initiax seven years of HSF operations. This magnitude of effort is
provided in consideration of the project s-ope and the number of individual
subprojects to be separately reviewed. The performance audit would include
qualitative and quantitative examination of individual subprojects, as well
as assessment of performance of each PFI in implementing the program.
Independent auditors acceptable to the Bank would be employed to undertake
this performance audit on terms of reference approved by the Bank. The
auditor's responsibilities would also include annual consolidation of the
subproject accounts prepared by the PFIs, and the annual accounts prepared
by FMOH for their components into an overall HSF consolidated project
account. FMOH would be responsible for coordinating this activity.
11.       Provision is also made for short-term technical assistance
related to development of the HSF financing mechanism or other purposes to
be identified during the course of project implementation. Unanticipated
problems likely to emerge will require resources that cannot be specified
in advance. Requests for such studies will be initiated by the FMOH or the
World Bank subject to the concurrence of the other.
AF4PH
January 1991



- 45 -
ANNEX 3-2
Page 1 of 3
FEDERAL REPUBLIC OF NIGERIA
HEALTH SYSTEM FUND PROJECT
DETAILED DESCRIPTION - FMOH SUPPORT
1.        The project oversight function would be centered in the FMOH
Department of Planning, Research and Statistics (DPRS). Through
clarifications on the policy statements and guidelines issued in
consultation with the Bank, DPRS would assist state planning units and PFIs
in subproject preparation and would coordinate the review of proposals.
Following project approval, DPRS would have responsibility for tracking the
progress of implementation. For these purposes, a Project Documentation
Center and a Project Management Information System would be established
within DPRS. The unit would introduce modern management methods to
facilitate effective monitoring.
Personnel
2.        To oversee conduct cf the above function, the project would
support an HSF unit within DPRS with a Project Officer (in GL-16 grade)
assisted by three officers, one each for: (a) Policy and Programming; (b)
Consultancy Contracting and Local Promotion; and (c) Financial Operations
and Policy. There would be a team of advisors to the unit as follows. A
Project Advisor to the DPRS Director and a Financial Advisor would be
supported by the project for a period of three years. An internationally
recruited advisor for Consultancy Promotion would be appointed for an
initial period of one year subject to review and renewal for a second year.
The Financial Advisor (local) would work principally with PFIs/CBN/FMFED.
The international advisor for Local Consultancy Promotion would work with
local firms empaneled by FMOH to assist the states in general development
of the local consultancy and its infrastructure/environment.
3.        Since a sound Management Information System (MIS) is crucial to
the effectiveness of HSF specifically and DPRS generally, the project would
provide strong support to that unit. An international long-term consultant
with substantial experience in health and management information systems
would be advisor to a local counterpart for a period of two and a half
years to help manage the unit. He would form part of the international
team, but be located in the M.I.S. unit in the Research and Statistics
Division of the DPRS. Four assistants would focus attention on (a)
feedback, corrective action and follow-up, (b) computer systems and
software, (c) performance indicators and analysis, and (d) information
collection verification and dissemination. The unit would require adequate
hardware support for states and FMOH's HSF units. In particular, FAX,
telex and radio equipment would be vital in ensuring effective
communication links among states and FMOH. In addition, FMFED woul4 be
provided with similar equipment to strengthen FMFED in its monitoring of
financial aspects of the HSF. The focus in the implementation of M.I.S.



- 46 -
ANNEX 3-2
Page 2 of 3
would be (a) to use a few indicators from existent reports and train the
whole delivery system and the Directorate of DPRS in collection, analysis,
feedback, and follow-up with corrective action, and thereby to establish
the credibility of M.I.S. to decision makers weary with pointless reporting
and then (b) to move to more indicators, new data and more sophistication.
4.        The arrangement for local counterparts shall be flexible, with
provision of two for each expatriate advisor to provide for attrition and
short-term training and leave reserve.
Training
5.        Because of the unique nature of the project, considerable
training would be required both to provide orientation to project purposes
and procedures, as well as to impart needed knowledge and skills. A
training strategy would be developed and carried out by a training
institution under DPRS guidance to include state planners and decision
makers, PPI staff, local consultants (LC), and FHOH personnel. Although
the emphasis would be on local training, provision would be made in
selected cases for overseas fellowships, almost all of them short-term.
Further details on the training program are given in Annexes 3-1 and 4.7.
6.        In order to provide effective guidance to project activities,
including training, the FMOH will need to improve its competence in
planning and management.  Up to ten key FMOH staff members would receive at
least one year of local or overseas degree or diploma training in health
planning and management. Two of these individuals would receive doctoral
level training requiring a second year of overseas residence.
Technical Assistance
7.        Technical assistance as described below would be provided from
international and local sources. The intent would be to rely increasingly
on local consultants over time.  An important function of the FMOH
implementation unit, therefore, would be to support the development of
local consultancy capability.
Special Studies
8.        The initial round of state subprojects would include provision
for special studies as a basis for development of subsequent proposals. In
addition, certain generic studies likely to produce results of
generalizable value would be carried out through DPRS.
9.        These would seek general improvements in the organization,
management, delivery, or financing of health care. Approximately eight
studies would be financed by the project. Specific subjects of
investigation would be established by mutual agreement between F0OH and the
Bank. Illustrative possibilities are cited below.



- 47 -
ANNEX 3-2
Page 3 of 3
(a)  personnel atisignment and utilization;
(b) assessment of training needs and strategies;
(c) control of expenditures for supplies, transport and other non-
personnel items;
(d) cost recovery and financing mechanisms;
(e) simplified health and management information systems;
(f) functional relationships among federal, state and LGA entities;
and
(g) assessment of LGA needs and financing possibilities.
AF4PH
January 1991
J~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~V



- 48 -
ANNEX 3-3
Page 1 of 2
FEDERAL REPUBLIC OF NIGERIA
HEALTH SYSTEM FUND PROJECT
ESTIMATED PROJECT COSTS BY COMPONENT 1/
(in US $'000)
Percentage
of Foreign
Local   Foreign  Total  Exchange
I. STATE SUBPROJECTS 21
A. Institutional Development
Project Management                   1,200      0    1,200
Equipment, materials, vehicles    3,200   1,600    4,800
Technical assistance & training       400   1,600    2,000
Subtotals                        4,800   3,200   8,000         40
B. Essential DruRs
Drugs                                    0  20,300  20,300
Storage, repairs, construction      2,000        0   2,000
Subtotal:                        2,000  20,300  22,300         91
C. Facility Upgrading
Civil works                        23,160   20,440  43,600
Equipment, materials, vehicles       9,000    6,000  15,000
Subtotals                       32,160   26,440  58,600        45
D. Studies                              1.400        0   1.400        0
Total State Subprojects         40,360   49,940  90,300        55
1/    Including taxes and duties estimated at US$6.8 million.
2/    Most state subprojects are likely to contain these four components
which are likely to use about 90Z of the sutproject costs.  Other
subprojects are not possible to predict at this stage; hence the
remaining 10? is included in these components.



- 49 -
ANNEX 3-3
Page 2 of 2
Percentage
of Foreign
Local   Foreign  Total   Exchange
II. ASSISTANCE TO FMOH
Personnel                           402      420     822
Technical assistance                 84       80     164
Training                              0      420     420
Equipment, vehicles                 236       60     296
Studies                              0     200       20
Total for FMOH                     722   1,180    1,902       62
III. SUPPORT TO STATES
Personnel                          30          0      30
Technical assistance               583       960   1,543
Training                           565      170      735
Total for States                 1,178    1,130   2,308       52
Total Project Cost              42,260    52,250 94,510       55
____qn  in       in_



-50 -
ANNEX -4
F 9  o- 1
FEDERAL REPUBLIC OF NIGERIA
HEALTh SYSTEM FUN) PROJECT
INSTITUTIONAL FRAMEWORK AND ROLES
World Bank                       FMOH                      FMF A CBN
- Financing                      -Policy Ould nco            -P rfor"non   Audit
PFIs
- at loaWT%X Financing
-  Project Supervialon
-  Project Appraisals
- Operation of Special
Accounts and
Disbursements
- I6X financing
- Projcet Coordination
- Implementation of
PrOjcet Subcomponents



- 51 -
ANNEX 3-5
Page 1 of 20
FEDERAL REPUBLIC OF NIGERIA
HEALTH SYSTEM FUND PROJECT
ORGANIZATION, FINANCE AND PERFORMANCE OF
PARTICIPATING FINANCIAL INTERMEDIARIES (PFIs)
A.    THE FINANCIAL SECTO}' SETTING
1.          Nigeria has a relatively well-developed and diversified financial
sector, comprising the Central Bank and about 90 commercial and Merchant banks
(with over 2,000 branches throughout the country), several insurance companies,
several pension funds and a provident fund, leasing companies and saving banks,
two stock exchanges, three major public development finance institutions and a
public mortgage bank and some twenty regional development finance companies.
Since 1977, following the promulgation of the Nigerian Enterprises Promotion
Decree, all banking institutions in the country are required to be at least 60Z
owned by Nigerians. About 742 of commercial and merchant banks have significant
foreign minority ownership, ranging from 20 to 402.
2.          The Central Bank embodies the monetary authority in the country and
as such, is the lender of last resort to the banking system. It also manages
foreign exchange reserves and payments.  Commercial Banks predominate in the
financial system in terms of total asset holdings, accounting for about 75
percent of assets held between commercial and merchant banks. Merchant banks,
however, have been gaining very rapidly both in terms of numbers of banks and of
total assets.   Merchant banks   concentrate exclusively on corporate  and
institutional clients and serve a role as wholesale banks.  Wholesale banks
provide a wide range of investment and commercial banking financial services.
3.          Despite this relatively sophisticated institutional framework, a high
degree of Government regulation and control has in the past retarded the full
development of the financial sector and limited its allocative efficiency. The
result has been the evolution of a relatively rigid and compartmentalized credit
system with limited market determination of the terms and conditions of financial
intermediation. The financial sector has been subjected to a complex system of
controls by the Central ianI&of Nigeria (CBN) regarding the sectoral allocation
of loans and their maturities, and to low legal limits on nominal interest rates
for both borrowers and savers. In general, as inflation increased, traditional
deposit and lending instruments of the banking sector have been limited by low
nominal interest rate ceiling which, until recently, did not permit the
adjustments necessary to ensure positive yields in real terms. In October 1986,
CBN began to liberalize the interest rate policy; time deposits were allowed to
be negotiated between banks and borrowers, the maximum lending rate was increased
by two points to 15% and the differential between preferred and nonpreferred
sectors was eliminated. In August 1987 the Government eliminated all ceiling on
lending and deposit rates, and the discount and treasury bill rates were
increased by 4 percentage points from 112 to 152 and from 102 to 14S,
respectively. The discount rates, however, were reduced in December 1987 by 2.25



- 52 -
ANNEX 3-5
Page 2 of 20
percentage prints, to stimulate growth in the economy.   While the rate of
inflation was less than 10? in 1987, it was 37.9S in 1988, which resulted again
in negative real rates of interests for both savings and lending.   The main
restriction to the activities of commercial and merchant banks is now through
annual ceilings on the expansion of loans and advances, and still complex and
rigid sectoral credit allocations criteria which specify minimum percentages of
the portfolio for certain sectors.  The credit ceilings on the growth of the
bank's credit to the private sector was raised from 7.4Z to 12.5Z in January,
1988 to assist in stimulating the economy.
4.    During 1989 the CBN applied a series of stringent measures to restrict the
credit expansion beyond the regulated ceilings. The first measure taken in May,
1989, involved the abolition of offshore guarantees of Naira-denominated loans.
Unless borrowers were able to provide alternative local guarantees the loans were
recalled. The second measure taken in June 1989, involved the transfer of
Government (Federal, State and parastatal) deposits from the commercial and
merchant banks to the CBN.  The result of this measure was to pull out over 10?
of the total assets of the banking system (roughly N8 billion out of M70 billion)
and obviously a higher percentage of the deposit base.  The result was that
several banks became illiquid and have overdrawn by large margins their CBN
accounts.   How many of these banks will become insolvent is still open to
question. By 1989, with deregulation, the entire rate structure had moved up
with deposit rates at 17? to 25? and lending between 27? and 34?, while the CBN's
rediscount rate stood raised to 18.5Z. During the 1991 budget presentation, FGN
reintroduced interest control to a maximum lending rate of 21? in reaction to the
high level of real interest rates (inflation 6Z, lending rates above 25?),
stating that there was a market failure and promising that this measure was
temporary and open for discussion.
5.          Thus during the second half of the 1980's there has been substantial
expansion and rapid changes in the financial systems caused by changes in the
policy framework and the economic conditions. The institutional structure is in
flux with the core of the system poised for a major shift in ownership and
management from public to private sector and greater exposure to market forces.
6.          The most important structural problem facing the banking system is
its lack of stability, resulting from the readjustments taking place in the
economy,under the Govgor4nent's Structural Adjust,a  Program.,* As a result, banks
are faced with potentially high arrears, and CBN is not strictly enforcing their
power to request additional provisioning for doubtful loans. In this context,
the capital adequacy of banks is critical.  Commercial banks and to a lesser
extent merchant banks, have in the past, been highly leveraged, and there is a
need to subject the banks to stronger regulatory pressure to classify their
portfolios properly, work out their non-performing assets, make up the provision
shortfall, and strengthen their capital base.



- 53 -
ANNEX 3-5
Page 3 of 20
B.    MERCHANT BANKS ORGANIZATION. STAFFING AND PROCEDURES
7.          The five Nigerian merchant banks' selected early during project
preparation to participate as PFIs, were chosen based on their financial
strength, technical capacity and interest in participating.   Likewise,  two
merchant banks and two commercial banks have secured approval from Government and
the Bank during 1990 for elegibility as PFIs under HSF. Together, the seven
merchant banks account for over 702 of the assets held by Merchant Banks in
Nigeria, and five of the above selected banks are associated with prominent
international banks. The ownership, organization and staffing, operations and
procedures of the banks and their financial structure and performance are
analyzed and described below.
8.          Ownership.  Nigerian banking institutions are required by law to be
at least 602 Nigerian owned, and all the participating banks conform to this
ruling.   In the case of three of the banks  (CMB, IMB and NMB) this 602
shareholding has been retained directly by the Federal Government through the
Ministry of Finance Incorporated (MOFI), a wholly-owned subsidiary of the Federal
Ministry of Finance. MOFI, in addition, continues to retain a 20Z share holding
with NAL. Nigerian parastatals are also figuring prominently in the ownership
structure of the banks, with Nigeria Industrial Development Bank (NIDB) owning
452 of the shares of ICON, and the National Insurance Corporation of Nigeria
(NICON) owning 152 and 252 of ICON and NAL, respectively.
9.          Five of the nine banks (NAL, IMB, N.I. B, MBA and Grindleys' Merchant
Bank) have strong foreign banking participation. American Express and Credit
Lyonnais together own 28.62 of NAL while First National Bank of Chicago and owns
402 of IMB. Until 1985, Morgan Guarantee and Baring Brothers together held 402
of the shares in ICON, however, they decided to relinquish these holdings several
years ago.  ICON is still seeking a foreign banking partner, although Morgan and
Baring Brothers continue to provide them with correspondent banking services.
N.I.B. (40X Citicorp), M.B.A. (402 Bank of America) Grindleys' Merchant Bank (402
ANZ Holdings (UK) are the relatively new entrants to Nigerian banking, and do not
have any Government holdings.
10.         The active participation of the above mentioned foreign banks in the
ownership and operations of the Nigerian banks has added greatly to the range and
depth of experience, skills and services available, as well as provided a sense
of stability and confidence to the bankings sector.  The withdrawal of Chase
Manhattan and Morgan Guarantee Banks does not appear to be part of any general
trend; the vigorous operation of N.I.B. (Citicorp affiliate) and the Grindleys
and Bank of America affiliates is testimony to the continued participation of
foreign banks in the banking system so long as it is in partnership with private
and scattered Nigerian shareholders. Contrary to what might have been expected
because of their importance in the banking sector and their specific financial
business with the parastatal enterprises, the banks have been largely free of
NAL, ICON, International (IMB), Continental (CMB), and Nigerian   (NMB)
Merchant Banks.



- 54 -
ANNEX 3-5
Page 4 of 20
Government intervention in their lending and syndicating operations, as well as
in the management of their portfolios.  Merchant banks can now make equity
investment operations, which by regulation is limited to no more than lOl of its
capital in a single company. The total of the equity shareholding cannot exceed
1/3 of the merchant banks capital.  In fact, banks compete intensely among
themselves, for savings, letters of credit, syndications and borrowers, and with
the development banks for long-term projects. Basically, the difference between
merchant and commercial banks consist of business size. The merchant banks are
primarily in wholesale financial activities (dealing with relatively large
corporate, parastatal and Government clients) while the commercial banks also
handle retail banking business, which means providing services to individuals.
The merchant banks operate strictly on the basis of commercial criteria and have
developed the reputation of being among the most profitable, effective and
efficiently run organizations in Nigeria. The following table summarizes the
ownership structure of the nine eligible banks selected as PFIs; also indicated
is the size of their assets and staffing.
TABLE 1
OWND1IP STRUCTURE Of THE PFI.
Total
PFI   YZer 2   AaatA   staeff  Shareholding
(N   1i   LoelI       Forsian
NAL  1960   1,504 k/   407  201-NOFI  26$1-Amrican Expr.
251-NICON  101-John Holt Oroup
10S1-N.  2.61-Credit Lyonnais
Nigeria
Dow. Co.
6.4;-NAL Staff
ICON    1974   2,389 i/   604  451-NID9  3!51-(RRe.rved for
15S-NICON  Foreign Partner)
51-Staff
(Raesrved)
iS.    1974   1.66  a/   866  601-HOFI  401-Firat National
City Bank/Chicago
CM8  1975   1, 678 a/   661  60$-MOFI  40S-aold by Choas
Manhattan
Oversea Banking
NM  1979   1,540 h/  831  601-MFI  None (USA ia in turn
405-Unitad  oned 401 by Banque
for Africa  National. de Panri)
(USA)
MBA  1982  850 y/   N/A  SS-private    401 Bank Of Aaerica
NIB  1984   1,604 I/   N/A  601-private    401 Citicorp
018  1964  339  57   60S  Private    401 ANZ holding (UKO
Nigerion
C3  l98s  272  N/A   1001 Private    OS
Nigerian
3/ 1/12/80
31/OS/89
4       4
11.   Organization and Staffing.  The nine eligible PFIs are all fairly
similar in their organizational structure and staffing, reflecting the
similarities in their operations. They are generally organized into three
main sectors (corporate banking, corporate finance and management
Formation Year.
8 July, 1989



- 55 -
ANNEX 3-5
Page 5 of 20
services), within which there are specialized divisions (credit and
marketing, trade and correspondent banking, operations, securities,
corporate affairs, finance and administration, etc). While the reporting
relationships differ somewhat among the banks, the basic organizational
elements are quite similar.  The main sectors are usually headed by a
general manager, and the divisions by an assistant general manager. During
the appraisal mission it was confirmed that of the five PFIs earlier
selected for the Project start up phase have already organized and are
operating Special Units within their respective Corporate Finance
Divisions, and through them most financial intermediation operations are
being handled.   The creation of these Special Units represents an
important achievement for both the IDF Project and for the proposed HSF
Project.  The selected PFIs' new Units are in fact development finance
windows of the PFIs. At present their main operation is channelling the
World Bank's various lines of credit. Each Special Unit is headed by a
well qualified officer who is generally assisted by at least three
professionals and two support personnel.   For these Units, specialist
staff and occasional short-term consultants have been assigned to manage
all the development projects as well as to improve their capacity to deal
with the intricacies of state finances and become familiar with sectoral
issues. Nevertheless, it is necessary to strengthen the capacity of these
Units by hiring additional professionals (as required) with background in
areas related to IDF and HKF sectors objectives, since there is a lack of
personnel with training in these fields. It is expected that under the
Project's technical assistance component the PFIs would be assisted in
strengthening their technical skill in subprojects preparation, evaluation
and  supervision.    For  specific  technical  aspects  of the project,
consultants would be hired, as needed. The Special Units' functions covet
a wide range of activities starting from promotion and advisory services
to subproject preparation, evaluation, and supervision. The Special Units
will be assisted by other PFIs' divisions particularly by the Marketing
and Credit Divisions.
12.     The following table presents the geographic distribution of the
PFI's branches:
TABLE 2
S8LACT PF.e BRANCHES 4/
CIWINENrAL  we& N       MeA   Grindluev'  Wtzrd
branchneh  K duna   K duns   Kuduns  Kano  Kaduna  Kano  Kano
,         l(nno  Knno  Kano  Joe     P4lercourt  O9un
:Owrri Calaber P-Narcourt Kaduna    9  NVger 
Ibdon   Bonin    Abe  Port Harcourt
Abuj*       On;te*he
HosdTuert: Laor L  Ls Lafs  La   L"       Lo n                     LL90
Total       orF"    a     1o     41. ~                              e
4/ At June, 1989
13.   The decisions for subproject financing approvals are centralized in
Lagos Headquarters, but for subproject preparation and supervision
activities the Special Units would be supported by the above 24 branch
offices, which would also carry out initial promotional activities. The



- 56 -
ANNEX 3-5
Page 6 of 20
three largest banks average just over 600 staff. The professional staff
in all the banks are strong in financial and accounting skills but lack
many of the technical skills that would be directly relevant to an HSF
type of subproject lending. In spite of this significant gap, the general
caliber of the staff is impressive, particularly at the middle and senior
management levels (project officer, assistant manager and upwards).
Typical of the banks as a group, more than half of staff is at the level
of deputy manager and above, possess masters degrees or equivalent in
finance, accounting or marketing, and the reost possessing bachelor's or
equivalent degrees in disciplines relevant to banking.
14.   Some banks are clearly stronger than others in specific subject
areas; however, none is considered significantly better organized or more
strongly staffed than the others. In general, they are all well run and
capably staffed. The typical middle and senior level managers have had 10
years experience in the banking sector.   As a result of the rapid
proliferation of banks in the past two years, all PFIs have lost some high
quality staff to newly established banks, but have managed to fill the
vacancies left from within without too much difficulty, as many competent
staff remain. Nevertheless, the staffing status will need to be closely
monitored.
15.   Onerations and Procedures.  While the banks offer a wide range of
services to their clients, the mission focussed most specifically on
syndications and project lending, these areas being most relevant to the
HSF Project. The operations and procedures of the banks are, again, quite
similar. In general, they attempt to spread their risks by syndicating
their larger  loans.   The procedures  for loan  syndication are well
established, regulated and supervised by CBN. But given the size of the
PFIs   and the average cost of the proposed HSF subprojects  ($ 1-5
million), the syndicating of loans may not be necessary.         Though not
regulated by CBN, the procedures for project lending and supervision are
fairly standardized, well developed and documented in the operations
manuals of each of the banks.
16.   The banks have the capacity to evaluate as well as to advise on the
technical and financial viability of the projects, and in most cases
project lending involves both operations.  Existing project lending is
concentrated in the manufacturing (46.32 average for the five PFIs) the
real estate and construction (40? average), and more recently the
agriculture, forestry and fishing (142 average) sectors4.  Two types of
projects are typical. In the usual industrial project the banks rely on
the participation of a strong technical partner, and the operational
procedures focus on the financial viability of the project.   This is
especially the case where proprietary technology is being provided by the
'The figures for lending from all market banks are 44.5% (manufacturing),
17.2% for real estate and construction, and 14.4% for agriculture, forestry and
fishing.



- 57 -
ANNEX 3-5
Page 7 of 20
technical partner.   In most such cases, however, the bank spot-checks
equipment specifications and prices, and seeks comparisons with simil.r
projects.    The  experience  of  foreign  banking  partners  has  proven
particularly helpful in this regard as international price comparisons can
be quickly and easily checked by telex with foreign branch offices and
corporate headquarters. In cases where the technical partner is found to
be weak, the banks assist the client to identify a suitable technical
partner or to retain appropriate consultants.
17.   II. both of the above cases, banks are willing to supply consulting
advice in the areas of marketing and finance--the areas in which they are
well endowed with staff resources.   Most clients require advice and
assistance with project preparation, and the banks have offered this
consulting service, seeing it as a growing and lucrative source of
revenue.   Over the years, particular bank officers have developed a
familiarity with certain sectors and types of projects and this has, to
some extent, compensated for the lack of engineering expertise.
18.   Because of the variability of the quality of project preparation
done by the banks' clients and the consequent variability in the extent of
consulting assistance required, it is difficult to generalize about the
loan appraisal period. However, where adequate preparatory work has been
undertaken by the client, the technical partner is strong and legal and
collateral requirements are not overly complex, loan appraisal and
processing can be completed within a six month period.   The typical
appraisal consists of thorough (and standardized) analyses of recent and
projected performance based on assessments of balance sheets, income
statements and cash flow projections. Audited financial statements for
the past three years of operation are normally required.  Based on the
above, a standardized set of ratios is derived, assessing project
profitability, liquidity, asset utilization, capital structure and degree
of risk. These quantitative indicators are supplemented by qualitative
evaluations of company history, management capability, stability and the
probabilities of successful project implementation. In addition, clients
are required to demonstrate the capacity to adequately (and quite
conservatively) capitalize projects from their own resources, often in the
form of cash equity to be deposited with the banks on the approval of a
loan.
19.   Projett  assessment  would  usually  be  the  responsibility. oiv a       _
particular project officer who is responsible for undertaking the
necessary financial and managerial analyses, ensuring that sound and
appropriate technical advice has been obtained by the client, and that
project is feasible.   On completion of this assessment, a report is
submitted, through a senior manager, to a loan committee comprising the
senior officers of the bank.   This loan committee recommends to the
managing director that a particular loan be approved or otherwise disposed
of. Managing Directors are allowed discretionary approval limits which
vary from bank to bank. Above these limits, approval has to be sought
from a loan committee of the board and, in special cases, by the board



- 58 -
ANNEX 3-5
Page 8 of 20
itself.  Once approval is given to a particular project, the client is
informed in writing, and all the legal and financial conditions attendant
on approval are stated.   Loan disbursement is then contingent on the
fulfillment of these conditions, including, inter alia, the payment of
commitment fees, the pledging of equity and collateral, and guarantees of
performance. Payments would normally be made only against engineer's or
architect's certification.
20.   In general,  all the banks adhere to well established and well
documented procedures; in most cases, project supervision goes well beyond
the simple monitoring of payments. The banks consider it not only normal
but essential that their project officers should attend site meetings
during the construction stages of projects, and develop a firm grasp of
the critical project activities and the progress of the project as a
whole.
21.  All the nine PFIs have the basic capability  to appraise and
supervise State health subprojects, provided that a Special Unit staff are
supported by consultancy services to cover the technical aspects of the
subprojects to be financed.  The banks have considerable experience in
disbursing against appropriate documentation and in field supervision of
industrial projects.   However,  there are two important HSF project
objectives which go beyond the narrow requirements of a typical bank
project, namely:
(a)   Reviewing the creditworthiness of the State Governments to
ensure repayment of the subloans, and helping the States, to
the extent possible, improve their creditworthiness; and
assessing and monitoring the creditworthiness of State
Governments; and
(b)   helping the States prepare health projects, develop a capacity
for project execution and improve their revenue bases---in
particular, substantially improving cost recovery to make
health services self-financing---and generally putting State
health infrastructure on a sounder financial, technical and
institutional footing.
22.   These  are  important  project  objectives  on which  the  Federal
Government of Nigeria andithe World Bank are in agiement, but which go
beyond the normal business practices of the local banks. There are no
existing institutions in Nigeria dealing effectively with these complex
questions. The technical assistance and training to be provided under the
Project will  address  these  larger objectives.    The  combination  of
technical assistance directly to the States, training of PFI staff to
enhance their capabilities (see Annex 4.6 for details on training
activities), competition among the PFIs for State subprojects and the
States' self-interest in improving their creditworthiness should help to
achieve these objectives.



- 59 -
ANNEX 3-5
Page 9 of 20
C.    FINANCIAL STRUCTURE OF THE PARTICIPATING FINANCIAL INTERMEDIARIES
(PFIs)
23.   The  tables  accompanying  this  Annex  present  the  past audited
financial statements, summary financial ratios and structure and quality
of the portfolio of the nine PFIs which have so far been classified as
eligible to participate in the on-going IDF and the Oyo Urban :roject.
Total assets of the nine banks have grown at an average annual rate of 451
over the past eight years. The fastest growth took place in the 1981-1982
period, during which the banks grew at an unprecedented annual rate of
781. During the 1986-1988 period, the PFIs grew at an annual rate of 451;
however, in 1988, when restrains on credit growth were applied by the
Government (para 4), growth dropped to 212.
24.   The financial structure of the merchant banks is characterized by
relatively short-term deposits (less than one year), with little medium -
and long-term debt (over five years).  In general, cash, receivables,
short-term loans and advances, and other short-term assets accounted for
well over 60S of total assets during 1984-1988. While limiting earnings,
these liquid assets have assisted the banks in reducing their distress
during economic downturns.   Given that an average of 401 of their
portfolio is in loans with maturities of over three years, and given that
over three-fourth of their total resources are represented by short term
liabilities, this leads to a significant amount of term-transformations,'
and liquidity problems can materialize to the extent that a sudden
withdrawal of deposits do not flow back quickly into the banking system.
Precisely such a situation has taken place recently in the banking system
with the withdrawals of Government deposits. While credit ceilings and
required liquidity ratios imposed by CBN have somewhat mitigated the
impact of this measure, banks with significant percentage of government
deposits have had to rely on overdrafts from CBN as a safety net.
25.   Capitalization.  As  shown  below,  historically,  the  PFIs  have
maintained debt/equity ratios of roughly 22:1, which is an acceptable
level for a commercial type banking institution, but high for a medium-to
long-term lending institution. As also shown below, with the exception of
ICON, banks have already taken some steps to reduce their debt/equity
ratios; however, the needed adjustments would be addressed by FGN under
a programme of reform of the financial sector. In addition, the quality
. of the portfolio of the PFIs woid be monitored duri$g the impAsmentation 4
of the project, with the support of CBN (para 29).
a Term transformation, which involves using short-term deposits for medium
to long term lending, is a normal banking practice, but poses two main
risks; (a) the possibility that interest rates paid by the banks for
their short-term deposits could increase over the interest rate charged
on long-t3rm loans outstanding, thereby causing a loss to the banks; and
(b) the possibility of illiquidity from deposit withdrawals.



- 60 -
ANNEX 3-5
Page 10 of 20
T S
ElnsaLlsar  ~~~5&'/                              t'/222Wb   9UAX   & NAJ O&8IE
19011-                 21.4     21.2    22.3 X
192           i5.6     21.2     28.7    27.9        14.7
193           16.8     20.9     28.S    82.4        25.8
1Wa4          19.4     19.5     28.9    81.8        25.0
1988          17.2     20.0     21.1    20.0        22.4   18.7  27.0    19.8
1916          13.4     25.0     20.1    22.1        20.2   80.6  42.9    88.2
1987          29.2     26.2    26.2     25.6        26.6   60.2  80.1    22.5
1966          12.8     29.6     20.8    17.8        19.8   26.0  84.0    16.4    -
1969           8.0     -        -       -           1S.6   16.6  N/A  5.7    8,9
a/ For NAL and NMB the fiscal year (FY) ends in March.  For all the other
banks the FY is the same as the calendar year.
26.       Profitability.  The profitability of the PFI is adequate.  The
nominal after tax rates of return on average equity of the PFIS are shown
below:
AFTER-TAX   OF E3Nm
1982        40.0   24.8     41.9    89.8   26.0                             7.7
198         22.4   19.4     81.8    33.1   1S.1   -      -       -    -     28.2
1964        81.0   24.3     89.7    28.8   29.9   -      -       -    -     39.6
1968        46.0   2S.0     81.2    89.8   81.7   -      -       -    -     8.8
1986        as.5   44.a     41.8    89.5   88.  6   86.2  40.8   2    -     6.4
1987        81.7   48.6     58.0    88.2   49.4   75.0   79.4   187   -     10.0
1988        98.0a/  87.5   38.2     51.5   66.8   80.0   90.9   120   -     87.9
189 (March) 64.5/ -  -      -       45.4   -      89.0   n       71  17.8   47.5
*/  Includ8  *xtraorodinry profit due to revalueton of for.qn *eata.
27.      In the past, the PFIs earned very positive real rates of return
on equity during periods of low inflation, but lost much ground during
years of higher inflation due to the fixed loan margins (caused by
interest rate ceilings) which did not distinguish adequately between real
aad nominal profits of financial intermediaries.   They vzre able to
maintain their profitability in spite of these restrictions through
commissions and other charges on loans and through the substantial
interest-free advances placed with banks by importers pending release of
foreign exchange by CBN. Following the liberalization of interest rates
in 1987, the PFIs have dramatically improved their real rate of return on
equity. As a percent of averAge total assets, the gross spread (int*rest
income less interest expense) shows narrow margins (1.02 to 2.82 during
the last year), for 7 out 9 PFIs but when other income is included the
margins  increase  significantly  (4.52  to  11.32).    In  general,
administrative costs expressed as a percent of average total assets have
generally been kept in the range of 1.0 to 4.42 which is very reasonable.
However, during subsequent reviews of the PFI's financial situation, a
more detailed assessment would need to be made to determine the degree to
which profitability has been overstated due to underprovision for problem
loans and other potential losses. The return on assets is reputable, with
the N.I.B being an outstanding performer. The data given in the status are
not sufficiently detailed and omit details on risk assets and loan loss



- 61 -
ANNEX 3-5
Page 11 of 20
reserves. Basically, return on total asset ratios are is line with sim,lar
ratios elsewhere.
28.       Portfolio Structure. Quality and Reserves.   In general, the
portfolios of the PFIs are concentrated in loans of NO.5 million and more
with loans under N100,000 in size comprising around 52 of all lending.
Both CMB and NAL have a majority of their portfolios in loans in excess of
N4.0 million which reflects their emphasis on lending to large corporate
names in Nigeria.    As mentioned earlier, the term structure of the
lending is medium term, with loans over three years representing an
average of about 502 of all loans. The significant amount of term
transformation has been encouraged actively by CBN despite the lack of
medium-term sources of funds available to the banks. Unfortunately, this
officially encouraged mismatched situation has recently become a source of
vulnerability to the PFIs in particular as a result of the recent FGN
directives (para 4). Loans to Government (State and Federal) represented
a fairly insignificant proportion of the total portfolio, except for NMB
which has about 72 of its portfolio in State Government loans. Loans to
the public sector, including public utilities, in general are also
relatively insignificant.
29.       The real estate and construction portfolios have declined to
10.22 (down from 232 average three years ago), with relative increase in
the agriculture, forestry, and fishing sector to 14.02 (up from 9Z average
three years ago) and the general commerce sector to 16.02 (up from 11.2X).
30.       Based on available data6, it is generally concluded that some
deterioration of the PFIs' portfolio quality has occurred over the past
few years.   The recent measures taken by the Government pertaining to
withdrawal of deposits has exacerbated the situation and brought to light
some intrinsic weaknesses in the portfolio quality.  Specifically, the
portfolio provided against represents between 72 to 27% of the gross
portfolio, and the arrearage over 90 days is about 122 of the gross
portfolio (up from 9Z in 1986).   However, there are some differences
between banks with one clearly showing a weaker portfolio quality.
Generally, speaking the PFIs need to improve their provisioning policies.
Detailed financial information (rigorously defined and formatted for
consistency and comparability, and expanding risk examination beyond the
loan portfolio to include discounted bills, leasing and contingent
liabilities) would be provided by the PFIs on a quarterly basis, verified
by an independent auditor, would act as a reasonable early warning system
and would also provide meaningful interbank comparisons.
Detail information on arrears over 90 days (principal and interest),
portfolio affected by these arrears, and portfolio affected by provisions were
supplied to the Bank on a confidential basis, and are thus not presented here,
but have been retained in the project file.



-62-
ANNEX 3-5
Page 12 of 20
D.     IMPACT OF PROJECT ON PFIS
31.       Preliminary projections of balance sheets, income and funds flow
statements  for the five selected PFIs have been carried out.   The
projections assume the continued interest rate deregulation through 1995,
and a relative conservative growth rate of 20X. Continued interest rate
premia on long-term deposits and long-term lending are expected to slowly
alter the financial structure of the merchant banks; thus, merchant banks
would increasingly play their intended role as providers of medium and
long-term funds in the financial system.
32.       The projections incorporate the on-going IDF loan, and the Oyo
Urban Project, and an even distribution of the proposed HSF loan amongst
the PFIs. The projections indicate that at no time would borrowing from
IBRD exceed about 16? of PFI's total outstanding liabilities, even of PFIs
had to take the entire credit risk.  However, since PFI's credit risk
liabilities are no more than 10 percent of outstanding IBRD line of credit
under the proposed HSF Project, their total exposure to the IBRD lines of
credit would remain substantially below this level.
AF4PH
January 1991



- 63 -
Pass 18 of 0
ANALYSIS OF Prs'S P6VFOLZO
*_~~~~~~~~--b-- -- -----w--- --- ------- ; ;
COTz,eETAL         1m                    N4AA               1cm                  w
Amunt    i         Aunt    S            Ahnt   I            Agnu      I         ASmnt   s
D0.eabor 3, 1966   0."e.b.r S. 1161   March 81. 1019       0.ew.p *1. 1_16   bearh 31. 1969
1.    Leon AOevt (000)
NS0 and bola.                              8.0    0.7          7.6      1.5         2.6    0. '          .      4.6         2.8    0.6
re  NSO-hS-100                             4.3    0.6         1S.7      3.2         1.9    0.4         20.6    2.1          5.0    1.8
from NSOi-NS00                            35.4    4.6         80.8    10.4         17.0    8.9        101.9   12.4         59.9   15.8
freo Nt00-N1.000                          40.5    5.         69.6    14.4         27.0    6.2         64.4   10.3         66.0   17.7
frau NI.000-N2,000                        94.1   18.4        165.1    84.1         79.2   16.0        114.4   18.9        250.4   64.9
from N2.0000-W.000  2/                   149.2   20.4         50.0    12.4         62.7   16.6        194.6   28.7         0.0    0.0
over N4.000                              400.2   54.6        115.9    23.9        226.3   82.0        266.6   J2.5         0.0    0.0
Totsl 1/                               782.7  100.0        464.4   100.0        486.9  100.0        620.8  100.0        8U.9  100.0
2. 6y Term
*1, .....__________...............
an Call                                  154.1   21.0        100.0    20.6          0.0    0.0        162.6   19.8         0.0    0.0
Lao then 3S..                             40.6    5.6          1.8      0.8         0.0    0.0         11.9    1.8          0.0    0.0
3mm-So.                                   20.0    2.7          4.9      1.0         0.0    0.0         48.6    5.8         0.0    0.0
mb-12o.                                    9.2    1.8         66.4    17.6         06.8   22.4        226.8    2.8         8.6     1.0
lyr-3yr                                  259.5   85.4         74.8    16.2        125.7   26. 6       154.5   19.1        17.5    4.S
3yr-Syv                                   84.7    4.?        108.0    21.2        157.0   85.6        14.0   16.0         822.2   683.5
over Syr.                                214.4   29.5        111.1    22.9         57.6   18.2         69.6    6.5         42.4   11.0
Total 1/                               782.7  100.0        461.4   100.0        486.6  100.0        620.8  100.0        SU5.9  100.0
3, b Eceei;c Sector
Arcvlturwr Forestry and Fishing           69.6    12.2        64.4    11.8         67.2   15.8         e1.?   12.0         65.?   17.0
MNfing and Querryine                      11.4    1.6         10.1      2.1        17.4    4.0          6.1    0.7         16A.    4.4
Manufactur;ng                            399.2   54.5        15.8      U.2        224.6   51.2        884.7   43.2        171.6   44.5
o411  1ot se a Cmnot.rct;en               49.0    6.7         U.6      11.7         I.S   14.9         "6.6    6.9         42.6   11.0
Pblic Uti;itsoo                            0.0    0.0          7.6      1.5        10.0    2.8          0.0    0.0         U5.2    .4
General Coppercs
eports                                  10.4    1.4         87.1      7.6         8.4     0.6       149.0   16.2          7.8    1.9
reperts                                 77.6   10.6         48.2      6.9        16.2    3.7         48.5    5.9         6.1    1.6
Oce_*ti c                               61.4    4.J         27.7      5.7         0.0    0.0         80.1    7.8          6.0    2.1
Tranoeortotien A Coaurnicotion            29.2    4.0         15.2      8.1         0.0    0.0         23.9    3.2        1U.7    8.6
Credit end Pinone;al  nat.                14.7    2.0          5.7      1.2         0.4     0.1         7.6    0.9         18.1    8.4
oevornment
Federal                                  0.0    0.0          0.0      0.0         0.0    0.0          0.0    0.0          0.0    0.0
1tate                                    0.0    0.0          0.4      0.1         0.0    0.6          0.6    0.1         25.7    6.7
GCerrel                                 20.2    2.          82.2      6.6.       84.4   12.5         12.8    1.8          2.1    0.o
___ ... .__ ......................___.__.._......_._............ . . ... ........
*etol 1/                               752.?  100.0        46.4   100.0         48.9  100.0         20.5  100.0       668.9  100.0
. ......................... ........................ ,____
1/   |ead eon Cotrol Bsnh of Migopiae 'roert en Lean. and Advances
( schien 1i(s)s nd/er for a CON/rd/17b.
2/ Per o the omunt Is ever 1,000,000
3/ Pertfolle analysie fer tie four PPI  socestod In 1990 are In prgje.. .ad fIle.



COMPARATIVE PFIS' RATIOS
(baood on lstest sudited statements)
(1988 or 1969 FY)
HAL        IM   CONTINENTAL  NUB    ICON  CRINDLAYS           A     .I..
Saloom Shlet Itbio.
Leas mad Avane_  (Nairs, mi.101 )                          86.1    538.2   632.6       522.1   641.7      n.e       194.0  ;  6*.6
Gras Loom and Advacoe (Nair milioin)                       44J.2   596.2   60".1       630.0   076.4      ".0       174.6   131.0
Avers" Learns L    Advances (Haire eliIIons)               352.5   56U.6   641.6       459.9   721.1
Fscal Year Ead (FE) Equl"ty (Heirs mIllions)              210.2    35.7    89.4         78.6    78.0    19.6         24.0   121.0
Aversg Equity (Hair. milieos)                              167.0    76.0    70.4        06.7    67.9    16.0         16.0   161.0
Averag Total Assets (ATA) (Naira mIllien)                 1563.5  1184.1  1522.2    1867.1  2037.4   545.6          729.6   19w.
Current Ratio                                               0.6      0.7      0.6        0.7      9.6      6.9        6.7  * .9
o/E Ratio                                                   6.0    26.8    17.8         10.6    29.6    16.6         84.0      5.7
Avere Lee  a  Advauce/ATA (M)                               22.5    29.4    85.6        86.2    85.4    17.6         23.9  * 12.2
Averag Equlty/Averag  Porttollo  )                          47.4    14.1    18.0        14.8      9.4    27.0        10.6    77. 6
A_ i 0roreh In Total Asets                                -73.6      8.0    22.6        48.6    41.0   (8.4)         40.6   (4i1)
I-ceeS Stateast Rstiee
Ores. Spr ed (aire millIon )                               48.5    43.0    15.4         18.9    J6.1       *.0       11.2    62.0
Oroa  Spred/ATA ()                                          2.8      2.3      1.8        1.1      1.0      2.6        1.6      7.5
Administrative Exp_ /ATA (                                  2.9      2.2      2.5        1.1      1.7     6.9        2.4      5.4
Gres Earsiage/ATA (3)                                       9.6      7.4      6.6        6.7      4.6    11.2        6.4     14.9
Hot PrefitjAiley (3)                                       64.5    a8.2    61.5         46.4     87.5     9.1       96.9    71.6
Dividmd/yaer _d sare capital (M)                           66.0    22.       560.0      26.7    26.4    88.9        U.9   19".6
Sividuad Paret  mti- (3)                                    6.8    29.4    15.2         13.4    20.7    47.0        24.6   65.6
lateremt I_o  as I Ave. Cash. Loans A Md.                 18.5      7.7     18.7       12.6    12.1    12.6        12.1    88.6
Interest Expense as X Ave. Deoseits, Loan Pay              12.2      5.1    12.4        11.9    16.9    15.5       1U.2       9.9 6               b
ot.



Now~ 8-8
- 65-                                                  ft  asofs
*MAIYSIS OF PF1V8 FINAIiCIAL STATUET96
#4AL 0I804AIT 64M(
Audit,ed Acco,."t. am of Meech 1Slt
einaeeea..nee.e.ne  ~  ~      ~      ~     ~      ~     ~     ........
Clam ificat.on                                                   1962        196         1064        1968        1968     1967          196        1I6"
9ALANCE SH37S
1. Aaa.ta
Ciash. mace'cabloo, & 091..
- - -. . .~~~~~~~~~~~~~ *~~~~~,                      6~~~~3.0    132.4      1ig.S       264.2       305.2   *205.6 -         44.0        me.
Loan. and ed.onces due
..th..' I yeaar(f.t)                               110.1       143.2       206 9       216.7       181.7       237.5       186.0       60.6
Otlia1r 2  l-oe-mt                                         3.7        50.3        84.6        26.6       223.6a      67.7        61,5.4      in.0
Cur,fit 4.4..                                   176.8       325.9       410.4       499.5      710.5       1300.6     1317.4       969.2
Loans and Aocancee due
after one year (Not)                                   0.0         0.0         0.0         0.0         0.0         0.0      161.0       2615.51
Investments                                                0.0         0.0         0.0         0.0         0.0        0.0        30.0        "-.0
foui#eent on Late*                                         0.5         0.3         0.0        12.5        15.2        15.2       29.6        62.1
pipead and other ea.at(Net)                                1.9         3.1         7.2         7,4       22.6        48.9        64.6        66.2
TOTAL. ASSEIS                                        179.2       329.3       417.6       519.4       74.3.      13169.9     1623.0     110. 1
Currant and Tio. Depa.ite
(lIa. th.en 1 year)                                  142.5       236.7       272.5      370.9       366.61      361.3       366.5       60n.?
Le"on P-eyeble (current)                                   0.0         0.0         0.0        0.0          0.0         0.0        6.6         6.0
Di.idonda Payable                                          1,4         1.6         2.2        4.1         5.9          7.1       10.8        11.3
Account. Peysbi. end
Oti..r 51.ort-t.r. Li abilities                        24.5        74.1       122.4       115.9      809.6       924.9      1062.1       164.4
Current L; eb Iiitiwea                          166.4       312.4       397.1       490.6       704.3     1293.3      1445.5      1165.4
Tims Dee..i I (Oer. 1 year)                                0.0         0.0         0.0         0.0         0.0        0.0         0.0         0.0
Loans Peyeble (sedium A Long-ters)                         0.0         0.0         0.0        0.0         7.2        21.5        16.0        10.3
Other LiebilIities                                         0.0         0.0         0.0        0.0         0.0         0.0        43.8        92.2
N.d.ue & Long-tern Liabi litias                            0.0         0.0         0.0         0.0        7.2        21.5        59.6       102.5
shp Coo; taI                                               4.9         9.1        10.5        10.8       10.5        10.5        1.8.        15.6
Retained Earonins entd R.ee..es,                           5.9         7.6        10.0        16.1       26.3        34.6       102.2       200.4
Net Worth.                                       10.6        16.9        20.5        26.6       36.61       43.1       117.9       216.2
TOTAL. LXAOILITIEB and EUITY                        179.2       329.3       417.6       819.6      7463.      1859.9      1623.0      1504.1
Contingent LiebilIities 1/                                122.2       192.6       2113.6      194.4       16.6        84.6        33.4       12.5
RATIOS
Current Ratio                                                1.0         1.0         1.0         1.0         1.0        1.0         0.9         0.6
Total Dobt/l84u,ty                                          is. 6       16.5a       19.4        17.2       19.3        29.2        12.6         6.0
AAnnua I rowth. in TotalI Assets (6)                        33.0        63.6        26.6       24.4        44.1        61.7        19.3        7.73
Currant Aaaete/Net Worth.                                   16.4        19.3        20.0        17.5       19.3        28.6        11.2         4.6
Averaeg  Loan. A Aicences/ATA(S)                            62.7        49.6        46.9       45.4        31.6        19.9        19.3        22.8
AveagegEa uity/A.o LoenahAdl.ncea(S)                         9.7        10.9        10. 7       11.5       16.0        19.5        26.3        47.4
Average totalI Asegts (ATA)                                136.6       254.2       373.5      468.5       633.9      1054.1      1491.4      1363.8
Averaeg Laens and Advances                                  96.3       126.6       175.0      212.6       200.2       209.6       266.2       852.8
Average Sguity                                               9.5        13.9        16.?       24.6        32.7        41.0        81.5       167.0
Average Deomam;to                                           2.         169.6       234.6       321.7      079.6       075.1       263.9       850.1
Average Deposits and loean sayeble                         120.0       169.6       254.6      321.7       383.4       369.4       366.1       604.7
Average Coaa...Amn. and Advences                           134.2       224.0       300.6       099.3      479.9       465.0       663.0       667,9
IICOPE STAYDET
Intareat Incom.                                             12.4        22.4        26.4       40.3        46.4        83.0        66.3       117.0
Intoerat Sapanee.                                            7.6        14. 9       15.6        15.9       17.9        19.4        16.1        74.1
are"sspreaad                                                 4.6         7.5        12.6        24.4        26.8       33.6        80.2        43.5
othear Incom.                                                6.6         5.4         6.0         9.6         9.8       12.6        64.6       104 6
Adeiniatrativa toens"g                                       4.6         2.3         5.2         8.7       12.0        14.2        22.7        32 0
Other Operating Baconse.                                     0.0         0.0         0.0         0.0       -3.9        -4.2         1.8        13 5
Loon-La"S provision (Net)                                    0.7         0.6         5.3         9.1       10.2        13.3        21.7       419 0
Tom"a                                                        2.5         6.7         4.6         4.9         6.7       10.1         9.5        14 0
Net Pro#t                                                   38.         2.1         5.6        11.        12.6        18,0        79.9       107 7
Di vi danda                                                 1.2         1.2         2.1         8.2        4.2         4.7         7.1         9.8
RATIOS
aroe"Seemed aslof ATA                                       3.1         3 0         3.4        5.2         4.5          3.2         3.4        26a
Administrative Ceet&as Ie of ATA                            2.9         0 9         1.4         1.9         1.9        1,8         1.8         2 0
Oroe"Incca"aesoof ATA                                       7 4         5I          5.6         7.31       6.0          4.4        9.1         969
Net PrOf.t so 6 of Aver. Net worthc                        40.0        22 4        31.0        46.0        39.8       01.7        9B.0        64 8
Dividend as U Year-and Share Capital                       24.5        13 2        20.0       30.5        40.0        44.6        43.0        6o 0
Dividend Payout Ratio (6)                                  31 a        38 7        68.2       26.8         .33.       36.2         8.9        a66
(1)Total Inc." as U Ace.Cesh, Loan.s  Advances            14 S        12 4       12.2        12.5       .11.6        14.2        30. 7       25 6
(2)Intarest, Ingae" ea I Avo.Cae1h Loons A Advnesa          9.2        10 0        9.4        10.1         9.7        11.4        15. 7       13 5
(SIntar.at cpenasa s S AveaDagneit, Loan Payable           6.3         7 9        6.2         4.9         4.?         8.0         9.9        12 2
(1)-(3)                                                     6.0        4 5         6.0         7,6         7.0         9.2        20.9        13 3
(2)-C3)                                                     2.9        2 1         0.2         8.2         8.0         8.4         8.6         13
I/ Aeca44anges.guverean11a. *nd ather eb Ii igot;on*                  M/ Por %AL cOthe. Ince..  includaa aeceetlanal icoer  due to revaluation
for account af custoersre                                             of fo "on   aat of Naira 86.3 million in FM6 antd Noire 73.6 million
-FV6Q



- 66-
ANALYSIS OF mnIS FDOCIA 5TA?SED6
ic..
(fwd. tot A4t.dnta as @f .oafer o1ut)
CeI.ai#ee Co.                                                    1091        116        1043        1164        165         1eft        1067         less
$AkA.CE SbEES
1, Aeset.
Caah, Note-.ebloe & Other
Sh.o.t-ye.a N..d                                   00. 1      23.?        243.5       266.0       46.1 I      U5.5       4661.6      127.2
0cth... 1 ,.ercN.t)                                 22.0       147.6       124.2       150.0      121.0       ISSA9       277.6        457.9
Other S'.wt-Torm Aedeta                                    7.9        14.0        1*.4        15.6        16.5       39.0        55.1        111.9
Current A.ta                                    120.        105.5      1165.6       414.5       W0.4       76151.5    19606.41     1009.17
Loans oen A4.enOee due
efta, one No*? (iu.t)                                140.1        It..        74.1       60.4        65.1       i2..       2511.91       0110-4
9S4usmont on ...so                                         5.9         9.0         5.0         5.3        6.1        it.6I       50.6        122.5
pise  and *% oher ossots(Not)                              1.5         2.2        9.2          2.?        2.1         5.6         6.9         10.0
TOTAL AsseTs                                         970.4       457.6       470.4      608.0       5661.01     1041.9     106"..6      26119.8
2. Ueie~l,t.ee end squity
current end Ties Deo..t.
(to". v.a. 1 year)                                   200.4       105.0      23,7        81146.1     575.9       5712       IOU-$        1404.0
Le.0..0 fejable (current)                                  0.0         0.0        0.0         0.0         0.0         0.0         0.0          0.0
0.v.dande Peyebl.                                          1.8         9.?         2.7        8.1          4.1        9.6         4,2          4.0
Atcounta Payable and
other S%ort.-ter. e, Li    61..                        51.        106.1       150.       IN4.0       161.2       416.0       571.7        170.11
Cureent Li ohI iti 0@                           2612.6      414.7       4461.7      475.1       56I1.2     902.7      15616.4      21100S
Tim. 0.... te (0'... I pste)                               5.0         5.4         2.2        2.4          6.2       10.1        26.5          0.7
LOaIn. Payable (inedime & Lone-Wer)                        0.0         0.0        0.0          0.0        0.0         0.0         0.0         80.0
Other Liabilties                                           0.4         0.0        0.0         0.0         0.0         0.0         0.0          0.0
Iledlue & Long-ters LiebllIlt!"a                           4.3         5.4        2.2          2.4         6.2      1.0.5        20.5i        W0.
thees cap; ipal                                            7.0        14.0        14.0        15.0       is5.0       15.0        20.0         20.
Retainled Eer"n.ne  enl Reser.ee                           5.5         5.7         7.5         0.5       13.4        96.9        57.6         15.0
Net Va.th                                        12.5        19. 7       91.5        24.5        25.4       315.0       57.5         70.
TOTAL. LX8ILZTZU and 'MUM204                                     5.          7.4        550        85.         010        1156         95.
Contingent Liebilit.ee I/                                 101.1       919.3        74.0       186.2      100.4       115.7        76.2         42.1
0.0
Currant Retio                                                0.5         1.0        0.0         0.0         0.0         0.6         0.6          0.5
lOt.e Dobs/Eqaitj,                                          21.4        91.2       20.0        10.5        20.0        21.5        96.2         90.6
Aenuel Orceth in Total Aea"te (X)                           61.7        W6.         7.4          6.0       16.4        74.0        61.6        '1.5
C..rent Aeeta/lNet worth                                     9.6        20.1        17.0       17.7        17.2        10.6         r. 4        93.6
Avrseage Laene & Adeancoo/ATACU                             311.0       46.7       461.5       42.0        50. 1       40.2        3S.1         55.4
Averesa Seuity/4'. L"eAS*M,anes..(s)                         6.5         9,2        10.9       I1.5        12.)        10.2         9.3         0.4
Average total Aee.ta (ATA)                                 226.0       5151.6      454.1      46.7        540.4       016.01     15a.?        2057.4
Averes" Loansaend Advenvoee                                101.1       174.6       1*6.4      906.4       214.5       126.6       510. 5       721.1
Av.erage tau; ty                                            11.1        16.1        20.6       16.0)       26.5        56.7        46.4         67.0
Aneresa 0geo..t.                                           171.61      261.1       8200.      653.6       160.7       42.6        61.7        122. 7
Average 0Douits end loeons payablor                        171,0       261.5      1002.6      6911.6      666.7       4692.61     61.7        1243.7
Averaes Cmah,losno end- Advantce.                          910.8       386.7       427.0      40.0        825.11      77n.7      1274.1       14113110
VNIale STATSOd!
Interest Inceee                                              o10.6      95.6        13.        04.6        07.2        31.2       146.4        2230
Int.er&* atIp*ne.e                                           9.4        10.6        20.5       as.6        27.0        40.0       102.0        166.0
Other Incoee.                                               17.I        1.6         16.1        1.0.       26.4        66.5        20. 7          .
Administrative Saanooee                                      5.9         6.6        i1.7       13.8        14.0        16.4        22.6         34.0
Other Oaareting uapon".                                      2.5         3.0         4.51       4.6          8.6       51.51        co          15.1
Lawn-L.ae pro'.,.gen0 (Net)                                  1.61        8.6         0.0         1.1         4.5        7.4         all7         60
Texas                                        ~~~4.2      4.5         4.5         4.5         5.4         7.8         6.5        t0 I
not Prcatl%                                                 4.0         4.0         4.0         6.6         6.0       14.5        23.5         25. 5
01 i'.dendle                                                1.8         1.6         2.1         2.6        2.6         4.1         4.6          a a
8;~~ ~~~~ ~ -.                                            ..----.--------.-..-.--0
Oeapremd  a.  or. ATA                                   0.1         1.7        2.6          1.0        1.7         1.6         1.4          A I
Adminaiwati.e Costs as S 0f AlA                             2.6         2.5         2.6        2.7         2.7         6.0         1.7          1 7
era" Int" eeeeeofdATA                                       5.1         60          6.6         6.0        6.6         6.1         4.0         A46
voet Profi d6e S a# Aver. 1464 VeorI                       16.1I       24 S        19.4       24.6        26.0        44.61       46.6         5? S
OtnIdend es I Yeer-end shot' Cepitl                        13.6a       124 0       164         17.6       16.7        27.3        23.1         It 4
Oleidend Pepoet Ratio, (S)                                 19.5        d 0         a7. 5      45.4        42.4        27.6        10.7         20 7
(IlTotal t"cgee so I Avo.Cosh, Loan.t A Advaene           11.2       13 2        12.0        11.         12.2        1..6        15.5         16 2
(9Intoras t Inc... Go   Awo.Cesh, Loan.s A Advances         5.0        7I7         7.6         7.8         7.1        01.9        11.6        12 a
(3)lntsressEx.often  eeo S AV*.O*ao.it, Lee.. Payaeble     5.5         7 6         6.6         7.0         7.6         6.01       12.5        1s 0
(0-0)                                       ~~7.7       S 1 7       52          4.0         4.6         11.61      0.6          0 2
(2)-(3)                                     -~~0.4       0 1         1.0        4.6          .4        -1.4        40.6        .2 0d
Aceeoutence.wars"Uee  slnd other obligations           ,/ Prop ICON 0h.1.Ndw..og4r  LOan  a a flostine rae'
flor setcunt of awatolmer..                               debenture of We'-D 30.0 mill ion mae%ring int M90.



- 67-                                                           6  .
&.1444.YSS OP PPU? 6 P?4CIN. 6TA3IVS
1l4TBdAYIONAL NWO4ANI OM4
(A.# ted ACCOvete go of Oecofebr 31.9)
CI.eoifieet.en                                                   19641       1982        19188       1964       1so"         lo6        1967            M
BALANCE TSMW
66.6"406 du.                                                   V~~~~~~~~~~~~88. 7  40.   a.
*e%t,n I 3,66I(Q40)                                 29.0        60.6        90 0        67.9        99.8       12683       209.1       162.6
*    0oi'S~~~~~~~'..A~~~~v.t .  -  -    * ~~~~~~ 9.2.     1a.1    ..17.8                       Wv         25.6        81.6S2..               . -211
Current Aseets                                  116.8       140.2       836.6       468.1       so..6       6ill.      1886AS.7    160611
L.oen. and Advances Ewe
*49e- on* year (Net)                                  68.9       191.8       161.8       177.1       178.       267.0       6191.6       406.4
lnv.taent.                                                 1.0         1.0        1.0         1.0         1.0         8.6         4.6          4.7
*Wiset on Leas                                           8.8         5.3         8.1         6.2         7.8        1.).0      76.0        116.7
pi Itd and 040?aa.t(Nt                                     1.5         2.3         7.4        11.9        26.6        61.7       80.9         84,0
TOTAL81 46817                                        191.2       440.1       801.6       667.8       78.?        947.2      1600.1      t666.1
1. Liabilities and levity
Current and Tise Opposite
(le". than 1 year)                                   122.4       291.4       870.6      487.6       818.9       6857.5     1610.1       16138.
Lnoon Payable (current)                                    0.0         0.0         0.0         0.0         0.0        0.0         0.0          0.0
0ividends Payable                                          0.6         1.2         1.0         2.9         4.8         6.1       12.8         1I.6
Accounto Payable end
O44.rlStortt.toraLlabiliteae                            8.9        16.9        16.2        61.6        84.9       38.7        110.8       189.2
Curren  Liabilities                            13, 0.                   90.0       818.3       855.1       902.0     1732.9       1764.7
Tim  Oeooeita (Over 1 yea?P)                               1.6         6.2         2.1         0.6         0.6         0.0         1.1        17.6
Lean., Psyable (medium A Long-topa)                       81.9       109.6        90.6       126.6       149.0         0.0        0.0          0.0
Other Liabilities                                          0.0         0.0         0.0         0.0         0.8         0.0        0.0          0.0
Mediuma8Long-term Liabilities                             88.7       11.8.        92.7       127.4       180.1         0.0         1.1        17.6
Share Capit.al                                             4.0         6.8         6.8        13.8        18.8        22.0       22.0         86.0
Retained Earning. and Reaee.,o                             4.6         6.3        10.6        13.8        20.0        22.9       44.8         49.7
Not. Worth~                                        .6        14.6        19.1        26.6        88.5       4.4.9        66.3        68.7
TOFTAL LIA8ILITI28 and E3.U17                       191.2       440.1       801.        66.8        767         94.2       1600.2      1666.1I
Contingent Liebilltiea I/                                 212.2       244.8       848.1       848.4      2685.8      848.4       484.4        606.4
RATIOS
Current Rati.o                                               0.9         0.6         0.9         0.9         1.0         0.7        0.8          0.7
Total Oebt/eNwity                                           21.2        26.7        28.8        28.9        21.1       20.1        26.2         20.6
RAtngal 01.0t0 in Total As""t (6)                           61.6       180.2        14.0      388.0        10.7        26.2        90.1          38.
Current AmoetejNat Worth.                                   18.8        16.2        17.6        17.4       15.6        14.2        20.5         18.2
Averase Loona A Advancea/ATA(5)                             47.61       88.4        81.3        48.8        36.4       89.2        38.6         29.4
Average ftuity/Ave Loanea"dwancesMl                          9.2         6.9         7.0         9.1        11.2        11.9       12.0         14.1
Average fAetal Aaa"to (ATA)                                134.6       815.7       471.0      864.7       703.1       948.0      1873.7       1634. 1
Average Len.o and Advances                                  74.0       166.8       241.6      286.6        270.0      880.1       482.1        8864.8
Average Esu i ly                                             6.6        11.7        17.0        28.0        80.2       69.2        58.6         76.0
Average Oeoesi ta                                          109.8       210.9       8881.8      480.7      802I5       687.1      1214.0       1621.3
Average Deeceite and loan. payable                         161.2       291.7       488.4       889.8       640.8      761.6      1284.8       1621.8
Average C6oNLene, find Advancee                            142.6       298.6       446.9       846.2       68851. 2   774.4       12839.9      W$1625.
INC". STA?OOE?
?ntoret Inomae                                               9.4        27.0        42.9        86.2       69.6        67.9       100.8        128.8
Intoroet Eapenseg                                            6.8       1o.7        26.8        81.6        89.6        84.4        47.4        62.4
aroe" Stored                                                 3.1         6.8        14.8        24.7       80.0         88.8       52.9         43.0
other Into"a                                                 7.0        12.7        14.1        12.7        18.1        %'.9       48.6         98.0
Adainnlatretiv. Exanena.o                                    4.1         6,6         6.1        11.8        14.8        17.6       26.6         89.8
other Operating appenoea                                     0.6         2.7         8.8         8.4         8.7         8.2       17.0         37.2
Loon-Loe, Provision (Net)                                    0.6         1.2         4,4         6.6         7.0         6.7       14.0         20.8
Toe.e                                                        1.2         8.7         7.8         6.6         6.8         8.6         6.6        11.2
Net profit                                                  2.4         4.9         8.8         9,1         9,4        16.4       82.2         271.6
Dividends,                                                  0.6         1.2         1.4         1.9         8.4         4.7         9.7         6.1
Ore". breed as I of ATA                                     2.0         264         8.0         4.2         4,6         4.0        3.9          283
Administrative Ceete* as 5 of ATA                           2.6         2.1         1.?         1,9         2.1        2.1         2.0          2 2
Gross Ingeoas Ie of A7A                                     6.8         6.7         6.0         6.4         a.1        6.1         7.0          7 4
Net Pro It eelS of Aver, Net Worth                         88.         41.9        S1.s        so.?        61.1       41.6        66.0         so.2a
Dividend as I Vear-end Sh.arp Capital                      18.0        14.1        16.5        14.1       26.2        O1. 4       46.9         61.6
Dividend ftyest Ratsi  (6)                                 28.0        24.8        26.4       20.9         66.2       so.7        60.0         29 4
(1)Tetal Ineftso.  a   Avs,CasN, Lenon8 Advinsed,          11.5        18.4       12.6        12.8        12.?        11.1        11.4        18 4
(S)Inteeeast Inooee a. I Ave.Ceel, Lenon Al Advanige,       6.1         9 1        9.6        10.2        10.?7        $.6         6.0          7 7
(3)Intereot Lapeoons ag,  Ave.Depselt, Lean Payvable        6.9        64          6 46        6.6         6.2         4.6         8.6           1I
M1-CU)                                                      7.6         7 0        6.2         6.7         6.6         6.6         7,6          6 4
(2).(S)                                                     4.2         27?        8.0         4.4         4.6         4.8         4.1          2 6
1/Act.otences,guaeant".oo and ether, ebi gationa
der account of eoutemars.



- 68-Wi Peso 1
ANAJ..Vt!S OP PPV6S PVPWCIAL $TAI3@iT
CWElrZNWEAL M04HT OMI
(Aud ted Ac onte a of Ol ego.ber f1st)
(In Nov irePlle In)
Classiflest.a..                                                     last1       1962        196          1966        so"         low          1967?        1966
MA-*Act lro?5
....so........ ..
I. Aesoete
Coo,. Sees *.5 es a Other-
F.Rvem   u46                                   100.9       192.6       ff1.9       499.6        all.s       417.7       6341.0        61.
LUa'e -9~ ec....'ecc 4, v 
*    ete.(Net)                                 980         8.?          69.6        446.6       61.6        1661.1      161.7        1961111.6
0th..lv'.'.  ASe.t                                           13.1        V7.        116.6        ?1.6         66.7        79,0        9.           0.
~.''tAinete                                   169.0       376.0        44.o6. 7                444.6       661.6        676.1        966.6
Loans *-a Leace   ve
sEt. woe loop (Net)                                     69.6         76.6       101.9       101.$       1o1.$        16?.6       16.6         439, 0
Inv**es...,t                                                  0.0         0.6         0.6         0.7         161.6        6.7         al6         11.0
ek......t o- .CmO                                           6.6         is I.       16,9        16.9         11.611      47.1       160.4        6046.6
PI.sS o-v atho. oooote(Ne'I)                                 6.9          6,7        16.0        II1.?        64.6        86.6        41.0         46,6
YOU?A..464S                                            219.0       676.4        6,6.1       700.6       616.6        66".0      41666.7      1677.7
2. Limob'    as *n4 toy ity
Current. mE ?m.e DOOS;es 9
Ciathes ke  I jvear)                                   116.0       264.7       61".6        469.0       646.11      430.1       861.46       1661.1
Loosn  Paeysot  (cuwrent)                                    0.0          0.0         0.0         0.0          0.0         0.0         0.0          0.0
Dinidenas o p0,00                                            0.6          0.9         1.4         1.9         61.1         6.6         4.4          6.6
Aeeo0ntA% *apsW'e and
Doohr $no.*t.tor  LisbIllltle                            16.          16.4       104.1        60.         166.3       66.117      416.1        2423.
cyrrent Liabilities                               1SO.$       9610         46".9       641.6       677.6I      617.          76.6       1676.9
Time De.ses,   (Over I yeer)                                 0.0          0.4         0.6         6.6         0.9         I1.$        19.6          1.4
Loans Payable (Sao#iym 4 Lane-tore)                         79.0        110.0       116.6       186.0         10.0        10.0        10.0          6.0
Othor Ls55.I.t.os                                            0.0          0.0         1.6         0.7         0.9          1.6         7,2          0.0
Medium S Long-term LIsbII.tleas                             79.0        110.4       116.7       167.6         11.6        86.9         66            .
Shn.Cap-tel                                               6,4          6.4         6.6         6.6          9.6         9.6        11.0         11.0
Roaminod bvnn'gg, sAd Roeervee                               4.0          7.6         6.7        11.9         19.9        39.0        40.4         76.4
Not Worth                                           9.4         16.0        17.3        e1.?        39.4        86.6         A1.$         69.4
TOTAL. LZA1111LITIS111 end S3JIT                      219.0       676.4        676.1       7100.6      6 16.6       solo,0      16.6        1677.7
Conti ngent Limob;Ilits I /                                  186o i.?    269.6       212.6       167.6        104.6       241.3       264.3        6439
RATIOS
Current Ratio                                                    .1.1                   1.0         1.0          0.6         0.6         0.7          a
Total Debt/Eaeity                                             99.6         97.0        62.4        61.6         30.0        99.1        96.6          176
Ann,10l 09.0th In. Total AaOoet (U)                           99.4         71.4        61.9-11     91.6        .11.7        46.7        63.?         996
Curront Assets/Not worth                                      14.6         91.6        211.6       93.6         16.1        17.3        2 7.0        106
Average Loans & Advances/ATA(U)                               60.6         86.6        62.6        96.7        26.1         80.9        16.6         666
Average Seuity/Ava, LoanslAdvances(l)                          9.6          9.6         9.6        11.4         16.4        164.        12.0         13 0
Avera*e total Aaeota (ATA)                                   164.6        297.3       475.6       687.6        66911.7    7?".9       1197.6        1529 
Average Loons end Advences                                    66.3        114.8       S186.       170.0        16611.4     269.6       676.0        Sal 3
Avprmge levity                                                 6.3         11.9        16.1        19.6         96.6        64.0        46.0         70 4
Aversge Deposit..                                             67.1        176.1       964.?       696.4       497.9        417.6       6816.0      1101 6
Average Dosoolto and leans oeysble                            166.1       296.6       696.0       8263.2       499.4       497.6       666.0        1110 a
Average Cash,Lomns, end Advancee                              146.6       961.7       676. 9      607.1        666.9       601,1       694.4        11LL&4
INCO0 STATIPIET
vAtarest Income                                               10.2        23.0        26.4         41.6        66.4        80.9        106.o4       let 6
interest Inpeneos                                              6.6         11.4        10.6        17.1         19.7        96.6        62.4        .3)' 4
are"osproad                                                    8.4         11.6        16.6        24.4         U6.?        24.6        24.0          is 4
Other Income                                                   10.0        10.3        17.5        17.2         14.9        26.6         U6.5        ea ?
Adsimistrstive Eumenesee                                       6.8           .6        10.1        16.7         16.6        17.6        24.1         3' 9
other operating Expenses                                        1.9         2.5         6.0         7.s          6.1         6.9        194A          2256
Loen-Lo.. Provision (Met)                                      0.3          2.2         6.0         6.6         11.6         2.7         7.?          .. a
T.eams                                                         3.0          4.2         6.0          6.6         6.6         6.6         9.1           6 3
Met Profit                                                    9.9          4 4         6.0         6.6         10.1        16.4        17.2         34 3
Dividends,                                                     0.8         0.7         0.9         0.9          1.9         6.6         4.4           S56
RATIOS
OFrm spreed So I of ATA                                       2.1          3.0         6.3         S's          6.4         6.1         2.1           1 0
Ad.inistretive Costsaso I of ATA                              3.2          2.9         2.1         9.1          2.0         2.6         2.1          * 1
Oro"s Incoe" as 6 of ATA                                       6.2         7.4         7.0         S's          7.6         6.4         6.9           e *
Met OPr it as I of Aver. Met Worth                           35.3         39.3        33.1        16.8         3 9.3       69.6        8.9          Ii 
Divid*ond so I Veer-.nd share Cepital                         9.3         13.0        10.6        10.6         20.0        40.0        40.0         so C
DivIdend Payout Ratio (1)                                     17.2        15 9        16.0        16,4         16.6        26.4        25.7          11 2
(1)Total Income es U Aws.Cash. Loans & Advances             10.9          12 7        11.?        11.6        13.0         12.6        17.9         11 2
(R)Inoter.et Income as 6 Ave.Cssh, Leone I Advances           7.0         66a          7.0         6.9        10.6          6.4        14.9          3
(3)Intorest abpsnae as S A,e.opoeelt, Loan Payabls            4 1         4 2          9.7         6.6         8.9          6.0        12.4         .2 4
(I)-(3)                                                       9.6         68           9.0         6.6         9.0          6.3         8.6          6.
M9).()                                                        9 9         4 6          4.8         4.9         6.4          2.4        -0.5            I
IAccoothenee,Sswranteea and Other obl igations
for agcount of Customers.



-  69~ -                                                              alof1
64000116 OP "I1's PUWECIA   6TATUEIS
CAdtdAssgwte as of Ner*e, f1st)
Cl...  P ieat         .........i..........                           .1...................... .sa               .. i..............        ... s .   ........ 
GALAKl spars
1. Assets
CooA, fate -of)asa A DOthe
S.t.sPM-do                                     41.2        137.4       127.1        116.0       11.$        811.8a       416.6        674.6
Loan. - *O.*  o  dme                                                                 .-       -  .-       -
etA  * lg.arcNet)   ~~~~~~~~~~~ .i "    16.0                    2i.2          16.4        48.6             -  106   0.           0.0
Other 1h.'v.e.. Aw"AS,                                       0.6         22.4        42.8        70.0        110.0       210.6       in.2          264.6
C..:.e-% A00eet4                                   64.6       166.7        102.6       316.1       274.6        866.0       700.8        000.4
Leene a... A# ...... dw.
A.  ts.ae sea  (Not)                                      410         s08         6.            4.         8.          2.3         166          4.
Equ.PSe.t 0n LeOS"                                           4.6          7.4        10.8                                 it .7  17.8  11.8  201.  88.1
Fee0d and ether .a.t#(N9t)                                   0.4          a's         0.6          1.0         1.6         1.6          I.7          6.2
TOTAL. 4887S                                           111.7       M2.4         272.0 I     818.         410.8       7100.      1073.8        1640.$
2. L.i allil-te- s andt E.J.ity
Current *nd T.a* Cesofita
(I...  oo u.  yoop)                                     60.6       170.2        102.0      127.6        IIII.1       660.0       678.a       1115.6
Loans Pa1eaie (eurrent)                                      0.0          0.0         0.0         0.0          0.0         0.0         0.0         76.7
Dvideve* Paeyebe.                                           0.4          1.0         0.0         0.6          1.6         1.8         8.0          8.4
Aseo-nte P01able and
Other 5Shs.tsram Liabilities                              4.2         8.4         26.1        10.4        10.0        172.2       818.1        206.5
Current LiebilIIties                               66.4       176.6        216.7       248.0       336.8        748.8       006.6       1406.2
Ties  espoe'ta (Over I year)                                10.2         W0.         48.7        66.0         67.0         8.0         0.8         26.1
Leoans Pe"yable (medium A Long-tase)                         0.0          0.0         0.0         0.0         0.0          0.0         0.0          0.0
Other Liab.fite5s                                            0.0          0.0         0.0         0.0         6.0         18.6        14.3         80.0
Metdium A L AG-term Liab.l;tie                              10.2         40.8        48.7        66.0         78.0        16.8        28.0         66.0
Shear  Capital                                               4.3          8.0         8.0         8.0          8.0        10.0        10.0          15.0
Retained Ema.i...s ond Roservee                              2.8          8.8         8.8         6.8         18.6        10.7        42.6          63.6
hat worth                                           7.1         6.8         10.8        13.8         16.6        26.7        82.8         78.6
TOTAL. LIABILITIES and GIUV                           111.        218.4     -- w   ----  i    --- w 272.-815.  420.-7006---1078O 3.4A--- 1540.6, O
Contifngent LaGbilitiea, I/                                  32.7        12. 4       140.8       1111.8       178.2       182.3       182.3         00.2
RATIOS
Curront  atsio                                                 0.6          0.0         0.0         0.0          0.6         0.7         0.7           0.7
Total Oebt/asuity                                              14.7        2.6.        26.0        22.4         22.1        26.6         19.5         16.8
Annual Croath in Total Asset. (S)                             66.0        101.6        21.1         18.6        86.8         64.0       88.7         43.6
Current Assets/Net Worth                                        0.1        10.8        10.4         16.0        14.6        19,4         13.8         12.8
Averse* L"oan & Advences/ATA(S)                               30.6         86.         51.01       84.7         80.8        88.4        84.0         85 2
Avorago, fewlty/Ave LoaftellAdvaneea(l)                        13.3        12.7        11.0        11.7         10.0        10.0        12.6          14.3
Average total Assets (ATA)                                    66.1        106.6       240.2       204.2       872.         610.8       032.1        1307I1
Avers$* Loans and Advances                                    48.7         61.6        70.8       102.2        147.0       210.8       824.4        450 0
Averse* Equity                                                 5.4          7.6         0.6        12.0         16.1        26.7        40.6         68 7
Avarag. Deessi ta,                                            77.8        118.8       124.5       26.1         316.1       462.7       630. 0       01290
Averas" Desasita and loans payableo                            77.8       188.        224.6       260.1        816.1       462.7       630.0        052 2
Avers.. Cesh,Loesn sand Advances                              70.0        145.0       206.6       224.2        264.4       432.0       600.3        1008S
VONCNE STATDWW4
Interest Incoma                                                5.0         14.5        10.7        25.7         31.2        468.3       100.0        127y 0
Interest Espansesa                                             5.6         10.7        18.2        16.2         22.4        81.2        63.6         118 1
CrFOs Spread                                                    2.0         8.6         4,8          7.8         6.6        18.1         16.4         13 0
Other Intern                                                    2.5         5.4         7.0          0.7         0.4        16.7        41.5          73 3
*    Adeinlietrative  ageoness                                       1.7         2.8         8.2          8.6         4.5         6.7         12.4         34 6
Other operating eapnense                                        0.7         3.0         2.3          4.6         0.6         0.7         7.7          14 a
Laan-L.ose Provisoan (Net)                                     0.2          0.6         1.7          1.2         1.0         4.4          4 5              0
Taes"                                                           0.5         1.5         2.8          8.6         5.0         6.4          5?2         20 2
Not Prftfit                                                    1.4         1.4         2.8          8.0         6.2        11.7         27.0         206
Civ idends                                                     0.4         0.6         0.6          0.6         1.0         1.5          3.0          40
RATIOS
OeaPred .oAA2.8                                                        2.8         1.0         2.5          2.4         2.5         1 6           I:
Adeinistrative Caste es I .4 ATA                              2.0          1.5         1.3          1.8         1.2         1.1         1.3           1 1
Groweance"asaS of ATA                                         5.2          5.8         8.0         8.6          4.9         8.2         62           6?
Ne   rft as,  of Aver. Net Worth                                     29. 61       2.9         81.7        86.          40.4        6485 46
Olvidend as I Year-end Share Capital                          0.3         12.0        16.0        16.0         20.0        18.0        30 0          207
Dividend Payout Ratio (S)                                    26.6        '2.6         26.2        21.1         16.2        13.6        111 13
(1)Ttsl Ineme as S Ave.Cash. Loons A Advances                10.4        13.6         18.3        15.8        15.4         14.6        20o5         :0 0
(2)Xotereat Inteone as I Avo.Cash. Loens & Advances           7.8         0.9          9.5        11.5        11.6         10.7        143 8         26
(8)Interest lapese" as U Ave.,oeoeit, Loan Payoble            4.0         6.9          6.6         7.0         7.1          6.7        1s 8         1.1S
(1)-()                                                        5.8         6 7          6.6         6.6         6.8          7.6         7 2          6 0
(21)-C)                                                       2.8         3.0          2.6         4.5         4.7          4.0         1 2 
I/ Ageepapkname.gusrentees and ether obl igations
for seseut of eautemera.



-  70 - 
PLMO PIWC& Ai. SWSWS                           P nli   a
(In Noir II)
-     '          aENL~3AYS    t8        N.I.9    06
Cl_|flatot}(/n                                                  Vlw   (Wu/lm
1. _
B%Jfa Sal"                                       .         .          J       S 
Cash$  = 11"42her                    MA273.   4111.6     W7.       U3.9
.---   -, , a~itinV 1 )                             81.0       0.0      US.         7.
OUi w Sot-Taue Amot.o                             39.       129i      W*.         5.9
a@_   je,T_te                             M.0       WAJ        -J         6J           .       .        .       . .
tJa-n d  d" eXO  )                            411      VM         21. e  a. 
9.9      4.0       18.9       9.9
E4uip'wt an Lamma                                  6.9      47.0       9.9       9.9
FiuAd wd other smtot                              24.9       2.9      19.9       21.
'mTAL ASElS                                   829.9     65. e       29       mJ.
2. LlabiltiI m 1 fity
Gerent wd Tifer Dupisa
Lo~uuPwuj*. (awr)                                  9.9       9,90      9.9       9.9
Divi    FeP ble                                   38.       90.        3.9       OA
Aoooa b P le        t                            tf.         4J        W          I
Otjur Surt-twaeu  L~ I ltla                   35.9      246.e     .190       19.
CGUnt L11 I Itlm                         $3.0 250             MA.9      244.9
Tie gs Dlr,ot1~~-                                                          
O uLebi I itaa                                    -         -         -          -
bdiun A LVtLbbi I ltim                               -         _         -         _
'       Capital                                    9.0       8.0       3J.       M;
PAsi  EEamuip wrd Pnw                             10.0      18.0    2I91.         2.0
Nu, Wu                                    19.0       24.0    =1          3 .9
TOrAL L141111  wd BMW                          EFR       BP        Eg        ER
C ,ti.,t L;abi litles /                          148.       M.       Z .        14 .9
RATMS
Cute-  Ratio                                        0.9        0.7       9.         .
Total OII  ji1ty                                     ER       84.0       MR
kmAI Grcti in Total A_  Qt                           8.4      4.0        .4
Cm"wt Asaoteftbt wwth                  14.8     23.9        6.8       8.4
*.- kL/ A        ATIAM                              317.e    23.9      12.2      19.9
Avvep Ewity/Ave         snmm                        27.9 1n.b           770       3.9
Avamp totalI Assets (ATA)                           4.         06       MA0
Avara Uwe' ai Ada                                   5.9SD    174.41    13A.       1.9
Avmp 6qity                                          10.0      ISA      23. 298J.9
Avwarap _ aetB                                     19.9      62.0      477.9      148.
Amp &=oits ad Ilans powub.                         23A       622.0     477.0      148.0
Amrag Cash,Lnu  aid A"%obs                         68.8      6WA.      877.       246.9
D        SrAIDJT
Intirut Zaw2 5.83                                             7.8.     13 .0      3.
Lnb~  nm ome                                        19.7      92.4      44.9       7.9
Gro  Spred                                           8.6      U.2       92.9      18.0
OUtinns                                          3.8      23.4        KA.        8.9
M latrat                                            23.6      175 6     510A      120
Otlui Grwatereg E~~~~~~~eps~~          2.1         -        8.0         -
:7.       6.7      28.9       4.0
6.3 8    1.4       7.0        5.0
N& Pofit                                            3.0       4.0      3.9          -
Divid                                               2.6       1.5       7.5       6.6
a  X of ATA                              2.6       1.6       7.5       6.6
=itrw a,CeW     SofAT                          6.8        2.4       5.4       4.4
Grow Inwm an S I ATA                               11.3       5.4       14.9      7.7
N~~ Profit aa Nd A~~sr. t~~ ~rUi      39.4       0.9      71.        17.8
DvjPit m% N Yme..wid Sue CAthI                     8 3.0     I.0       186.0      1
';ivilid Payout it~o  ^)                           47.6      24.6      5.9          -
(1)TotsI L~. - N A~s.C~,tju~*ideuim   18.1      16.7      5.0       21.8
C2)InTwu.t Incus   N A%   .C ;I,LAum               18.2      12.0      a8s.      2.9
O8)Xe*urut Empsua m % As.Dvoinit,Lnsi P4l-        15.6       10.2       9.0       4.8
Aulnwis for thetlt fi. t eu of Grindlasu', W   Wd N.LS.
a   n projat fi la.



- 71 -
ANNEX 3-6
Page 1 of 2
FEDERAL REPUBLIC OF NIGERIA
HEALTH SYSTEM FUND PROJECT
.. -..   t.             .            .              ..   -             .      .-... . ...................................... .. ..   
ELIGIBILITY CRITERIA FOR SELECTION OF ADDITIONAL FINANCIAL
INTERMEDIARIES
1.          The following minimum criteria would be used by FGN for
assessing the eligibility of additional financial intermediaries for
participation in the HSF.
(a)   Adequacy of capital.  The present rule of CBN requires that
loans and advances of a bank may not be more than 12 times
its adjusted capitall provision for bad and doubtful debts
is to be netted out in the calculation of the ratio. For
the purpose of the Project, the CBN would also take into
account other types of risk assets such as leasing,
acceptances and guarantees;
(b)   cash reserve requirements as specified by CBN (minimum
amount of cash deposits as a percent of total demand
deposits), which at present range between 2 and 52 depending
on the size of deposit liabilities;
(c)   minimum liquidity ratio as specified by CBN, which at
present is 27.5X for the commercial banks. In the case of
merchant banks, the minimum liquidity ratio is 202 of total
deposit liabilities;
(d)   adequate provisions for bad and doubtful loans satisfactory
to CBN and the Bank;
(e)   favorable rating by CBN in its latest supervision of the
bank concerned, which should not be more than one year old;
(f)   adequate organization with staffing and technical capacity,
and past experience in project lending satisfactory to the
Bank and the CBN;
(g)   operating policies and procedures acceptable to the Bank and
the CBN;
(h)   minimum total assets of N300 million;
(i)   medium- and long-term loans and advances of at least 25 Z of
total loans and advances;



- 72 -
ANNEX 3-6
Page 2 of 2
(j)   asset composition, portfolio quality and income outlook
. ,    ,  p.geptabj.e to- the.entyral Rank  .oqeria .&.nd the   nk...  - .-
(k) * agteemerstto rdopt th* iSiP  ol-icy Statement an'd Prject
Guidelines.
2.          The eligibility of a financial intermediary for
participation in the Project will have to be acceptable to both the
FMFED/FMOH and the Bank.
3.          The eligibility of the banks will be monitored by FMOH/FMFED
on an annual basis.
AF4PH
January 1991



73 _
ANNEX 3-7
Page 1 of 3
FEDERAL REPUBLIC OF NIdE9IK - -
, -   *            ...    . .   ...  ................. *,  . 0................ 
HEALTH SYSTEM FUND PROJECT
SUBPROJECT PREPARATION PROCEDURES
PROVISIONS FOR MAINTENANCE OF QUALITY OF APPRAISALS
Obiective
These provisions are to address the concerns about the
quality of appraisals by the PFIs. The principal concern has been that:
(a) PFIs do not have the experience or the training to appraise health
projects; and (b) both in appraisal as well as during the disbursement,
PFIs could maintain a pressure for approval and fast-moving
disbursements with little regard for institutional improvement.
Specific Measures:
The following specific measures are proposed to address
these concerns.
Training
(1)   (a)   Intensive training for staff of PFIs and States in the
requirements of the Bank viz the guidel.ines and the
processing procedures;
(b)   a special focus on training for
the local consultancy firms.
Guideline Improvement
(2)   Preparation of detailed Project Guidelines with the full
involvement of the PFIs and the FMOH.
(3)   Guidelines spell out the
(a)   criticality of software (institution building, and planning
and management, organization; and the
(b)   criticality of identifying specific and general conditions
during appraisal and monitoring before disbursement.
(4)   Guidelines would stipulate that, where considered appropriate,
disbursal for 'hardware" may be done only after the
conditionalities on sectoral policy and institutional building are
satisfied adequately.



- 74 -
ANNEX 3-7
Page 2 of 3
-Ue cf-'St-andr4rd"-packa',es oif Co  ene'ats-Tr-Pr-ect*?Kasir.a-
(~)   Tfie use of -"Stahdardw pa-ciagei'woul'd eiab'1e the'PPIs to acqiire
quickly expertise in the packages they are cofinancing. The
insistence on simpler and small projects in the first phase
enables the PFIs to develop their skills faster.
RMN and FMOH Involvements
(6)   Two risks are possible in the early stages of the
establishment of this new credit delivery mechanism. (a)
Inadequate attention to policy dialogue and institutional
development, and (b) the likelihood that a project may be prepared
along an unacceptabl(i direction by a misunderstanding of the
Policy Statement and the Project Guidelines. Therefore it is
proposed to provide for a high degree of involvement of the FMOH
and the World Bank at important stages of the project preparation
process as follows:
(a)   The initial project proposal of a State to a PFI for a HSP
subloan will always be copied both to the Bank and the FMOH.
The proposal and appropriate details, including an annex
detailing sub-project components to be financed, will be
updated by the PFI quarterly and sent to the World Bank and
the FMOH.
(b)   The Bank's RMN will review these with the PFIs and the FMOH
and forward minutes to Washington.
(c)   The FMOH and the World Bank, both at the proposal stage
and during the quarterly reviews will make their inputs into
the subprojects under preparation and alert the PFIs
particularly to any potential problems for final approval.
(d)   The free limit would in the first year of the project be
US$500,000 and would be reviewed annually by the Bank and
FMOH with the PFIs.
(e)   The subprojects above the free limit will be reviewed by the
Bank in consultation with FMOH before being finally approved
by PFIs. In this process, subprojects could be modified
substantially as necessary and in the extreme case rejected.
There is, however, no free limit for the first subproject of
any PFI.
StrenRthening FMOH and participatinR Institutions
(7)   (a)   Creation of an HSF Project unit with professional staff.
substantial technical assistance for participation in
appraisal discussions, reviewing subprojects at conception
and appraisal, and the supervision of disbursement and



- 75 -
ANNEX 3-7
Page 3 of 3
implementation with a special focus on policy and
institutional development conditionalities;
(b)   strengthening of local consultancy services by training and
special workshops and documentation facilities.
(c)    PFIs have created special units for line of credit projects,
which will have inhouse staff or local consultancy
arrangements.
Evaluation of Quality:
(8)   Annual Evaluation of quality of appraisal, and supervision.
Satisfactory Annual Evaluation would be essential for continued
access to the current line of credit. The Bank would take a
specific decision to renew access on annual basis with respect to
each PFI.
(9)   Installation of an effective Management Information System
(M.I.S.) in the applicant State would be a standard component as
an overall indicator of whether the outputs expected are
materializing from the project, and to alert by unexpectedly poor
results the possibility that inadequate attention is paid to
policy dialogue and software. Report on the specific indicators
of proaect implementation so obtained would be reviewed during the
annual evaluation (exactly as would Profit and Loss statements of
a borrowing industrial enterprise).
AF4PH
January 1991



- 76 -
ANNEX 4-1
Page 1 of 5
FEDERAL REPUBLIC OF NIGERIA
HEALTH SYSTEM FUND PROJECT
STATEMENT OF POLICY
I.   Introduction
1.          The first of the health projects in Nigeria started with
World Bank assistance was in Sokoto in 1985. The second project
covering Imo State was signed in May 1989. The lessons learned from the
Sokoto and Imo projects and from the preliminary work in Ogun, Oyo and
other states point to the urgent need to place greater emphasis on the
development, rehabilitation and maintenance of the health system as a
wnole (including both hardware and software, such as institutional
development.) There is also an acute need to strengthen both the health
systems of the States and the LGAs so that they can support Government's
thrust for Primary Health Care. They also point to the need for a
viable financial intermediary to help fund health system investments.
2.          This Statement of Policy sets out the objectives of the HSF,
provides a summary of health system investments to be included and
describes the role of Participating Financial Intermediaries (PFIs) in
the HSF. (This Statement of the Health System Fund's Policy is to be
distinguished clearly from any other Health Policy Statements. The
National Health Policy points to how the health system should be used,
the Statement of HSF Policy is about how the HSF funds are to be used).
Accompanying Project Guidelines set out the criteria for the selection
and appraisal of State health subprojects. (Subprojects are State and
LGA projects proposed to be funded by this HSF project, which vill make
available a line of credit to the States and LGAs).
II. Obiectives of HSF
3.          The objectives of the HSF are:
(a)   to assist State and local goverNments in Nigeria to plan,
finance, construct, maintain and manage health
infrastructure and services;
(b)   to assist the Federal Republic of Nigeria in the achievement
of a more even development of health infrastructure and
services all over Nigeria.
lc)   to improve the capabilities of the States in project
preparation, implementation and financial management, and
help place health services on a self-financing basis through
improved cost recovery (without necessarily seeking to cover
all costs and with due concern for equity).



-77 -
ANNEX 4-1
Page 2 of 5
(d)   to expand the role of the eligible banks by using them as
intermediaries for health system subprojects, and thus
improve allocational efficiency, as well as stimulate and
increase the flow of funds in the health sector.
(e)   to increase the flow of cofinancing from local and
internaLional institutions and donors by establishing a
smooth and efficient credit delivery mechanism.
4.          Funding for the first HSF subprojects will come from the
World Bank, PFIs and State governments. The recently approved Imo
Health and Population Project (Ln.3034-UNI) and the earlier Sokoto
Health project (Ln.2503-UNI) will serve as prototypes for subprojects to
be appraised by the PFIs in accordance with this Statement of Policy,
the HSF Project Guidelines, and the Credit Guidelines.
5.          The HSF Project Guidelines set out the criteria for the
selection and appraisal of State subprojects.   The following are
illustrative of the subproject components expected to be financed under
the HSF. (Because most health problems of the Nigerien States are
strongly similar, the solutions are similar; therefore the components
proposed for financing in this first line of credit follow broadly the
Imo Health and Population Project (Cr.3034-UNI).
(a)   The subproject would support institutional development at
the State and local levels through:
i) strengthenin  the capacity of local and state
organizations to plan, implement, and monitor community-
based health, family planning, and nutrition activities and
improve their financial management and resource
mobilization.
(ii) strengthening states' capacitv to develop strategies
and plans of action to implement the national health policy
and to prepare health, population, and nutrition projects
for internal and external financing.
(iii) establishinR a population proaram to implement the
national population policy.
(b)   The subproject would also strengthen health, nutrition, and
family planning services in the States and LGAs through:
(i) supporting Primary Health Care (PHC) activities,
including MCH and family planning, water supply and
sanitation for specific health development activities at the
community level;
(ii) improving the access to and quality of health services
in rural areas by upgrading facilities to provide child
survival and child spacing services, providing for the



- .8 -
ANNEX 4-1
Page 3 of 5
renovation and upkeep of existing facilities, and by
constructing new facilities in underserved areas;
(iii) improving drua supply and distribution by providing
essential drugs, including vaccinen and contraceptives;
establishing a drug revolving fund; and rehabilitating drug
warehouses
(iv) establishing a disease surveillance and diagnostic
service to support PHC by upgrading or constructing and
equipping a public health laboratory;
(v) supporting information, education, and communication
activities related to health, population, and nutrition;
(vi) supporting nutrition interventions, including
fortification and nutrition education;
(vii) promoting non-governmental organizations for
implementation of health and population activities; and
(viii) other high priority investments related to health and
population projects, which are necessary for achieving HSF
objectives.
(c)   The subproject would also finance other sub-components as
are added from time to time by amendments to the Policy
Statement.
(d)   Negative List:  The project funds will not be used to
finance whole or part of any specialty or general hospital
of over 100 beds (except where the financing is directly
connected with mental health or to any communicable disease
control program (e.g. TB, filaria, malaria facility] and
only after prior clearance from the Bank.)
(e)   The disbursement categories for such financing will be
flexible, and shall include hardware such as civil works,
equipment (both medical and non-medical) and vehicles,
materials, drugs and supplies, and software such as training
and consulting services. However,every attempt shall be
made to keep civil works to a minimum and to satisfy the
appraising institution that rental accommodation cannot be
used.
6.          All states and LGAs, in general, would have access to the
HSF, subject to the following eligibility criterias (a) satisfactory
disbursement of any existing Bank loan, (b) satisfactory review of
health sector expenditures, (c) agreement by the state on terms of
reference and schedule for a review of the states' institutional
development, (d) agreement by the state on sector policies and
strategies for implementation of the particular component programs (e.g.
EDP, facilities expansion) to be financed, (e) satisfactory debt service



- 79 -
ANNEX 4-1
Page 4 of 5
capacity of the State and (f) no objection has been received from FMFED
declaring the state as ineligible for HSF.
Sector objectives and Health Policy
7.          The components financed by HSF should seek to support the
National Health Policy. The essential elements of this policy are to
accord high priority to preventive and promotive measures by
strengthening PHC, including MCH and family planning, strengthen the
health delivery system at all levels to ensure that PHC is supported by
an efficient referral system,to improve the quality of the health
services and to improve cost recovery (Details are in Project
Guidelines.)
State and LGA financing
8.          The health systems of the States and LGAs are expected to be
mutually supportive. The HSF shall in its funding policy seek as far as
possible to support the development of the LGA systems in step with the
state system and, where appropriate, give priority to the LGAs to ensure
that their pivotal role in primary health care is fully funded and
supported, though, both FMOH and the Bank consider any allocation
percentages between States and LGAs as premature and must take into
account funds specifically directed to LGAs from donors. To the extent
necessary, the HSF shall also seek to develop with the FMOH "standard"
components, schemes and processing procedures, to facilitate the
processing of subprojects from the LGAs by the PF1s. The PFIs, and the
PMOH may also examine the scope for pooling procurement and whether
disbursal could be in kind. Subproject limits for such components may
have to be reviewed separately.
III. PFI Participation
9.          In keeping with FGN policy to increase the participation of
the private sector in the development of the economy, nine PFIs which
expressed an interest have been selected initially to serve as financial
intermediaries for the HSF:
o     Continental Merchant Baax Ltd.
O     ICON Limited (Merchant Bankers)
o     International Merchant Bank Ltd. (IMB)
o     Nigeria Merchant Bank Ltd. (NMB)
o     NAL Merchant Bank Ltd. (NAL)
o     Chartered Bank Ltd.
O     Merchant Bank of Africa Ltd.
O     Nigeria International Bank Ltd.
O     Grindlays Merchant Bank Ltd.
10.         The PFIs were included on the basis of size of assets,
quality of staff, interest in lending to State governments, willingness
to move to longer-term lending for health systems projects and readiness
to make the changes in their operations and procedures necessary to help
States improve their project execution, resource mobilization and



- 80 -
ANNEX 4-1
Page 5 of 5
financial management capabilities. The minimum size asset base regarded
as necessary to serve as an HSF financial intermediary is in the range
of N300 million. Additional PFIs may be selected and appral-sed as the
HSF expands or if the performance of the participating financial
intermediaries is inadequate.
11.         The PFIs have well developed capabilities for the financial
analysis of projects. These capabilities would be further strengthened
under the IDF Project to include the appraisal and supervision of
engineering, economic and institutional aspects of State subprojects.
Additionally, to cover the proposed HSF subprojects, the PFIs agree to
supplement their staff, where necessary, either by direct hire or by the
use of consultants, in order to achieve the objectives of the HSF and
handle appraisal and supervision of the States subprojects in
collaboration with FMOH. The FMOH's role also includes the making of
policy and creating the appropriate environment for the States and LGAs
to benefit from the HSF provisions.
12.         The PFIs, in collaboration with FMOH are expected to prepare
and appraise health system subprojects in a manner similar to that
employed by the World Bank. Thus, they will appraise not only the
financial and technical feasibility of proposed subprojects but also the
economic and institutional capabilities of the borrowing State and local
government institutions. However, the criterion for approval is not the
Economic Rate of Return (the ERR), but cost effectiveness in relation to
the resources, the risks and benefits. Subprojects will be reviewed on a
selective basis, as stated in the Project Guidelines, by the World Bank
in consultation with the Federal Ministry of Health prior to final
approval by the PFIs.
AF4PH
January 1991



- 81 -
ANNEX 4-2
Page 1 of 8
FEDERAL REPUBLIC OF NIGERIA
HEALTH SYSTEM FUND PROJECT
PROJECT GUIDELINES
CRITERIA FOR SUBPROJECT SELECTION AND APPRAISAL
Introduction
1.          The Health System Fund (HSF) Statement of Policy sets out
the objectives of the HSF project and the roles of the PFIs.l/These
Proiect Guidelines set out the criteria for the selection and appraisal
of State health system subprojects. (Subprojects are all State or LGA
projects proposed to be funded by this HSF project, which will make
available a line of credit to the States/LGAs). The HSF subproiect
processing procedures detail the stages and procedures for processing
State/LGA subprojects.2/
Eligible System Components
2.          The following are illustrative of the subproject componersc
expected to be financed under the HSF. Because most health problems of
the Nigerian States are strongly similar, the solutions are similar; the
components proposed for financing in this first line of credit therefore
follow broadly the Imo project:
(a)   The subproject would support institutional development at
the State and local levels through:
(i)   strengthening the capacity of local and state
organizations to plan, implement, and monitor
community-based health, family planning, and nutrition
1// This (HSF) Statement of Policy is to be clearly distinguished from
any Health Policy Statement which sets out the objectives of the health
system (and not the Fund) and the strategies for achieving these.
2// The HSF would create a line of credit to finance health subprojects
in all of the states and LGAs. The HSF follows the pattern of the
Infrastructure Development Fund except that under HSF, FGN would
directly on-lend these funds to states and their local Governments to
finance the subprojects which were appraised by PFIs according to the
Policy Statements and Project Guidelines approved by the FGN and the
World Bank. The PFIs will recruit inhouse expertise and use as
appropriate the local and international health consultants according to
Bank guidelines for project preparation assistance and carrying out the
technical appraisal of the subprojects.



- 82 -
ANNEX 4-2
Page 2 of 8
activities and improve their financial management and
resource mobilization;
(ii)    strengthening states' capacity to develop strategies
and plans of action to implement the national health
policy and to prepare health, population, and
nutrition projects for internal and external
financing; and
(iii)    establishing a population proaram to implement the
national population policy.
(b)   The subproject would also strengthen health, nutrition, and
family planning services in the States and LGAs through:
(i)   supporting Primary Health Care (PHC) activities,
including MCH and family planning, water supply and
sanitation and specific health development activities
at the community level;
(ii)    improving the access to and quality of health services
in rural areas by upgrading facilities to provide
child survival and child spacing services, providing
for the renovation and upkeep of existing facilities,
and by constructing new facilities in underserved
areas;
(iii)    improvina drug supply and distribution by providing
essential drugs, including vaccines and
contraceptives, establishing a drug revolving fund,
and rehabilitating drug warehouses;
(iv)    establishina a disease surveillance and diagnostic
service to support PHC by upgrading or constructing
and equipping a public health laboratory;
(v)    supporting information, education and communication
activities, related to health, population and
nutrition;
(vi)    supporting nutrition interventions, including
fortification and nutrition education;
(vii)    promoting non-governmental organizations for
implementation of health and population& activities;
and
(viii)    other high priority investments, related to health and
population projects, which are necessary for achieving
HSF objectives.
(c)   The su'project would also finance other sub-components as
are added from time to time by amendments to the Policy
Statement and Guidelines.



- 83 -
ANNEX 4-2
Page 3 of 8
(d)   Negative List.  The project funds will not be used to
finance whole or part of a specialty or general hospital (of
over 100 beds), except where the financing is directly
connected to mental health or communicable disease control
program (e.g. TB, filaria, malaria facility) (and only
after prior clearance from the Bank).
(e)   The disbursement categories for such financing will be
flexible, and shall include hardware such as civil works,
equipment (both medical and non-medical) and vehicles,
materials, drugs and supplies, and software such as
training, and consulting services. However, every attempt
shall be made to keep civil works to a minimum and to
satisfy the appraising institution that rental accommodation
cannot be used.
3.          All states and LGAs, in general, would have access to the
HSF, subject to the following eligibility criteria: (a) satisfactory
disbursement of any existing Bank loan, (b) satisfactory reviews of
health sector expenditures, (c) agreement by the state on terms of
reference and schedule for a review of the states' institutional
development, (d) agreement by the state on sector policies and
strategies for implementation of the particular component programs (e.g.
EDP, facilities expansion) to be financed, (e) satisfactory debt service
capacity of the state, and (f) no objection has been received from FMFED
declaring the state as ineligible for HSF.
Sector Obiectives and Health Policy
4.          The components financed by HSF should seek to support the
National Health Policy. The essential elements of Government's health
care policy, as stated in Government's policy documents, are to:
(a)   accord high priority to preventive and promotive measures by
strengthening Primary Health Care (PHC) including family
planning; increasing the number of immunizations against
major infectious diseases; and promoting health, nutrition
and family planning education;
(b)   strengthen the national health delivery system at all levels
--primary, secondary and tertiary-- and to ensure that the
PHC services are appropriately supported by an efficient
referral system by providing adequate supporting services
such as reliable and sufficient drug supply, diagnostic and
laboratory services, and adequate staff supervision and
training;
(c)   encourage self-reliance among individuals and communities in
improving the health status of the people by involving
communities in the planning and implementation of health
services, and using the traditional system, community
organizations and the NGOs in reaching the people; and



- 84 -
ANNEX 4-2
Page 4 of 8
(d)   improve the quality of the services given by the health
delivery system and put them on a more solid financial
footing by introducing cost recovery, with due concern for
equity through cross-subsidization.
Selection Criteria and Priorities
Criteria
5.          The individual States and local government themselves
together with whichever PFIs agrees to finance a particular subproject,
shall be responsible for the selection of subprojects to be financed
under the HSF. Subprojects are to be selected in accordance with the
following criteria:
(a)   technical feasibility;
(b)   economic, financial and health benefits;
(c)   effective demand for services and willingness of consumers
to pay;
(d)   feasibility of the cost recovery mechanism(s) (where
appropriate)
(e)   institutional capability of the borrowing State or local
government to prepare and execute the project;
(f)   the availability of technical assistar.ce from domestic or
international sources to supplement t!he borrower's
implementation capabilities, where necessary; and
(g)   creditworthiness, including the ability of the borrower to
carry the additional debt imposed by the subproject to be
financed.
Subproiect Priorities
6.          Given the severity of the present economic prob'Lemas faced by
all States, emphasis should be placed on and priority given to:
(a)   First and foremost, strengthening the capacity of the
existing institutions involved in the management and
maintenance of health systems particularly those concerned
with Primary Health Care (PHC) through the provision of
appropriate training for key staff and through the
introduction of more effective systems of planning,
budgeting and execution as well as cost recovery and
financial control, Management Information Systems (M.I.S.)
and supervision; this is because the World Bank, the FMOH
and Participating FIs are deeply concerned to ensure that
health projects are conceived of and financed as integrated
packages (though implemented in phases) which give adequate
attention and priority to institutional development;



- 85 -
ANNEX 4-2
Page 5 of 8
(b)   rehabilitation and maintenance of existing Infrastructure
and services;
(c)   to the extent possible, to components, which are undertaken
as follow-up or in pursuance of a National project or
Scheme, e.g. National Essential Drugs Project, National
Population Project, etc.;
(d)   Priority should be given to Gubprojects which adopt an
"integrated" approach to the improvement of infrastructure
and health services, i.e., subprojects which coordinate LGA-
wide statewide and area-wide improvements in the sector and
its subsectors in a logical sequence;
(e)   Special consideration may be given to projects which serve a
large percentage of the urban poor;
(f)   Priority normally to underserved rural areas; extent of
underservice should consider private/NGO service
availability; and
(g)   Areas and groups in greatest need, and diseases are to be
targeted.
(i)   Priority programmes arising from interactions of these
priorities and such targeting, will vary to some extent from
State to State
Cii) The ability of a prospective borrower to recover
investment costs through user charges will probably be
an important determinant in project selection for the
foreseeable future but should not become the sole
determinant.
General Proiect Design Considerations
7.    Ca)   While maintaining the need for an integrated approach,
subproject design shall emphasize phasing of project im-
plementation to avoid overwhelming administrative capacity.
Christmas-tree projects should be avoided. National project
components will be used in these subprojects. Thus, for the
first line of credit, a "favored" or "popular" sequence of
subcomponents could be a first phase of (i) institutional
development, (ii) essential drugs, and (iii) facility
upgradation followed by a second/third phase of (iv)
strengthening MCH/Child spacing services (following a
National Population project) and (v) limited new construc-
tion in underserved areas;
(b)   Project design should provide a special focus on the
establishment of a Management Information System and the
monitoring of results together with at least a quarterly
evaluation of the reasons for poor or good performance;



- 86 -
ANNEX 4-2
Page 6 of 8
(c;   Project design shall focus on utilization of existent
infrastructure and pro-ide adequately for both personnel and
non-personnel costs; for the same reason project design will
explore fully maximizing use of existent health delivery
systems belonging to NGO, private and industrial sectors;
(d)   Civil works expenditure should be minimized by renting or
marginal upgradation as appropriate; and
(e)   Health sector design particularly must force itself to
examine a variety of alternatives during project design and
appraisal.
State and LGA financing
8.          The health systems of the States and LGAs are expected to be
mutually supportive. The HSF shall in its funding policy seek as far as
possible to support the development of the LGA systems in step with the
state system and, where appropriate, give priority to the LGAs to ensure
that their pivotal role in primary health care is fully funded and
supported though, both FMOH and the Bank consider any allocation between
States and LGAs as premature and must take into account funds
specifically directed to LGAs from donors. To the extent necessary, the
HSF shall also seek to develop with the FMOH "standard" components,
schemes and processing procedures, to facilitate the processing of
subprojects from the LGAs by the PFIs. The PFIs, and the FMOH may also
examine the scope for pooling procurements and whether disbursal could
be in kind. Subproject limits for such components may have to be
reviewed separately.
Subproiect Size
9.          In order to ensure that as many states as possible can
participate in the HSF, the aggregate cost of HSF subproject loans in
any one state should not exceed US$14.0 miillion (20Z). All subprojects
costing more than US$500,000 would be reviewed by the World Bank in
consultation with the Federal Ministry of Health prior to approval by a
PFI as also the first subproject of any PFI, irrespective of loan size.
Subprojects costing US$500,000 and below ("free limit" subprojects)
should not exceed US$1.4 million in any one state, or US$10.0 million
for the HSF project. (A State may come to the PFI for more than one
subproject within the above ceilings.) These subproject limits would be
reviewed from time to time by the World Bank in consultation with the
Federal Ministry of Health.
Economic, Financial and Institutional Appraisal
10.         Subprojects selected cannot be judged by an economic rate of
return (ERR), given the large externalities associated with health
projects and the problems of the valuation of benefits. Instead
subprojects are to be judged in terms of cost-effectiveness in relation
to the project risks, resources, and benefits. Thus, in evaluating the
subproject, the primary test should be the health benefits of a project
in the context of the project risks and costs. In identifying a



- 87 -
ANNEX 4-2
Page 7 of 8
project's costs and benefits, since the economic benefits cannot be
directly estimated the PFIs should use projected health and financial
benefits as a proxy and, in general, focus on whether demand projections
and user charges are reasonable and whether the proposed project is the
least cost alternative. Undoubtedly, there are difficulties in the
prediction of the effectiveness of health interventions, but the
difficulty is one of degree, not of substance, and have to be met
pragmatically, on a project by project basis. Where appropriate, avoided
costs (e.g., reduced vehicle operating costs) should be used as proxies
for project benefits. Certain components will exhibit no meaningful
prices and in such cases the economic analysis should concentrate on
appropriate service levels provided in the most cost-effective way.
[For a detailed outline of bank appraisal guidelines in the health
sector, see the Bank's Appraisal Handbook for Health projects.] (The
Staff Appraisal Reports of the Sokoto and Imo projects would also be
used as a basis for concretizing these guidelines).
11.         Appraisal should include assessment of a project's viability
in case of changes in key parameters, e.g., a 202 increase in costs or
decrease in benefits, together with a judgment on the likely variation
from the basic assumptions.
12.         Where a project shows marginal returns or high risks, an
analysis of the risks should be done and recommendations should be made
on how to reduce risks.
Sectoral Policies
13.         Appraisal should not only establish a subproject's viability
but also, to the extent possible, given the State's limited planning
capabilities, look at sectoral policies and ascertain whether the
subproject contributes towards those policies.
State Plans
14.         Through the HSF Project, States will be assisted to improve
health system investment programming, and HSF subprojects should be in
conformity with these investment programs. States that have not prepared
an overall investment program in accordance with the criteria outlined
in these Guidelines should be required to prepare such a program.
15.         Detailed Guidelines.  In preparing and appraising specific
sectoral components, borrowing States and local governments as well as
the PFIs shall be guided by the more detailed criteria set forth for the
various components taken up under Phase I and as agreed between FMOH and
the Bank. Guidelines will be drafted for the other components during
project implementation. If these are not available, agreement between
PFIs, State Governments, FMOH and the World Bank will be on a subproject
by subproject basis.



-88 -
ANNEX 4-2
Page 8 of 8
16.         Detailed Guidelines for the followina subcomponents are
liven separately.
(a)   Institutional Development
(b)   Essential Drugs
(c)   Facility Upgradation
(d)   New Facilities
AP4PH
January 1991



- 89 -
ANNEX 4-3
Page 1 of 6
FEDERAL REPUBLIC OF NIGERIA
HEALTH SYSTEM FUND PROJECT
CREDIT GUIDELINES AND FUNCTIONS OF PFIS
Introduction
The Federal Government of Nigeria (FGN) through the Federal
Ministry of Health (FMOH) has recommended the establishment of a
wholesaling mechanism for financing high priority state health projects
nationwide. The Health System Fund (HSF) has been created in response
to this high priority need. The HSF Project is broadly patterr.ed on the
on-going Infrastructure Development Fund (IDF) line of credit and the
OYO Urban Project, except that, under the HSF Project, FGN would
directly channel the Bank Fund to the states. For the HSF line of
credit a Bank loan of US$70 million is being proposed.
Obiectives
1.        The primary objective of the HSF project is to initiate the
establishment of a health system financing mechanism called the Health
System Fund (HSF) utilizing merchant banks and other participating
Financial Intermediaries (PFIs) to appraise, supervise and cofinance
state health subprojects and to gssist states in improving health
investment planning. The main objectives are as followst
(a)  to assist state and local governments in Nigeria to plan,
finance, construct, maintain and manage health infrastructure
and services;
(b)  to assist the Federal Republic of N.geria in the achievement
of a more even development of health infrastructure and
services all over Nigeria;
(c) to improve the capabilities of the states in project
preparation, implementation and financial management, and
help place health services on a self-financing basis through
improved cost recovery;
(d) to expand the role of the eligible banks by using them as
intermediaries for health subprojects, and thus improve
allocational efficiency, as well as stimulate and increase
the flow of funds in the health sector; and
(e) to increase the flow of cofinancing from local and
international institutions and donors by establishing a
smooth and efficient credit delivery mechanism.



- 90 -
ANNEX 4-3
Page 2 of 6
Functions of the ParticiRating Financial Tntermediaries (PFIs)
2.        The selected PFIs will participate in project preparation,
appraisal, financing and supervision of the Project. The specific
functions of the PFIs are as follows:
(a) to assist in project preparation directly and through
workshops organized from time to time by FMOH;
(b) to appraise, coordinate disbursement and supervise state
subprojects (on the basis of Project Guidelines);
(c) to open, maintain, and operate the Subproject Accounts and
Special Accounts on behalf of the state Governments;
(d) to finance from their own resources 102 of subproject costs;
(e) to provide credit guarantee equivalent to 10? of outstanding
balances of the World Bank loan to state subprojects;
(f) to disburse funds on behalf of the states to foreign or
domestic suppliers, contractors, consultants (or as
appropriate, reimbursing the Subproject Accounts) for items
eligible for financing under the subloan agreements, ensuring
that disbursements are not made for items that have not been
procured in accordance with stipulated procurement and
disbursement conditions;
(g) to assist the states in securing any additional local funds
required to finance the subprojects (bond issues, etc.);
(h) to provide other banking services (e.g. opening letters of
credit, securing foreign exchange, etc.);
(i) to monitor implementation of agreements relating to the
subprojects;
(j) to submit reports to FMOH, FMFED, CBN and the Bank on the
physical and financial aspects of the subprojects;
Resources
3.        HSF resources would consist of Bank's line of credit proceeds
which would be passed on to the FGN to onlend to the states. The PFI
will contribute their own resources (at least 102) and the states will
contribute the balance (15?). Line of credit funds would be allocated
to the states on a first-come, first-serve basis. Funds will be
committed to acceptable subprojects as they are presented and approved
by Lne PFIs and the Bank. The line of credit would be subject to a
three-year commitment period at the expiration of which uncommitted
funds would be cancelled by the Bank.



- 91 -
ANNEX 4-3
Page 3 of 6
Subproiect Approval
4.        The subprojects to be financed must be selected in line with
sector policies and based on states investment priorities. All
subprojects, with the exception of "free limit" would be subject to
prior Bank review in consultation with the FMOH to verify that they meet
the operating policies and procedures. In any event, all first
subprojects for a State would be sent to the Bank for review. If these
are not met the Bank will not confirm a subproject for disbursements and
in these cases the corresponding subprojects financing would be PFIs'
responsibility; and in any case the first subproject to be financed by
each PFI must be approved by the Bank.
Proiect Components
5.        The following are illustrative of the subproject components
expected to be financed under the HSF: The components proposed for
financing are as follows:
(a) Institutional Development at the State and local levels
through:
i)        strengthening the capacity of local and state
organizations to plan, implement, and monitor
community-based health, family planning, and
nutrition activities and improve their financial
management and resource mobilization;
(ii)      strengthen the states capacity to develop
strategies and plans of action to implement the
national health policy and to prepare health,
population and nutrition subprojects for internal
and external financing;
(iii)     establishing a population program to implement the
national population policy;
(b) The subprojects would also strengthen health, nutrition, and
family planning services in the states and LGAs through:
(i)       supporting Primary Health Care (PHC) activities
including MCH and family planning, water supply and
sanitation and specific health development
activities at the community level;
(ii)      improving the access to and tuality of health
services in rural areas by upgrading facilities to
provide child survival and child spacing services,
providing for the renovation and upkeep of existing
facilities, and by constructing new facilities in
underserved areas;



l
_ 92_
ANNEX 4-3
Page 4 of 6
(iii)     improving drua supply and distribution by providing
essential drugs, including vaccines and
contraceptives, establishing a drug revolving fund,
and rehabilitating drug warehouses and
(iv)      establishing a disease surveillance and diagnostic
service to support PHC by upgrading or constructing
and equipping a public health laboratory;
(v)       supporting information, education and communication
activities, related to health, population and
nutrition;
(vi)      Supporting nutrition interventions, including
fortification and nutrition education;
(vii)     Promoting non-governmental organizations for
implementation of health and population activities;
and
(viii)    other high priority investments, related to health
and population projects, which are necessary for
achieving HSF objectives.
The subproject would also finance other sub-components as are
added from time to time by amendments to the Policy Statement and
Guidelines.
Eligible Expenditures
6.        The following are eligible expenditures under the projects
Hardware such as civil works, equipment (both medical and non-medical)
and vehicles, materials, drugs and supplies, and software such as
training, and consulting services.
Ineligible Expenditures
7.        The project funds will not be used to finance whole or part
of a specialty or general hospital (of over 100 beds), except where
financing is directly connected to a communicable disease control
program (e.g. TB, filaria, malaria facility) and only after prior
clearance from the Bank.
Special Accounts
8.        The Bank would make a initial deposit of US$0.2 m..llion into
the FMOH Special Account at project effectiveness, and would replenish
this account periodically. Aeplenishment of this Special Account by the
Bank would require the submission to the Bank of full documentation or
certified Statements of Expenditure (SOE) for smaller amounts for all
eligible expenditures by FMOH.  The Bank would also make initial
deposits into the HSF Special Accounts of each state subproject



- 93 -
ANNEX 4-3
Page 5 of 6
equivalent to three months expenditure for each approved subproject.
These accounts will be operated on terms and conditions acceptable to
the Bank---replenishing for subproject expenditure will be as for FHOH
expenditure. Disbursement would be made on the following basiss
(a) 100l of foreign and 802 of local subproject expenditures on
civil works, on vehicles and equipment, and
(b) 1002 of expenditures for technical assistance, training and
studies.
On-Lending Terms
9.        A share of the loan amounting to US$67.8 million equivalent
would be provided as a line of credit to the Federal Government of
Nigeria (FGN) at the Bank's standard variable interest rate for 20 years
including 5 years of grace for on-lending to States. Other terms and
conditions including the terms for on-lending to States aret
(a) Interest Rate and Credit Risk. FGN would on-lend Bank
proceeds to the States with no spread over Bank interest
rate. The PFI would bear the credit risk equivalent to 10 X
of the outstanding balances of the World Bank loans to the
State subprojects and the States would bear the foreign
exchange risk. Any loan funds remaining uncommitted at the
end of year 3 of the project would be cancelled by the Bank.
(b) Free limits would be established for subproject loans of
US$0.5 million equivalent or less, up to an aggregate limit
of US$1.4 million for any one State. In any event, all first
subprojects for a State would be sent to the Bank for review.
Limit on the total free limit loans for the whole of HSF is
US$10.0 million.
(c) No one state should have more than US$14.0 million.
(d) The amount of US$2.2 million equivalent would be provided to
FMOH and state to finance training, consultant services,
studies, vehicles and equipment.
(e) Repayment period. Sub-loan maturities would range from a
minimum of 7 years to a maximum of 15 years with grace
periods from 2 years minimum to 3 years maximum. The
maturity and grace period would be established by the PFIs
based on subproject execution period and the repayment
capacity of the beneficiary.
Recoveries Use
10.       The recoveries of the Bank Loan proceeds in excess of the
repayment of principal and other Bank Loan debt services would be



- 94 -
ANNEX 4-3
Page 6 of 6
handled through a revolving fund in CBN to capture the repayments and
recycle them for the same purposes as the HSF.
AF4PH
January 1991



- 95 -
ANNEX 4-4
Page 1 of 2
FEDERAL REPUBLIC OF NIGERIA
HEALTH SYSTEM FUND PROJECT
STANDARD SUBPROJECT CONDITIONS FOR STATE COMPLIANCE
BEFORE APPRAISAL/NEGOTIATIONS
PFI BOARD PRESENTATIONIEFFECTIVENESS
Appraisal
1.   (a)  State Government should have proceeded to satisfactory
disbursement of any earlier Bank loan in the sector.
(b) Satisfactory review of the health sector expenditure.
(c) State Government should have confirmed acceptance of the
strategy for the components to be financed, as reflected in
or described specifically in a National policy for the
component (e.g. Essential Drugs Policy) and in the HSF Policy
Statement/Project Guidelines.
Neaotiations and PFI Board Presentation
2.        The State Government shall agree to review its financial plan
for the health sector with the PFIs, the FMOH and the Bank by September
30 each year during the project period, in general and particularly
concerning the followings (a) capital investment plan including budget,
loan and grant resources, (b) adequacy of provision for non-staff costs,
especially maintenance drugs and supplies, (c) coordination with LGA's
financially and physically.
3.        The State Government shall agree on a monitorable program for
increasing the recovery of recurrent costs including wages, benefits,
maintenance and transportation, and cost recovery of drugs to a mutually
acceptable level.
4.        The State Government shall agree to establish a Project
Coordinating Unit and appoint a Project Coordinator (full-time or part-
time) as appropriate.
5.        The State Government shall agree to study the staffing of the
PHC facilities and develop a standard staffing pattern and action plan
satisfactory to the PFI and the Bank within six months of effectiveness
and review implementation of the plan annually with the PFI.
6.        The State Government shall agree to a study and a schedule of
implementation of the recommendations on the organization and functions



- 96 -
ANNEX 4-4
Page 2 of 2
of the various institutions in the health sector and for institutional
development in general.
7.        The State Government shall confirm arrangements for
procurement, accounting, auditing and reporting during its negotiations
with the PFI, consistent with the Bank guidelines.
8.        The State Government shall prepare detailed cost estimates
for all civil works and major items of expenditure, and complete tender
documents for the first year of the subproject.
Effectiveness:
9.        The State Government shall appoint a Project Coordinator,
satisfactory to PFI and the Bank.
10.       The State Government shall make adequate budgetary provisions
for its contribution to the project.
AF4PH
January 1991



- 97 -
ANNEX 4-5
Page 1 of 2
FEDERAL REPUBLIC OF NIGERIA
HEALTH SYSTEM FUND PROJECT
SUMMARY OF TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE
SUPPORT TO FMOH AND STATES
Introduction
1.          In the FMOH and subproject states the HSF project would
support staff in certain positions carrying responsibilities that are
central to project purposes. Support would also be provided to carry
out other functions to be performed on a sustained basis but not falling
within the regular civil service structure. Finally, short-term
technical assistance would be provided as described below. Provision
would be made for 94 person-months of assistance from int.ernationally
recruited consultants and 235 person-months of local consultant effort.
The positions and assignments are budgeted in Annexes 4-6 and 4-7 &nd
are identified in Annexes 3-1 and 3-2, as well as in the main text of
the Staff Appraisal Report.
Support for Permanent Positions
2.          A highly qualified Project Officer (expected grade GL-16)
would be based in the M-OH Department of Planning Research and
Statistics. A state Project Officer would also be supported in each of
the states having an approved subproject. The FMOH Project Officer
would be assisted by four officers (see para 3.7) and administrative
staff responsible for: policy and programming, procurement,
institutional promotion, and financial operations. The latter two would
serve as counterparts to long-term consultants provided for these
purposes.
Long-Term Technical Assistance
3.          The DPRS would be strengthened through provision of eight
long-term advisors, three for project management purposes and five to
improve the information based for planning and management. An
international institutional promotion advisor would be recruited for a
period of twelve months, subject to renewal, to strengthen the role
played by local consultants in subproject development, management and
evaluation. Local advisors in overall project management and financial
operations would be supported for up to three years.
4.          In recognition of the importance of a sound Management
Information System (MIS) for project success, an internationally
recruited MIS advisor would be provided for thirty months and would be
supported by four local advisors in the fields of: software
development; data gathering and expediting; data management, feedback,
corrective action and follow-up; and performance indicators and
analysis.



- 98 -
ANNEX 4-5
Page 2 of 2
Short-Term Technical Assistance
5.          Approximately 191 person-months of short-term technical
assistance would be provided as needed to satisfy project objectives.
It is estimated that about one-fourth (52 person-months) of this would
be procured internationally. Best current estimates of the form the
consultation would take are given in the accompanying table. These
estimates excluded technical assistance likely to be given in connection
with individual subprojects and cpecial studies (see para 3.7 and Annex
3-2), which would be budgeted separately.
Person-Months of Technical Assistance
Purr,ose                             Intl         Local
Long-Term
Project Advisor                              12          36
Institutional Promotion                                  12
Financial Operations                         30
MIS Manager                                              12
Software                                                 12
Data Generation                                          12
Data Management                                          12
Data Analysis                                            12
Total Long-Term                             42           96
Short-Term
FMOH Strengthening                           8           28
State Planning, Subproject Development       8           48
Policy Guidelines                             4          12
Performance Audits                          15           15
Unspecified                                  17          36
Total Short-Term                            52          139
Total                                       94          235
AF4PH
January 1991



- 99 -
ANNEX 4-6
Page 1 of 2
FEDERAL REPUBLIC OF NIGERIA
HEALTH SYSTEH FUND PROJECT
PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION - TKAINING AND TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE
SUPPORT TO STATES
1.          Any state carrying out a subproject must organize a project
implementation team. Most likely a full-time project officer will have
to be added and will receive project support as indicated in the
accompanying table.
2.          In accordance with terms of reference acceptable to the
Bank, the PMOH would engage consultants, according to Bank guidelines,
for the initial orientation and follow-up seminars for PFIs and local
consultants, state implementation units and FMOH staff. The table shows
budgeted costs for consultants and local expenses, including participant
travel and per diem allowances.
3.          Selected individuals in the above categories would
participate in three-month certificate courses in health planning and
management at local institutions. The project would support faculty
exchanges between these institutions and international collaborating
universities for purposes of curriculum developmenz and institution
building.
4.          Systematic review and appraisal of subprojects will serve an
important learning function for those engaged in the planning and
management of subprojects. Experience gained in their development and
implementation would also be disseminated widely through communiques,
reports, conferences and field study visits.
5.               Consultants would be engaged according to Bank
guidelines to provide technical assistance in connection witht (a)
refinement of state health plans and development of HSF subprojects
thereunder; (b) review and modification of the HSF policy statement,
guidelines, and procedures for subproject preparation in the light of
initial experience; and (c) conduct of the annual performance audits
that would serve as the primary project monitoring tool for FGN and
would provide the basis for initiating, with prior Bank approval, any
necessary policy changes. Provision would also be made for technical
assistance needs that cannot be anticipated in advance. In all, 50
person-months of international consultation and 111 person-months of
local assistance are anticipated.



- 100 -
ANNEX 4-e
Page 2 of 2
Budget (SOOO)
Consultants             Other Local
International      Local       Costs        Total
PERSONNEL
State HSF Project Officers                                                           30
TRAINING
Orientation Seminars                                       30            30          60
Plan. Project Development                    50             75          125         250
Certificate Training                                                                 80
Faculty Exchanges                                                                   120
Subproject Review                                                                   100
Communiques and Conferences                                                         125
Subtotal                                                                     735
TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE
Plan, Project Development                 120            144                        264
Policy Guidelines                           60            36                         96
Performance Audit                         225             45                        270
Unallocated                               225            108                        363
Subtotal                                                                     993
OTHER UNSPECIFIED ASSISTANCE                                                        500
TOTAL:                                                                      2258
mu.
AF4PH
January 1991



-101 -
ANNEX 4- 7
Page 1 of 4
FEDERAL REPUBLIC OF NIGERIA
HEALTH SYSTEM FUND PROJECT
PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION - FMOH SUPPORT
1.          To fulfill a central role in overseeing the development and
monitoring of subprojects and other HSF activities, the FMOH Department
of Planning, Research and Statistics would be substantially strengthened
by the project implementation team depicted in the organogram. Smaller,
but comparable teams would likewise be established in the states.
2.          The project would support a project officer and three
positions for policy and progrAumming, consultancy promotion and
financial operations. Consultant advisors would be recruited for the
latter two positions, and each would have two counterparts to provide
for attrition and absences for training or leave. The project would
also have an overall project advisor.
3.          An international MIS manager would have four professional
assistants supported by the project. Three administrative positions
would also be provided.
4.          Except for international consultants, these staff would be
funded for three years. The international MIS manager would be
supported for thirty months, and the consultancy promotion advisor would
be recruited for one year, subject to renewal. The project would
support up to ten state project officers for one year.
5.          Equipment to be provided for federal and state units would
include 16 microcomputers; 11 photocopiers, telex or fax machines, and
two-way radios; and four vehicles. Two of the latter would be for FMOH,
two for the FMFED HSF unit. Provision would also be made for
miscellaneous furniture, equipment and supplies, as well as facilities
rental.
6.          Provision would be made for local overseas degree training
as described in Annex 3-2. Eight individuals would be supported for
twelve months each in a master degree program, and two would receive two
years of doctoral training. FMOH staff would also be included in the
three-month certificate courses described in Annexes 3-1 and 4-6.
7.          As much as eight months of international consultation and 28
months of local assistance would be provided to meet specific needs
identified in the course of project implementation.
8.          Arrangements would be made for up to eight special studies
for purposes determined from time-to-time according to need. Resources
required would vary, but an average cost of approximately $25,000 would
be expected.



-102 -
ANNEX 4-7
Page 2 of 4
Budget (S00O)_
International       Local
Consultants       Consultants        Total
PERSONNEL
Project Officer                                                        24
Project Advisor                                     144               144
Policy, Pgm. Officer                                                   18
Consultancy Officer
(2 Counterparts)                                                      24
Consultancy Promotion
Advisor                                            120               120
Financial Officer
(2 Counterparts)                                                      24
Financial Advisor                                    36                36
MIS Manager                                         300               300
Software Expert                                     36                 3,
Analyst                                              36                36
Feedback, Corrective Action                          36                36
Data Expediter                                       36                36
Admin. Staff                                                           27
Subtotal:                                                           861
EQUIPMENT
Computers                                                              64
Photocopiers                                                           33
Telex/FAX                                                              88
Radios                                                                 11
Vehicles                                                               44
Miscellaneous                                                          26
Subtotal:                                                            266
FACILITIES RENTAL                                                      30
TRAINING
FMOH Degree                                                           360
FMOH Certificate                                                       60
Subtotal:                                                           420
TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE                 80          84                   164
STUDIES
8 Studies                                                             200
TOTAL:                                                             1941



- 103 -                             NNEX 4-7
SYNOPSIS or HEAL1H SYSTEM M UND PSOJECT COMPeEINIS UN _ _O-COW_   ENTS
Project Come_nt           Sub-cop~%ent              Oblectiyes                   Amount
Inotitlou il              Improvemnt of             To strengthon                36.8m
DveloPms.t               PHC Services              tho Institutional
and financial
Staff training            capacity of the
sttes and LoAA to
Continulng                plan, Implement
education                monitor and evaluate
health, nutrition
Technical                 and family planning
assistance                program
Logisticeal
support
Primary Health            MCH A FP                  To assist the                S87.6. Care
*ervicea                                            *tates In Improving
*eeso to and quality
Upgrading,                of *ervice  In rural
renovation and           areas and to accord
construction of           high priority to
tacilities                preventive and
promotivs mes ure
Disease
surveillance
and diagnostic
services
Immunizatione
SEC Activities
Drug Suppty               Establishing              Improving drug               817.6m and
distributlon              drug revolving            supply/distributlon
fund                     doveloping
cost recovery
Renovation of
Pharmaceutical
stores
Project                   Facility Surveys          To assist states             *4.6O
Preparatlos               Utilization               Intending to *sek
studies, Staff            financing to Identify
Rationalszation           priority subprojects and to
Studies                   and to develop frnamwork of
Organizational            Justification of
studios on                studies to be presented
S$ON and state            for financing
health
de livery systes



- 104 -
ANNEX 4-7
Page 4 of 4
hS~~~~~~~~~~~ I                                           , .1
II
I
Ii                                I
0  n                    I~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
It  5~~~~~~~~~~~~~
t  I                      -~~~~~~~~~~~~I
I               ~~~I       '
L- I               ~~~~~~Ii



- 105 -
A*3ax 4.8
FEDERAL REPUBLIC OF NIGERIA
HEALTH SYSTEM FtND PROJECT
MLVMSNMATON SCDr=F
r  ACT OMv;Y               is. 1 S992    1993  1194    1995   S996   1997   i398
fnasm                  - or xsr  _
destqnat.oa of PPZ#            x
orpa ne3.amA: ef consultants    X
oritaiAoz asuLaazs                 X       X
oS'ey. quLdaUifes upatO t                          X
fyinn                                                                                          I O
!sttiIi:z                               NX XC I 
!Z  do 4veon                         x  x   x  x   x    x
taInq                              I  x   x  x   x|
technical assistanc                  X   X          X   XXI               xx
t tsmnSal asofitnaca                    X   X  X   X    X  X    Y    X  X    X           
'ZMT PNmu  StmPUijICTS
d4siqn, nmviw                  X   X
j  mxeuoi                         X   X  X  X   X   XI                                      ,
!.9ND Mm STtvra . i
dod4qn, :eviw                                x   x
IaxeuUon                                        x 2 x  x x x xx  x x
|oerformaace audit                                  x       x       X.      X       X        X
I~~~~~    - _                    _        _   _   __ -                _1- -   - -



- 106 -
ANNEX 4-9
FEDERAL REPUBLIC OF NIGERIA
HEALTH SYSTEM FUND PROJECT
DISBURSEMENT SCHEDULE
(in US$ million)
Bank Fiscal Year          Estimated Disbursements */            Nieria
Year    Semester          For the Period  Cumulation            Profile 2
1991      lot                   0                0                 0
2nd                  0.70             0.70              1
1992     lt                    1.40             2.10              3
2nd                  3.50             5.60              8
1993      1st                   5.60            11.20             16
2nd                  5.60            16.80             24
1994      lst                   7.00           23.80              34
2nd                  7.00            30.80             44
1995      lst                   6.30           37.10              53
2nd                  6.30            43.40             62
1996      lst                   5.60           49.00              70
2nd                  4.90            53.90             77
1997      lst                   7.00            60.90             87
2nd                  4.20            65.10             93
1998.     1st                   2.80            67.90             97
2nd                  2.10            70.00            100
a/   Disbursement forecast is based on the country profile



FEDERAL REPUBLIC OF NIGERIA
HEALTH SYSTEH FUND
ANALYSIS OF SUBPROJECT PROPOSALS IN PIPELINE
Estimate of Component Costs
(N'000)
(estimated in December 1990)
1989                       Instit.   Essent.   Repairs             Contin-
Name of States    Population    PFI Consult.  Develop.  Drugs    Upgrad.   Studies   gencies   Other    TOTAL
-----------------------------------------------------------------__----------__---------------------------------------
1.  Akwa Ibom       5.8          ICON AHCS       4958    11585    18232    1111          5983        0      41269
2.  Bauchi          5.1          CMB  ABU       14990         0    90987      300        6942        0      53222
3.  Benue           5.5          CMB   Coopers   2600    20000    23400       400        5960        0      53360
4.  Borno           6.9          ICON  HAL       3693         0    27865      952        4876        0      37386
5.  Kaduna          3.5          NAL  ABU        7040    13700    24700       600        6906        0      52946
6.  Katsina         4.8          CMB  ABUCONS   3290          0    13780      350        4008    9300 1/  21428
7.  Kwara           4.8          NAL  ABCS        735         0    12320      845        1390        0      15290
8.  Ogun            3.2          NIB  AHCS       2017      6922      9313     913        2875        0      22040
9.  Ondo  #         5.9          CMB  PIONEER   1940    17000    13400    1000           5000        0      38340
10. Oyo            12.4          IMB  ARCS       2860      7715    27990      650        5882        0      45097
11.  Rivers         3.6          IMB  Coopers   5527       9789    25053    1046         5330        0      48545
428.923
-----------------------------------------------------------
1/ Since Katsina is a new State, it intends to include a new referral facility In Its proposal.
I-
0



- 108 -
ANNEX 4-11
Page 1 of 2
FEDERAL REPUBLIC OF NIGERIA
HEALTH SYSTEM FUND PROJECT
DOCUMENTS IN THE PROJECT FILE
Ref. No.
HSF Proiect:
1.    World Bank, *Statement of Policy of Health System Fund Project --
Federal Republic of Nigeria"
2.    World Bank, "Project Guidelines of Health System Fund Project --
Federal Republic of Nigeria"
3.    World Bank,  lSubproject Preparation Procedures of Health System
Fund Project -- Federal Republic of Nigeria"
4.    Credit Guidelines
S.    World Bank, "Nigeria - Sectoral Credit Operations.  An Approach
Paper* -- by S.K. Agarwal
6.    "The Use of Selected Nigerian Merchant Banks as Competing
Wholesale Credit Delivery Mechanisms" -- by Bryan H. Kurtz
7.    Report on Financial Aspects of HSF by Bryan H. Kurtz dated July 7,
1989
S.    Report on Update on Institutional Aspects for HSF by Rene Jarquin
dated July 8, 1989
9.    Comments of FGN and Merchant Banks on Draft USF Policy Statement,
Project Preparation Guidelines and Project Procedures.
10.  Letters from Merchant Banks Expressing Willingness to Participate
in the HSF Project.
Health Sectors
11.   World Bank "The Nigerian Health Sectors The Financing of Health
and Population in a Federal System"



- 109 -
ANNEX 4-11
Page 2 of 2
General
12.   Analysis of Institutional Alternatives and
Financial Analysis of the IDF
Ime Ebong Associates, Jan. 1986
13.   Analysis and Recommendations for an
Infrastructure Development Fund (Nigeria)
W.P. McCulloch III and Dr. E. Anusionwu,
June 1986
14.   IDF Project Guidelines
15.   IDF Policy Statement
AF4PH
January 1991



MAP SECTION
fi



NIGERIA                             - - CtiAD
ADMINISTRATIVE DIVISIONS
. BtRKIN,+ (      >              ~~~~~N I   F R 
BUtRKINA-NI                                           R
FASO)                  --
?K /.  '-SOKOTO -    INA,
{    0 1                B'.O }t3\3() 1  MAIDUGURI
BE-NIN                            KApr    DN   /]<
H <) 0 , ~~~~BAUCHIi 
2   P.o,.,\    NIGER    KAU                  BAUUCHI      Td
} J <   +\  MINNA C^JJ            }             <iY }  -2 \
r   t  ~ILORIN                                                  Y C   >EU /  otA  n 
IY    L            VVA                                   ( GONGOLAr 
\_  3     (A~~KURE    >                  AK;RI    
A >       Jolo                    BENUE/(
_ - NAGOS                                          4 . ADEL A  State Capitals
IAGOS  M--    og  - = "   National Capital
,   t   (  x   )  c=sn-ton. r/s-lomennF   ~~~Rive-rs
LAEABAR             s . r        State Boundaries
 ' - 2 V POBT UYOM / '' nr ota*<pZ>re 0f _ ~~Internat ional_
- -~                       VEkS -:Ht)iJR o "s^o o oo s Boundaries
W  AK\V,tA-I BOAI .M   20 40 60 00 '00                    '
b                                                                                       S~~~~~~KAA10



