                                   Document of
                               The World Bank




                                                    Report No:NCO0000315




                  NOTE ON CANCELLED OPERATION REPORT
                                  (IDA-39260)




                                     ON A

                                    CREDIT

                    IN THE AMOUNT OF SDR 34.7 MILLION
                       (US$51.00 MILLION EQUIVALENT)

                                      TO

                          BOSNIA AND HERZEGOVINA

                                   FOR THE

               SECOND SOCIAL SECTOR ADJUSTMENT CREDIT

                                 January 3, 2007




Human Development Sector Unit

South East Europe Country Unit

Europe and Central Asia Region

                          CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
                       ( Exchange Rate Effective 10/20/2006 )
                             Currency Unit = KM
                                  KM 1.00 = US$ 0.645
                                 US$ 1.00 = KM 1.55


                                     Fiscal Year
                               January 1 - December 31




                     ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
BAC  Business Adjustment Credit
BH   Bosnia and Herzegovina
BTOR Back To Office Report
CAS  Country Assistance Strategy
CM   Country Management/ Manager
CMU   Country Management Unit
CVW  Civilian Victims of War
EC   European Commission
ECA  Europe and Central Asia
ECSHD Europe and Central Asia Human Development Sector Department
EMSAC Economic Management Structural Adjustment Credit
EU   European Union
FBH  Federation of Bosnia and Herzegovina (entity of BH)
FY   Fiscal Year
GDP  Gross Domestic Product
IBRD  International Bank for Reconstruction and Development
IDA   International Development Association
IMF  International Monetary Fund
ISR  Implementation Status Report
KM   Convertible Mark
LEGEC Europe and Central Asia Legal Department
LSMS Living Standards Measurement Survey
MOF  Ministry of Finance
MTDS Medium Term Development Strategy
NCO   Note on Cancelled Operation
OHR  Office of the High Representative

OP     Operational Policy
OPCS   Operations Policy and Country Services
OPN    Operational Policy Note
PID    Project Information Document
RS     Republika Srpska (entity of BH)
RVP    Regional Vice-Presidency
SDR    Special Drawing Rights
SOSAC Social Sector Adjustment Credit
SOSAC
       Second Social Sector Adjustment Credit
II
SOTAC Social Sector Technical Assistance Credit
TA     Technical Assistance
VAT    Value Added Tax
WB/BankThe World Bank




                            Vice President: Shigeo Katsu

                          Country Director: Orsalia Kalantzopoulos

                           Sector Manager: Arup Banerji

                    Program Team Leader: Michele Gragnolati

                                                Bosnia-Herz.
                    Social Sector Adjustment Credit 2 (SOSAC 2)



                                                CONTENTS




1. Basic Information........................................................................................................ 1
2. Key Dates.................................................................................................................... 1
3. Ratings Summary........................................................................................................ 1
4. Sector and Theme Codes ............................................................................................ 2
5. Bank Staff ................................................................................................................... 2
6. Context, Project Development Objectives, and Design.............................................. 3
7. Post-Approval Experience and Reasons for Cancellation .......................................... 4
8. Assessment of Bank Performance .............................................................................. 6
9. Assessment of Borrower Performance........................................................................ 9
10. Lessons Learned...................................................................................................... 11
Annex 1. Bank Lending and Implementation Assistance/Supervision Processes........ 13
Annex 2. List of Supporting Documents ...................................................................... 15

1. Basic Information
                                                                        Social Sector
Country:                Bosnia-Herz.             Program Name:          Adjustment Credit 2
                                                                        (SOSAC 2)
Program ID:             P070992                  L/C/TF Number(s):      IDA-39260
NCO Date:               01/03/2007

Lending Instrument:     SAD                      Borrower:              Government of Bosnia
                                                                        and Herzegovina
Original Total
Commitment:             XDR 34.7M                Disbursed Amount:      XDR 0.0M

Environmental Category:C
Implementing Agencies

Ministry of Foreign Trade and Economic Relations
Ministry of Health and Social Protection of RS
Ministry of Finance and Treasury of BiH
Ministry of Finance of FBH
Council of Ministers of BiH
Ministry of Labor and Social Protection of FBH
Ministry of Veterans Affairs of FBH
Ministry of Labor and Veterans Affairs of RS
MInistry of Finance of RS
Cofinanciers and Other External Partners


2. Key Dates

      Process              Date              Process        Original Date     Revised / Actual
                                                                                   Date(s)
Concept Review:     11/30/2001          Effectiveness:    07/31/2006
Appraisal:          04/24/2002          Closing:          06/30/2006        06/30/2006
Approval:           06/15/2004



3. Ratings Summary
3.1 Performance Rating by NCO
Outcomes:                                         Not Applicable
Risk to Development Outcome:                      Not Applicable
Bank Performance:                                 Moderately Unsatisfactory
Borrower Performance:                             Moderately Unsatisfactory




                                               1

4. Sector and Theme Codes
                                                                           Original
Sector Code (as % of total Bank financing)
Compulsory pension and unemployment insurance                                            25
Other social services                                                                    75
                                                                       Original Priority
Theme Code (Primary/Secondary)
Improving labor markets                                            Secondary
Social safety nets                                                 Primary
Conflict prevention and post-conflict reconstruction               Secondary
Social analysis and monitoring                                     Secondary
Social risk mitigation                                             Primary


5. Bank Staff
                         Positions                         AT NCO            At Approval
Vice President:                                        Shigeo Katsu      Shigeo Katsu

Country Director:                                      Orsalia           Orsalia
                                                       Kalantzopoulos    Kalantzopoulos
Sector Manager:                                        Arup Banerji      Arup Banerji
Program Team Leader:                                   Michele Gragnolati Philip B. O'Keefe
NCO Team Leader:                                       Michele Gragnolati
NCO Primary Author:                                    Vedad Ramljak




                                                2

6. Context, Project Development Objectives, and Design
(drawing from PAD, briefly describe the country and sector background, rationale for Bank
assistance, development objectives, components, costs and funding, implementation
arrangements, risk analysis, and quality at entry)

Country and Sector Background
In the late 1990s, reforms in the labor market and social protection emerged as central
elements of the Bank's support program to Bosnia and Herzegovina (BH). Specifically, three
social sector credits were planned for the CAS period 2000-2002. The Social Sector
Adjustment Credit (SOSAC I) -- a single tranche adjustment operation of SDR13.24 million
-- was declared effective in June 2001 and closed in August 2001. SOSAC I, whose outcome
was rated as Satisfactory, supported a number of activities in labor and social protection and
achieved substantive results, primarily on labor market reforms. SOSAC I was followed by
the Social Sector Technical Assistance Credit (SOTAC), worth SDR 2.35 million, which
closed in June 2003 and provided the analytical basis for follow up reforms. SOTAC was
also rated Satisfactory.

Rationale for Bank's Involvement:
The Second Social Sector Adjustment Credit (SOSAC II) built on SOSAC I and SOTAC and
was designed to support further reforms in social protection, including veterans' and
disability benefits and employment programs. Therefore, from the beginning SOSAC I,
SOTAC and SOSAC II were envisaged by IDA as three separate yet interlinked segments of
a reform package meant to cover much of the social protection sector of BH. Nevertheless,
though the preparation of SOSAC II began in 2002 before SOTAC closed, delay (discussed
below) during preparation meant that SOSAC II was approved by the Board only in 2004.

SOSAC II Objectives:
The objective of SOSAC II was to support reforms in cash transfer and labor programs and
institutions in Bosnia and Herzegovina. This was consistent with broader efforts to reduce
public spending and refocus it on priority needs, and to address regional imbalances within
each Entity. Specifically, the priority program aimed to: (i) ensure that protection for
disabled veterans and survivor families would be better focused on the most disabled, while
gradually reducing large and untargeted public spending on veterans' programs; (ii) improve
the impact and efficiency of the social safety net for the poorest, in particular social welfare
benefits and services, including a strengthened role for the non-governmental sector; (iii)
consolidate an appropriate institutional structure for employment services at State and Entity
levels, and reorient active labor policies to increase cost effectiveness, transparency and
employment outcomes; (iv) improve the efficiency and equity of pension and disability
programs, including pensions policy harmonization between the Entities of BH; and (v)
ensure that social policy reforms are done on the basis of better information, within the
system and to the public, and that living standards monitoring is more efficient and effective.

Original Components (as approved):
The Credit was to be disbursed in two tranches of SDR 16.3 million and SDR 18.4 million.
It included the usual allocation between the Entity Governments of two thirds to Federation
of Bosnia and Herzegovina (FBH) and one third to Republika Srpska (RS). Though the



                                             3

State-level Government was required to undertake some action under SOSAC II, the Credit
did not have a specific allocation for this level of government. Fund release was to be subject
to satisfactory review by IDA of the implementation of the adjustment program as a whole,
and the fulfillment of specific tranche conditions. Tranche conditions were linked to the
achievement of specific reforms by the State and both Entity governments. SOSAC II had a
total of 21 conditions.

An extended discussion of risk analysis and its relation to project design is found in Section
7 below.

7. Post-Approval Experience and Reasons for Cancellation
(main events leading to cancellation, steps taken to resolve problems, exogenous factors,
identification of causes and responsibility if project failed, implications of failure):

The Credit was approved by IDA on June 15, 2004. It was never declared effective because the
reform program in FBH (affecting two thirds of the loan) was not fully implemented in the aftermath
of the Board approval. Once it became clear that the efforts to restructure the operation in late 2005/
early 2006 would not succeed, SOSAC II was allowed to expire at the end of June 2006 after the
extended effectiveness deadline was not met.

SOSAC II had a troubled history almost from the very beginning. The operation was
originally negotiated in 2002. However, the Government authorities failed to sign the
Minutes of Negotiations and the project could not be presented to the Board in June 2002. It
appears that the Government officials were concerned with political implications of this
project and even though they participated in the Negotiations the Minutes were not signed.
Soon after the new Governments were constituted, the Bank officially renewed its
engagement on SOSAC II with a mission to BH in February 2003. In the course of the
following fourteen months the Bank engaged in protracted technical discussions with the
Government representatives and other stakeholders. These paved the way for the drafting and
after intense lobbying by the Bank and the Office of the High Representative (OHR) the
passage of crucial legislation upon which depended the eventual SOSASC II presentation to
the Board in 2004. The Minutes of Negotiation were signed in April 2004 and the operation
was presented to and approved by the Board in June 2004. However, there was further delay
because the operation failed to get ratified by the Parliament of FBH. Thanks to an extension
of the effectiveness deadline and intensive dialogue with the main stakeholders, the
ratification was completed in December 2004.

Formally, the first tranche conditions of the credit were met once the relevant veterans'
benefit legislation was passed by both Entities in 2004. However, by December, the FBH's
draft budget for 2005 contained significant increases in the allocations for veterans' benefits
compared to 2004. The loan could not therefore be declared effective in late 2004/early 2005
since these increase constituted a departure from the conditions of the second tranche and
jeopardized the main development goals of the overall SOSAC II program. Backsliding on
the second tranche issues continued in 2005. By the third quarter of 2005 no positive
developments were made in respect of the two core conditions, namely the spending freeze
on all veterans programs in FBH and the development of an agreement on a joint pension



                                              4

policy between the two entities. Discussions on restructuring SOSAC II were held in October
2005 with the Governments of BH. However, the project's restructuring was conditional
upon a prior agreement with the BH authorities on their medium term expenditure
framework for all social transfer expenditures. The chief component of this agreement was
going to be a freeze on veteran-related spending, especially in FBH.

Final efforts to reinvigorate the process to enable the operation to be declared effective did
not succeed as the Bank and the Government could not reach agreement on the medium-term
expenditure framework for social assistance. These efforts included a half day "Senior
Leadership Retreat" in October 2005 between the Bank Management and the three (State and
Entity-level) Prime Ministers and Finance Ministers. At this occasion the Bank's entire
adjustment lending portfolio in BH was discussed with a view to a possible restructuring.
The biggest stumbling block was BH governments' planned spending on veteran and
survivor family programs, particularly in FBH. The FBH budget for 2006, far from
instituting the expected year-on-year freeze, contained a 30 percent increase in the veteran-
related budgetary allocations when compared to the budget for 2005. This increase was even
higher if compared to benchmarks agreed in 2004. Conversely, in RS, the efforts of a
dedicated line ministry with the help of a strong ministry of finance managed to curb the
expenditures in this field. This means that RS managed to meet fully the relevant conditions
by the end of 2005. The two Entities also failed to reach an agreement on inter-entity pension
issue and on a joint pension policy. The decision of the pension funds in the two Entities to
pursue the resolution of the inter-entity pension issue in courts removed any likelihood that
this issue might be resolved within the required timeframe. Furthermore, the government of
FBH decided not to reverse any of the active labor policies that involved placements of soft
loans via the employment institute and/ or Investment Bank of FBH, which was another
important condition under the SOSAC II agenda.

On the one hand, the Credit could not have been declared effective since there existed clear
indications that the operation would not be able to meet its development objectives. On the
other hand, because of the design of the operation and the intent of the CAS, it was not
possible to recognize the fact that the RS program was broadly on track since SOSAC II
could not have been declared effective for one Entity only. Moreover, OPCS and LEGEC
advised that any restructuring to allow RS to enjoy the Credit proceeds alone would involve
the cancellation of two thirds of the loan, a renewed Board approval and a renewed
ratification processes by all three governments and parliaments in BH, which was deemed
highly unlikely at that stage. More importantly, this step would have also implied the Bank's
explicit decision to engage in sub-national adjustment operations. Given the complexity of
the procedures that had to be followed and given the potentially controversial policy
precedent that had to be made, this option was rejected. Lastly, by early 2006 the country had
not had an IMF program for two consecutive years and this further reduced any chances of
reaching effectiveness by the end of June 2006.           The last mission of March 2006
recommended that the loan be allowed to lapse once the effectiveness deadline would expire
in June 2006.

Subsequently, the ease with which the FBH authorities reversed many of their previous
SOSAC II-related stringency measures and even passed additional benefit packages for



                                             5

veterans revealed that:

    · the pressure from the veteran lobby continues to be strong and very effective,
        especially in the pre-election period;
    · the FBH Parliament has tended to act independently, thus the Government could
        not always rely on a secure base of support for its measures and policies -- even from
        the MPs who form the Government's own majority;
    · the FBH Government's commitment to this process turned out to be quite weak and it
        repeatedly failed to stop benefit increases even when these threatened to destabilise
        the fiscal balance of FBH.

Thus, in the space of less than twelve months (2005/2006), the FBH Parliament (with or
without the Government's approval) passed legislation that contained new benefit provisions
worth almost KM 300 million of recurrent annual expenditure for the different categories of
veteran/war-related beneficiaries. If implemented, these measures would constitute a near
doubling of FBH budget outlays on this account.

There were also a few exogenous factors over which the Bank had no influence, and could
not have been foreseen, which contributed to the Credit's failure to reach effectiveness,
including:

    · An unusually fluid political situation, even by Bosnian standards, which caused
        frequent coalition government rotations and blockades in the decision-making
        processes at different levels of government, thus resulting in the decision makers'
        inability and unwillingness to tackle controversial reforms.
    · A fiscal crunch seemed likely (at all levels of government) when SOSAC II was
        originally conceived. However, in the course of 2005 and 2006, extra revenues
        started flowing in as a result of the reform of the fiscal system and the introduction of
        the VAT. This led the authorities to relax their spending plans and be much less
        dependent on foreign financing.
    · The gradual withdrawal of the Office of the High Representative (in the course of
        2005 and 2006) as an active champion of politically controversial reforms left the
        Bank without a major source of political support for the ambitious SOSAC II
        program.


8. Assessment of Bank Performance
(lending process/ensuring Quality at Entry, supervision and implementation assistance role,
compliance with Bank policies, justifica tion for rating):
Rating: Moderately Unsatisfactory


Identification and Quality at Entry:

Identification
SOSAC II was intended to consolidate the reform processes set in motion by SOSAC I and
its companion technical assistance project ­ SOTAC. Thus, by the time the identification


                                               6

mission took place in October 2001, the policy dialogue was already advanced on a range of
key topics. Work done under SOSAC I as well as an identification workshop held in June
2001 contributed greatly in this respect. Substantial effort was made to identify possible
solutions of key issues. In the course of this workshop and the subsequent discussions the
BH authorities and some civil society representatives expressed a desire that SOSAC II be an
adjustment rather than an investment operation. At the time, BH's investment and technical
assistance needs were still well provided for through grants from bilateral sources. For this
reason, the Government authorities believed that the Bank was well placed to provide
strategic assistance that was going to build upon the labor market reform successes of
SOSAC I through an adjustment operation (DPLs were not available at the time). Therefore,
the agenda proposed under SOSAC II was both relevant in terms of the Bank's CAS for
Bosnia and Herzegovina and in accordance with the wishes of the governments and other
stakeholders in BH.

Preparation
The preparation period can be divided into two distinct parts: (i) September 2001- June 2002,
and, (ii) February 2003 - June 2004. Between June 2002 and February 2003 there was no
significant activity owing to the October 2002 elections.

September 2001- June 2002
In the first period, the issues raised in the identification workshop and through work on
SOSAC I formed the basis of the preparation process. A large and ambitious agenda emerged
but the initial reception from the Governments made it possible to believe that there was
sufficient commitment to the proposed reforms. Consequently, the project was appraised and
Board presentation was expected in June 2002. However even at this stage problems
emerged. As described earlier, although negotiations took place in May 2002, the operation
could not be presented to the Board in June because the minutes of negotiations were not
signed. There were also bigger problems. It proved unrealistic that two months (between the
project appraisal and Board presentation) would be enough for the preparation and passage
of controversial veteran-related legislation -- especially only months before the General
Election in October 2002. Secondly, even though the risks were repeatedly noted as high in
most BTORs and project documentation, it would appear (in retrospect) that the
Bank overestimated the level of Borrower commitment to the reform agenda because it soon
became clear through concrete actions that no BH political party would agree to be
associated with a reduction in veterans' benefits. Thirdly, it is highly questionable whether
the Ministries and Parliaments in BH would have been capable of delivering on the
agreements under such an ambitious schedule even if political will to undertake the
controversial reforms had been there.

Documentation which would indicate that lessons were drawn from the project's failure to
reach the Board date in June 2002 could not be located. Similarly, while the peer reviews and
project-related discussions focused mainly on the technical aspects of the reform agenda, no
records of discussions regarding the feasibility of the timeframe in question could be located.

February 2003 - June 2004
Once the new governments in BH were formed in early 2003, the Bank renewed its SOSAC



                                             7

II- related efforts in February 2003. During the second preparation period the Bank team had
opportunities to review the project's design (with a view to its reformulation) in order to take
into account the political realities particular to BH in 2003/2004. Nevertheless, the same
project design from 2002 was used to engage the new Governments. The new Board
presentation target date was set for June 2004.

In late 2003 and in early 2004 the Bank engaged in a series of discussions (internally and
with external partners) on the political feasibility of the SOSAC II reform program. The
collective conclusion was that, while SOSAC II was by no means going to have a high
probability of success, the relevance of the agenda for the whole country made the risk seem
worthwhile. The OHR -- as the main political force in the country at the time -- concurred
with this assessment. Therefore, based on slow but perceptible progress on the issues at
stake, the Bank made a decision to proceed with SOSAC II in its original formulation.

However, during the second preparation period despite the fact that there was no imminent
prospect of elections, progress on fulfilling the conditions continued to move very slowly and
the same issues as in 2001/2002 emerged as obstacles. In 2004 these endangered the
project's Board presentation for the second time. Ultimately, despite a continuous dialogue
between the Bank and the Governments and stakeholders in BH dating back to 1999/2000
these same issues caused the project's eventual cancellation in 2006.

Therefore, on the basis of the evidence available, the following ratings are given to the Bank:
(i) Project Identification: Satisfactory, and (ii) Preparation: Unsatisfactory. Overall quality
at Entry is rated Moderately Unsatisfactory to reflect the unrealistic assumptions regarding
the timeframe required to prepare SOSAC II for Board presentation in 2002 as well as the
subsequent failure to significantly redesign the credit (in the course of 2003) to provide for a
less complex operation with a less ambitious agenda once it emerged (after 2-3 years of
almost continuous engagement) that the original plan was not going to be fully acceptable to
the authorities. However, the engagement in the period 2003-2004 did produce concrete
results -- especially in the RS -- and the rating is intended to reflect this.

Implementation Assistance Role:
On the whole SOSAC II was supported well by the Bank team after the Board approval in
June 2004. On average, the team made field visits almost every quarter while a full-time
consultant was conducting an intense continuous policy dialogue supported by the Country
Manager. However, the Bank's effectiveness was somewhat impaired by frequent changes in
team membership. In the end, the Bank's assistance efforts did bear some fruit and the
intensity of engagement after the Board approval did lead to significant progress in the
implementation of many SOSAC II-related reform measures (see Section 9 for a brief
description of the results achieved by SOSAC II).

In particular, the Bank's team focused on persuading the policymakers to adopt a politically
unpopular program. At first, this strategy did appear to work and ratification was indeed
completed in December 2004. However, the authorities' actions did not match these nominal
commitments. Apart from the ratification problems in the Parliament of FBH, the subsequent
repeated increases of veteran-related expenditures in 2004/2005, and, 2005/2006 should have



                                               8

been interpreted as a clear rejection of the relevant agenda agreed under SOSAC II. Since
neither the structure nor the program of SOSAC II were changed to reflect the difficulties
posed by the complex political economy of BH despite the information available (as per the
BTORs/ISRs/Aides-Memoires), it seems that the implementation assistance efforts were only
marginally successful to affect the final outcome. The Bank's task team and management
recognized this in 2005 and undertook serious efforts to restructure the operation and tailor it
as much as possible to the new circumstances. In this respect, no possibility was left
unexplored. Progress achieved on the two other adjustment operations (Business
Administration Credit and Economic Management Structural Adjustment Credit), the
restructuring of which was attempted alongside that of SOSAC II, bolstered hopes and, for a
brief period of about two months there existed a small chance that the operation might have
been saved, as was the case for BAC and EMSAC. Nevertheless, the attempted restructuring
did not succeed to save SOSAC II since the prospect of yet another General Election
(October 2006) undermined any chance of substantial reform in 2006.

Therefore, on the basis of the evidence available, this segment is rated Moderately
Satisfactory.

Overall Bank Performance: Moderately Unsatisfactory

9. Assessment of Borrower Performance
(government and implementing agency performance, compliance with covenants,
justification for rating):
Rating: Moderately Unsatisfactory


Borrower Performance
Performance under the SOSAC II agenda varied significantly in the two BH entities and at
the State level. (The State is the Borrower in BH, though the main actions under SOSAC II
lay with the two Entity governments.)

BH (state level): Performance at this level of government was Moderately Satisfactory. The
State-level authorities passed the relevant legislation and the Labor and Employment Agency
was set up and made operational. While the borrower's commitment was at times
questionable and while the delays in executing the agreed activities were substantial, their
sustainability is no longer in question. However, greater leadership in the form of monitoring
the performance of the Entities and encouraging them to live up to SOSAC II commitments
would have been desirable, hence the rating.

Republika Srpska: Overall, the reforms conducted within the RS were successful though
many tasks were completed substantially behind schedule. The political task was
significantly easier than for the FBH, in particular in the area of veterans, because the FBH
had to integrate two veterans components (Bosniaks and Bosnian Croats). However, policy-
wise, the RS institutions appear to have quickly internalized the reform program introduced
by SOSAC II, which became part of the RS government's own agenda. Thus, the relevant
veteran-related legislation was adopted and expenditures on veteran-related benefits were
kept within the jointly agreed limits. The revision of status of many veteran-related benefit


                                              9

claimants was carried out and had produced some reduction in the number of beneficiaries.
These outcomes indicate that the RS authorities' commitment to the adjustment program was
high. Indeed, the authorities were able to leverage the program under SOSAC II to carry out
difficult but necessary reforms.

Therefore, on the basis of the evidence available, the overall rating of RS is: Satisfactory.

Federation of BH: In FBH, the agenda was politically significantly more difficult than in the
RS. However, apart from the official recognition of the SOSAC II agenda by virtue of the
signing off on the Credit itself, there is no evidence that the SOSAC II reform program ever
came to be fully accepted by the relevant authorities as a genuine part of their overall
political and economic program. The authorities' actions signified this clearly in the period
2001-2002 and 2004-2004. The actions of FBH Parliament were also significant in this
respect. The Ministry of Finance of FBH failed to safeguard the FBH overall fiscal
sustainability. Practically, this has meant that different special interest groups (including
veterans) were able to successfully lobby the line ministries and the Parliament of FBH for
ever greater expenditures even though these often went beyond FBH fiscal capacity.
Therefore, though FBH adopted veteran-related legislation that allowed for a benefit freeze
to be put in place, the authorities continued to give into pressures to increase expenditure on
benefits and even introduced new types of benefits. Similarly, the revision of status of many
veteran-related benefit claimants was carried out but only to increase the number of
beneficiaries. Subsequent to the cancellation of SOSAC II, the authorities condoned an even
greater expansion of war-related beneficiary categories, as exemplified in the earlier section.

Therefore, on the basis of the evidence available, the performance of FBH is rated
Unsatisfactory.

Assessment of Outcome
Although this adjustment operation failed to achieve effectiveness, it nevertheless (in
conjunction with its predecessors) made the debate on social protection spending and
programs more coherent and of better quality over the years. Several concrete results were
produced, including:

    · Paving the way to the introduction of Entity-level cash benefits for the Civil Victims
        of War (FBH). As of 2006, the FBH budget will be paying out regular benefits for
        this category.
    · Successful implementation of new veteran legislation, which has reduced the
        opportunities for fraudulent and multiple claims. The legislation also contains
        important cash rationing coefficient mechanisms designed to prevent benefit arrears,
        should the authorities be forced to reduce the overall expenditures for this category
        and/or increase the number of beneficiaries. However, in FBH, the overall spending
        for this benefit has tended to increase for other reasons.
    · A state-level Employment Agency was established and a reform of the Employment
        Institutes in each Entity was undertaken.
    · Both the Household Budget Survey (2004) and the Living Standards Measurement
        Survey (2001/2002/2003) were conducted in conjunction with the BH Statistical



                                              10

       Agency, which will repeat the latter in 2007. This is an important step forward to
       address issues of missing and incomplete socio-economic data in BH.
   · In RS, the dialogue succeeded to produce the major outcomes. Thus, the expenditure
       on veteran benefits was capped at the previously agreed levels. Similarly, the process
       of revision of status of all those eligible for veteran/ survivor benefits produced a
       reduction in beneficiary numbers. Therefore it can be concluded that the Government
       of RS had implemented most of the measures that were its responsibility under the
       SOSAC II agenda.

While the end of SOSAC II means that the Bank has, for the moment, lost an instrument in
the social protection sector, all evidence points to the fact that reforms in this area remain
necessary to enable BH to move through the economic transition. The current expenditures
on right-based benefits are becoming increasingly fiscally unaffordable. However, the
authorities' willingness to engage in further reform efforts will not be motivated by fiscal
concerns alone. Any future reform package must be accepted by the BH society before it can
be accepted by the country's legislators and policymakers.

Overall Borrower Performance: Moderately Unsatisfactory.

The rating given above is justified by the fact that activities undertaken under the auspices of
SOSAC II did produce substantial results notwithstanding the delays and some backsliding
that has taken place since the loan's cancellation. The substantial progress made to date in RS
and on the State-level is undermined by the failure to achieve the same kind of progress in
FBH.




10. Lessons Learned
(both project-specific and of wide general application):

   · Excellence in technical analysis and the prospect of a large amount of concessionary
       finance are usually not sufficient factors to counterbalance the political cost of
       implementing unpopular programs, unless there is sustained strong local ownership
       of the reform agenda.
   · Complex operations addressing multiple areas of reform can overburden countries
       with limited political and technical capacity and ultimately jeopardize the success of
       the overall support program. In an environment where the political economy makes it
       hard for the policymakers to accept a controversial reform package in its entirety, a
       less ambitious and more flexible program is more likely to produce better results.
       Moreover, in such environments, realistic expectations about the pace at which a
       society can build and adopt new social attitudes and Governments implement reforms
       need to be built into the reform programs themselves.
   · When more than one Government is involved in carrying out a reform program
       agreed with the Bank, Bank's operations should be designed to reward the good
       performers. In BH, however, rewarding good performance needs to be done without
       jeopardizing the country's single economic space and its EU accession prospects.



                                             11

· Delaying project redesign to adjust the timing of reforms to the political cycle can
  produce misleading expectations on the feasibility of the reforms themselves.




                                      12

Annex 1. Bank Lending and Implementation Assistance/Supervision Processes

(a) Task Team members

        Names                   Title                   Unit         Responsibility/Specialty
Lending
Supervision/NCO
Christian Bodewig      Economist                ECSHD                Team Member
Csaba Feher            Senior Economist         ECSHD                Team Member
Michele Gragnolati     Senior Economist         ECSHD                Task Team Leader
Monika Huppi           Lead Economist           IEGCM                Task Team Leader
Gordana Matkovic       Consultant               ECSHD                Consultant
Imelda Mueller         Operations Analyst       ECSHD                Operations Analyst
Augustina M. Nikolova Program Assistant         ECSHD                Program Assistant

Philip B. O'Keefe      Lead Social Protection
                       Special                  SASHD                Task Team Leader

Snjezana Plevko        Senior Economist         ECSHD                Team Member
Vedad Ramljak          E T Consultant           ECSHD                Team Member

Goran Tinjic           Country Operations
                       Officer                  ECCBA                Team Member


(b) Ratings of Project Performance in ISRs

No. Date ISR Archived           IP               DO          Actual Disbursements (USD M)
1   06/30/2004             Satisfactory     Satisfactory                               0.00
2   12/30/2004             Unsatisfactory   Unsatisfactory                             0.00
3   04/16/2005             Unsatisfactory   Unsatisfactory                             0.00
4   08/04/2005             Unsatisfactory   Unsatisfactory                             0.00
5   03/06/2006             Unsatisfactory   Unsatisfactory                             0.00


(c) Staff Time and Cost

                                                  Staff Time and Cost (Bank Budget Only)

            Stage of Project Cycle                                       USD Thousands
                                                  No. of staff weeks   (including travel and
                                                                         consultant costs)
Lending
                    FY00                                                               0.04
                    FY01                                          11                  54.91
                    FY02                                          23                 156.37
                    FY03                                            9                120.20
                    FY04                                          32                 284.23
                    FY05                                                               0.00
                    FY06                                                               0.00



                                             13

                FY07                      0.00
                        Total:    75    615.75
Supervision/NCO
                FY00                      0.00
                FY01                      0.00
                FY02                      0.00
                FY03                      0.04
                FY04                      1.92
                FY05              23    140.65
                FY06              50    139.24
                FY07               8      8.41
                        Total:    81    290.26




                            14

Annex 2. List of Supporting Documents

Office Memorandum: Briefing note on BH SOSAC, Phillip O'Keefe, Program Team Leader
(ECHSD) to Christian Poortman, Cou ntry Director (ECC04), August 26, 1999
Workshop on Veterans, Persons with Disabilities, Social and Child Assistance, Report, Kendra
Gregson, July 30, 2001
Identification Mission Aide Memoire, September 6, 2001
Initial Project Information Document (PID), November 20, 2001
President's Report Package, Regional Operations Committee Review, November 2001
Peer Review Comments by Thomas A. Hoopengardner (ECHSD), November 30, 2001
Minutes of Initiating Concept Memorandum Review Meeting, November 30, 2001
Pre-Appraisal & Appraisal Aide Memoire, May 8, 2002
Regional Operations Sub-Cttee. Meeting, Minutes, September 2003
Regional Operations Sub-Cttee. Meeting, PREM comments, September 2003
Regional Operations Sub-Cttee. Meeting, Comments by Bill Dorotinsky, PRMPS, September
2003
Regional Operations Sub-Cttee. Meeting, Comments by Louise Fox, AFTPM, September 2003
Regional Operations Sub-Cttee. Meeting, Comments by Erika A. Jorgensen, OPCCE, September
2003
Regional Operations Sub-Cttee. Meeting, Comments by John Blomquist, HDNSP, September
2003
Appraisal Completion Mission Aide Memoire, November 14, 2003
Post Appraisal Mission Aide Memoire, December 17, 2003
Pre Negotiation Missions Aide Memoire, Jan 26-Feb 15 and Mar 21-31, 2004
Minutes of Technical Discussions (subsequently converted to Negotiations) between BH and
IDA, April 29-30, 2004
First Supervision Mission Aide Memoire, November 9-12, 2004
Aide Memoires ­ Supervision Missions, April-June, 2005
Supervision Mission Aide Memoire, December 2005
SOSAC II Letter of Closure, Dirk Reinermann, Country Manager, to Messrs A. Terzic, A.
Hadzipasic and M. Dodik, the Prime M inisters of BH, FBH & RS (respectively), June 14, 2006
Miscellaneous documentation: Back to Office Reports, ISRs, etc.
VI Country Portfolio Performance Review, March - April 2006
Project Performance Assessment Report: BH Transition Assistance Credit, Public Finance
Structural Adjustment Credit, Secon d Public Finance Structural Adjustment Credit and Social
Sector Adjustment Credit, Operations Evaluation Department , January 27, 20 05
Bulgaria: Social Protection Adjustment Loan, Independent Evaluation Group, July 24, 2001
Project Performance Assessment Report: Russian Federation - Employment Services and Social
Protection Loan (35320-RU) & Social Protection Adjustment Loan (42030-RU), October 29,
2002
Russia: Bank Assistance for Social Protection, Operations Evaluation Department, 2002



                                               15

Review of OED evaluation of ICRs for Social Protection Projects FY 2001-2004, Operations
Evaluation Department, July 21, 2 004
Interviews with World Bank staff (Philip O'Keefe, Christian Bodewig, Kendra Gregson, Dirk
Reinermann, Snjezana Plevko) and Staff of the relevant Government institutions/agencies.




                                             16

