Report No. PID10959
Project Name             Bosnia and Herzegovina-Second Social Sector...
Adjustment Credit
Region                   Europe and Central Asia Region
Sector                   Social Protection Adjustment
Project ID               BAPE70992
Borrower                 Bosnia and Herzegovina (Ministry of
Foreign Trade and Economic Relations
Implementing Agencies    In the Federation of Bosnia and
Herzegovina: Ministry of Finance
Address: Sarajevo
Contact Person: Minister Nikola
Grabovac
Tel: 033/203-147 Fax: 033/203-152
In the Republika Srpska: Ministry of
Finance
Address: Banja Luka
Contact Person: Minister Milenko Vracar
Tel: 051/331-350 Fax: 051/331-361
Email: NA
Environmental Category   C (proposed)
Date PID Prepared        November 20, 2001
Project Appraisal Date   March, 2002
Projected Board Date     May, 2002
1. Country and Sector Background
The Second Social Sector Adjustment Credit (SOSACII) is proposed
as the next in a series of adjustment operations which IDA has
extended to Bosnia and Herzegovina (BiH) following the Dayton
Accords. Previously approved SACs include the first SOSAC, two
Public Finance Structural Adjustment Credit (PFSACs), and an
Enterprise and Bank Privatization SAC. A Business Environment
Credit (BAC) is also expected to be presented to the Board this
FY. An IMF Standby Arrangement was also successfully completed
in mid-2001 and negotiations are ongoing for a new SBA, expected
to be presented to the IMF Board in early 2002.
2. Objectives
The overall objective of SOSACII would be to support reforms in
cash transfer programs and institutions in order to protect the
poorest and most disabled in a fiscally sustainable manner.
This is consistent with broader efforts to reduce and reorient
public spending to priority needs. Specifically, the priority
program goals are to:
?       ensure that protection for disabled veterans and survivor
families is better focused on the most disabled, and made more



fiscally sustainable;
?       improve the impact and efficiency of the social safety net, in
particular social assistance and benefits and programs
implemented by the Employment Institutes;
?       refine the policy framework for the protection of persons with
disabilities, including those on pensions, social assistance,
veterans benefits and civil victims of war; and
?       ensure that reforms are done on the basis of better
information, both within the system and to the public.
3. Rationale for Bank's Involvement
During discussions of the Bank's Country Assistance Strategy
(CAS) with local counterparts in BiH, it was agreed that support
for reforms in labor markets and social protection would be a
key element of the Bank's lending program in the period 2000-
2002. Specifically, it was agreed that there should be two
social sector adjustment credits during the CAS period, the
first (SOSACI) focusing primarily on labor market reforms, and
the second (SOSACII) addressing major reforms in social
protection. SOSAC I was released earlier this year in support
of policy reforms in labor markets and initial steps in social
protection reform, while also demonstrating the commitment of
governments in both Entities to more comprehensive social policy
reform. It is proposed that SOSACII build on these initial
measures by supporting reforms centered on social assistance,
veterans' and disability benefits, and employment programs.
4. Description
It is proposed that SOSACII be presented to the Bank's Board in
FY2002, for an estimated amount of US$40 million., released in
two tranches. The program would be in the areas outlined above,
and also be supported through the Social Sector Technical
Assistance Credit (SOTAC).
5. Financing
Total ( US$m)
IBRD                     40
Total Project Cost       40
The proposed credit would be lent to the State (Bosnia and
Herzegovina) for a period of 35 years, including a 10 year grace
period, on standard IDA terms. The State will onlend, through
subsidiary agreements, the credit proceeds to the two Entities
in agreed proportions on the same terms as the IDA credit.
6. Implementation
The State's Ministry of Foreign Trade and Economic Relations
would be responsible for overall administration of the Credit on
behalf of BiH, the Borrower. Each Entity's Ministry of Finance
would be responsible for administering the pre-allocated funds
from the Credit. In terms of further work on the substantive
agenda to be supported by SOSACII, the relevant ministries in
each Entity have already or plan to constitute small working
groups to act as technical counterparts in refinement and
implementation of the policy agenda.
-2-



7. Sustainability
One of the main project objectives is to support a more fiscally
sustainable set of cash transfer programs in both Entities of
BiH, while protecting the poorest.
8. Lessons learned from past operations in the country/sector
The operation builds on the SOSACI and the policy dialogue
initiated there.
9. Program of Targeted Intervention (PTI)      N
10. Environment Aspects (including any public consultation)
Issues         None.
11. Contact Point:
Task Manager
Philip O'Keefe
C/o The World Bank
1818 H Street, NW
Washington D.C. 20433
Telephone:   (36-1) 374-9570 (Hungary)
Fax:   (36-1) 374-9510
12. For information on other project related documents contact:
The InfoShop
The World Bank
1818 H Street, NW
Washington, D.C. 20433
Telephone: (202) 458-5454
Fax:        (202) 522-1500
Web: http:// www.worldbank.org/infoshop
Note: This is information on an evolving project. Certain
components may not be necessarily included in the final project.
This PID was processed by the InfoShop during the week ending
February 22, 2002.
-3-



