Page  1
CONFORMED COPY 
 
CREDIT NUMBER 3926 BOS 
 
Development Credit Agreement 
 
(Second Social Sector Adjustment Credit) 
 
between 
 
BOSNIA AND HERZEGOVINA 
 
and 
 
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION 
 
Dated July 21, 2004 
 
Page  2
CREDIT NUMBER 3926 BOS 
 
DEVELOPMENT CREDIT AGREEMENT 
 
AGREEMENT, July 21, 2004 between BOSNIA AND HERZEGOVINA 
(the Borrower) and the INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION 
(the Association). 
 
WHEREAS (A) the Association has received a letter, dated May 12, 2004 
from the Borrower, the Federation of Bosnia and Herzegovina (the Federation) 
and Republika Srpska, describing a program of actions, objectives and policies 
designed to achieve structural adjustment of the social sector of the Borrower, the 
Federation and Republika Srpska (hereinafter called the Program), declaring the 
commitment of the Borrower, the Federation and Republika Srpska to the 
execution of the Program, and requesting assistance from the Association in 
support of the Program during the execution thereof;  
 
(B) 
on the basis, inter alia, of the foregoing, the Association has 
decided in support of the Program to provide such assistance to the Borrower, the 
Federation and Republika Srpska, by making the Credit in two tranches as 
hereinafter provided; 
 
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows: 
 
ARTICLE I 
 
General Conditions; Definitions 
 
Section 1.01. The “General Conditions Applicable to Development Credit 
Agreements” of the Association, dated January 1, 1985 (as amended through 
October 6, 1999) with the modifications thereof set forth below (the General 
Conditions) constitute an integral part of this Agreement: 
 
(a) 
Section 2.01, paragraph 12, is modified to read: 
 
“Project means the program, referred to in the Preamble to the Development 
Credit Agreement, in support of which the Credit is made.”; 
 
(b) 
Section 4.01 is modified to read: 
Page  3
-
2
-
“Except as the Borrower and the Association shall otherwise agree, withdrawals 
from the Credit Account shall be made in the currency of the deposit account specified in 
Section 2.02 of the Development Credit Agreement.”; 
 
(c) 
Section 5.01 is modified to read: 
 
“The Borrower shall be entitled to withdraw the proceeds of the Credit from the 
Credit Account in accordance with the provisions of the Development Credit Agreement 
and of these General Conditions”; 
 
(d) 
The last sentence of Section 5.03 is deleted; 
 
(e) 
Section 9.06 (c) is modified to read: 
 
“(c) Not later than six (6) months after the Closing Date or such later date as may 
be agreed for this purpose between the Borrower and the Association, the Borrower shall 
prepare and furnish to the Association a report, of such scope and in such detail as the 
Association shall reasonably request, on the execution of the program referred to in the 
Preamble to the Development Credit Agreement, the performance by the Borrower and 
the Association of their respective obligations under the Development Credit Agreement 
and the accomplishment of the purposes of the Credit.”; and  
 
(f) 
Section 9.04 is deleted and Sections 9.05, 9.06 (as modified 
above), 9.07 and 9.08 are renumbered, respectively, Sections 9.04, 9.05, 9.06, and 
9.07. 
 
Section 1.02. Unless the context otherwise requires, the several terms 
defined in the General Conditions and in the Preamble to this Agreement have the 
respective meanings therein set forth and the following additional terms have the 
following meanings: 
 
(a) 
“Deposit Account” means the account referred to in Section 2.02 
(b) of this Agreement; 
 
(b) 
“Entity” means either the Federation or Republika Srpska, as the 
case may be, and “Entities” means the Federation and Republika Srpska, 
collectively; 
 
(c) 
“Euro” means the lawful currency of the member states of the 
European Union that adopt the single currency in accordance with the Treaty 
Page  4
-
3
-
Establishing the European Community, as amended by the Treaty of European 
Union; 
 
(d) 
“Federation” means the Federation of Bosnia and Herzegovina, a 
 political sub-division of the Borrower, and includes any successor or successors 
thereto; 
 
(e)  
“Federation Subsidiary Credit Agreement” means the agreement to 
be entered into between the Borrower and the Federation, pursuant to Section 3.01 
(a) of this Agreement, as the same agreement may be amended from time to time, 
and such term includes all schedules supplemental to the Federation Subsidiary 
Credit Agreement; 
 
(f) 
“Fiscal Year” means the twelve-month period corresponding to 
any of the Borrower’s fiscal years, which period commences on January 1 and 
ends on December 31 in each calendar year; 
 
(g) 
“Republika Srpska” or “RS” means Republika Srpska, a political 
sub-division of the Borrower, and includes any successor or successors thereto; 
 
(h) 
“RS Subsidiary Credit Agreement” means the agreement to be entered into 
between the Borrower and Republika Srpska, pursuant to Section 3.01 (b) of this 
Agreement, as the same agreement may be amended from time to time, and such term 
includes all schedules supplemental to the RS Subsidiary Credit Agreement; 
 
(i) 
“Subsidiary Credit” means a credit provided under a Subsidiary 
Credit Agreement (as defined hereafter); and 
 
(j) 
“Subsidiary Credit Agreement” means either the Federation Subsidiary 
Credit Agreement or the RS Subsidiary Credit Agreement, as said agreement may be 
amended from time to time, and such term includes all schedules supplemental to each 
Subsidiary Credit Agreement and “Subsidiary Credit Agreements” means said agreements, 
collectively. 
 
ARTICLE II 
 
The Credit 
 
Section 2.01. The Association agrees to lend to the Borrower, on terms 
and conditions set forth or referred to in the Development Credit Agreement, an 
Page  5
-
4
-
amount in various currencies equivalent to thirty four million seven hundred 
thousand Special Drawing Rights (SDR 34,700,000). 
 
Section 2.02. (a) Subject to the provisions of paragraphs (b), (c) and (d) of 
this Section, the Borrower shall be entitled to use the proceeds of the Credit 
withdrawn from the Credit Account and deposited in the Deposit Account in 
support of the Program. 
 
(b) 
The Borrower shall, prior to furnishing to the Association the first 
request for withdrawal from the Credit Account, open and thereafter maintain in 
its central bank, a deposit account in Euros on terms and conditions satisfactory to 
the Association. All withdrawals from the Credit Account shall be deposited by 
the Association into the Deposit Account. 
 
(c) 
The Borrower undertakes that the proceeds of the Credit shall not 
be used to finance expenditures excluded pursuant to the provisions of Schedule 1 
to this Agreement.  If the Association shall have determined at any time that any 
proceeds of the Credit shall have been used to make a payment for an expenditure 
so excluded, the Borrower shall, promptly upon notice from the Association: (i) 
deposit into the Deposit Account an amount equal to the amount of said payment; 
or (ii) if the Association shall so request, refund such amount to the Association.  
Amounts refunded to the Association upon such request shall be credited to the 
Credit Account for cancellation. 
 
(d) 
No withdrawals shall be made from the Credit Account after the aggregate 
of the proceeds of the Credit withdrawn from the Credit Account shall have reached the 
equivalent 
of 
sixteen 
million 
three 
hundred 
thousand 
Special 
Drawing 
Rights               
(SDR 16,300,000) unless the Association shall be satisfied, after an exchange of views as 
described in Section 3.03 of this Agreement based on evidence satisfactory to the 
Association: 
 
(i) 
with the progress achieved by the Borrower in the carrying out 
of the Program;  
 
(ii) 
that the macroeconomic policy framework of the Borrower is 
satisfactory, as measured on the basis of indicators agreed 
between the Borrower and the Association; and 
 
(iii) 
that the actions described in Schedule 2 to this Agreement have 
been taken.  
 
If, after said exchange of views, the Association is not satisfied, the Association 
may give notice to the Borrower to that effect and, if within 90 days after such notice, the 
Page  6
-
5
-
Borrower shall not have taken steps satisfactory to the Association, in respect of (i), (ii) 
and (iii) above, then the Association may, by notice to the Borrower, cancel the 
unwithdrawn amount of the Credit or any part thereof. 
 
Section 2.03. The Closing Date shall be June 30, 2006, or such later date 
as the Association shall establish.  The Association shall promptly notify the 
Borrower of such later date. 
 
Section 2.04. (a) The Borrower shall pay to the Association a commitment 
charge on the principal amount of the Credit not withdrawn from time to time at a 
rate to be set by the Association as of June 30 of each year, but not to exceed the 
rate of one-half of one percent (1/2 of 1%) per annum. 
 
(b) 
The commitment charge shall accrue: (i) from the date sixty (60) 
days after the date of this Agreement (the accrual date) to the respective dates on 
which amounts shall be withdrawn by the Borrower from the Credit account or 
cancelled; and (ii) at the rate set as of the June 30 immediately preceding the 
accrual date and at such other rates as may be set from time to time thereafter 
pursuant to paragraph (a) above.  The rate set as of June 30 in each year shall be 
applied from the next date in that year specified in Section 2.06 of this 
Agreement. 
 
(c) 
The commitment charge shall be paid: (i) at such places as the 
Association shall reasonably request; (ii) without restrictions of any kind imposed 
by, or in the territory of, the Borrower; and (iii) in the currency specified in this 
Agreement for the purposes of Section 4.02 of the General Conditions or in such 
other eligible currency or currencies as may from time to time be designated or 
selected pursuant to the provisions of that Section. 
 
Section 2.05. The Borrower shall pay to the Association a service charge 
at the rate of three-fourths of one percent (3/4 of 1%) per annum on the principal 
amount of the Credit withdrawn and outstanding from time to time. 
 
Section 2.06. Commitment and service charges shall be payable 
semiannually on April 15 and October 15 in each year. 
 
Section 2.07. (a) Subject to paragraphs (b), (c), and (d) below, the 
Borrower shall repay the principal amount of the Credit in semiannual 
installments payable on each       April 15 and October 15 commencing October 
15, 2014, and ending April 15, 2024.  Each installment shall be five percent (5%) 
of the principal amount. 
Page  7
-
6
-
Section 2.08. The Euro is hereby specified for the purposes of Section 
4.02 of the General Conditions. 
 
ARTICLE III 
 
Particular Covenants
 
Section 3.01. The Borrower shall: (a) relend an amount in Dollars 
equivalent to  twenty three million one hundred thousand Special Drawing Rights 
(SDR 23,100,000) out of the proceeds of the Credit to the Federation under a 
subsidiary credit agreement to be entered into between the Borrower and the 
Federation; and (b) relend an amount in Dollars equivalent to eleven million six 
hundred thousand Special Drawing Rights                    (SDR 11,600,000) out of 
the proceeds of the Credit to Republika Srpska under a subsidiary credit 
agreement to be entered into between the Borrower and Republika Srpska, on the 
following principal terms and conditions: 
 
(i) 
the term of each Subsidiary Credit shall be twenty (20) years, 
including a 10-year grace period; 
 
(ii) 
the Borrower shall charge the Federation and Republika 
Srpska a commitment charge at a rate equal to the rate 
payable under Section 2.04 of this Agreement, on the 
principal amount of each Subsidiary Credit not withdrawn 
from time to time; 
 
(iii) 
the Borrower shall charge the Federation and Republika 
Srpska a service charge on the principal amount of each 
Subsidiary Credit withdrawn and outstanding from time to 
time at a rate equal to the rate payable under Section 2.05 
of this Agreement; and 
 
(iv) 
the principal amount of each Subsidiary Credit shall be 
repayable in Euros and shall be the equivalent in Euros 
(determined as of the date or respective dates of repayment) 
of the value of currency or currencies withdrawn from the 
Credit Account on account of expenditures for the 
Program. 
 
Page  8
-
7
-
Section 3.02.  The Borrower shall exercise its rights under the Subsidiary Credit 
Agreements in such a manner as to protect the interests of the Borrower and the 
Association and to accomplish the purposes of the Program, and, except as the Association 
shall otherwise agree, the Borrower shall not assign, amend, abrogate or waive the 
Subsidiary Credit Agreements or any provision thereof. 
 
Section 3.03. (a) The Borrower and the Association shall from time to 
time, at the request of either party, exchange views on the progress achieved in 
carrying out the Program and the actions specified in Schedule 2 to this 
Agreement. 
 
(b) 
Prior to each such exchange of views, the Borrower shall furnish to 
the Association for its review and comment a report on the progress achieved in 
carrying out the Program, in such detail as the Association shall reasonably 
request. 
 
(c) 
Without limitation upon the provisions of paragraph (a) of this 
Section, the Borrower shall exchange views with the Association on any proposed 
action to be taken after the disbursement of the Credit which would have the 
effect of materially reversing the objectives of the Program, or any action taken 
under the Program, including any action specified in Schedule 2 to this 
Agreement. 
 
Section 3.04. Upon the Association’s request, the Borrower shall: 
 
(a) 
have the Deposit Account audited in accordance with appropriate 
auditing principles consistently applied, by independent auditors acceptable to the 
Association; 
 
(b) 
furnish to the Association as soon as available, but in any case not 
later than two (2) months after the date of the Association’s request for such audit, 
a
certified copy of the report of such audit by said auditors, of such scope and in 
such detail as the Association shall have reasonably requested; and 
 
(c) 
furnish to the Association such other information concerning the 
Deposit Account and the audit thereof as the Association shall have reasonably 
requested. 
 
ARTICLE IV 
 
Additional Event of Suspension 
Page  9
-
8
-
Section 4.01. Pursuant to Section 6.02 (l) of the General Conditions, the 
following additional event is specified, namely, that a situation has arisen which 
shall make it improbable that the Program, or a significant part thereof, will be 
carried out. 
 
ARTICLE V 
 
Effective Date; Termination 
 
Section 5.01. The following events are specified as additional conditions 
to the effectiveness of the Development Credit Agreement within the meaning of                 
Section 12.01 (b) of the General Conditions: 
 
(a) 
that the Federation Subsidiary Credit Agreement shall have been 
executed with terms and conditions satisfactory to the Association; and 
 
(b) 
that the RS Subsidiary Credit Agreement shall have been executed 
with terms and conditions satisfactory to the Association. 
 
Section 5.02.  The following are specified as additional matters, within the 
meaning of Section 12.02 (b) of the General Conditions, to be included in the 
opinion or opinions to be furnished to the Association: 
 
(a) 
that the Federation Subsidiary Credit Agreement has been duly 
authorized or ratified by, and is legally binding upon the Borrower and the 
Federation in accordance with its terms; and 
 
(b) 
that the RS Subsidiary Credit Agreement has been duly authorized 
or ratified by, and is legally binding upon the Borrower and Republika Srpska in 
accordance with its terms. 
 
Section 5.03. The date ninety (90) days after the date of this Agreement is 
hereby specified for the purposes of Section 12.04 of the General Conditions. 
 
Page  10
-
9
-
ARTICLE VI 
 
Representative of the Borrower; Addresses 
 
Section 6.01. The Minister of Finance and Treasury of the Borrower is designated 
as the representative of  the Borrower for the purposes of Section 11.03 of the General 
Conditions. 
 
Section 6.02. The following addresses are specified for the purposes of 
Section 11.01 of the General Conditions: 
 
For the Borrower: 
 
Ministry of Finance and Treasury 
 
of
Bosnia and Herzegovina 
 
TrgBiH 
 
71000 Sarajevo 
 
Bosnia and Herzegovina 
 
Facsimile: 
 
(387-33) 471-822 
 
For the Association: 
 
International Development Association  
 
1818 H Street, N.W. 
 
Washington, D.C. 20433 
 
United States of America 
 
Cable 
address: 
 Telex: 
   Facsimile: 
 
INDEVAS 
 248423 
(MCI) 
or 
 (202) 
477-
6391 
 
Washington, D.C. 
  64145 (MCI) 
 
Page  11
-
10
-
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their duly authorized 
representatives, have caused this Agreement to be signed in their respective names in Sarajevo, 
Bosnia and Herzegovina, as of  the day and year first above written. 
 
BOSNIA AND HERZEGOVINA 
 
By /s/ Adnan Terzic 
 
Authorized 
Representative 
 
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT 
ASSOCIATION 
 
By /s/ Shengman Zhang 
 
Authorized 
Representative 
Page  12
-
11
-
SCHEDULE 1 
 
Withdrawals of the Proceeds of  
the Credit and Excluded Expenditures 
 
For the purposes of Section 2.02 (c) of this Agreement, the proceeds of the Credit shall 
not be used to finance any of the following expenditures: 
 
1. 
expenditures in the currency of the Borrower or for goods or services supplied from the 
territory of the Borrower; provided, however, that if the currency of the Borrower is also that of 
another country from the territory of which goods or services are supplied, expenditures in such 
currency for such goods or services shall not be excluded; 
 
2. 
expenditures for goods or services supplied under a contract which any national or 
international financing institution or agency other than the Bank or the Association shall have 
financed or agreed to finance, or which the Association or the Bank shall have financed or agreed 
to finance under another credit or a loan; 
 
3. 
expenditures for goods included in the following groups or subgroups of the Standard 
International Trade Classification, Revision 3 (SITC, Rev.3), published by the United Nations in 
Statistical Papers, Series M, No. 34/Rev. 3 (1986) (the SITC), or any successor groups or 
subgroups under future revisions to the SITC, as designated by the Association by notice to the 
Borrower: 
 
Group
Subgroup
Description of Items
112 - 
Alcoholic 
beverages 
 
121 
- 
Tobacco, unmanufactured, tobacco  
 
refuse 
 
122 
- 
Tobacco, manufactured (whether  
 
or not containing tobacco substitutes) 
 
525 - 
Radioactive 
and 
associated 
materials 
 
667 
- 
Pearls, precious and semiprecious  
 
stones, unworked or worked 
 
 
718 
718.7 
Nuclear reactors, and parts thereof; fuel  
 
elements (cartridges), non-irradiated,  
 
for nuclear reactors 
 
Page  13
-
12
-
Group
Subgroup
Description of Items
728 
728.43 
Tobacco processing machinery 
 
897 
897.3 
Jewelry of gold, silver or platinum  
 
group metals (except watches and  
 
watch cases) and goldsmiths’ or  
 
silversmiths’ wares (including set  
 
gems) 
 
971 - 
Gold, 
non-monetary 
(excluding 
 
gold ores and concentrates) 
 
4. 
expenditures for goods intended for a military or paramilitary purpose or 
for luxury consumption; 
 
5. 
expenditures for environmentally hazardous goods (for purposes of this 
paragraph the term “environmentally hazardous goods” means goods, the 
manufacture, use or import of which is prohibited under the laws of the Borrower 
or international agreements to which the Borrower is a party); 
 
6. 
expenditures: (a) in the territories of any country which is not a member of 
the Bank or for goods procured in, or services supplied from, such territories; or 
(b) on account of any payment to persons or entities, or any import of goods, if 
such payment or import is prohibited by a decision of the United Nations Security 
Council taken under Chapter VII of the Charter of the United Nations; and 
 
7. 
expenditures under a contract in respect of which the Association 
determines that corrupt or fraudulent practices were engaged in by representatives 
of the Borrower or of a beneficiary of the Credit during the procurement or 
execution of such contract, without the Borrower having taken timely and 
appropriate action satisfactory to the Association to remedy the situation. 
 
Page  14
-
13
-
SCHEDULE 2 
 
Actions Referred to in Section 2.02 (d) of this Agreement 
 
1. 
The Borrower and both Entities have enacted a joint pension policy, 
satisfactory to the Association. 
 
2. 
The Parliaments of both Entities have enacted legislation on social 
protection, satisfactory to the Association. 
 
3. 
Both Entities are implementing the approved MOU for recognition of 
pension payment obligations when beneficiaries’ contributions history and 
residence or place of pension authorization are different in a manner satisfactory 
to the Association. 
 
4. 
Both Entities have put into operation the databases and client registries of 
social welfare beneficiaries and expenditures which are linked to their respective 
Entity Ministry responsible for social welfare. 
 
5. 
The average monthly budgetary execution for veterans’ benefits in the first 
half of Fiscal Year 2005 Entity budgets does not exceed the nominal average 
monthly execution for Fiscal Year 2004. 
 
6. 
Both Entities have completed external audits of their respective Pension 
and Invalid Insurance Funds for Fiscal Year 2004 accounts, in a manner 
satisfactory to the Association. 
 
7. 
Both Entities have approved a policy on active labor market programs, 
satisfactory to the Association. 
 
8. 
Both Entities have adopted rulebooks for assessment of disability in 
veterans and civil victims of war programs and programs for children with 
disabilities, satisfactory to the Association. 
 
9. 
Both Entities have completed the revision of the status of military invalids 
and family beneficiaries in the veterans’ benefit system in a manner satisfactory to 
the Association. 
 
Page  15
-
14
-
10. 
The Parliaments of both Entities have enacted amendments to their 
legislation on profit tax for favorable treatment of non-governmental 
organizations in specific circumstances, satisfactory to the Association. 
 
