Page  1
The World Bank 
1818 H Street N.W. 
(202) 477-1234 
I
NTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
 
Washington, D.C.  20433 
Cable Address:  INTBAFRAD 
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
 
U.S.A. 
Cable Address:  INDEVAS 
 
CONFORMED COPY 
January 19, 2001 
Mr. M. Kurtovic 
Minister of Foreign Trade and Economic Relations 
Ministry of Foreign Trade and Economic Relations 
Musala 9 
71000 Sarajevo 
Bosnia and Herzegovina 
 
Re: 
BOSNIA AND HERZEGOVINA: Japanese Grant for Preparation of the Social Sector 
Adjustment Credit II Project - Grant Number TF026524
Dear Mr.Kurtovic: 
 
I
am writing on behalf of the International Development Association (IDA) to indicate 
IDA’s  agreement, as administrator of grant funds provided by Japan, to make a grant in an amount 
not exceeding five hundred twenty eight thousand and two hundred United States dollars 
(US$528,200) (the Grant) to Bosnia and Herzegovina (the Recipient). 
 
The Grant is made in response to the Recipient’s request for financial assistance and for the 
purposes and on the terms and conditions set forth in the Annex to this Letter Agreement.  The 
Recipient hereby confirms its request that IDA carries out the activities described in paragraph 1 
of the Annex to this Letter Agreement, and represents that it is authorized to contract the Grant 
for the said purposes and on the said terms and conditions. 
 
Please confirm your agreement with the foregoing, on behalf of the Recipient, by 
signing, dating, and returning to us the enclosed copy of this Letter Agreement.  Upon receipt 
by IDA of the copy of this Letter Agreement countersigned by you, this Letter Agreement will 
become effective as of the date of the countersignature. 
 
Very truly yours, 
 
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION 
 
/s/ Joseph Ingram 
Resident Representative  
for Bosnia and Herzegovina 
Europe and Central Asia Region
 
AGREED: 
BOSNIA AND HERZEGOVINA 
 
By:    M. Kurtovic 
 
Title: Minister of Foreign Trade and Economic Relations 
Date:
01/24/2001
Page  2
ANNEX 
 
Purposes, Terms, and Conditions of the Grant 
 
1. Purposes 
and 
Activities
1.1. 
The purposes of the Grant are to assist in the preparation of the Social Sector Adjustment 
Credit II Project (the Project), which has as main objectives improving the effectiveness of the 
social safety net, and ensuring that policies are developed and monitored on the basis of reliable 
information on living standards. The activities (the Activities) for which the Grant is given are as 
follows: 
 
(a)  
Social Assistance (US$98,700); 
 
Provision of technical assistance to: (i) develop social assistance reform policy, including the legal 
framework; (ii) develop policy and implementation guidelines for collaboration between public and 
Non-Governmental Organizations (NGOs) and private sectors in provision of social protection and 
associated services; and (iii) provide support on developing resource allocation mechanisms for 
social assistance. 
 
(b) 
Veteran’s benefits (US$235,100); 
 
Provision of technical assistance to: (i) review and develop with local counterparts proposed 
amendments to existing veterans’ benefit laws and policies in both Entities of the Recipient; (ii) 
review institutional responsibilities for veteran’s programs, including the role of non-government 
veterans’ associations, and develop recommendations for reforms; and (iii) develop public 
information initiatives on reform of veterans’ programs. 
 
(c)  
Unemployment Benefits and Social Insurance (US$73,150); 
 
Provision of technical assistance to: (i) conduct detailed sustainability analysis of employment 
programs, simulated under various assumptions on registered unemployment and revenues; and (ii) 
review of management structure and operational procedures in employment offices. 
 
(d) Disability 
Programs 
(US$71,900); 
 
Provision of technical assistance to: (i) prepare a comprehensive review of existing programs, 
including simulation of their sustainability under various reform and fiscal scenarios; and (ii) review 
of existing disability assessment and categorization procedures, develop guidelines which would 
bring practices into line with international standards. 
 
(e)  
Social Security and Labor Market  (US$49,350); 
 
Provision of technical assistance on labor market analysis, and the incentive effects of the tax and 
social security system on labor market participation. 
 
Page  3
2
2. 
The Grant shal
l
be
used to finance consultants’ services required for the Activities. 
3. 
IDA shall carry out the Activities on behalf of the Recipient.  The Recipient shall 
cooperate with IDA to the extent necessary to permit IDA to carry out the Activities promptly and 
effectively, and to evaluate the results of the Activities.  The Recipient shall indemnify IDA 
against any costs or liabilities incurred by IDA as a result of claims against IDA in connection 
with the Activities, except those resulting from the gross negligence or willful misconduct of its 
staff or external consultants. 
4. 
The Activities shall be completed by not later than July 9, 2002, or such later date as IDA 
may establish by notice to the Recipient (the Closing Date).  Except in special circumstances, no 
proceeds of the Grant shall be used to fund Activities after IDA approval of financing for the 
Project, and the Closing Date shall not be extended beyond the expected date of such approval.  
After the Closing Date, IDA may at any time cancel the remaining balance of the Grant. 
5. 
The engagement and supervision of the consultants (the Consultants) required to assist in 
the carrying out of the Activities shall be the responsibility solely of IDA and shall be governed, 
except as otherwise decided by IDA after consultation with the Recipient, by the provisions of the 
Attachment to this Annex. 
6. 
The Recipient shall be responsible for the payment of any taxes levied by, or in the 
territory of the Recipient on the Consultants or any of the Consultants’ personnel (other than 
nationals or permanent residents thereof) in connection with the Activities. 
 
7. 
The Recipient may at any time request IDA in writing to terminate the Activities. 
Whether or not the Recipient has made such a request, IDA may at any time suspend or, after 
consultation with the Recipient, terminate the right of the Recipient to receive Grant funds for the 
Activities if any of the following events has occurred and is continuing: (a) the Recipient has 
failed to perform any of its obligations under this Letter Agreement; or (b) the right of the 
Recipient, or any other entity to which the International Bank for Reconstruction and 
Development (the IBRD) has made a loan with the guarantee of the Recipient, to make 
withdrawals under any loan agreement with the IBRD or any development credit agreement with 
IDA shall have been suspended. IDA may also terminate the right of the Recipient to receive 
Grant funds if: (a) IDA has decided, at any time after consultation with the Recipient, to withdraw 
its support to the Project; or (b) the Recipient has withdrawn its request for IDA’s assistance in 
the financing of the Project. 
8. 
IDA is not an agent of, or trustee for, the Recipient and shall not have any fiduciary 
relationship with the Recipient.  The Recipient shall have no right to any portion of the Grant that 
is not expended by IDA pursuant to this Letter Agreement. 
Page  4
3
Attachment
Consultants' Services
1.   
Consultants' services shall be procured in accordance with the relevant provisions of 
Statement 15.00 of the World Bank's Administrative Manual, dated July 1997 (the Administrative 
Manual), the Introduction and Section IV of the "Guidelines: Selection and Employment of 
Consultants by World Bank Borrowers" published by the Bank in January 1997 and revised in 
September 1997 and January 1999 (the Consultant Guidelines) and the following provisions of 
this Attachment.
 
2.  
Services for veteran’s benefits technical assistance shall be procured under contracts 
awarded in accordance with the provisions, which are consistent with the provisions of the 
Administrative Manual, of Section II of the Consultant Guidelines applicable to Quality- and 
Cost-based Selection of Consultants. 
 
3.   
Services for disability programs, unemployment benefits and social insurance technical 
assistance shall be procured under contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions, which are 
consistent with the provisions of the Administrative Manual, of paragraphs 3.1 and 3.7 of the 
Consultant Guidelines (Selection Based on Consultants' Qualifications). 
 
4.  
Services for social assistance and labor market analysis shall be procured under contracts 
awarded to individual consultants in accordance with the provisions, which are consistent with 
the provisions of the Administrative Manual, of paragraphs 5.1 through 5.3 of the Consultant 
Guidelines. 
 
Page  5
4
World Bank User 
M:\BACKUP\BOSNIA\GRANTS\W-1719.doc 
12/13/00 10:44 AM
 
