                                               Documentof
                                              The World Bank

                                       FOROFFICIAL,USEONLY




                                                                           ReportNo. P7536-BH




                         INTERNATIONAL,DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION

                                        PROGRAMDOCUMENT

                                                  FORA

                 PROPOSEDSECOND SOCIAL SECTORADJUSTMENT CREDIT

                                INTHEAMOUNT OFSDR34.7 MILLION

                                    (US$5 1.O MILLIONEQUIVALENT)

                                                    TO

                                     BOSNIAAND HERZEGOVINA




                                              MAY 17,2004




South East Europe Country Unit
Human Development Sector Unit
Europe and Central Asia Region

This document has arestricteddistribution and maybe usedbyrecipientsonly inthe performance of
their official duties. Its contents maynototherwise bedisclosed without World Bank authorization.

                                CURRENCY EUUIVALENTS
                                      (as o fMay 12,2004)
                           Unitofcurrency: KonvertibleMarka(KM)
                               1KM=US$0.61; 1KM=EURO.51

                                        FISCAL YEAR
                                   January 1-December 31

                                WEIGHTS AND MEASURES
                                         Metric System

                            ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS

ALP      Active Labor Programs                      MOF         MinistryofFinance
BAC      Business Environment Adjustment Credit     MTDS        MediumTerm Development Strategy
BH       Bosnia and Herzegovina                     MTEF        MediumTerm Economic Framework
CAS      Country Assistance Strategy                PER         Public Expenditure and Institutional
CFAA     Country Financial Accountability                       Review
         Assessment                                 PFs         Pension Funds
CPAR     Country Procurement Assessment Report      P I 0       Pension and InvalidFund
csw      Centers for Social Work                    PFSAC       Public Finance Structural
DFID     Department for International                           Adjustment Credit
         Development, UnitedKingdom                 PRSP        Poverty Reduction Strategy Paper
EDS      Economic Development Strategy              RS          Republika Srpska
EMSAC    Economic Management Structural             SAA         StabilizationandAssociationAgreement
         Adjustment Credit                           SAP        Stabilizationand Associationprocess
ERC-ZIP0 Electronic Accounting Center                SBA        Stand-by Arrangement
EIs      Employment Institutes                       SDRs       Special DrawingRights
EU       European Union                              SESP       Second Employment Support Project
FBH      Federation o fBosnia and Herzegovina        SFRY       Socialist FederalRepublic o f
FRY      Federal Republic of Yugoslavia                         Yugoslavia
GDP      Gross Domestic Product                      SITAP      Social Insurance Technical
IDA      International Development Association                  Assistance Credit
IMF      InternationalMonetary Fund                  SOSAC I First Social Sector Adjustment Credit
JSA      Joint Staff Assessment                      SOSAC II Second Social Sector Adjustment Credit
KM       Konvertible Marka                           SOTAC      Social Sector Technical Assistance Credit
LFS      Labor Force Survey                          SWCP       Social Welfare and Child Protection
LSMS     LivingStandardsMeasurement Survey           USAID      United States Agency for International
MFTER    Ministryfor ForeignTrade and                           Development
         Economic Relations



                            Vice President: Shigeo Katsu
                         Country Director:    Orsalia Kalantzopoulos
                            Sector Director:  Charles Griffin
                            Sector Manager HermannVon Gersdorff
                        Task TeamLeader: Philip O'Keefe

                                                                               FOROFFICIAL USEONLY




  Staffand consultantswho contributedduringpreparationinclude:PhilipOKeefe (TTL), Jean-LucBemasconi, MilanVodopivec,
  CsabaFeher, DenaRingold, ImeldaMueller, Jeanine Braithwaite,AugustinaNikolova, SimonGray, Kinnon Scott, Dirk
  Reinemann,Mark Walker, SanjayVani, Jacob Gammelgaard,CharlesCragin, andZeljka Meheljic. Peerreviewers are Louise
  Fox (AFSVP) andJohn Blomquist (HDDSP). Annette DixonandMichal Rutkowski(ECSHD) were the SectorDirectorand
  SectorManagerrespectivelyduring the bulk ofpreparation, andHermannVon Gersdorffthe Sector Managersince appraisaland
  CharlesGriffin the Sector Director since negotiations. The teamwould also like to acknowledgethe support ofaPHRDgrant
  from the Governmentof Japan, andthe contributionsof consultantsChristianBodewig, KendraGregsonand Alan Abrahart
  underthe grant to preparatorywork by the Government.




This document hasa restricteddistribution andmay be used by recipients only in
the performance of their official duties. Its contents may not be otherwise disclosed
lwithout World Bank authorization.                                                                                       7


                  SecondSocialSector AdjustmentCredit

                            CREDIT SUMMARY

Borrower:           Bosnia and Herzegovina, with sub-credit Agreements with the
                    Federationof Bosnia and Herzegovinaandthe Republica Srpska.


Amount:             SDR34.7 million(equivalent to US$51.O million)

Terms:              Modified IDA terms of 20 years maturity with 10 year grace period

Commitment Fee:     0.5 percent per annum

Objectives:         The objective o f the Second Social Sector AdjustmentCredit (SOSAC
                    II)isto support reformsincashtransfer andlaborprogramsand
                    institutions inBHwhich reorient socialprotection towards programs
                    which protect the poorest andmost disabled ina fiscally sustainable
                    manner. This is consistent with broader efforts to reduce public
                    spending and focus it on priorityneeds, and to addressregonal
                    imbalances within each Entity. These objectives are key elements of
                    the recently approved MediumTerm Development Strategy (PRSP).

                    Specifically, the priority program goals are to: (i) ensure that
                    protection for disabled veterans and survivor families i s better focused
                    on the most disabled, while gradually reducingpublic spendingon
                    veterans' programs; (ii) improve the impact and efficiency of the social
                    safety net for the poorest, inparticular social welfare benefits and
                    services, including a strengthenedrole for the non-govemment sector;
                    (iii)consolidate an appropriate institutional structure for employment
                    services at State and Entitylevels, andreorient active labor policies to
                    increase cost effectiveness, transparency and employment outcomes;
                    (iv) improve the efficiency and equity ofpensionand disability
                    programs, includingpensions policy harmonizationbetween the
                    Entities o f BH; and (v) ensure that social policy reforms are done on
                    the basis of better information, withinthe system and to the public,
                    andthat living standards monitoringi s more effective and timely.


Benefits:           The mainbenefits of the operation would be:
                    (i)ReorientationofthestructureofsocialtransferspendinginBH
                          away from entitlement-based programs for those frequentlynot in
                          need (particularly inveterans' programs) to those most inneed
                          (particularly those receiving social welfare benefits and services).
                    (ii)Reductioninthefiscalpressurefromtransferprograms,which
                          shouldpromote more sustainable social protection spending.
                    (iii)Contribution-particularlyinFBH-toamoreeffectivedivision
                          o f roles and responsibilities insocial protection ineachEntity,by
                          promoting financing and institutional arrangements where
                          financing and implementation capacities are more closely aligned.
                    (iv) Promotingequity of coverage ofsocialprotection programs
                          withinthe Entities andharmonizationof entitlement structures

                               betweenEntities.
                           (v) Promotingaccountabilityofthe Government to the generalpublic
                               on social protection issues, including greater involvement of
                               NGOs and civil society insocial welfare provision; and
                           (vi) Encouraging a more direct role for the Statelevel insocial policy,
                                inparticular inthe labor andNGOfields.

Risks:                     The mainrisks o f the proposed operation are:
                           (i)The    political economy o fthe reforms supported i s challenging.
                                The veteran populationwho are perceivedas "losers" are a well-
                                organized lobby, as are firms who have benefited from allocation
                                o f credit from employment programs. Incontrast, beneficiaries
                                such as social welfare clients, the unemployed, and severely
                                disabled veterans are often fragmented and without political
                                voice, The implementationrisks cannot be eliminated and will
                                remain significant. However, they are being mitigatedby
                                continued engagementwithveterans' organizations by Entity
                                govemments, public information on the motivation for social
                                policy reforms, and closely coordinatedpolicy support fromkey
                                actors inthe internationalcommunity. The reformagenda is also
                                consistent with the MTDS.
                           (ii)ThemacroeconomicpositionofBHremainsfragile,and
                                vulnerable to external shocks, such as lower than expected
                                foreign investment, slower than expectedrecovery among trading
                                partners, and insufficient supply response from the domestic
                                economy to rising export opportunities. The macroeconomic
                                risks are compoundedby fiscal risks, among others related to the
                                pending settlement of domestic claims.
                           (iii) technicalcapacityoflocalcounterpartssuggeststhatthere
                                The
                                will be an ongoingneed for technical support fromBankteams.
                           (iv) Forparts ofthe agenda, coordinationbetweenEntitiesandefforts
                                to havejoint or harmonizedpolicies may face challenges. This
                                riskisbeingmitigatedby strongefforts to havejoint or parallel
                                policy development through initiatives such asjoint worlung
                                groups andregular inter-Entity consultation. Thejoint MTDS
                                implementationmonitoring provides an ongoing focus for these
                                efforts.



Scheduleof Disbursements:  Two tranches

Poverty Category:          N/A

Rate ofReturn:             N/A

Project IDNumber:          PO70992

Map                        IBRD32760

                             PROGRAMDOCUMENTOF THE
                    INTERNATIONALDEVELOPMENTASSOCIATION
          ONA PROPOSED SECOND SOCIAL SECTORADJUSTMENTCREDIT
                             TO BOSNIAAND HERZEGOVINA

                                     Table of Contents

 I.TmECONOMY                                                                1

11. THECOUNTRY'S STRUCTURALREFORMPROGRAM                                   8

111. THEPROPOSEDSOSACI1OBJECTIVESANDRATIONALE                              9

IV.  SOCIALPOLICYREFORMPROGRAMSUPPORTEDBY SOSACI1                          12
     A. Social Welfare andChildProtection                                  12
     B. Veterans Programs                                                  14
     C. ProgramsandBenefits for the Unemployed                             17
     D. PensionsandDisabilityPrograms                                      19
     E. Frameworkfor OperationofNGOsR'hird Sector                          21
     F. Living StandardsMonitoring                                         21
     G. Public Informationon SocialPolicy                                  22

V.   THEPROPOSEDCREDIT                                                     22
     A. Rationale for Bank Involvement                                     22
     B. Benefits andRisks                                                  23
     C. Coordination withthe LMFandOther Donors                            24
     D. Negotiations andBoardConditions,TrancheTriggers andSupervision     24
         1, Negotiations andBoardConditions
         2. SecondTranche Conditions
     E. Project ManagementIssues                                           27
         1. Administrative Arrangements
         2. Disbursement
         3. Monitoring Arrangements
     F. Poverty Implications                                               28
     G. Environmental Impact                                               29


Annex 1.   KeyEconomicIndicators                                           30
Annex 2.   Statementof Loans andCredits                                    32
Annex 3.   IFCPortfolioinBosnia andHerzegovina                             33
Annex 4.   Timetableof KeyProcessingEvents                                 34
Annex 5.   Letter of DevelopmentPolicy                                     35
Annex 6.   PolicyReformProgramMatrix                                       47
Annex 7.   Additional monitoringindicatorsfor mediumterm SOSACI1program    53
Annex 8.   Summaryof communityassessment findings                          55
Annex 9.   Outlineof SocialSector TechnicalAssistance Credit (SOTAC)       57
Annex 10.  Summaryof PovertyAssessment Findings                            59
Annex 11.  Country at a Glance                                             61
Map        BosniaandHerzegovina (IBRD 32760)                               63


                                         PROGRAMDOCUMENTOFTHE
                                INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENTASSOCIATION
                    ONA PROPOSEDSECONDSOCIALSECTORADJUSTMENT CREDIT
                                            TO ]BOSNIAAND HERZEGOVINA

1.        This ProgramDocument describes a proposed secondSocial Sector Adjustment Credit (SOSAC 11)
to Bosnia andHerzegovina (BH) inthe amount o f SDR 34.7 million (UStS5 1.O million equivalent) to
support the Government's structuralreform program. The Credit would be providedonmodifiedIDA terms
of20 years maturity with 10years graceperiod.

2,        This ProgramDocument i s hlly consistent, and should be read inconjunction, with the Country
Assistance Strategy (CAS) of the World BankGroup for Bosnia andHerzegovina, ReportNo. 20592, dated
July 12,2000, andthe CAS ProgressReportNo. 24978, datedOctober 15,2002. The proposed SOSAC 11
i s also consistent with BH's social policy reformprogram inthe recently approved MediumTerm
Development Strategy (PRSP), which emphasizesthe need for reducingthe country's highunemployment
rate, reducing the aggregateburden o f the cashtransfer systemwhile reorienting it to programs targeted to
those most inneed, and improving efficiency and transparency inthe operationo f socialprograms.                 The
proposed SOSAC IIalso buildsupon the BH's achievementsunder the predecessor Social Sector
Adjustment Credit (SOSAC I),        and Public Finance Structural Adjustment Credits (PFSACs).


                                               I.THEECONOMY

A.        Institutionaland Political Background

3.        Followinga devastating conflict andthe DaytonPeaceAgreement in 1995, BHhas madeprogress
inestablishing itselfas amodem andviable state, includingby:(i)              enhancing internal harmonization ofthe
relatively autonomous sub-national entities while strengthening the coordination functions ofBH's central
state; and (ii) increasingexternal integrationby engaging into the Stabilizationand Associationprocess
(SAP)with the EuropeanUnion(EU)as well as pursuingother avenues of international integration
(Council of Europemembership, WTO accession, etc.). However, the integration agenda i s far from
complete, and the designand implementation o freforms still has to overcome the complex political and
institutional situation which arose from the DaytonPeace Agreement

4.        Betweenearly 2001 and late 2002, reform-orientedcoalitions at the level o f State and Entitieswere
able to acceleratereforms and consolidate macroeconomic stability through sound fiscal and monetary
policies. Progresswas also made instrengthening cooperation betweenthe two Entities, by strengthening


  Giventhat BHqualifies for IDA borrowing but lies above the IDA cut-off, the terms o fthe Credit are subject to
   exceptionallyhardened IDA terms, as agreed during the IDA XI11replenishment.

  See MTDS, submittedto the Bank and FundinApril 2004.

  The DaytonPeaceAgreement (DPA) provides for four levels ofGovernment. The State ofBH(theState) is at the
   highest level, while the next level is constituted bytwo Entities, the Federationo f BH(FBH), mainlyinhabitedbythe
   Bosniak (Muslim) and Croat ethnic groups, andthe predominantly Serb Republika Srpska (RS).The FBHis a highly
   decentralized Entity, divided inten cantons andeighty municipalities. Incontrast, the RS is organized around a
   unitary concept o fgovernment, and consists of sixty-two municipalities. Since 2000, BHalso includes an
   autonomous territory, Brcko District. The DPA also established the Office o fthe HighRepresentative ( O m )with a
   mandate to overseethe implementation o fthe peace accords, with executive powers oncivilian matters, including
   legislative veto and impositionpowers, as well as laws on the capacity to remove officials from office.

                                                             2


state-level institutions to enforce country-wide standards, and by harmonizinginter-entity policies (e.g.,
reforms of indirect taxation   ).4 Inparticular, reformswere achievedinthe defensesector, with the
centralizationo f command and control structures at the level o f the State. However, the Governments failed
to make significant progress on some of the most important structuralreforms such as strategic
privatizations or reformof the socialprotection system. Elections inOctober 2002 saw the retumof the
parties that hadbeen inpower for most o fthe post-war period. Since taking office, the Governments have
reaffirmedthe common overarchingobjective o f EUassociation and membership. Policy statementsand
reformplans approved since then also signal a recognition that the pathto EUaccession involves deepening
reforms. A feasibility study released by the EuropeanCommissioninNovember 2003, concludes that
opening o fnegotiationsfor a Stabilization and AssociationAgreement (SAA) in2004 can be envisaged, on
the condition that BHmakes significant progress inanumber o f areas identifiedby the Commissionas
priorities for action.'

5.       Encouragingly, Entityand State government officials regularly discuss and coordinate the
formulation ofreformpolicies. Among other factors, the MTDS process has proven to be an effective
vehicle to facilitate and institutionalize national policy dialogue and consensusbuilding.The reform
programi s comprehensively presented inthe recently approved MTDS,which was officially forwardedby
the authorities to the World Bank inApril 2004 (see paragraphs 24-26 below).

B.       Recent Economic Developments

6.       BHhasrecordedimpressive growthrates since the war (an average21percent inrealGDP growth
between 1996and 2002 -see Table l), when compared to other post-conflict economies. Inthe
                                             even
immediate aftermatho f the conflict, growth was mainly spurredby reconstructionandrehabilitation
investment inpublic infrastructureandprivatehousing. Spending has been predominantly financed by large
and sustainedaid flows. Private transfers, estimated to have averaged 12percent o f GDP over the last five
years, have also played an important role infueling domestic spending. More recently, while remaining
positive (an estimated 3.5 percent in2002), growth slowed, mirroringdeclining official aid and stagnating
manufacturing activity. The trendo f decreasing aid flows i s likely to continue, as the focus underpinning
donor commitments shifts from reconstruction financing and support o frefugee return, to providing
technical assistance insupport of structuraland administrativereforms.

7.       Money and credit. Due to strict adherenceto the currency boardintroducedin 1997,inflation has
rapidly decelerated to single digit levels and has remainedbelow one percent in2002 and 2003. The
inflation differential betweenthe two Entitieshas also beenreduced. Inthe aftermatho f the introductiono f
the euro and the reverse currency substitution it triggered 6, as well as the successful restructuringand
modernizationo f the banking sector, non-government deposits grown significantly between 2000 and 2002
(from 6.5 percent o f GDP to 9.5 percent), leadingto a credit boomin2002, especially credits to the
household sector which more than doubled that year. Measures to tighten credit policy were taken in2003
inthe framework ofthe IMFStand-By Arrangement reviews. These measuresappear to have achieved


  See Implementation Completion Report o fPFSAC11, Report No. P-7318.

  These 16priority areas include compliance with existing conditionality and international obligations; more effective
governance; more effective public administration; Europeanintegration; effective humanrights provisions; effective
judiciary; tackling crime, especially organized crime; managingasylum and migration; customs and taxation reform;
budgetlegislation; budget practice; reliable statistics; consistent trade policy; integrated energy market; BHsingle
economic space andpublic broadcasting.

  Households exchanged large amounts o fDeutschmarkhoarded against KMdeposits inthe domestic banking system.

                                                            3



deceleration incredit growth. Inappropriate indexationmechanisms have allowed accrued and paid wage
growth to exceed productivity, with an adverseimpact on employment and corporate profitability inboth
Entities.

8.       Fiscal outcomes. The post-conflict growth Performance was accompanied inthe initial phaseby
large fiscal and external deficits. Onthe fiscal side, the imbalance was inpart causedby the donor-funded
public investment programs. Inaddition, post-conflict recovery indomestic revenue collectiontriggered
increasesinrecurrent spending, especially on the public sector wage bill, the defense sector and veterans'
programs. Since 2000, fiscal stabilization efforts have led, however, to an elimination of the budgetary
deficit, which hadpeaked at over 9 percent o f GDP in 1999, while the preliminary fiscal accountsposted a
small surplus in2003 worth 0.4 percent of GDP. The reduction intotal spending from close to 70 percent
o f GDP in 1999to less than 50 percent in2003 (excluding municipal spending) was significant, even if
most o fthe adjustment inexpenditure reflectsthe decline inexternally financed public investment.
Similarly, accumulationof new arrears was curtailed to less than one percent o f GDP in2001, leadingthe
way to a net reduction inoutstanding payment arrears since 2002. At the same time, expenditure shares on
defense and veterans' programs has remained high, squeezingspending on other priorities.

9.       External accounts. While fiscal imbalances have beenbrought under control, the widening
external current account deficit representsperhaps the single most important challenge facedby BH.Large
import volumes that accompaniedthe reconstructionperiod were only partially covered by a subdued
export performance. While they have grown faster than overall merchandise imports innominal (euro)
terms since 2002, exports still account for only 10percent of GDP. Merchandise imports, representing
about a thirdo f GDP, have more recently been spurredby the growth innon-reconstructionrelatedinflows,
whichhave accelerated sharply over the past three years. These types o fimports, believedto be largely
consumer goods and construction material (inaddition to oil products), surged in2002. As a result, the
current account deficit balloonedto close to 19percent of GDP in2002, and was mainly financed by aid
flows (about halfthe gap), foreign direct investment andprivate capital and a small drawdown onreserves.
In2003, thetighteningofcreditpolices appearsto haverestrainedimport growth, leadingto aslighteasing
inthecurrent accountdeficit to about 17percent ofGDP. Encouragingly, foreign direct investment
increasingly representsan alternative to aid financing of the balance o fpayments, signaling increased
international investor interest inresponseto continuedmacroeconomic stability. Net FDIinflowshave
posted consecutive increases in2002 and 2003, reachingover 4 percent o f GDP.

10.      Public debt. At the end o f 2003, BH's external debt i s estimated to be sustainable. BHauthorities
were able to achieve successivereschedulingagreements as well as the regularizationand cancellation of
old debts denominated innon-convertible currencies, while pursuingprudent externalborrowing policies.
As aresult, external debt was brought downfrom 70percent ofGDP in 1998to below40 percent at end-
2003. Bank staff estimate the net present value of total external debt at end 2003 to be equivalent to 25
percent o f GDP or 91percent o f exports o f goods and services. As such, BHis classified as a moderately
indebtedmiddleincomecountry. Virtually all BHexternal debt ispublic debt, denominated mainly ineuros
andU S dollars. The highlyconcessional terms o f donor assistanceprovided to BHhave helped ensure a
relatively comfortable position with respect to externaldebt servicing. Inthe full reform scenario described
below, the external liquidityratio is expected to decrease below 5 percent by 2007. Inaddition, assuming
the continuationof prudentexternal borrowing, the external debt to GDP ratio would decline below 30
percent over the projection period.




  The trade data for 2003 are beingrevised andpreliminaryestimates suggest a substantial downward revision in
imports, resulting ina reduction o fthe current account deficit o fthree percentage points of GDP.

                                                         4


11.      The public debt situation i s complicated however, by a large overhang o f domestic claims on BH's
governments. According to recent IMFestimates, potentialdomestic claims are inexcess o f 200 percent of
GDP. The majority of this potential debt relates to the breakup o f former SFRY and the war, including
claims against the government for the freeze o f foreign exchange deposits immediately before the war
(equivalent to 18 percent o f 2003 GDP) and war claims relatedto material losses as well as non-material
damages suffered by families o f veterans and other war victims (13 1percent o f GDP). Additional claims
and contingent liabilities originated after the conflict, such as unusedprivatization vouchers that were
issued to citizens that have not expired andpublic spendingarrears accumulated before 2002.

                Table 1. BosniaandHerzegovina: SelectedEconomic Indicators, 1999-2003

                                          1999           2000          2001           2002      2003

                                          Est.           Est.           Est.          Est.      Est.

                                                             (annual percentagechange)

        Real GDP growth                    9.6            5.5           4.4            5.5      3.5

        Industrialproductionindex         11.9            9.3           -2.0          11.5      3.8

        CPI inflation                      2.8            5.0           3.2            0.3      0.1

        Grosswages                        11.4           12.9           6.8            6.9      9.4

        Creditto the privatesector        -2.3            8.7           10.9          25.7      22.4

                                                      (inpercentofGDP unless othenvisenoted)

        Total Investment                  21.0           20.6           18.9          20.4      19.9

        National Savings                  12.8            7.6           2.7            1.9      2.5

        Governmentrevenues                57.7           53.7           49.7          48.1      46.7

        Total Public Expenditure          65.5           60.7           53.1          50.4      46.3

            oiw CapitalExpenditure        14.8           10.9           9.2            6.3      4.5

        Overallbalance(accruals, incl.    -7.8           -7.0           -3.3          -2.2       0.4
        grants)

        Current accountbalance            -8.2           -13.1         -16.2          -18.5     -17.4

        Totalpublic externaldebt          65.7           58.8           48.2          42.2      34.0

        Extemaldebt service (in% of        9.4            7.3           6.3            8.5       7.8
        exportsof goods and services)

        Gross official reserves (in        1.9            2.2           5.1            4.6       5.1
        monthso fimports)

         Source:IMF, FourthSBA review, February2004; Bankstaffestimates.

12.      As aresult, boththe State and bothEntityGovernments have recently committed, inthe framework
of the IMF Stand-By Arrangement, to implement domestic claims settlement plans that wouldreduce the
outstanding burden o f domestic claims to no more than 10percent o f 2003 GDP inNPV terms.
Quantitative frameworks for settlingthe claims have been established for bothEntities, including
combinations o f cashpayments, debt write-offs or securitizationinvery long-termbonds (20 to 50 years)
withextendedgrace periods andvirtually no coupon. Inparallel, laws onmoratoria on the enforcement of
pendingcourt lawsuits relatedto war damageswere passedby State andEntityparliaments. While the
moratoriaare inplace and claims verification progresses, entity laws that would enshrine the govemments
settlement strategy are being drafted and are expected to be adoptedbefore the Summer o f 2004. While

                                                         5



these actions are essential first steps inresolving this important issue, uncertainties around the
implementation o f the settlement programremain, rangingfrom possible legal challenges to the debt write-
offs to politicalresistance delaying the passage of the domestic claims settlement laws. Ifthe plan is
implementedas currently envisaged, including the issuanceo f government bonds to settle part of the claims
would add some 30 percent of GDP to the existingburden, so that total public debt (domestic and external)
would represent about 60 percent o f GDP at end 2004.

C.       Track Recordin StructuralandInstitutionalReforms

13.      Since the end of the war, progress instructural and institutionalreforms has beenthe most striking
inthe financial sector andtrade policy, as well as inpublic finance. Anchored inthe currency board,
financial sector reforms have focused sequentially on dismantling of the payment bureaus and the
establishment o f amodem payment system, divestiture from the banking sector and the successful entry of
strategc investors, the consolidation o f the banlung sector at low fiscal cost, as well as the establishment
and gradual strengthening o f the prudential andregulatory framework. Minimumcapital requirements are
being strictly enforcedand the prerequisites for participationinthe recently established deposit insurance
systemmay leadto further consolidation inthe sector. Many o f these reforms were supported by the Bank's
Enterprise andBank PrivatizationAdjustment Credit (EBPAC).* Trade policy reforms have been very
pronounced, with the negotiationo fbilateral trade agreementsinthe region that are compliant with
Stability Pact principles andthe adoptiono f the most liberal trade regime inthe region. The perceived lack
o f success o f these trade reforms to translate into improved trade performance has, however, raised
concerns among some policy-makers about the desirability o f further liberalization, while protectionist
lobbieshave called for more restrictivepolicies.

14.     Withrespect to public finance, the introduction o fmoderntreasury system at all levelsof
government above municipalities has contributed to improved spendingdiscipline. Significant progress was
also achieved withrespect to tax policy and administration including countrywide harmonization, and
improvedcollection enforcement. Initial administrativereforms inthe area o fpublic finance were
accomplished, mainly under the program supportedby two Public Finance Structural Adjustment Credits
(PFSAC I & n).More recently, BHhas enacted anew legal framework for indirect tax and customs
administration, establishing a single, state-level indirect revenue administration that will manageunified
customs collection. On the expenditure side, significant reforms to the pensionand healthinsurance
systemswere carried out under PFSAC II,       butare inneedof further consolidation, Also, significant
spending consolidationandstaff downsizing innon-productive functions o f government arebeing
implemented.

15.     Further reforms inthe public sector will focus onpreparatory work for the introduction o f VAT in
2005 or early 2006, areformthat is widely anticipatedto yieldpositive externalities for the corporate
sector, as it would improve the competitive and governance environment. In addition, revenue gains that
would emerge from the introductiono f VAT shouldbe used, at least inpart, to reduce the overall tax and
contributionburden. On the expenditure side, the pace and scope further rationalization o f a costly multi-
layer government structure, which still absorbs above 50 percent o f GDP, will be critical.

16.     The modest supply responseto the favorabletrade regime signals areas where structuralreforms
havebeenless successful, mainly related to enterprise and labor market reforms. While an important mass

* ReportNo. P-7257-BH.

  BHhas signedbilateral flee trade agreementswith Croatia, Slovenia, Serbia andMontenegro, Macedonia, Turkey,
Romania, Albania, Moldova, and Bulgaria.

                                                         6



privatizationo f small-scale businesseshasbeenundertaken shortly after the war, itresulted, as inother
transition countries, indiluted ownership and weak corporate govemance structures. The privatization of
larger state-owned enterprises has lagged, due to the war and lukewarmpoliticalcommitment after the war.

17.       The business environment, while modestly improving inrecent years, remains characterized by
highbarriers to marketentry for newbusinesses, proliferationofbureaucratic interference andvirtually no
formal market exit. The MTDScalls for an acceleration of strategic privatizations, and improvements inthe
business and investment climate. Importantly, harmonizedbankruptcy legislationhas beenrecentlyenacted
inbothEntities.Thispackageofreformsis supportedbytheBank's BusinessAdjustment Credit (BAC)."

18.       Finally, labor market rigidities have persisted, despite important changes inlabor legislationwhich
introducedsubstantially greater flexibility into the labor relations framework, including facilitation of more
varied and flexible forms o f employment, simplifyingprocedures and entitlements relatedto hiringand
dismissal o f workers, and the formal termination of the "wait listing" process inheritedfrom former SFRY.
The remainingrigiditiesare primarily driven by practices enshrined incollective agreements and firm-level
policy, which retain outdated practices with respect to wage determination and work conditions.       ''The full
impact o f earlier reforms therefore remains to be felt inthe labor market.

D.        Current Macroeconomic Policy Framework

19.       As outlined inthe MTDS, BH's macroeconomic strategy aims at preservinga stable environment
that i s conducive to the implementation of structural reforms that will promote private domestic savings and
investment. The authorities have committed to maintainthe currency board andpursue the associated
prudentmonetary polices. The fiscalpolicy stance is gearedat further consolidation ofpublic spendingto
generatethe public sector savings required. This strategy is fully consistent with the programthat received
the support o fthe most recent IMF Stand-By Arrangements (SBA), approvedinAugust 2002 and
completed inFebruary2004. The macroeconomic performance under the SBA has been satisfactory with
respectto growth, inflation, the fiscal balance and reservesbuild-up.The current account developments
have not met expectations however. In addition to observing the program's quantitative and structural
performance criteria, important structuralbenchmarks were met, including the preparationo f the domestic
claims settlement plan, adherenceto cashmanagementrules o f the pension funds, or the strengthening of
banking supervision rules.

20.       The BHauthorities have requested further IMF support and it i s envisaged that successful
completiono f the SBA will leadto an agreement on a successormedium-term program inthe course of
2004, The programwould focus onkey macroeconomic challenges, includingincreasingcorporate
profitability through enterprise restructuring, and the establishment o f a coherent fiscal architecture geared
towards coordinated policy formulation. The macroeconomic projections inthe following section are based
onthe most recent framework approved at the time o fthe last review o f the SBA.




lo No,P-7530-BIH.
  Report

l1A hrtherimportantreformoftheLaborLawswastodiscontinue themandatoryapplicationofcollective
agreementsto parties not represented inthe bargaining process. However, the response from employers indeveloping
more decentralized bargaining has beenweak to date.

                                                      7


E.       Macroeconomic Prospects and External FinancingRequirement

21.      The medium-term macroeconomic challenge facedby the BHauthorities is to regainpre-war
output levels by the end o f the decade, while movingfrom aid dependency to fiscal self-reliance, The
medium-term macroeconomic programenvisagedunder the SBA,reproducedbelow, i s generally consistent
with the MTDS,and aims to reach a robust and sustainable growthpathwith a strong emphasis on
continued fiscal discipline to ensure policy consistency with the currencyboard. Under this scenario of full
implementation o freforms (and absence o f exogenous shocks), the share o f investments inGDP would
remainhigh, although the nature of capital formation would shift from reconstructionto productive
investment. Growth, which would steadily acceleratetowards 6 percent inreal terms until2007, would be
mainly driven by foreign direct investment and stronger domestic investment, as well as positive spillovers
fromreal export growth. Inthe face o f steadily declining aid flows, BHwill have to achieve an adjustment
of its external imbalance and establish creditworthiness inorder to attract commercial financing inthe
mediumterm. Exports would grow considerably faster than imports, as private consumptiongrowth would
remainmoderate, resulting ina markedimprovement o f the current account. Table 2 below highlightssome
o f the key projections inthe fullreformscenario. The scenario ispredicateduponthe acceleration of
structural reforms inthe corporate sector, which would boost domestic savings and investment.

                 Table 2. Bosnia and Herzegovina: MacroeconomicFramework, 2003-2007

                                          2003       2004           2005            2006       2007

                                          Est.       Proj.          Proj..          Proj.      Proj.

                                                          (annual percentage change)

         Real GDP growth                   3.5        5.1            5.7             5.9        6.2

         CPI Inflation                     0.1        0.9            1.7             2.0        2.1

                                                             (inpercentofGDP)

         Total Investment                 19.9       20.3            20.9           21.4       21.9

         National Savings                  2.5        4.6            6.0             8.2       10.9

         Privateconsumption               88.7        86.1           84.9           83.3       81.4

         Current accountbalance           -17.4      -15.8          -14.8           -13.1      -11.0

         Total Govemment revenues         46,7       45.8            44.4           43.0       41.7

         Govemment Expenditure'           46.3       45.9            44.4           42.9       41.6

                   Current Expenditure'   41.9       41.1            39.9           38.7       37.5

                   Capital Expenditure'    4.5        4.8            4.5             4.2        4.1

         Overall fiscal balance            0.4        -0.1           0.0             0.1        0.1
         (accruals, incl. grants)

        'Excludes municipal spending. Source:IMF, Second and Third SBA review, April 2003 for 2002 data; Bank
        staff estimates for projections.

22.      The MTDS also presents a low-case scenario, inwhich implementationo freforms i s slower or
yields a less favorable supply response.Real growth couldinthis case stagnate at around 2 percent,
translating into revenue losses and a more pronounced need for fiscal adjustment.

23.      Ifthepositivemacroeconomic scenario laidoutabove materializes, BHwill stillneedsizeable,
although diminishing,external inflows to support its balance o f payments (see Table 3 ).For the period

                                                      8



2004-2005, the total financing requirement would averageabout US$l.4 billion annually. Assuminga
gradual decline inproject-relatedfinancing, the increaseof FDIinflows to 6 percent of GDP by 2005, and
persistently highlevels o fremittances, a financing gap of US$161would emerge for 2004-2005, that would
be coveredby about two-thirds by the World Bankthrough adjustment lending (the proposed EMSAC and
SOSAC 2, as well as the remainingtranche o fthe BAC), with the remainder financed by the European
Commissionmacroeconomic assistance.

              Table 3. Bosnia and Herzegovina: ExternalFinancingRequirements, 2004-2007

                                                         2004           2005           2006           2007

                                                                      (inmillionUS$)

Requirements                                             1,367          1,478          1,419         1,277
        Olw current account deficit (excl.               1,338          1,346          1,288         1,169
        grants)

        olw debt amortization                               94             85             82            58

        olw change innet foreign assets                    -65            47              49            50

Resources                                                1,259          1,425          1,381         1,240
        ofw official transfers                            235             188            137           103

        olw official loans                                 105             94             85            81

        olw private capital andFDI(net)                   914           1,135          1,151          1,044

        olw debt relief                                      5              8              8             11

Financinggap                                               108             53             39            37
Source: IMF, FourthSBA review, February 2004; Bank staff estimates.



                  11.       THECOUNTRY'S STRUCTURALREFORMPROGRAM

The Medium Term Development Strategy (PRSP)

24.     Bosnia and Herzegovina's first MediumTerm Development Strategy (PRSP) was adopted byboth
State and EntityGovernments inearly 2004, as well as presented to and supported bythe State level
Parliament.    The BHauthorities formulate three key objectives ofthe country's development program:


0   Create conditions for sustainable growth andbalanced economic development.
a   Ensure social stability by reducingpoverty and unemployment.
a   Create the conditions for full membership inthe EUbefore the end o f the decade; and

25.     Inorder to achieve these development objectives, the MTDSidentifiesa set ofpolicypriorities
including: (i)maintaining macroeconomic stability; (ii)  implementing a fiscal reformprogram; (iii)
implementpublic administration reform; and (iv) establishing sustainable systems o f social welfare and
services. The other policy priorities include achieving politicalconsensus on the reformprogram,
promotingprivate sector growth, maintaining financial sector stability, actively pursuingthe SA process

.^
IL!The full MTDS document is available inEnglishat www.prsp,info.

                                                           9



withthe EU, andjoining the WTO. A key cross-cutting aspect ofthese reforms is the establishmentof
reliable yet fiscally affordable and sustainable social safety nets. Reform proposals are basedon the
diagnosis o f public expenditure trends which fully reflects the findings o f the Public Expenditure and
InstitutionalReview (PER) undertaken with the support of the World Bank. l3          Inparticular, theMTDS,in
coherence withthe PER, refersto the following important social sector reformissuesto be addressedin
the program:


0   A rationalizationof the systemof the war veteransprotectionwould accommodate some increasesin
    spending onmore effective and better targetedsocial welfare and childprotectionwhich i s diagnosed
    as very low byregional standards.
    Structural reforms are to be initiated to improve andlor maintainthe financial stability of extra-
    budgetary pension and unemployment funds which hadinsome cases been very weak inthe past.
0   Redistributionwithin socialprotection spending i s to be achievedthrough a modem legislative
    framework for social protection as well as institutional and budget mechanisms for the strategc
    development o f social policy, includingtransparent horizontal and vertical coordination between the
    governmental and non-governmental sectors.

26.      As a consequence, the MTDSoutlines anumber ofkey objectives ofthe social sector reform
program: (i)  rationalizing the veterans benefit system; (ii)  introducinglegal and institutionalreform of the
social protection system ensuring fiscal sustainability o f and equal access to benefits acrossthe two
Entities; (iii)improving the relations between the two Entitypension funds and the inter-Entityportability
of pension rights; and (iv) improving the financial position o fthe pension funds inparticular through
improvements incontribution collection to ensure stability o fpensionpayments.


               111. THE PROPOSEDSOSACI1OBJECTIVESAND RATIONALE

27.      Objectives: The overall objective o f SOSAC 11wouldbe to support reforms incashtransfer and
labor programs and institutions which reorient social protection towards programs which protect the
poorest and most disabled ina fiscally sustainable manner. This i s consistent with broader efforts to reduce
public spending and focus it on priority needswhich promote poverty reduction. Iti s also consistent with
the needto addressregional imbalances withineachEntity. As outlinedabove, these objectives are key
elements of the MTDS.

28.      Proposedpolicy agenda and rationale: The proposed policy reformagenda to be supported by
the Credit iscentered on four key areas relatedto policy and institutional arrangements for cashtransfers
and social services, as well as complementary reforms. The broad agenda was initially outlined as the
mediumterm social policy strategy for bothState and EntityGovernments inthe Letter ofDevelopment
Policy (LDP) for SOSAC Iinlate 2000. Further development o f the policy agenda was donejointly with a
rangeof local counterparts, initially duringa workshop inJune 2001, and subsequently onmissions in2001
and 2002.   l4 Policy discussions were put onholdinthe first half o f 2002 and subsequently postponeduntil
after October 2002 elections. Re-engagement with new State and Entitygovernments commenced
immediately after their formation inearly 2003. This was complemented by a community assessment




l3 andHerzegovina:FromAidDependencytoFiscalSelfReliance, ReportNo.24297-BIH, October2002.
  Bosnia

l4Proceedings o f the inter-Entity workshop are on file. The workshop hadparticipation fromaround 120 participants,
mostly nationals o fBHfromvarious levels of Government, civil society andacademia, as well as donor andNGO
partners, including the Office o f the HighRepresentative (OHR), IMF, DFID, EU,UNICEFand Save the Children.

                                                       10



carried out in2002-2003 to assess public understanding of and attitudes towards social policy reforms.      15

The assessment formed the basis for apublic campaign bybothEntityGovernments in2003 titled "40
Days o fDialogue on Social Reforms" which continued the dialogue with civil society on social policy.
These consultations have complemented broader efforts within the MTDSprocess to consult widely on
social policy and builda consensusaround key reform directions.

29.     Coming out o f these processes, the key elements of the SOSAC 11policy agenda are:

    reforms and rationalizationof veterans`benefits andprograms, to ensure adequate support for the most
    disabled veterans and families o flulled soldiers, while reducing the unsustainable burdeno f veterans'
    programs on the budget. This would also facilitate reorientationo f transfer spending to social welfare
    programs targeted on those most inneed.
    reforms o f social welfare and childprotectionpolicies, administration and financing, inorder to reduce
    sharp disparities incoverage inthe current safety net. This would be accomplished by supporting
    financing reforms for core benefits within eachEntity, adjustinginheritedentitlements to focus on core
    programs more consistent with existing fiscal andinstitutional capacity, and strengthening the role of
    the non-government sector inwelfare service provision.
    buildingonSOSACI, operationwould support consolidationo fthe institutional structure for
                            the
    delivery of unemploymentbenefits and active labor market programs, as well as improvedbusiness
    processesinEmployment Institutes. Inaddition, it would support reorientation of active programs
    away from the current ineffective and non-transparent reliance on credit programs to more cost
    effective and properly monitored active labor programs.
    promoting more efficient and equitable functioning o f the PAYGOpension system, throughresolution
    of inter-Entitypension issues, development of harmonizedpensions policy for all parts of BH,and
    consolidationo f FBHinstitutional arrangementsfor pensions and social contributions reporting. This
    would be complemented byreforms o f the disability assessment process to improve the predictability,
    transparency and fairness o f disability determination for pensions and social welfare programs.

30.     Apart from these core elements, it is proposed that other areas be addressedunder SOSAC 11which
are consistent with the MTDS and buildon the SOSAC Iprogram, They have inseveral casesbeen
supported by technical assistanceunder a TA credit, the Social Sector Technical Assistance Credit
(SOTAC, see Annex 9), and include:


0   improvedlivingstandardsmonitoring for social policy making, through carrying out a Household
    Budget Survey andpanel surveys o f the earlier LSMS and feeding results into policy development.
    This would also be supported by submission o f the first Law on Statistics at the State level.
e   improvingpublic information on social policy, by strengthening the ability o f Governments effectively
    to communicate the goals and trade-offs o freforms to the general population.
e   data and information system implementation issues insocial programs.
e   issuesrelatedto institutional roles andresponsibilities insocial policy.

31      The rationale for the proposed SOSAC IIat this point inBH'stransition is:

e   the overall structure o f cash transfer entitlements and spending has failed to adjust to reflect the fiscal
    and administrative capacity o f BHas it moves from post-war reconstructionto longer term
    development. BothEntitiesallocate major shares o f public spending to veterans' benefits, while



l5SeeReportofKPMGConsulting:AnalyticalReport onPublicInformation Campaign,2003.

                                                              11



    devoting lessresources than any other country inthe regionto social welfare andthe needsof the most
    vulnerable populations. Both Governments acknowledge the need for controlling the aggregateburden
    o f the cashtransfer system, while reorientingthe structure and focus of transfer spending. This i s in
    many respects a "belated transition" reform of the inheritedcashtransfer system, the shortcomings of
    which have been exacerbatedby the increaseinveterans' spending. The technical and financial
    support o f the SOSAC 11i s considered an important tool to help leverage such change.
    the limitedguidance provided by the DaytonAgreement on institutionalroles andresponsibilities in
    socialprotection i s increasinglyrevealing its limitations, as broad and overlapping mandatesto
    different levels o f government have createdimportant gaps inthe system o f social protectionprograms.
    Inaddition, thepublicsectorneedsto strengthenitsengagementwithNGOsandcivilsocietyactorsin
    social policy implementation, as it has yet to transform from a relationship appropriate to a
    humanitarianphaseto one which reflects apartnership-basedrelationship; and
    BHhasreacheda stage initspost-war recovery wherethe ongoinglackofreliable datafor policy
    making, program implementation and monitoring, and public awarenesscan no longer bejustified. The
    lack o freliable data not only hampers efforts to develop and monitor policy, but contributes to
    significant lack o f transparency inthe operations ofpublic socialpolicy institutions.

32.      Itis important to see SOSAC llinthe context ofbackwardandforward linkages withthe Bank
programo f support to BH.The SOSAC 11follows SOSAC I, single tranche operation which supported in
                                                                       a
particular reforms o f the labor relations framework inBH. The decisionto sequencethe operations inthis
manner was driven by the need at the time o f SOSAC Ifor supportingpolicies to enhance broad-based
growth ina period when poverty was widespread inthe aftermath o f the war. Itwas also apparent that the
informational and analytical base on the social protection systemwas too under-developed at that time to
develop concrete social protectionreforms on a well-informed basis. Both factors suggestedan initial focus
within the social policyreformagendaon liberalizing the labor market, complemented bypolicy
development for future reforms o f social protection programs and further analytical and capacity building
work. This emphasiswas complemented by the Business Environment Adjust Credit (BAC). SOSAC Ihas
been satisfactorilycompleted. l6

33.      Inparallelwith SOSACI,smalltechnicalassistancecredit, the SOTACwas also approved. This
                                        a
has since financed detailed analytical work onthe socialprotection system, and helped informdesignof
SOSAC II. Project-financedwork was complemented by Bank analytical work under the Public
             l7
Expenditure and Institutional Review andthe Poverty Assessment.                 Thiswork combinedwith further
technical work with counterparts duringproject preparation to provide a firmer base for development of the
SOSAC II policy agenda.

34.      SOSAC 11is also complementary to the Economic Management Structural Adjustment Credit
(EMSAC), which focuses on structural issues inpublic expenditure management such as the dominance of
spendingonpublic sector wages andinter-governmental fiscal relations. The operations intandem thus
focus on two critical areas o f the fiscal adjustment needs o fBH: EMSAC on the heavy burden o f spending


l6SeeImplementationCompletionReportfor SOSACI, No.23841, April9,2002.
                                                             Report

"Inparticular,analyticalworkandtechnicalassistancehasbeencarriedoutonthesocialandchildprotectionsystem,
  the businessprocesses and policies of the Employment Institutes, disability policy and administration, and the
  institutional roles and responsibilities across the social protectionsystem. There was also technical assistanceto
  support public information efforts and to pilot innovations inNGOdelivery o f social services (see Annex 9).

  The following PEIR background papers are on file: (i)      Veterans'Benefits and Programs in BH; (ii) Social
   Assistance and ChildProtection in BH, and (iii)     Employment Benefits and Programs in BH (all 2002).

                                                         12



on public administration and SOSAC onthe highlevel and inappropriatecomposition o ftransfer spending.
Moreover, bothoperations support reforms ininter-govemmental fiscal relations: while SOSAC 11supports
a re-assignment o f expenditure responsibility from the Canton to the Entityinthe field o f social welfare,
EMSAC focuses on higher education and supportsreforms o f expenditure responsibilitiesacross levels of
govemment. Apart from EMSAC, the Pilot Emergency Labor Redeployment Project provides
complementary support to SOSAC 11through support for employment opportunities for veterans. Finally,
the recentlynegotiatedSecondEmployment Support Project (SESP) will support design and
implementationo freformed active labor policies.

35.       The rationale for a two tranche operation i s threefold: (i)effective execution of the Govemments'
social policy reformagenda relies onprior reformof veterans' benefits inorder to free upresourcesfor
strengthening o f the social welfare system; (ii)  while there is clear commitment to the reforms supported
underthe secondtranche (as reflectedinthe MTDS),the technical demandsoffinalizing reformssuch as
new social welfare legislation, active labor programs, and disability assessment procedures are significant
and requiretime to deliver new policies and practice which are well designed and well understood by those
who will implement programs; and (iii)     the implementationperiod o f a two tranche operation should allow
for more sustainedpolicy dialogue onthe range o f social policy items covered by the operation. This i s
particularly important inlight o f a reduced IDA envelope and smaller lendingprogrammoving forward.

36.       The agendaproposedto be supported by SOSAC IIhas a direct impact on most households inBH.
I t has involvedpolitically and socially difficult choices. Overall, the operation should help leverage a
numberofimportant refoms insocialpolicy, particularly as itlinkedto the policy agendas ofkey actors
such as the IMF and OHR.


      IV: SOCIAL POLICYREFORMPROGRAMSUPPORTEDBY SOSAC11:

37.       The proposed policy agenda under SOSAC 11is summarized inthe attached policymatrix (Annex
6) and Letter of Development Policy (Annex 5). While the operationhas clear risks, these have been
reducedto the extent possible through closely linkage inkey areas such as veterans' benefit reforms to
commitments under the IMFSBA program, the Govemments' MTEFs, and the MTDS. The key proposed
areas for support are as follows:

A. Social Welfare andChildProtection:           l9


38.       Currentsituation: The social welfare and childprotection (SWCP) system inBH particularly in
                                                                                                 -
FBH-hasbeenina state ofcrisis inrecent years, for the mostpart unableto make the transition from
humanitarian reliefto a more coherent and sustainable system. Although the entitlements inEntity
legislation apply equally to all sub-Entityauthorities inprinciple, implementation varies enormously by
region due to the decentralizationo f financing. Social welfare suffers from a characteristic separationof
policy making and implementationresponsibilities, with legislated entitlements which inmany areas canno
longer be afforded. This is partly a product o f failure to adjust entitlements to an affordable core, and
partly due to under-funding o f social welfare as a share o f GDP and govemment spendingrelative to
regional standards, with the extent o f under-fundingmore pronounced inFBH. With the exception ofthe
RSChildren's Fund,this hasresulted ina safety net that i s very patchy, functioning properly only ina
limited number o f areas, and with no clear policy priorities or divisiono f responsibilities.



l 9 For detaileddiscussion, see the SocialWelfare andChildProtectionchapter of PEIR(October 2002), and Social
    and ChildProtection Report, IOSlFACSConsultants(May 2003).

                                                       13




39.      Many problems insocial welfare are common to bothEntities. They include:

    separation ofpolicy development and~nancing,which hasresultedinprogram mandatesto the local
    levels which can not be financed inmost areas. This reflects the failure at Entity level to adjust
    inheritedentitlements from SFRY to current fiscal and institutionalrealities. Entitylegislation fails to
    set programpriorities or identify financing for core benefits.
    aggregate under-~undingof SWCPand lack of understandingof theproblem. BH and inparticular
                                                                                          -
    FBH- spends less onSWCP as a share ofGDPthan any country inthe region. InFBH,social and
    childprotection spending in2002 accounted for only 0.8-0.9 percent o f EntityGDP, and around 1.4-1.6
    percent o ftotal public spending byEntityand cantonal Governments, including EBFs. Inthe RS,
    spending by the Children's Fundimproves the situationbut total social welfare spending in2002 was
    estimated at around 1.3 percent o f EntityGDP and 2.7 percent o f total public spending, including
    EBFs. Byregional standards, spendingon social andchildprotectioninRSis at the low end, andin
    FBHis lower thanany country inSEEICEE.
    high variation within each Entity in safety net coverage. Inmany areas, regular social assistance
    benefits andchild allowances have not beenpaid to the poorest for years. At the same time, better-off
    areasprovide a safety net which - while not generous - is relatively comprehensive. As examples:
    Sarajevo canton in2000 accounted for around two thirds o f all SWCP inFBHbut only 16percent of
    the Entitypopulation; inRS, per capita spending on social assistancebeneficiariesin2002 rangedfrom
    only 11KMinthe lowest municipality to as highas 2,400 KPviinthe highest. The outcome is a social
    welfare system that i s poorly targeted.
    lack ofpredictability in social assistancecoverage. The responseinmost areas to lack of financinghas
    been to reduce safety net coverage to "one-time help", which i s paid irregularly and on a discretionary
    basis incases o f extreme hardship. This is not a sustainable position for the very poorest withno
    alternative sources o f income.
    the lack of core benefit~s~~nancedby theEntity budget or by a designated source of funding. In
    neither Entitypresently i s there a social assistancebenefit financed by the Entitybudget. Financingo f
    social assistance i s entirely from the sub-Entity(typically municipal) level, resultingin"vicious
    circles" o f highpoverty areas with limitedfiscal bases for financing the safety net, The example of
    Entitylevel fundingofchildprotectioninRSthroughthe Children's Funddemonstratesthe benefits of
    partially pooled funding. Policymakers inBHconsider it important to expand Entitylevel fundingof
    social welfare benefits.
    institutional arrangementsfor social welfare and ch~ldprotectionwhich do not give prominence to the
    sub-sector. This relates bothto allocation o froles and responsibilitiesinSWCP withinand between
    levels o f government ineach Entity, At the Entitylevel, SWCP inRS comes under the healthportfolio
    and is relatively neglected as a result. InFBH, the situationhas improved somewhat since 2002 with
    the split of a combined labor, socialpolicy, refugee and DP Ministry.
    ineffective and inefficient administration of social welfareprograms. Thishas beenwell documented in
    recent TA supported under SOTAC. 2o

40.      Reform objectivesand SOSACIImeasures: The operationsupports reforms inthe policy,
institutional and financing frameworks for SWCP inbothEntities. This builds on social protection reforms
strategiesapproved bybothGovernments as part of the SOSAC Iprogramand elaborated during2002 -




LUSee report of 10s Partners.

                                                           14



work which has also fed into social welfare policies inthe MTDS. 21 There would also be support for
implementationmeasuresidentified by local counterparts as critical to effective operationof SWCP
programs. The objective of the reforms i s to promote a fiscally sustainable social welfare programs ineach
Entitywith clearly identifiedandreliable financing sources. While thismaybe supplementedbysub-
Entityauthorities inbetter-offareas, it should ensure aminimumandaffordable safety net for the poorest
wherever resident. The conditions and actionprogrammeasures summarized inthe policy matrix include:

     On overallpolicy,new laws would be enactedbyParliaments inbothEntities prior to secondtranche,
     and would include at a minimum:(i)        clear definition ofroles and responsibilities insocial welfare
     financing and provision at different levels o f system; (ii)  rationalized scope ofrights inEntitylaw to
     focus on "core" social welfarelchild protection benefits and services capable o fprovision throughout
     the Entity; (iii)
                     financing identified for at least one core social welfare benefit to bepaid from the
     Entitybudget ineachEntity; (iv) revision oftargetingcriteria for benefit eligibility incoreprograms;
     and (iv) provisionsto require andpromotepartnership between public andnon-government sectors in
     social services provision. These plannedreforms havebeenpreceded by amendments to existing social
     protectionlegislation inbothEntities prior to Boardpresentation which have improved the impact of
     social welfare programs pending fuller reforms.

     On in~tit~tionaland i ~ p l e ~ e n t a t ~ o n
                                               issues: (i) of a databaselclient registry of social welfare
                                                         roll-out
    beneficiaries and expenditures inall localities inbothEntities, with the system linkedto the Entity
    Ministryfor reliable andtimely reporting; (ii)      completion o f a fuflctional review o f socialprotection
     activities ineach Entity, and proposals developed by each EntityGovernment to address the
     institutionalproblems identified; (iii)    Operational Manuals (OM) developed for use inall Centersfor
     Social Work, the local level social welfare offices; and (iv) roll out o f municipal level SocialPolicy
    Boards, as successfully tested under pilot projects supported byDFIDandthe FinnishGovernment in
     select municipalities across BH, which would coordinate strategic development o f social welfare at the
     local level, and include representatives from acrosslocal administration, ministries and outside the
    public sector.

B. Veterans' programs:      22


41.      Currentsituation: Fiscalpressure from veterans' programs is a major issue inBH. The level of
spending on veterans'programs diverts resources from better targeted transfer programs and other spending
needs. Inboth Entities, direct spending on veterans' benefits from Entitybudgets alone has consumedfrom
3.5 to over 4 percent o f EntityGDP inrecent years. InFBH, around 30 percent of the Entitylevel budget
(without externally-financed projects) or 25 percent o f the total Entitybudget was spent on veterans'
benefits in2003. In addition, several cantons spend significant amounts on additional programs, with
combined Entity and cantonal spending equal to 4 percent EntityGDP inFBHin2003. InRS, around 12
percent of the Entitybudget was allocatedto veterans' benefits and programs in2002. Inaddition, inboth
Entities, there are substantial foregone revenues from tax and customs exemptions for veterans, and other
fiscal and quasi-fiscal spending targeted to veterans and their families (e.g. reductions on electricity bills,



21 See RS Government: Social Protection Development Strategy, November 2000; Social Protection Development
Strategyfor FBH FederationGovernment, October 2000. BothGovernmentsalso approved social protection
expenditureframeworksfor the period2001-2003. In2002, bothEntity Governmentsalso approvedmore detailed
socialwelfarereformstrategies: Social Welfare Strategyfor FBH,May 2002; Program of Social Welfare
Transformatio~in the RS, April 2002. All strategiesare on file.

LLFor a detaileddiscussion, see the Veterans' Benefitsbackgroundpaper for the PEIR(October 2002).

                                                          15



which inthe RS in2002 were estimated at around 22 mln.KM,or 0.6 percent ofGDP), While consolidated
estimates are difficult due to the opacity of veterans' spending at the sub-Entitylevel, total spendingand
foregone revenues at all levels within eachEntityis estimated to be inthe order o f 5-6 percent o fGDP.
Thiscompares with spending of aroundhalfapercentagepoint of GDP onveterans' benefit systemsin
Croatia and Serbia and Montenegro. Eventhis very high figure excludes arrears and claims thoughthe
court system for benefit entitlements under existing legislation inbothEntities which have notbeenpaid.            23


42.      A specific feature ofall veterans' programs inBHis the existence ofparallel legislationand special
decrees mandatingadditional rights.24 Inaddition, inFBHthe situationhas been made more complicated
bythe existence o ftwo legal frameworks: one for Bosniakareas and one for Croats, the latter financed in
significant measure to date from the Republic o f Croatia proper. This has resultedinsignificant disparities
inregionalcoverage andentitlements withFBH,aswell as diminishedtransparency inimplementation.
Suchparallelismbothwithin andbetweenthe different systems can no longer bejustified nearly eight years
after the cessation o fhostilities, and has been increasingly an anomaly inthe cash transfer system following
reforms to the pension andunemployment programs in2000-2001.

43.      Policy makers inbothEntities acknowledge that current veterans`legislation isnot realistic andhas
never beenproperly implemented. At the same time, the political and social sensitivity surrounding
veterans' benefit reforms is high.This was an area identifiedas a key problem insocial and fiscal policy
under SOSAC I,    butthe politicalclimate at the time wasnot conducive to significant movement. However,
the ongoing fiscal pressure from veteransprograms i s simply unsustainable, andthe Governments have
committed to real reductions inveterans' spending, includingstrict adherenceto budgetary availability.

44.      Despitethe large allocations to veterans'benefits, core benefits for the most disabled veterans and
survivor families o f lulledsoldiers are inarrears inbothEntities, so that those reallyinneed among the
beneficiaries are not able to have secureprotection. This is due to the wide scope ofbeneficiaries and
benefits, whichreflects no prioritization bypolicy makers. InFBH, ithas also led to a major contingent
fiscal problem, with total arrears estimated to be inthe order of 1.5 billion KM-around one and ahalf
times the entire Entitybudget in2002.

45.      InbothEntities, themajorcausesoffiscalpressurefiomveterans'programs include:


0   benefits are extended to veterans' and their survivor families down to minor levels o f disability, so that
    significant amounts are allocated to those whose injuries do not significantly impact their ability to
    work and are for the most part no more vulnerable than the general population.
0   disability or death o f a veterangenerating entitlements need not be linkedto military service.
0   benefits are indexed to the average wage and are high. Aggregate benefits from the veterans' systems
    canrunas highas 4-5 times the average wage.



23 Inthe RS, these are primarily claims for "non-material damage" and court awards have been up to 200,000 KMfor
   single cases. Inthe Federation, they relate primarilyto freezing o fthe benefit base since 1996. As o fmid-2003,
   awarded claims totaled around 2 mln.KMand there is a large stock o fpending cases.

24 For the Bosniak component, the legal framework untilrecent reforms was based on that o f SFRY. This was adopted
   bywartime Decree inApril 1992. The basic regime was supplemented by aparallelDecree in 1995. For the Croat
   component, the governing legal framework untilrecently has beenthe Law on the Protectionof Military Invalids
   andFamilies o f Killedand Missing Soldiers o f 1994, amended 1995. For the RS, the legislationuntilrecently was
   from January 1999, supplemented by a 1998 decree which gave additional benefits for disabled veterans.

                                                       16


     survivor families are definedinsome cases to include grandparents, relatives and parents. Inaddition,
     there are limitedrestrictions on family beneficiaries with alternative sources o f income, so that
     spending i s poorly targeted on those most inneed inthe group.
    there are exemptions for veterans and their families on customs and taxes, some of which -suchas the
     exemption on car import duty-have beenabusedto createunwarranted profits for veteran households.
    insomeprograms, benefitsareextendedto non-disabledveterans, thoughinpractice these haveusually
    notbeen affordable inrecent years.
    mechanisms for rationing spending to available budgetary resourcesare only partially effective, so that
    arrears exist inall systems. This i s underlinedby the emerging backlogo f legal claims inFBHagainst
    the Government for failure to adjust benefits as anticipated incurrent legislation, with court awards
    already granted o f over 2 mln. KM:likely to be a fraction o ftotal liabilities.
    there i s substantial anecdotal evidence o f misclassificationof bothdisabled and other veterans,
    particularly duringthe war when assessment systems were less than accountable; and
    inRSspecifically, non-disabled veteransarelegallyentitledto benefits, andthere isprovision for "non-
    material" damage to families who lost a member duringthe war (equivalent to "emotional pain and
    suffering"). This is compensatedaccordingto court awards and can runto 200,000 KMfor an
    individual family. Thispossibility creates a major contingent liability for the RS budget.

46.     Reform objectives and SOSACIImeasures: Both Governments have recognized that the current
situationwith veterans' benefits can not continue. The mainobjective o fveterans' benefitsreforms is to
promote arationalizedstructure o f entitlements that adequately supports veterans and families o f deceased
soldiers who have beenmost severely affectedby injury or loss of primary income earner. At the same
time, compensation must be tailored to limitedfiscal resources, and not squeeze out other policypriorities.
Reform of veterans' legislationinbothEntities should result ina more fiscally sustainable set ofbenefits
that will free resources for social protectionprograms that target the most needy. The scope of
beneficiaries and benefitsmustbe rationalized substantially, including privilegeswhich result inforegone
budgetary revenues. An important additional goal is to promote, to the maximumextent possible,
harmonizationo fthe veterans' legal framework acrossbothEntities, particularly consideringreturn issues.

47.     Definingthe SOSAC 11agendainthis area involved serious political economy considerations, as
veterans' benefits are a socially andpolitically sensitive issue. While bothEntityGovernments developed
veterans' reform strategies in2002, the timingfor implementing them was not appropriate intherun-upto
elections. Since the formation of new governments for four year terms, bothEntities have engaged
veterans' associations and representatives o f survivor families indrafting o fnew legislation and
consultations surroundingMTDS development. There has also been a focus onnarrowing the range o f
entitlements and institutingre-certification processes to reduce unjustified claimants. Despitethe natural
resistanceof veterans andtheir families to reforms, there i s an increased appreciationthat the current
systemis unsustainable. Reformcan therefore happen ina managedway, or bydefault through increasing
non-performance o f the system. The SOSAC IIprogramsupports a combination o f legislative reform of
entitlements, followed by support for measuresthat should improve the efficiency and transparency o f the
administrationof veterans' programs. The community assessment undertaken with SOTAC financing in
2002-2003 indicates significant public support for such an agenda, and this is reflected inthe MTDS and
the MTEFfor 2004-2007. The specific measuressupported by SOSAC 11are:

    on thepolicy side: (a) bothEntities have engagedwithrepresentatives o f veterans and other interested
    parties to produce new veterans' benefit laws which are consistent with the 2002 reformstrategies, and
    are reflectedinthe MTDS. These laws were passedby EntityParliaments inmid-2004. The new laws:
    (i) thenumberofbeneficiariesinlowercategories;(ii) forrevisionofbeneficiariesto
       control                                                        provide
    exclude unjustified claimants; (iii) introduceprovisions inlegslationto ensure that benefit obligations

                                                      17


    cannot exceed available budgetary resources; (iv) ensure indexationo fbenefits does not exceedthe
    increaseinthe cost o f living, subject to budgetary resources; (v) eliminate customs or tax exemption
    rightsinEntityinveterans' legislation; (vi) require disability or death o fthe veteran be directly related
    to military service for militaryinvalidand survivor family benefits; (vii) reduce parental benefits where
    other means o f support exist (e.g. pension; employment); (viii) narrow the definition of survivor
    families, and strengthen conditions for discontinuation ofnuclear family benefits where alternative
    means of support exist; (ix) nobudget-financed monthly benefits and entitlements for non-disabled
    veterans granted by Entityveterans' legislation; (x) provide for healthinsurance and co-payment
    exemptions only inmanner consistent with healthinsurance legislation; (xi) eliminate of incremental
    claims for non-material damage; and (xi) inFBH,unify the veterans' benefit regime and administration
    for bothmilitary components. The parallelism inthe FBHveterans' system hadbeenone of the key
    residual elements o fthe war-time system. The new laws have been challenging to develop andenact,
    butcanbe considered amajor reformo fthe social protection systeminbothEntities.

    Interms ofimFle~entatio~:

    -prior to Board: (i) FBH,maintaininga unifiedaccount through which Entitybudget transfers would
                         in
    flow to veterans' and survivor families from botharmy components. This ensures greater transparency
    and budgetary scrutiny inthe system, incontrast to the previous system o f split administrationand
    financing o f benefits for each military component; and (ii) satisfactory progress on veterans' program
    beneficiary database. RS inparticular has madegoodprogress incompleting an Entity-wideclient
    register during2002-2003.

    -prior to second tranche inbothEntities: (i)  beneficiary databases to be inplace whichrecord
    beneficiary and expenditure data for all programbeneficiaries, and consolidate dataregularly to the
    EntityMinistry;(ii)  promulgation o f implementingregulations for the new Laws; and (iii)    completion
    of the revision process for military invalids and survivor families to weed out unjustifiedclaimants. In
    FBH,thiswouldbe supervisedbya Commissionwithrepresentation ofBosniac andCroatcomponents,


C. Proerams and benefits for the unemployed:

48.     Current situation: Unemployment inBHis very high. Registered unemployment is over 40
percent inbothEntities, and ILO-defined unemployment is estimated between 16 and 25 percent. 25
Supportedby SOSAC I, legal frameworks governingthe activities o f the Employment Institutes which
                          the                                                                          -
administer unemployment benefits andactive labor programs for the unemployed-have been overhauled
inbothEntities. InbothEntities, newlawscameinto force in2000. The newlawsreducedunemployment
benefits to sustainable levels. They also legislatedanew institutional framework inFBHto eliminate
ethnically-based employment services. InFBH, the Law requires establishment o f a single Federationlevel
Employment Institute and separate Cantonal Employment Services. Ofthe resources collected, 70 percent
are administered bythe cantons and30 percent by the Entity(with Entityfunds available for redistribution
to the cantons on aneeds basis).

49.     There i s an unfinished agenda with implementation o f the institutional and financing framework at
State and FBHlevels, and a needinbothEntities to improve the effectiveness o fALPS. The mainissues
are:


25 See TheLabor Market in Bosnia and Herzegovina: Improving Job Creation and Worker Mobility (World Bank,
  2002).

    the Employment Bureaufor the SFRY Bosnia-Herzegovina Republic continuedto exist untilrecently,
    withnodefinedfunctionor financing source. Itsfailure to cooperatewithanextemal auditin2003
    also confirmed concerns o f improprietiesinmanagemento f funds and assets. At the same time, there
    was untilrecently no genuine State level body which could legally deal with the internationallabor
    obligations of BH, ILO obligations andbilateral agreementswith other countries.
    as o f 2002, only a few cantons hadestablished cantonal Employment Services, so that the majority of
    cantonal programs had continuedto operate as part of an ethnically-based fund. Preparation of the
    SOSAC 11has involved intensive work to support establishment o f employment services inall cantons.
    an audit andbusiness processreview o f the Entity EIsidentified poor businessprocessesand lax
    financial management inbothEntities, inaddition to a serious lack o f monitoringo f internal operations
    and evaluation o f E1programs. The resultinglack o f accountability for resource use hasbeen an issue
    of serious concern, particularly inFBH,exacerbateduntilrecently by lack o f appropriate regulations.
    the current mix o f active labor programs (ALPS) inbothEntities is very limited,and with an emphasis
    on programs such as subsidized credits to firms and wage subsidies which internationalevidence
    suggests are the least cost effective,    At the sametime, simpler andmore cost effectiveprograms such
    asjob counselingandbasic job brokerage functions are non-existent or seriously neglected. In
    particular, funds for active programs have beendirectedto favored state firms withnegligible
    monitoring or accountability for use of funds. The situation i s confirmedby surveys o f the unemployed
    which indicate low faith inpublic employment services to provide them with a useful service when
    lookingfor work. 27 Giventhat FBHinparticular spends significant public resources on suchprograms
    (around 1percent o f EntityGDP in2003, with an additional 0.4 percent o f GDP inreserves), this i s an
    unsatisfactory outcome, and one that EntityGovernments recognize inthe MTDSmust improve given
    the highlevels o funemploymentinBH.

50.      Reform objectives and SOSACIImeasures: Overall, the objective o f SOSAC 11supported measures
inthe employmentfield is to ensurethat the legislatedinstitutional andfinancingarrangementsfor
programs for the unemployed work inpractice, including at the State level. Addressing these problems is
important, given the large pool of unemployedand likely additional demands on the E1system as enterprise
restructuringgathers pace. The SOSAC 11agenda-with implementation support under the proposed
SecondEmployment Support Project (SESP)          - supportsthe following:


0   for bothEntities, completion o f the extemal audit andbusinessprocess review o f EntityEmployment
    Institutes. Thishas been followed byrevisedinternalprocedures inthe EntityEIswhich respondthe
    shortcomings identified inthe audits.
a   inFBH,establishment andoperationalizingofcantonal EIsineachcanton(including staffingand
    establishment o f separate bank accounts for cantonal ES). This has been accomplished recently and
    eliminates ethnically based employment services, allowinga truly Entity-wide network to function for
    the first time since the war. The Federation E1has also approved procedures for allocating the portion
    of unemployment insurance contributions which go to the Entitylevel, allowing reallocation of a share
    of Entityfunds to the cantons on a needs basis.
a   both Entities are developingmore effective policies on ALPS. The SOSAC 11would support
    development and approval o frevised ALP policies for bothEntities prior to secondtranche which are


   See Betcherman, Olivas, and Dar: "Impactsof Active Labor Market Programs: New Evidencefrom Evaluations,
   withparticular reference to Developingand Transition Countries" (World Bank, 2004).

27 See Birks Sinclair: Labor Markets in Bosnia and Herzegovina, 2002 for survey results of the unemployedfromboth
   Entities. The results are supportedby the community assessmentcarried out with SOTACfinancing in2002-2003.

                                                        19



     consistent with fiscal realities and administrative capacity of the employment services. A framework
     for revisedprograms has been developed with Entityand cantonal employment services, and they are
     usingthis as abasis for further programdevelopment. 28
     the State o f BHhas enacted legislationto establish a State level Labor Agency with mandateto handle
    the international obligations of BHinthe labor field. The legislation outlines its mandate and
     organizational structure, identifies financing sourcesfor the Agency, andprovides for closure of the
     former BHEmployment Bureau. Staffing has been done and the Agency has commenced operations.


D. PensionandDisabilityprograms:            *'

5 1.     Current situation:        With support under the PFSACs, EntityGovernments have gradually
reformed the entitlements within the PAYGOpension systems inBH. At the same time, cashrationing
introducedinto the pensions systems in2001remains the key policy tool for ensuring that core pensions
spending doesnot exceed pensioncontributions. This is particularly the case inRS, where monthly
pensions are 78 percent o f legal entitlements currently. While there i s need for structuralpolicyreform in
the pensionsystem, work onmedium-term reforms only started inlate 2003, supportedunder the Social
Insurance Technical Assistance Project (SITAP). Inthe meantime, there are a range o f implementation
issues inthe current pensionand disability systems which are inneed o f urgent attention.

52.      Inadditionto entitlementreforminthePAYGOsysteminrecent years, institutionalreforms ofthe
FBHpensionsystemwere introducedfrom2001, withthe consolidationofthe previously ethnically-based
pension systems into a unifiedFederationPensionand InvalidFund(PIO). However, while significant
consolidationhas beenachieved, parallelism has continuedinpensions administration, including in
employer reporting on social contributions and IT systems. Inaddition, administrative control of the
database o f social contributions for all BHfi-om 1970-1992 and for Bosniak areas o fFBHfrom 1992 was
lost, as aresult of an illegal transfer to private ownership o f the agency (ERC-ZPO) which manages the
social contributions IT systems and database. As aresult, the extra-budgetary funds which financed all
investments inthe agency and have full share ownership have beenrequiredto pay hundreds of thousands
of KMmonthly for access to their own data.

53.      A further issue inthe BHpensionsystemis howto handle inter-Entity pension issues. This is
particularly important for pensionpayment obligations for pensioners who have made pension
contributions duringtheir workmg lives inone Entity(or, before the war, on the territory o f one o ftoday's
Entities), but are now resident inthe other Entityor have receivedtheir initial pensionauthorizationfrom
the other Entity. The problem i s not an easy one to resolve, given that the current Entitypension
jurisdictions were handledon a unifiedbasis pre-war under the SFRY BosnianRepublic pension system. At
the same time, they arenot legally separatejurisdictions inthe manner regulatedbyinternational social
security agreements. To date, the problem hasbeenhandledby the pension authorities o f the ethnic group
of the pensioner paying the pensionwithin that Entity's system. However, with the continuing disparity in
Entitypensionlevels, there havebeensuccessful claims inthe court system andthrough the BHHuman
RightsChamber for compensationbythose who made their contributions onthe territory ofwhat is now the
Federationbut are receiving (lower) RS pensions. The solution o f a unifiedBHpension system-while
desirable ina number o f ways -does not appear to be a realistic possibility inthe short term, though


28 See BosniaandHerzegovinaLabor Market Programs:Information to Users (June 2003).

29 For more information, see PEIRpensions section; Disability Programs and Policies in BH (World Bank, 2001), and
  modeling results from 2002; and "Policiesfor Persons withDisabilities", report o f 10sPartners (May 2003).

                                                          20



harmonizationo f Entitysystems and the formulation o f ajoint pensionstrategy may facilitate sucha reform
inthe mediumterm.

54.      An additional emergingissue inbothEntitiesis social contributions arrearsfrom firms, with
pensions contributions the biggest item. As privatization and enterprise restructuringprogress, concerns
are growing on the pension entitlements o f dismissedworkers inbankruptedfirms whose social
contributionshavenot beenmade insome cases since before the war. They are not entitled to accrual of
work history andpensionrights for the periods of unpaidcontributions, even incases where non-payment
bythe employer occurredwithout the workers' knowledge. BothGovernments aretryingto addressthe
situation as an urgent social and economic matter as part o f finalizing Social Programs for dismissed
workers, which is a key union demand for supporting bankruptcies.

55.      Disability programs inBHinclude cashand in-kindbenefits, as well as services. The programmix
comprises: (i) insurance benefits under pension and invalidinsurance; (ii)
                 social                                                                 programs and benefits for
disabled war veterans; (iii)   benefits for civil victims o f war; and (iv) benefits for children and adults with
disabilities inthe social assistance system. As a result of the war, the total proportion o fpersonswith
disabilities i s higher inBHthan inany other country inEurope. Overall, about one out o f every 10potential
workers have a disability. Despite this, the system for assessingdisability is outdated and implemented in
inconsistent fashion acrossprograms and across different areas o f each Entity. There i s also substantial
anecdotal evidence o f abuses inthe system, with informal payments to assessingdoctors considered to be
common. The result i s a series o f disability programs which consume significant resources but continue to
include unjustifiedbeneficiariesand may exclude deservingclaimants.

56.      Reform objectives and SOSACIImeasures: SOSAC 11supports improved functioning o f the
existing pension and disability systems, including improvedcoordination betweenthe Entities. It also
supports mediumterm policyreforms towards a harmonized pensions policies throughout BH, with
technical support under the Social Insurance Technical Assistance Project (SITAP).

57.      The keypension and disability measures supported under SOSAC I1are as follows:

    for bothEntities, an important short-termmeasurehas been arriving at an inter-entity agreement on
    pensions-in-service which i s then adheredto. Giventhe growing number o f legal cases, the Entity
    authorities have agreed a Memorandum ofUnderstanding on the basic principles guidingthe cross-
    Entitypension entitlements. Regardless ofthe choice made it mustbethe recognizedthat some benefits
    will be unavoidably lower thanpensioners' expectation andlor rightfulentitlement.
    an inventory of social contribution arrears inagreedpriority enterprises has beenprepared inorder to
    establish the stock o f dues collectable. Based on this, bothEntityGovernments are tryingto formulate
    policy on the treatment o f work periods uncovered by employer contributions. The policy should
    minimize adverse incentives to future compliance.
    inFBH,there aretwo additionalmeasuressupported: (i)            approval o f the Statute o f the mergedFBH
    PIO, which allows for regularizationo f staffing and other organizational aspects o f the Fund; and
    (ii)clarification o f the legal status and ownership o f ERC-ZIP0 inthe form o f a Government decision.
    The purpose o f the decision i s to increase government control over the data ERC-ZIPO manages and
    the institution's operational decisions.
    the specific category o f civil victims o f war   - who FBHare
                                                            in           a group that presently "falls between the
    cracks" of different levels o f government wouldbe apriority group for Entitylevel financing of
                                                   -
    benefits, as is already the case inthe RS. As their number is limited, this i s a sustainable fiscal burden.
    The FBHGovernment has approvedand submitted to Parliamentamendments to the relevant
    legislationto reformthe entitlements structure and financing arrangements for this group.

                                                         21



     the second tranche program for SOSAC I1supports development and approval o f new disability
     assessmentrulebooks for veterans'lcivil victims o f war programs and childhood disability. This has
     beenpreceded by formation o fworking groups and technical reference groups.


E. Frameworkfor oDerationofNGOslthirdsector:

58.       Inthe socialprotectionsysteminBH,therole ofthe thirdsector isevolving fromahumanitarian
role to that o f more typical civil society organizations which are increasingly local. There are a multitude
o f third sector organizations registered inBH,ranging fi-om NGOs to veterans associations to humanrights
advocacy groups to service providers. These groups are recognized for their ability to service the
population, often with programs than can be tailored to the needs of different beneficiary groups. This
work i s being supported under the SOTAC, through NGOlCSW activities designed to promote cooperation
between the municipal Centers for Social Work and local thirdsector organizations. However, there
remainquestions about the sustainability o f the local third sector, particularly as donor support scales back.

59.      Reform objectives and SOSACIImeasures:              The objective o freforms supported under SOSAC
IIistoensureaclearandsupportivelegalframeworkfortheoperationofNGOslthirdsectororganizations
inBH. This includesappropriate tax provisionsto promote sustainabilityofthe domestic thirdsector.
Important steps were taken inthis process duringSOSAC IIpreparationwith approval o f harmonized
legislation by the State of BHand bothEntities for registration and mutual recognitiono f NGOs throughout
BH. 30 SOSAC IIsupports the following additional measures:

e    both Entitieshave approved satisfactory implementing regulations for their NGOlegislation.
0    withinthe broader overhaulof profit tax legislation, bothEntitieswould includeprovisions inthe new
     legislationon taxation o f third sector organizations which allow for favorable tax treatment inline with
     that commonly found for the not-for-profit sector inEuropean countries. This would provide that
     economic activities o fNGOslthirdsector organizations which are relatedto their core activities receive
     favorable tax treatment, and that donations to such organizations attract favorable treatment. Such
     provisions shouldpromote more sustainable financing o f the thirdsector.

F. Livingstandards monitoring:

60.      Current situation: The ability to produce statistics needed for design, implementation and
evaluation of economic and social policy inBHhas been damagedby the war andtransition. Three
institutions are formally responsible for statistics inthe country, two entity level institutes and a State level
agency. The statistical offices have limited capacity to produce the range o f statistics necessaryfor policy-
makers, and coordination betweenthem has beenhamperedbylack o f a legal framework. The areathat has
been especially hardhitby the war is data collection at the householdlevel. Finally, the linkbetween data
generation and policy formulation i s underdeveloped andinneedo f strengthening.

61.      Reform objectives and SOSACIlprogram: With support from the Bank and other donors, the
Statistical Institutes have made major progress inimplementation of a representative household survey,
basedon the LivingStandards Measurement Surveys (LSMS). The first representative post-war survey
was completed in2001.The profile and data analysis have been critical inputsto MTDS development.



30 See consultant report of Bater and Golubovic: Bosnia and Herzegovina: Report on NGO Fiscal Framework (2002).

                                                        22




62.      SOSAC 11supports improvedhousehold level data inseveral ways. First, the programsupports
initiation by the Statistical Instituteso f a Household Budget Survey in2004 and the completion o f field
work prior to second tranche. Second, the SOSAC IIacknowledges completion o f the first and second
panelrounds of the LSMS. Third, the program supports household survey results from the Statistical
Institutes beingfreely available to the public for researchand analysis. Thishas been done with the LSMS
under a DataUsers Agreement, and is expected with subsequentsurvey data. Fourth, the programsupports
the ongoing work o f the Data User Groups, inorder to maximize the links betweendata collection, data
users, andpolicy development. Fifth, the programsupports preparations for the first post-war Labor Force
Survey, expected to be initiated inlate 2005. Finally, the State level cabinet o f Ministers has recently
approved the first post-war Law on Statistics, which will regulate data collection and inter-Entity
cooperation on statistics. This i s expected to be approved by the BHparliamentprior to secondtranche.

G. PublicInformationon socialpolicv:

63.      Current situation:         Untilrecently, effortsbyGovernment inbothEntitiesto consult withand
familiarize the population about policy objectives and trade-offs insocialpolicy reformhave been limited
and uncoordinated. Thishas often allowed specific interest groups to dominate public debate with biased
or factually incorrect information. Ifcomprehensive social protection reformis to succeed, the
Governments needto informand persuadethe public of their reformobjectives more effectively. Just as
importantly, policy formulation needs to be better informedbypublic opinion andpriorities.

64.      Reform objectives and SOSACIlprogram:             The Governments o fbothEntitieshave made
significant steps inthe past year to improve the situation. First,the MTDS process has involved
widespread consultationwith a range o f civil society actors onboththe general direction o f Government
policy and specific areas o f social policy such as pensions, veterans' programs, and employment programs.
As a result, different stakeholders are increasinglyaware that Governments mustbalancemultipledemands
on limitedpublic resources. Intandem with the MTDSconsultations, the Governments carriedout in2003
a public consultation and information campaign on social policyreformtitled "40 Days o fDialogue on
Social Reforms". The key issues and messages for the campaign were based on a community assessment to
understand community priorities and concerns insocial policy reform. The findings of the community
assessment are outlined inAnnex 8, and show a strong degree of consistency with the policy directions of
the MTDS,and are supported under SOSAC II.

65.     While these arepositive developments, the more important mediumterm needi s for sustained
capacity withinGovernment andkey ministries for public information and consultation. This has inthe
past beennon-existent inline ministries. New Laws on Ministries inbothEntities require an external
relations capacity to be established inall ministries, butthis has been slow to happen inpracticeinthe
social policy area. SOSAC 11supports appointment o f designated staff for this purpose inthe relevant line
ministries prior to second tranche, and there i s TA under SITAP to strengthen the skills o f these staff.


                                  V. THE PROPOSEDCREDIT

A. Rationale for Bank Involvement:

66.     The Bank has beenclosely involved in social policyreforms inBHsince the conflict. Initially this
was done under the Emergency Recovery Credit, which supported an interimcash transfer mechanism for
the poorest. SOSAC Isupported preliminary steps inreformof the safety net through promoting greater
transparency insafety net operation and information, and initial policy development. However, it was

                                                        23


consideredthat support for reforms inlabor markets were the more urgentpriority at the time in 1999-2000,
inlightofhighunemploymentlevels, strongrigiditiesinthelabormarket, andthe needto makelabor
policy more conducive to attractingdomestic and foreign investment. Given the progress on that agenda, it
wasjudged by the State and Entitygovernments and the Bankthat the time was appropriate under SOSAC
11to focus onacoherent reformofcashtransfer programs.

67.      The Bank is considered an importantpartner indesign and implementation o freforms inthe social
protectionfield. The comparative advantage i s drivenby: (i)    analytical capacity for understanding transfer
programs and their linkage to the wider fiscal agenda and poverty profile, as seen inthe P E E andPoverty
Assessment; (ii)  mix oflendinginstruments which allow parallelsupport for rationalizationofveterans'
benefits, andpromotion o f employment opportunities for demobilized soldierslveterans under the Pilot
Emergency Labor RedeploymentProject; (iii)       the close partnership with the Bank inthe context of MTDS
preparationand implementation; (iv) the capacity of the Bank to mobilize support form other donors behind
policy reforrns which are politicallychallenging; and (v) complementarity with the IMFprogram, ensuring
that proposed reforms are consistent with the evolving fiscal stance.

68.      SOSAC IIpreparationhasbeen supportedbythe Social Sector Technical Assistance Credit
(SOTAC) o fUS$3.9 million equivalent. The Credit was approved at the same time as SOSAC Ito provide
support to the implementation agenda under SOSAC1and technical assistanceto informdesign of SOSAC
II.TheuseofcompanionTAcreditsforsocialpolicyadjustmentloansisincreasinglycommonthroughout
the ECA region, and the BHauthorities endorsedsuch an approach inBank adjustment lendingduringthe
last CAS discussions. Details of the SOTAC are provided inAnnex 9.

B. Benefits andRisks

69.      BeneJils:       The mainbenefits of the operation would be:


0   Reorientationo f the structure o f social transfer spending inBHaway from entitlement-based programs
     for those frequently not inneed (particularly inveterans' programs) to those most inneed (particularly
    those receiving social welfare benefits and services).
0   Reductioninthe fiscal pressure from transfer programs, which shouldpromote more sustainable social
    protection spending.
0    Contribution- particularly inFBH- to a more effective division o froles and responsibilitiesinsocial
    protection ineach Entity,by promoting financing and institutional arrangements where financing and
    implementationcapacities are more closely aligned.
0   Promotingequity of coverage o f social protectionprograms within the Entities and harmonizationof
    entitlement structures betweenEntities.
e   Promoting accountability o f the Government to the general public on social protectionissues, including
    greater involvement o fNGOs and civil society insocial welfare provision.
0   Encouraging a greater role for the State level insocialpolicy, inparticular inthe labor and NGO fields,

70.      Risks:   SOSAC 11is a highriskoperation. The mainrisks o f the proposedoperation are:


0   The political economy o f the reforms supported i s challenging. The veteran populationwho are
    perceived as "losers" are a well-organized lobby, as are firms who have benefitedfrom credit
     from employment programs. Incontrast, beneficiaries such as social welfare clients, the
    unemployed, and severely disabled veterans are often fragmented andwithout political voice. The
    implementation risks o f the reforms can not be eliminatedand will remain significant. However,
    they arebeingmitigatedby continued engagementwith veterans' organizations by Entity

                                                          24



    governments and the Bank, public informationon social policy reforms, and closely coordinated
    policy support from key actors inthe internationalcommunity. The reformagenda i s also
    consistent with the MTDS.
    The macroeconomic position of BHremains fragile, and vulnerable to external shocks, such as
    lower than expected foreign investment, slower than expectedrecoveryamong trading partners,
    and insufficient supply response fromthe domestic economy to rising export opportunities. The
    macroeconomic risks are compounded by fiscal risks, among others relatedto the pending
    settlement o f domestic claims.
    The technical capacity o f local counterparts suggests that there will be an ongoing need for
    technical support from Bank teams.
    Forparts o fthe agenda, coordination betweenEntitiesand efforts to havejoint or harmonized
    policies may face challenges. This riski s beingmitigatedby strong efforts to havejoint or
    parallelpolicy development through initiatives such asjoint working groups andregular inter-
    Entityconsultation. The MTDSmonitoringprovides anongoing focus for these efforts.

C. Coordinationwith the IMFandother donors

71.      The SOSAC 11has benefitedthroughout its preparation from close collaboration with the TMF. The
SBA program, worth 94.2 million SDR, was recently concluded. Uponthe authorities' request, it is
envisaged that the Fundwouldprovide further support to BH's medium-termmacroeconomic program
through an ExtendedFundFacility. The Programsupported by the SOSAC IIi s fully consistent and
coordinated with the reforms proposed to be supportedby the EFF.

72.      Several bilateral donors, most notably DFID, areproviding technical assistanceto BHinthe area of
social policy. The Bankhas liaised closely with donors to ensure broadagreement onreformpriorities,
including parallel financing from bilaterals on SOTAC activities. Donorpartners agreedat the
identification workshop that SOSAC I1would provide a framework for channelingthe efforts of donors
towards priority reforms and institutional strengthening insocial policy. Duringpreparation, close links
have beenmaintained with partners, inparticular DFIDand the OHR. OHR has lent considerable political
support to the authorities inimplementingthe politicallychallengingreforms supported by SOSAC II.


D. NepotiationsandBoardConditions. Tranche Triggers andSuDervision

73.      The overall programsupported by the proposed Credit i s outlined inthe Letter o fDevelopment
Policy (Annex 5), andperformance benchmarks are set out inthe PolicyReformMatrix (Annex 6). The
conditions which have been met prior to Negotiations andBoard Presentation andto be met prior to second
tranche release are outlined below. Inaddition to the specific Conditions, the State andbothEntities must
maintainan adequate macroeconomic framework for release o fboththe first and second tranches.

1. Conditions to be met prior to BoardPresentation(including Condition ofNegotiations):

(a)      Condition of Negotiations:

Both Entities:
                                                                                                                 31
0   Enactment by EntityParliaments o fnew veterans' benefit legislation satisfactory to the Association.


31 Satisfactory legislation would: (i)
                                     control the number o fbeneficiaries inlower categories; (ii) for revision o f
                                                                                               provide
   beneficiaries to exclude unjustifiedclaimants; (iii)
                                                     introduce provisions inlegislation to ensure that benefit
   obligations cannot exceed available budgetaryresources; (iv) ensure indexation o fbenefits does not exceedthe

                                                             25



@)       Conditions of BoardPresentation:

Stateof BH:
    Enactment by BHParliament o f Law on Labor and Employment Agency o f BHwhich establishes State
    level Labor Agency, satisfactory to the Association.         32


Both Entities:
0   External financial audit andbusinessprocessreviewof EntityEmployment Institute completed in
    manner satisfactory to the Association.
0   Employment InstituteBoard to adopt new internal procedures o f EntityEmployment Instituteswhich
    respondto findings o f the audit and businessprocessreview ina manner satisfactory to the
    Association.
0   EntityEmployment Institutenot administeringnewenterprise credit programs.
0   EntitylineMinistries to approve and submit to theirrespective Governments aMemorandumof
    Understanding satisfactory to the Association for mutual recognitiono fpensionpayment obligations
    whenbeneficiaries' contribution history andresidenceor placeofpensionauthorizationdiffer.
0   Public information and consultation campaign on objectives and directions o f social policy reform
    completed.
0   Representative Household Budget Survey initiated incooperation with State StatisticalAgency.

Federation of BH:
0   Cantonal employment services established inall cantons and fully operational.
0   Government to approve decision satisfactory to the Association which resolves status of ERC-ZIP0
    and asserts Government ownership and control o f social insurance contributions data.
0   Submission to Parliamento f amendmentsto the Law on Social Protection, Protection of Civil Victims
    o fWar and Protection o f Families with Children which are satisfactory to the Ass~ciation.~~




RepublikaSrpska:


   increase inthe cost o fliving and is subject to budgetary resources; (v) eliminate customs or tax exemptionrights in
   Entitybasedonveterans' legislation; (vi) require disability or death ofthe veteran be directly relatedto military
   service for military invalid and survivor family benefits; (vii) reduce parentalbenefits where other means o f support
   exist (e.g. pension; employment); (viii) a narrower definition o f survivor families, and strengthenconditions for
   discontinuation o fnuclear family benefits where alternative means o f support exist; (ix) no budget-financed monthly
   benefits and entitlements for non-disabled veterans to be granted by Entity veterans' legislation; (x) provide for
   healthinsurance and co-payment exemptions only inmanner consistent with health insurance legislation; (xi)
   eliminate incrementalclaims for nonmaterial damage; and (xii) inFBH, unifythe veterans' benefit regime and
   admirustration for both military components.


32 This would require appropriate provisions on: (i)   mandate o fbody; (ii) proposed financing source and scale; and(iii)
   proposed organization and staffing; and (iv) clear termination o fthe former BHEmployment Bureau.
33 Satisfactory amendments to include: (i) assuming financing o f core civil victims o fwar benefits, with
                                            Entity
   possibility for cantonal extension; (ii)provisions for survivor family benefits, that the death o f a military invalidbe
   directly related to the injury, and reduction o f survivor family benefits where other means o f support exist; (iii)
   provisions imposing a sustainable fiscal burden on Entitybudget andnot assuming cantonal arrears; (iv) provisions
   ensuring that all benefit payments are final and generate no arrears; (v) indexation provisions limitingbenefit
   growth to changes inthe cost o fliving, subject to budgetaryavailability; and(vi) entitlement structure inline with
   new veterans' benefit legislation.

                                                             26



e   Parliamentto enact amendmentsto Law on Social Protectionwhich are satisfactory to the
     Association.34

2. Second tranche conditions:

State and both Entities:
e    Joint PensionPolicy adoptedby State and EntityGovernments which i s satisfactory to the
     A~sociation.~~

Both Entities:
    Enactment o f social protection legislation which is satisfactory to the A~sociation.~~
    The database and client registry of social welfare beneficiaries and expenditures i s operational inall areas
    andlinkedto EntityMinistry.
    Entities implementing the approved MOUfor recognition o fpensionpayment obligations when
    beneficiaries' contributions history and residence or place o fpensionauthorization are different ina
    manner satisfactory to the Association.        31

    Average monthly budgetary execution for veterans'benefits in first half2005 Entitybudgets does not
    exceedthe nominal averagemonthly execution for 2004.
    Revisiono f status o f military invalids and family beneficiaries inveterans' benefit system completed in
    a manner satisfactory to the Association.        38

    External audits o f EntityPension and InvalidInsurance Funds completed on 2004 accounts inmanner
    satisfactory to the Association.
    Government to approve new Policy on Active Labor Market Programs which is satisfactory to the
    Association.    39




34 Satisfactory would include: (i) adequate share o f municipal budgets allocatedto social welfare; (ii) sector
                                                                                                          NGO
   included as potential service provider; (iii) guaranteedhealth coverage for regular social assistancebeneficiaries;
   and (iv) adjustment o fbase for social assistancebenefits to fiscally supportable level.

35 Satisfactory to include: (i) goals o fthe pension system; (i) method o f assessingbenefitsbased onpast and
                               the                                   the
   future contribution histories; (iii)
                                      the methods and timeframe o fharmonizing pensionassessment rules; and (iv) the
   mainprinciples guiding the formation of the hturepension system.

36 Satisfactory law would include: (i) d e f i t i o n o froles andresponsibilities insocial welfare fmancing and
                                       clear
   provision at different levels of system; (ii)rationalized scope o frights inEntitylaw to focus on core social
   welfareichild protectionbenefits and services capable ofprovision throughout the Entity; (iii)    financing identified
   for at least one social welfare benefit to be paidfrom the Entitybudget ineach Entity, and this obligation reflected
   inlegislation; (iv) revisedtargeting criteria for benefit eligibility incore programs; (v) provisions to require and
   promotepartnership betweenpublic andnon-government sectors insocial welfare service provision; and (vi)
   provisions oncivil victims o fwar that are consistent inFBHwith amendments submittedto Parliament for first
   tranche, and inRS consistent both withother relevant parts o fRS social programs.


37 Satisfactory would include: (i) discontinuing the 2000 inter-Entity pension agreement by January 2005; (ii)    binding
   arrangementsfor returnee pension payments functioning effectively; and (iii)      adequateprogress on arrangementsfor
   State Compensation Scheme for pensions.

38 Satisfactory would include: (i) verification o f entitlement to receive benefits inaccordance withthe relevant Entity
   Law; (ii) hctioningintegrated beneficiary database inplace withup-to-date revised beneficiary data; (iii) FBH, in
   review of first instance decisions inaccordance withprocedures o fthe Supervision Commission; (iv) inFBH, first
   and secondinstance revisionbodies to revise decisions based on Supervision Commission findings.

                                                             27



     Adoption o f new rulebooks for assessmentof disability inveterans and civil victims of war programs
     and programs for children with disabilities which are satisfactory to the Association.            40
     Provisionsenacted inprofit tax legislation for favorable tax treatment o fNGOsinspecified
     circumstances which are satisfactory to the Association.        41


E. Project ManaPementIssues

74.      Administrative Arrangements:            The State Ministryo f Trade and Foreign Economic Relations
(MFTER) would beresponsible for overallprogramcoordinationofthe Credit onbehalf ofBH,the
Borrower, with financial management at the State level handledby the BHMinistry o f Finance and
Treasury. EachEntity'sMinistryo f Finance would beresponsible for administeringthe pre-allocated funds
from the Credit. Inorder to promote coherenceinthe agenda, overall work on socialprotection has been
coordinated by the highlevel Steering Group which was responsible for developing the MTDS. This
includes representatives fiom bothEntitiesandthe State and a working group on social sector reforms.

75.      Disbursement: The Creditwouldbe disbursed intwo tranches of SDR 16.3 million (equivalent to
USD24 million) and SDR 18.4million(equivalent to USD27 million) to aDepositAccount ofthe Stateat
the Central Bank o f BH. Disbursement would be made inEuros equivalent to the SDR amount of the
above tranches. The equivalent inEuro will be deposited into a dedicated Deposit Account of the State at
the CentralBank o fBH.The entire amount o f all disbursements will be transferred from the StateDeposit
Account to the deposit account sub-accounts o f the Entities inthe Central Bank and then transferred to
budgetary accounts o f the Entities incommercial banks, following apercentage split between the Entities
agreedat Negotiations. Fundrelease would be subject to satisfactory reviewby IDA o f the implementation
o f the adjustment programas a whole, and the fulfillment o f specific tranche conditions. Disbursements
will notbe linked to specific purchases, thus evidence will notbe neededto support disbursements,nor will
procurement requirements be necessary. Ifafter the Credit proceeds are deposited inthe CentralBank
account, the proceeds are usedfor ineligible purposes as defined inthe credit agreement, IDA will require
the borrower to either: (a) returnthat amount to the Deposit Account for use for eligible purposes or (b)
refundthe amount directly to IDA.Proceedsofthe Credit will beusedfor approved usesonly. The
Borrower will comply with standard reporting requirements o f adjustment credits. The Associationwill
exercise its right to receive audit reports on the Deposit Account after each disbursement.

76.      MonitoringArrangements: Implementationo fthe programwould be monitoredby a Committee
composedo f the representatives o f the StateMFTER, Ministryo f Civil Affairs, and Finance and Treasury
andthe EntityMOFs. The MTDSsocial sector working groupwould also act as a key inter-Entity body for
monitoring and coordinating implementation o f the reformagenda supportedby SOSAC II.Monitoring




39 Satisfactory policy would promote mix o fALP which prioritize cost-effective interventions, discontinue credit
    programs, and allow for regular monitoringand evaluationo fprogram impact.

40 Satisfactory rulebooks would provide for: (i) discretion to assessors; (ii)
                                                  little                           minimise medical evidence to be
    collectedprior to assessment; (iii) detailed information and examples onmedical conditions andrules on
                                        provide
    diagnosis, andhow to conduct assessments. (iv) require use o fthe International Classificationo fFunctioning,
    Disability and Health; (v) contain specific requirements that assessors declare any conflicts o f interest andmake the
    assessor withdraw where conflict exists; and (vi) provide severepenalties for applicants who provide false
    pathology and assessorswho are provento be corrupt.

41 Satisfactory would provide that economic activities o fNGOsJthird sector organizations which are relatedto their
    core activities receive favorable tax treatment, and that donations to such organizations attract favorable treatment.

                                                      28


and evaluation o f progress would bebasedon inputs from participatingministries and institutions. IDA
would monitor performancethrough review of Committee reports and regular supervision missions.

77.      In terms o f financial monitoring, the Bankhas guidelines on financial managementrequirements in
adjustment operations which are to be appliedto the proposed Credit. The Government will maintain
accountsand records, or ensure that such items are maintained, showing that credit disbursementswere in
accordance with provisions o f the Credit Agreement. Such accounts andrecords will be maintained ina
form acceptable to the Association. The external auditor will conduct an annual audit of the deposit account
openedby the Borrower inthe Central Bank to exclusively holdthe Credit proceeds. The terms of
reference o f the audit were agreedat negotiations. The audit will examine andreport on the disbursements
&om the deposit account until such time that all the credit proceeds have been fully utilized. Such audits
will be submitted to the Association as soon as they are completed. The Association may require a more
extensive audit o f such records by independent auditors. The Bank will complement its increasedemphasis
on borrower public financial management inits analybc work and lending programwith stronger reporting
and auditing arrangements over the disbursements of adjustment loan proceeds. These controls arenot
intendedto restrict or prescribe the usesto whichadjustment loanproceeds funds may be appliedby
borrowers. They are rather intendedto provide assurance that Bank funds have arrived at their intended
destination, have been used inthe first instance for their intendedpurpose of providing balance of payments
and fiscal support, andwill be subject to Borrower processesfor managingpublic resources which are
knownto and can be reviewedbyboththe Bank and the Fund.

78.      Inrecognitionofthe perceptionthat corruptionisrelatively highinBHandstudiesthat indicate
weak financial accountability and controls, the authorities have initiated action to addresstransparency
issues. Both the National Anticomption Action Plan, adopted in2002, andthe anticorruption chapter inthe
MTDShighlightthe regulationofconflict ofinterest.      42 Among the priority areas that were highlightedby
the BEEPS-2, public procurementemerged as an area needingurgent attention. Support for the public
expenditure management reformbasedupon CFAA, PEIR and CPAR findings is an important element of
the companion EMSACcredit.

79.      Interms ofallocation ofCreditproceeds,discussionsbetweenthe two Entitiesandthe State at
Negotiations agreedan allocation betweenthe EntityGovernments of two thirds to the Federation and one
thirdto RS. Entityallocationswould be managedthrough sub-credit agreementsbetweenthe Statelevel
MinistryofFinance andTreasury, andthe MOFofeachEntity.

80.      The ClosingDate for the project would be June 30,2006.

F. PovertvImplications:

81.      The reforms supported by the proposed SOSAC IIshould have an important effect on poverty
alleviation inBH, primarilythrough supporting a major reorientationof cash transfer programs. The
programwould support rationalization and expenditure control on veterans' programs, which on average
are poorly targeted and not coordinated with other parts o f the safety net. This would be accompaniedby an
increasedemphasis on social welfare and childprotectionprograms which with the necessaryfinancing and
targeting reforms supported under SOSAC 11will bebetter targeted on the most needy, including the
disabled. Inaddition to these reforms, the ongoing work on survey data would contribute to the ability of



42 Both the NationalAction Planand the MTDS drew heavily on the results ofBosnia and Herzegovina-Diagnostic
   Surveys of Corruption,undertakenwith the supportofthe World Bank.

                                                       29


the authorities to monitor living standardsand adjust public programs inlight of the evolving poverty
profile and incidence analysis o f the safety net.

82.      Itis important to notethat redistributionofspendingaway fromwar veteranswith low levels of
disability and survivor families with other means of support i s likely to have apositive distributional effect.
The Poverty Assessment notes that beneficiaries of the veterans' system on average are better of than the
rest of the populationwith the current benefit system, At the same time, itnotes that segments of the
beneficiary population would be significantly worse off than average without the support of the benefit
system.  43The reform supportedunder SOSAC 11i s designed with this situation inmindby focusing the
rationalization o f the benefit system on those segments o fthe beneficiary populationwho are least disabled
(andtherefore least likely to be poor), andthose who have alternatives meansof support. While the LSMS
data do not allow for a fine-tuned simulation o fthe impact o fthe veterans' benefitreforms, the available
analysis is reassuring on the poverty impact o fthe reform. To the extent that fiscal reallocationoccurs
towards social welfare programs -as it shouldas a result o f the social welfare financing reforms supported
under SOSAC 11    - the positive effect on the incidence o f transfer programs shouldbe more pronounced.

83.      The operation should also contribute ina more targeted manner to alleviatepoverty, through
supporting the policy and institutional framework andprograms for more effective socialprotection
systems inboth Entities. Available poverty data suggestthat variations inliving standards between and
withinEntitiesareconsiderable, withthepovertyheadcount inthe RSmorethantwice that ofthe
Federation, andpoverty rates insome cantons withinthe Federation several times higher than inothers.
There is therefore a strong case for partial equalization ofbasic social assistancebeing supported under the
operation. While ideally this shouldalso happenacross Entities as well as within them, this i s notjudged
bylocal counterparts to be feasible at thispoint. The work initiated under SOSAC IIondisability programs
should also support a process o f better targeting o fresources within selected programs, so that the most
vulnerable within groups o f special needreceive improved socialprotection.

G. EnvironmentalImpact:

84.      The proposed project is not expected to result inany negative environmental impact. For the
purposes o f OperationalDirective 4.01, it hasbeenreviewed as a category C project, not requiring an
environmental assessment.




43 See Annex 10 which summarizes the relevant Poverty Assessment findings.

                                                                     30


                                            Annex 1: Key Economic Indicators

                           Bosnia and Herzegovina           - Key      Economic Indicators

                                                      ~          ~~~                  ~           ~




                                                          Actual                  Estimate                  Projected
                Indicator                     1999      2000        2001   2002        2003        2004   2005     2006    2007
National accounts (as YOof GDP)
Gross domestic product'                         100       100         100     100         100         100    100      100    100
 Agriculture                                     17        14           13     18          17          17     17       17     17
 Industry                                        30        30          28      37          35         35     36        36     36
 Services                                        53        57          58      45         49          48     47        47     46

Total Consumption                               113       109         113     113         112         111    108       105   102
Grossdomestic fixed investment                   21        21           19     20         20          20     21        21     22
 Government investment                                     11           9       6           5           5     5         4      4
 Privateinvestment                                         10           10     14          15          16     16        17     18


EXPO*   (GNFS)~                                  26        26          26      26          26          28    29        30     31
Imports (GNFS)                                   58        56          58      59          58          59     57       55     54

Grossdomestic savings                           -13         -9         -13    -13         -12         -11     -8        -5     -2
Grossnational savings'                           13          8           3      2           3           5      6         8     11

Memor~ndumitems
Gross domestic product                         4692      4740        5006   5600        7034        8348   9006      9740   10509
(US$ millionat current prices)
GNIpercapita(US%, Atlas method)                1240       1270        1280   1310        1540        1740   1940     2050   2180

Realannual growthrates (%callculated from 1999prices)
 Gross domestic product at marketprices          9.6       5.5         4.4    5.5         3.5         5.1    5.7       5.9    6.2
 Gross DomesticIncome                            9.6       4.5         3.1     1.8        3.3         4.4    4.9       5.5    5.5

Realannualper capita growthrates (%, calculated &om 1996prices)
 Gross domestic productat marketprices           6.5       2.8         2.4    2.4         2.6         3.7    4.8       4.4    4.4
 Total consumption                               2.0      -3.5
 Privateconsumption

Balance of Payments (US%millions)
 EXPO&    (GNFS)~                              1296       1288        1296   1466        1894        2248   2460     2760  '3123
   Merchandise FOB                              744       832         870    1046        1407        1715   1937     2210    2546
 ~mports(GNFS)~                                2770      2742        2899   3316        4083         4630   4863      5148   5460
   Merchandise FOB                             2542      2547        2701    3122        3845        4322   4532     4805    5100
 Resourcebalance                              -1474      -1454       -1603  -1850       -2189       -2382  -2403     -2388  -2337
 Net factor income                              300       253         245     248         332         380    401       454    513
 Net currenttransfers                           284        580        547     566         631         684    670       660    667
 Current accountbalance                        -890       -874       -1056  -1284       -1558       -1698  -1733     -1728  -1670

 Net private foreigndirect investment            90        150         130    230         320         420    540       570    600
 Long-termloans (net)                           147         68          89     84          31         149    108        80     69
  Official                                      147         68          89     84          31         149    108        80     69
  Private
 Other capital(net, incl. errors& omissions)    915       1369         878   1431        1226        1226   1175      1137   1051
 Changeinreserves(increase, -ld                -262       -713         -41   -461         -19         -97    -90       -59    -50

Memorandum items
Resourcebalance(% ofGDP)                       -31.4     -30.7       -32.0   -33.0       -31.1       -28.5  -26.7     -24.5  -22.2
Real annualgrowthrates ( YR96 prices)
 Merchandiseexports (FOB)
  PriltlaIy
  Manufactures
 Merchandiseimports (CIF)

                                                                                                               (Continued)

                                                                       31


                         Bosnia and Herzegovina Key EconomicIndicators
                                                               -
                                                       (Continued)


                                                            Actual                 Estimate           Projected
                 Indicator                    1999       2000        2001    2002   2003     2004   2005     2006   2007

Publicfinance (as % of GDP at marketprice#
 Current revenues                                57.7       53.7       49.7    48.1    46.7    45.8   44.4     43.0   41.7
 Current expenditures                            50.7       49.8       43.9    44.1    41.8    41.1   39.9     38.7   37.5
 Current account surplus (+) or deficit (-)      -8.2      -13.1       -16.2  -18.5    -17.4  -15.8  -14.8    -13.1  -11.0
 Capital expenditure                             14.8        10.9        9.2    6.3     4.5     4.8    4.5      4.2    4.1
 Foreign financing                               14.0        9.7         7.9    5.5     4.2     4.3    1.8      1.1    0.9

Monetary indicators
 M2IGDP                                          25.2       25.6       42.6    43.0    44.5    45.9   43.1     41.2   39.5
 Growtho fM2 ("3)                                39.9        13.9       89.3    7.0      8.3    6.2    4.4      2.5    2.7
 Private sector credit growthI                 193.9        91.6      213.1   110.1     98.3   99.2   99.2     99.2   99.2
 total credit growth(%)

Price indices( YR96 =loo)
 Merchandise export price index
 Merchandise import price index
 Merchandiset e r m o ftrade index
 Real exchange rate (US$/LCU)f

 Real interestrates
 Consumer price index (% change)                   2.8       5.0         3.2    0.3      0.1    0.9    1.7      2.0    2.1
 GDP deflator ("hchange)                           3.8       5.8         2.4    2.1      1.1    1.3    1.9      2.0    2.0



a. GDP at factor cost
b. "GNFS" denotes "goods andnonfactor services."
c. Includes net unrequited transfers excluding official capital grants.
d. Includes useo fIMFresources.
e. Consolidatedcentral government.
f. "LCU" denotes "local currency units." AnincreaseinUS$ILCUdenotes appreciation.

ht
m   0




    ..
    c1

                                       33


                 Annex 3: IFCPortfolioinBosniaandHerzegovina


                            Bosnia and Herzegovina


                                 StatementofIFC's
                             HeldandDisbursedPortfolio
                                 As of2/29/2004


                                         Held                  Disbursed

 FYApproval Company             Loan Equity Quasi Partic Loan Equity Quasi Partic
 1997199101102 Bosnia Micro      3.79     0     0      0  3.79     0    0       0
 2001104       CPB               12.64 5.18     0      0     0     0    0       0
          1997 Enterprise Fund      0  1.95     0      0     0  1.26     0      0
         2002 FCL                12.64    0     0 3.16 12.64       0     0  3.16
         2001 PBS-SPV            13.69 2.31  0.13      0 13.69 2.31   0.13      0
         2002 Raiffeisen-BOS     18.35    0     0      0 10.76     0     0      0
          1998 SEFAkova           1.23    0     0      0  1.23     0     0      0
 1999101       SEF Bosnalijek     1.87    0     0      0  1.87     0     0      0
          1998 SEF Lignosper     2.68     0     0      0  2.33     0     0      0
          1999 SEF Lijanovici     1.45    0     0      0  1.45     0     0      0
          1997 Sarajevska        0.83     0     0      0  0.83     0     0      0
          1998 Wood Agency-AL    5.77     0     0      0     0     0     0      0
               Wood Inga         2.04     0     0      0 0.41      0     0      0
               Wood Konjuh         2.9    0     0      0 2.57      0     0      0
               Wood Kozara       2.04     0     0      0  1.71     0     0      0
               Wood Podgradci     1.39    0     0      0  1.14     0     0      0
              Wood Vrbas         2.04     0     0      0  0.41     0     0      0

          Total Portfolio:       85.35 9.44  0.13  3.16 54.83   3.57  0.13  3.16



           Approvals PendingCommitment
~




                                Loan Equity Quasi Partic
         2002 Lukavac            9.93     0     0  2.48

    Total Pending Commitment:    9.93     0     0 2.48

                                           34


                        Annex 4: Timetable of Key Processing Events



SOSAC IIidentification workshop:        June 2001

Identification Mission:                 September 2001

ICMreview:                              December 2001

Pre-Appraisal:                          May 2003

ROSDecisionMeeting:                     September, 2003

Appraisal departure:                    September 2003

Negotiations:                           April 2004

Boardpresentation:                      June 2004

                                                      35


                          ANNEX 5: Letter of SectoralDevelopmentPolicy
                   Second Social Sector Adjustment Credit to Bosnia and Herzegovina




                                                                              May 12,2004



Mr.J. Wolfensohn
President
World Bank
1818HSt. NW
Washington DC, 20433,
U.S.A.




                          LETTER OF SECTORALDEVELOPMENTPOLICY


Dear Mr.Wolfensohn:

This Letter ofDevelopmentPolicy describesthe maintenets o fthe economic reformprogramo fBosnia
and Herzegovina, including the macroeconomic fi-amework that complements the program, as underscored
inthe recentlycompletedStandby Arrangement withthe InternationalMonetary Fund. Italsooutlines in
detail specific measureswe intendto undertake inthe area o f social policy reform, including veterans'
benefits, social welfare and childprotection, employment programs, pensionand disability programs, and
social statistics. Finally, it outlines the Governments' mediumterm reformplans inthe sector. The
reforms outlined are consistent with our MediumTermDevelopment Strategy (PRSP) recently approved
by State andEntityGovernments. To support implementationof our socialpolicyreforms, the
Governments o f Bosnia and Herzegovina, the Federation o f Bosnia and Herzegovinaand Republika Srpska
request financial assistancefrom the International DevelopmentAssociation under the proposed Second
Social Sector Adjustment Credit.

I. MacroeconomicFramework:

Followinga devastating conflict and the signature o f the Dayton PeaceAgreement inDecember 1995, BH
has made progress inestablishingitselfas amodemandviable state, among others pursuingintegrationon
dual tracks: (i)intemally, through increasedharmonization o f relatively autonomous sub-national entities
while strengthening the coordinatingfunctions o f the BH's institutions; and (ii)
                                                                                externally, by actively
engaging into the Stabilizationand Association Process (SAP)with the EuropeanUnion (EU) as well as
pursuingother avenues o f international integration (Council o fEurope membership, WTO accession, etc.).
While the objectives o f post-conflict reconstruction areperceivedas havingbeen achieved to a large extent,
many challenges relating to economic transition are yet to be fully addressed, inorder for BHto regain
sustainedgrowth inthe economy and reduce unemployment andpoverty. Our agenda for macroeconomic
managementand structural reforms i s detailed inthe MediumTerm Development Strategy (PRSP) that the
State and Entity Governments have recently approved.

                                                       36


BHhaspostedimpressive growthrates since the war (an average 21percent inrealGDP growthbetween
1996and 2003) andper capita GDPhas doubled since the end of the war, buti s still estimated to be only at
two-thirds o f its pre-war level. Immediately following the conflict, growth was mainly spurred by intense
reconstructionandrehabilitation investment inpublic infrastructure andprivate housing. Activity hasbeen
predominantly financedby large and sustainedaid flows. Privatetransfers, which are estimated to have
averaged 13 percent o f GDP over the last five years, have also played an important role infueling domestic
spending. Recent growth has remainedpositive, buthas been falling, mirroringdeclining official aid and
stagnating manufacturing activity. The trend of decreasingaid flows i s likely to continue.

BHhasmanagedto achieve solid growthwithout compromisingmacroeconomic stability. Prudent fiscal
management, and strict adherence to a currency boardarrangementhave been the mainpillars of the
Government's macroeconomic policy, supported by two IMFStandby Arrangements, the secondof which
we successfully completed inFebruary2004. Anchored inthe currency board arrangement, monetary
policy hasbeen successful inrapidly stabilizing inflation, bringingit even below averageEUlevels in
recent years. Regarding fiscal policies, we have been able over the past few years to increase our revenue
collectionperformance, while alleviating the heavy burdenof public spending inthe economy. However,
despite the fiscal adjustment and the decline inreconstructionaid, BH's trade and current account
imbalances remain at unsustainable levels. While we will continue to implementprudent macroeconomic
policies, restoringthe country's competitiveness and reducingthe current account deficit will imperatively
require further progress instructuralreforms.

To date, progress with respect to structuraland institutionalreforms has been achieved mainly inthe areas
o fpublic finance, the financial sector, and foreign trade policy. With respect to public finance, the
introductionof modemtreasury systems at all levels o f government short o fmunicipalities has contributed
to improvedspending discipline. Significant progress was also achieved intax policy andadministration
(including countrywide harmonization and improvedcollection enforcement), andwe have initiated deep
institutionalreforms to prepare the introduction of VAT. We have also increasingly resorted to policy co-
ordination mechanisms between the State and the Entities informulating our policies, For instance, this
cooperationhas greatly facilitated the preparationo f harmonized plans to settle reduce the large overhang
o f domestic claims on our governments. Similarly, State and Entityauthorities have worked closely
together to adopt fundamental reforms insuch areas as defense. However, there remains significant scope
to further rationalize a costly multi-layer government structure, which still absorbs above half of GDP, with
a particular focus on controlling the wage bill inorder to free resources for operations and maintenance and
domestically financed public investment, as well as redirecting our social protection programs to those who
need it the most.

Financial sector reformsuccesses have includedthe early replacement o f payment bureaus with a modem
payment system, the privatization andrestructuring o f most banks at low fiscal cost, the entry ofnew
strategic investors inthe banking sector, and the establishment and gradual strengthening o f the prudential
andregulatory framework. Finally, our trade policy reforms have ledto the adoption o f the most liberal
trade regime in South-Eastem Europe and we have signed bilateral free trade agreementswithnine inthe
Region. However, we remain concerned that this favorable trade environment has not yet materializedin
increasedprivate sector growth and investment or inemployment creation. As we have emphasizedinour
MTDS,this signals the needto accelerate reforms inother areas, inparticular the business environment,
enterprise restructuringand the labor market, where our progress to date has been slower.

While legal frameworks for foreign investment andprivatizationhave been established, enforcement has
beenhamperedby weak implementationcapacity. Privatizationo f small and mediumscale enterprises was
accomplished, buthas resulted indiluted ownership and weak corporate governance. Most o f the large
companies that could attract strategic investors are still state-owned. The business environment has

                                                       37



improved, but obstacles to enterprise creation and bureaucratic hasslesto companies needto be fwher
eliminated. Corporate governance rules needto be changedinorder to provide the right incentives and
obligations to company owners and managers.Finally, BHhas only very recently enactedmodem
bankruptcylegislation so that many loss-making corporations can only now undergo restructuringor
liquidation, and free space for fresh investment and employment growth.

Inthiscontext, our strategic macroeconomic objective isto preserve a stableenvironment that is conducive
to the implementationof the structuralreforms aimedat promoting private domestic savings and
investment. We will continue to implement the currency boardand the associatedprudentmonetary
polices, while our fiscal stance will generatethe necessarypublic sector savings. We will aimat further
reducingthe share ofpublic spending to GDP, by continuing to rationalize programs innon-productive
sectors, while reallocating expenditures to productive investments inhuman and physical capital as well as
targeted social transfers. We will also strictly adhere to the implementation o f the domestic debt settlement
plan inorder to eliminate contingentrisks on our budgets, and free the necessaryfiscal space to accompany
potential short-term social costs of the neededstructural reforms. These structuralreforms will focus on
accelerated enterprise restructuring, including throughprivatization andbankruptcy, and on labor market
reforms, which will bothcontribute to improvedcompetitiveness andthe generation o fproductivejobs.

11.      Key Social Policy Reforms

A key objective o four reforms is to promote moreeffective socialpolicy inBH,bothin terms ofequity
andefficiency o fpublicprograms. This is an areawhere the transition fromthe humanitarianphaseof
post-war recovery to sustainable development presentsacute challenges. Itwill require a significant
reorientationo f our social safety net andother socialprograms to ensure that the needs ofthe poorest are
met ina manner that doesnotjeopardize fiscal discipline. Achieving morepro-poor public spendingwill
requirereforms onmany fronts, and the policy agenda supportedunder the Second SocialProtection
Adjustment Credit (SOSAC II)     supports several key measures. These are outlined below, and include:

     withinthe broader context ofimplementing our first MediumTermDevelopment Strategy (PRSP), we
     intendto focus more closely onreformof cashtransfer programs,
     overhaulingour social welfare and childprotectionprograms, to ensure that they are given adequate
     funding, that entitlements arerestructured andprioritizedinamanner consistent with current fiscal
     realities, andthat financing arrangements are re-designed to ensure basic protection for the poorest
     wherever resident.
     reforming our veterans' benefit programs, to reduce their share inpublic spendingwhile continuingto
     protect the needs o f the most disabled veterans and vulnerable survivor families.
     promoting effective andtransparent employment services, through institutional andpolicy reformof
     employment programs, from international cooperation at the State leveldown to the operations of
     local services.
     consolidatingthe policy framework for operationof the public pension and disability systems inboth
     Entities,including improvedfunctioning o f inter-Entity pensionrelations andreviseddisability
     assessmentprocedures.
     increasing our engagement with civil society insocial policy throughbetter public information and
     consultation, and promoting sustainable partnerships betweenpublic and non-government sectors in
     social services for the most vulnerable.
     ensuringthat living standardsmonitoring i s done more effectively and informs policy making.

                                                        38


Poverty focused economic policy

The Governments o f the State andbothEntities approved our first MTDSinearly 2004. This forms the
basis o f ourjoint medium term economic development strategy for BH. The MTDSemphasizesthe need
for employment intensive growth as the primary vehicle ofpoverty alleviation. At the same time, it
acknowledges that public spendingmust continue to be directed towards those unable to benefit from
growth for a variety of reasons. A key messageof the MTDSi s the needto reform the existing systemof
cash transfers towards greater emphasisonprograms for the most poor and vulnerable. BothEntities
presently spend a large share on cashtransfers. These need to be bothreduced inthe aggregate, and better
targeted on the poor across the board. This also involves aredistribution from spending on veterans
programs to social welfare and childprotection which i s relatively underfunded, and adoptingnew
legislationwithrealistically financeable entitlements.

Untilrecently, our effortsto consultwithandfamiliarize thepopulationaboutpolicyobjectives andkey
trade-offs insocial policy reformhave beenlimitedand uncoordinated. This has often allowed specific
interest groups to dominate public debatewith biased or factually incorrect information. We realize the
needto informthe public o f the key objectives o f social policyreforms more effectively ifcomprehensive
socialprotectionreformis to succeed. Just as importantly, policy formulation needs to bebetter informed
bypublic opinion andpriorities.

We have recently made significant steps to improve the situation. First,the MTDSprocesshas involved
widespread consultation with a range o f civil society actors onboththe general direction o f Government
policy and specific areas o f social policy such as pensions, veterans' programs, and employment programs.
Itis clear that different stakeholders areincreasinglyawarethat Governmentsmustbalance multiple
demands on limitedpublic resources. Intandem with the MTDSconsultations, we also carried out in2003
a public consultationand information campaign on social policy reformtitled "40 Days o f Dialogue on
Social Reforms". This provedto be a useful process for informingthe public o f the directions o f and
constraints upon reforms, and for members o f EntityGovernments to develop a deeper understanding of the
main concerns o f the public with respect to social policyreform.

While these are positive developments, our more important mediumterm need i s for sustainedcapacity
within Government andministries for public information and consultationand external relations. New
laws on ministries inbothEntities now require an external relations capacity to be established inall
ministries, butthis has been slow to happeninpractice inthe social policy area. We are committed to
ensuring appointment o f designated staff for this purpose inthe relevant line ministries, andto strengthen
their skills over time with technical support from donors.



B.       Social Welfare and ChildProtection Reforms

C0ntext:         The social welfare and childprotection (SWCP) system inBHhas been ina state o f crisis
inrecentyears, for the mostpart unable to makethe transitionfromhumanitarianreliefto acoherent and
sustainable system. Although entitlements inEntity legislationapply equally to all sub-Entityauthorities in
principle, implementationvaries enormously by region due to decentralization o f financing. Social welfare
suffers from a separation o fpolicy making and implementation responsibilities, with legislatedentitlements
that reflect the Socialist FederalRepublic o f Yugoslavia (SFRY) inheritance, but inmany areas can no
longer be afforded. This i s partly a product o f failure to adjust entitlements to an affordable core, and
partly due to under-fundingo f social welfare as a share o f total government spending relative to regional
standards.

                                                         39




The mainproblems confronting the sector include: (i)      separation of policy development andjnancing,
which has resultedinprogram mandatesto the local levels which can not be financed inmost areas. Entity
legislationretains the standard menu of SFRY erabenefits and programs, without settingprogrampriorities
or identifyingfinancing for core benefits; (ii)  aggregate under-funding ofSWCP. BiHspends less on
SWCP as a share o f GDP than any country inthe region. Byregional standards, RS is at the low end, and
FBHhasalower allocationto SWCP than any country inSEEICEE, This is inpart drivenbydecentralized
financing, but also byhighallocations to other cashtransfers such as veterans' benefits which are less well
targeted; (iii) variation within each Entity in safety net coverage. Inmany areas, regular benefits have
               high
not beenpaidto the poorest for some time. At the same time, better-off areas provide a safety net which i s
relatively comprehensive. As a result, the situationofthe poorest varies significantly depending onwhere
inthe Entitythey live. The responseinsome areasto lackoffinancing hasbeentoreduce safetynet
coverageto "one-time help", which i s paidirregularly and on a discretionary basis incases of extreme
hardship. Inother areas, those who shouldbe eligible for social welfare benefits are not registereddue to
inability to finance payments. This i s not a sustainableposition for the very poorest withno alternative
sources of income; (iv) the lack ofcore benejt~s~jnancedby the Entity budget or by a designated source of
funding. Inneither Entitypresentlyisthere a social assistancebenefit financedor supportedbythe Entity
budget. InFBH,the same is true for childallowances. Financingof social assistance is entirely fromthe
sub-Entity (typically municipal) level, resultingin"vicious circles" ofhighpoverty areas withvery limited
fiscal bases for financing the safety net; (v) institutional arrangementsfor social welfare and child
protection which do not give prominenceto the sub-sectors. This relates bothto allocation ofroles and
responsibilitiesinSWCP withinandbetween levels of govemment ineach Entity;and (vi) ineffective and
inefjcient administration of social welfareprograms, reflectingprogram andmanagement practices which
are increasinglyoutdated.

Priority reforms:         We have already initiated and intendto continue reforms inthe policy, institutional
and financing frameworks for SWCP inbothEntities. We would also implement measures to ensure more
effective administration o f SWCP programs. Our reforms will buildupon social protectionpolicy
development work inbothEntities in2000 and 2002, and the MTDS. The objective o f the reforms i s to
promote a fiscally sustainable core social welfare programineach Entitywith clearly identified and reliable
financing sources. While this may be supplemented by sub-Entityauthorities inbetter-off areas, it should
ensure a minimumand affordable safety net for the poorest wherever resident. SOSAC 11would support
several elements o f our program, including:

e    we have undertaken initial steps ineachEntityto reformour social welfare systems, pendingmore
     comprehensive reformduring2005. Inthe Federation, the initial measuresinvolve reforms of civil
     victims of war legislation, inparticular movingfinancing responsibility for selectedbenefitsto the
     Entity level inorder to make basic benefits available throughout the Entity. Inthe RS, we have
     legislated reforms which promote increased and more predictable financing o f social welfare benefits
     bymunicipalities, healthinsurance coverage for social assistancebeneficiaries, fiscally supportable
     benefit levels, and stronger cooperationinsocial welfare service provision betweenthe public andnom
     govemment sectors.
e    as the next step inour policy reforms, the social welfare strategy development carriedout as part of the
     MTDS(PRSP processandduringpreparationofSOSAC 11would informdevelopment ofnew legal
      frameworks for social welfare which would be approvedby Parliaments inbothEntities in2005 prior
     to secondtranche release o f SOSAC II,    and include: (i) definition o f roles andresponsibilities in
                                                                clear
      social welfare financing andprovision at different levels o f system; (ii)rationalized scope of rightsin
     Entity law to focus on "core" social welfarelchild protectionbenefits and services capable ofprovision
     throughout the Entity; (iii)financing identified for at least one core social welfare benefit to bepaid

                                                        40


    from the Entitybudget ineachEntity,and this obligation reflected inlegislation; (iv) review of
    targeting criteria for benefit eligibility incore programs; and (v) provisions to require and further
    promote effective partnerships between public and non-government sectors insocial service provision.
    on institutional and implementationissues inSWCP, we intend to undertake the following measures: (i)
    roll-out o f a databaselclient registry of social welfare beneficiaries and expenditures inall localities in
    bothEntities, with the system linkedto the EntityMinistry for reliable andtimelyreporting, This has
    not existed since the conflict; (ii)completion of a functional reviewof socialprotection activities in
    each Entity, leadingto proposals from eachof our EntityGovernments to address the institutional
    problems identified; (iii) developing guidelines for Operational Manuals (OM) for use inall Centers for
    Social Work, the local level social welfare offices, to improve their efficiency and client
    responsiveness; and (iv) introduction inmost localities of Social Policy Boards which would help set
    strategic directions at the local level for the social welfare systems. Designand implementationof
    these reforms is beingsupportedby the Social Sector Technical Assistance Credit.



C.       Reformof Veterans' Benefits andPrograms

Context:          Fiscalpressure from veterans' programs i s a major issue inBiH. The level of spending on
veterans' programs crowds out public investment anddiverts resources from transfer programs which are
better targeted on the poorest. InbothEntities, spending from Entitybudgets alone on veterans' programs
has consumed from 3.5 to over 4 percent o f GDP inrecent years. Inaddition, inbothEntities,there are
substantial foregone revenues from tax and customs exemptions for veterans, and significant spendingat
the sub-Entitylevel on veterans' benefits and programs, includinghousing, healthcare, and employment.
We estimate that around 5 percent of GDP i s consumed at all levelsby direct spending and foregone
revenueson veterans' programs andbenefits. There are also a large number o f claims by injured veterans
and survivor families inthe court systems o fbothEntities whichpresent a significant contingent liability
on our budgets. Finally, inFBHthe situation i s mademore complicatedby the existence of two legal
frameworks: one for Bosniak areas and one for Croats, the latter also benefiting from significant financial
support from Croatia. This has resultedinsignificant disparities inregional coverage and entitlements with
FBH,as well as diminishedtransparency inimplementation.

Despite the large allocations to veterans'benefits, benefits for the most disabledveterans and survivor
families ofkilled soldiers are inarrears inbothEntities, so that those most inneed are not able to have
securereliable protection. This is due to the wide scope o f beneficiaries andbenefits, which reflectsno
prioritization inexisting legislation. InbothEntities, the major causes o f fiscal pressure from veterans'
programs include:


0   disability or death o f a veteran generating entitlementto benefitsneednot be linkedto military service.
e   benefits are indexed to the average wage and are high. Aggregate benefits from the veterans' systems
    can runas highas 4-5 times the average wage.
e   survivor families are defined insome cases to include grandparents, relatives and parents. Inaddition,
    there are very limited restrictions on family beneficiarieswith alternative sources o f income, so that
    spendingis poorlytargeted onthose most inneedinthe group.
e   there are a range o f exemptions for veterans and their families on customs and tax liabilities, some of
    which -such as the exemptionon car import duty-have been abusedto create unwarranted profits for
    veteran households.
0   insomeprograms, benefits are extendedto non-disabled veterans, thoughinpracticethesehaveusually
    not been affordable inrecent years.

                                                       41



     mechanisms for rationing spending to available budgetary resourcesare only partially effective, so that
     arrears exist inall systems. This is underlinedby the emerging backlogo f legal claims inFBHagainst
     the Government for failure to adjust benefits as anticipated incurrent legislation, with court awards
     already granted of over 2 mln.KMlikely to be a fraction o f total liabilities, as well as increasing
     benefit arrears (estimated to reach 18mln. KMin2004).
     there i s anecdotal evidence o f fraudulent misclassificationofbothdisabled and other veterans,
     particularly duringthe war when assessment systems were less than accountable.
     benefits are extendedto veterans' and their survivor families down to minor levels of disability, so that
     significant amounts are allocated to those whose injuries do not significantly impact their ability to
     work and are for the most part nomore vulnerable than the general population; and
     inRSspecifically, non-disabled veteransare legallyentitledto benefits, andthere isprovisionfor "non-
     material" damage to families who lost a member duringthe war (equivalent to "emotional pain and
     suffering"). This is compensatedaccordingto court awards and canrunto 200,000 KMfor an
    individual family. This possibility creates a major contingent liability for the RSbudget.

Priority reforms:         We recognize that the current situationwithveterans' benefits i s unsustainable.
MTDSconsultations andthe social surveys which informedour 40 Days ofDialogue campaignalso
indicatethat this understanding i s sharedby a large cross-section of society. The main objective of our
veterans' benefits reforms is to promote a rationalized structure of entitlements that adequately supports
veterans and families o f deceasedsoldiers who have been most severely affectedby injury or loss of
primary income earner. At the same time, compensation mustbe tailored to limited fiscal resources.
Reformo f veterans' legislation inbothEntities should result ina more fiscally sustainable set o fbenefits
that will free resources for social protectionprograms that target the most needy. The scope o f
beneficiaries andbenefits must be rationalized substantially. An important additional goal i s to promote, as
far as possible, harmonization o f the veterans' legal framework acrossbothEntities.

While reformo f veterans' benefits i s a highfiscal and social priority, we stress that it i s a socially and
politically sensitive subject. To this end, we have ensured close consultationthroughout design o f new
legislation with veterans' organizations andrepresentatives o f survivor families. Consistent with our
MTDSandveterans' reformstrategies developed during2002, we have recently enacted inbothEntities
new veterans' benefit legislation. The new lawsprovide for a comprehensive beneficiaryrevisionprocess
intended to weed out unjustified claimants; rationalize the range o fbenefits available to different categories
of beneficiaries; eliminate customs or tax exemptions inEntityentitlements; require disability or death of
the veteran be directly relatedto military service for military invalidand survivor family benefits; reduce
parental benefits where other means o f support exist (e.g. pension; employment); provide a narrower
definition o f survivor families, and strengthen conditions for discontinuation o f nuclear family benefits
where altemative means o f support exist; introduce provisions inlegislationto ensure that benefit
obligations cannot exceed available budgetary resources; ensure that indexation o fbenefits does not exceed
the increaseinthe cost o f living; limit spending onbeneficiariesinlower disability categories; eliminate
monthly benefitsand entitlements financed from the Entitybudgets for non-disabledveterans where they
exist; provide for healthinsurance and co-payment exemptions for the most seriously disabled veterans and
nuclear survivor families; and eliminate o f claims for non-material damage. Inthe Federation, the new law
would for the first time since the war introduce a unifiedveterans' benefit regime for the entire Entity,
replacingthe existingethnically basedparallel entitlement structures and administrations.

Inorder to ensurethat thesecomprehensive policy changes feed through into implementation, we arealso
committedto specific spending targets and execution inour 2005 budgets which are consistent with the
rationalizedsystem outlined above. We would therefore ensure that the 2005 executed budgetineach
Entity would involve no increase innominal allocations for veterans benefits from the 2004 core budget.

                                                     42




We also intend to take significant steps to improve the transparencyand efficiency o f implementation of
veterans' programs. InFBH, we have already initiated improvements through establishment of a unified
account at Entity levelthrough which all Entitylevelbudgetary funds for veterans' benefits flow. This
introduces additional transparency and possibilitiesfor budgetary scrutiny inthe system, and we intendto
maintain and improve this system. InRepublika Srpska, we have from 2003 established a database for
veterans' beneficiaries, based on a complete inventory ofbeneficiaries. A similar database would be
developed inFBHin2004-05 as part o f the plannedrevisiono fbeneficiaries. Inorder to increase
transparency inthe reformed system and ensure its timely implementation, we would also ensure prior to
the secondtranche o f SOSAC 11:(i)    approval of implementingregulations for new veterans' legislation; and
(ii) basicinformationsystemswouldbeputinplaceineachEntitytoupdateregularlybeneficiaryand
    that
expenditure data for all programbeneficiaries, and consolidate data with the responsible Entity Ministry.



I).     ImplementingEmployment Programs more effectively

Context:        The legal frameworks governingthe activities o f the Employment Institutes  - which
administer unemploymentbenefits and active labor programs for the unemployed were overhauledinboth
                                                                                   -
Entities in2000 with support under the first SOSAC. The new laws have significantly reduced the cost of
unemployment benefits. They also introduced anew institutional framework inFBHto eliminate
ethnically-based employment services. These reforms are considered critical inan environment where
registeredunemployment inbothEntities is over 40 percent, and even survey-based E O measures of
unemployment produce estimates from 16-25 percent.

Despite this progress, we continue to implement an unfinishedagenda o f new institutional and financing
frameworks for employment services and labor issues including:

    the successorto the Employment Bureaufor the Bosnia-Herzegovina Republic o f SFRY continued
    untilvery recentlyto exist, withnodefinedlegalbasis, function or financing source. Its failure to
    cooperate with external audits also confirmed concems identified inprevious financial police
    investigations of improprieties inmanagement of funds and assets. This has resultedinan institutional
    vacuum at the BHlevel, with no genuine State levelbody to deal legally with the internationallabor
    obligations o f BH, E O obligations andbilateral agreementswith other countries.
    as of end-2002, not all cantons had formally established cantonal Employment Services, so that some
    cantonal programs continued to operate as part o f a larger ethnically-based fund.
    an audit and businessprocess review o f the EntityEIs completedin2003 identified poor business
    processesand lax financial management inbothEntities, inaddition to a serious lacko f accountability
    and monitoring of internal operations and evaluation o f E1programs.
    the current mix o f active labor programs (ALPS)inbothEntities is very limited, with an emphasison
    programs such as subsidized credits to firms and wage subsidies which are not cost-effective, and in
    some cases have beenprovided ina non-transparent manner. At the same time, more cost effective
    programs such asjob counseling andbasic job brokerage functions are non-existent or seriously
    neglected. Inaddition, the unemployed insurveys indicate low faith inpublic employment servicesto
    provide them with a useful service when looking for work. Given that FBHinparticular spends
    significant public resources on suchprograms (around 1percent o f EntityGDP in2003), these are
    unsatisfactory outcomes, and ones that must improve given the highlevels o f unemployment inBHand
    emerging demandson employment services as enterprise restructuringproceeds.

                                                       43


Priority Reforms:         Overall, our objective inthe area of employment services i s to ensurethat the
legislatedinstitutional and financing arrangements work inpractice, that ALPs are reformed to provide an
effective service to the large pool o f unemployed, and that the remainingissues relatedto a State levelbody
are resolved. Addressing these problems is important, giventhe likely additional demands on the E1system
as enterprise restructuring gatherspace. Inorder to meet these objectives, we have taken or propose to take
the following measures:

    for both Entities, we have recently completed external audits andbusiness processreviews of the Entity
    Employment Institutes. This has been followed byrevisedinternalprocedures inthe EntityEIswhich
    respond to the shortcomings identified inthe audits.
    inFBH,we havenowcompleted establishment andoperationalizingofcantonal EIsineachcanton,
    witha clear recognitionoftherole ofthe FederationEmploymentInstitute. Thisallows anEntity-wide
    network to function for the first time since the war. The Federation E1has also approved and i s
    implementingnew procedures for allocating the portion o f unemployment insurance contributions
    which go to the Entity level, inparticular the framework for reallocationo f a share of Entity funds to
    the cantons on aneedsbasis.
    the State o f BHhas approved legislationto establish a small State level Labor Agency with a core
    mandate to handle the international obligations o f BHinthe labor field. This outlines the mandateof
    the new Agency and identifies o f financing sources its operation. Italso provides for final closure of
    the former BHEmployment Bureau, andwe have taken action to ensure closure and liquidation o fthat
    institution.
    Both Entities are committedto developinga more effective mix o f active labor programfor the
    unemployed. To this end, we would develop and approve bythe time o f secondtranche of the SOSAC
    I? ALPpolicyforbothEntitieswhichisconsistentwithfiscalrealitiesandtheadministrative
      revised
    capacity o f the employment services. A framework for revisedprograms has been developed basedon
    discussions with Entityand cantonal employment services, and the EntityEIsare usingthis as a basis
    for further program development. Implementationo fmore effective set of ALPs will be supported by
    the Second Employment Support Project, which we expect to be presented to the Bank's Board inmid-
    2004.

E.      Improvingthe Operationof PensionandDisabilityprograms

Context: Inrecent years, we have gradually reformedentitlements within the PAYGOpension systemsin
BH. At the sametime, cashrationingintroducedintothe pensions systems in2001remains the keypolicy
tool for ensuring that pensions spending does not exceed pensioncontributions. While there is need for
more structuralpolicy reform inthe pension system, preparatory work for medium-term reformis only
expectedto start in2004. While policy development continues, there are a range o f implementationissues
inthe current pensionanddisability systemswhichare inneedofurgentattention.

Inaddition to entitlementreform inthe PAYGO systeminrecent years, institutional reforms ofthe FBH
pension systemwere introducedfrom 2001, with the consolidation o f the pension systems into a unified
Federation Pension andInvalidFund(PIO). However, while significant consolidation has been achieved,
parallelism continues inimportant aspects o fpensions administration, including employer reporting on
social contributions and IT systems. Inaddition, public sector control o f the database o f social
contributionswas lost, as a result o f the transfer of ERC-ZIP0to private ownership in 1999. As a result,
the extra-budgetary funds which financed all investments inthe agency and technically had full share
ownership were required to pay hundreds o f thousands o f KMmonthly for access to their own data.

                                                        44



A pressingissue is howto handle inter-Entitypensionissues. This is important for pensionpayment
obligations for pensioners who have made pension contributions during their working lives onthe territory
of one o f today's Entities, but are now resident inthe other Entity or have receivedtheir initialpension
authorizationfrom the Entityother than that where they contributed. To date, the problemhas beenhandled
bythe pensionauthorities o fthe Entityofthe pensioner granting entitlement to andpayingthe pension
withinthat Entity's system. However, with the continuing disparity inEntitypensionlevels, there have
already been successful legal claims for compensation bythose who made their contributions on the
territory o fwhat is now the Federation but arereceiving lower RSpensions. Previous efforts to resolve the
issue have resultedinstalemate, to the detriment o f significant numberso fpensioners.

An additional emergingissue inboth Entitiesis social contributionsarrears, with pensions contributions the
biggest item. As privatization, enterprise restructuringandbankruptcyprogresses, concerns are growing on
the pensionentitlements of dismissed workers andthose inbankrupted firms whose social contributions
have not been made inmany cases for years. We are tryingto addressthe situation as an urgent social and
economic matter. A key first step i s consolidating an inventory of social contributions arrears inorder to
calculate the outstanding liabilities to the system. These are important data for designing realistic social
programs to mitigate the negative social consequencesof enterprise restructuring andbankruptcy.

Disability programs inBHinclude cash and in-kindbenefits, as well as services. As a result o f the war, the
total proportion o fpersons with disabilities is higher inBHthan inany other country inEurope. Although
BHdoes not have ahigher overall dependencyrate than other countries inthe region, the dependency
burdenfrom disability itself is high. The greatest dependencyburdenstems from disabled war veterans and
their families, who alone account for around 4percent ofthepopulation. Overall, about one out ofevery
10potentialworkers has a disability. Despitethis, the systemfor assessingdisability i s outdated and
implemented ininconsistent fashion acrossprograms and across different parts o f each Entity. There is
also substantial anecdotal evidence o f abuses inthe system, with informal payments to assessingdoctors
considered to be common. The result i s a series o f disability programs which consume significant
resourcesbut continue to include unjustifiedbeneficiaries and probably exclude more deserving claimants.

Priority reforms: The keypensionand disability reforms which we have [recently undertaken] andplanto
carry out inthe comingperiod are as follows:

    approving an inter-entity agreement onpensions-in-service. Given the risk o f a growing number of
    legal cases, the Entity line Ministries have recently approved and submittedto their respective
    Governments a Memorandum o f Understandingon the basic principles guidingthe applicable
    legislationinorder to ensure that pensioners wherever resident inBHget the pensionto which they are
    entitled. This will be approved bythe EntityGovernments inthe nearest future.
    we have prepared an inventory of social contribution arrears inpriority debtor companies inorder to
    evaluate the fiscal implications o f different options for dealing with the massive arrears stock. This will
    informdesign of public support programs for workers laid off without pay-in of contributions, an issue
    of particular complexity for the pension systems.
a   inthe Federation, we haveapprovedthe Statute ofthe mergedFBHPIO, whichallows for
    regularizationo f staffingand other organizational aspectso f the new Fund. As part of our efforts to
    regularize pensions administration, we have also approved a Government Decision which clarifies the
    legal status, function, ownership, reporting and other requirements relatedto ERC-ZIPO.The purpose
    of the decision i s to re-focus ERC's activities onproviding services to public agencies and thus reduce
    the potential for conflicts o f interest, and increase government control over the social insurance
    contributionsdata ERCmanages and the institution's operational decisions.

                                                        45


    the specific category of civil victims o f war who inFBHare a group that presently "falls betweenthe
                                                    -
    cracks" o f different levels o f government  - would  be a priority group for Entitylevel financing of
    benefits, as i s already the case inthe RS. As their number i s limited, this i s a sustainable fiscal burden.
    development and approval o fnew disability assessment rulebooks for veterans'/civil victims ofwar
    programs and childhood disability. We will determine whether this revision shouldalso cover workmg
    ability disability assessmentsunder the pension system. Inorder to advancethis work, we [have
    recently] formed working groups and technical reference groups to prepare newrulebooks, a task we
    are committed to completingprior to the SOSAC 11secondtranche.
    buildingonthe cooperation oninter-Entitypensionsissues, we are committedto developing a
    statewide Pensions Policy during2005 and prior to secondtranche, which would provide an agreed
    framework for medium term structuralreforms ofpension systems inBH. This effort i s supported
    under the Social Insurance Technical Assistance Credit.

F.       Improving the framework for operation of NGOs and third sector organizations:

Context: Inthe social protection system inBH, the third sector is evolving into civil society organizations
which are also increasingly local. There are amany thirdsector organizations registered inBH,ranging
fromNGOsto veterans associations to human rights advocacy groups to service providers. These groups
are recognized for their ability to service the population, often with programs than can be specifically
tailored to the needs o f different beneficiary groups. However, there remain questions about the
sustainability of the local third sector, particularly as donor support scalesback.

Priority reforms:     Our objective inthis areais to ensurea clear and supportive legal framework for the
operation o fNGOslthirdsector organizations inBH, inparticular domestic organizations. This includes
appropriate tax provisions to promote sustainability o f the third sector. Important steps were taken inthis
process in2001-2002with approval o fharmonized legislation by the State o f BHandbothEntities for
registrationand mutualrecognition o fNGOsthroughout BH. Inorder to promote the sustainable operation
of third sector organizations, we have taken the following additional measures:


a   inorder to ensureeffectiveimplementationofthe newlegalframework for thirdsectororganizations,
    we have subsequently approved satisfactory implementingregulations for our NGOlaws.
0   withinthe broader overhaul ofprofit tax legislation, we propose to includeprovisions ontaxationof
    thirdsector organizations which allow for favorable tax treatment inlinewiththat commonly found for
    the not-for-profit sector inEuropean countries. This would provide that economic activities of
    NGOslthird sector organizations which are relatedto their core activities receive favorable tax
    treatment, and that donations to such organizations also attract favorable treatment. Such provisions
    should promote more sustainable self-financing o f the thirdsector, andwould be inplace prior to the
    SOSAC IIsecondtranche.

G.      Living Standards monitoring

Context:         The ability to produce statistics needed for design, implementationand evaluation of
economic and social policy inBHhas beendamagedbythe war and transition. The statistical offices have
limitedcapacity to produce the range o f statistics necessaryfor policy-makers. The areathat hasbeen
especially hardhit is that o f data collection at the household level. A relatedissue is that of administrative
data invarious parts o fthe social protection system, and the needto promote coordinationo f data and
information systems as databasesare implemented. Finally, the linkbetween statistical data generation and
policy formulation i s underdevelopedand inneed of strengthening.

                                                      46


Priority reforms:    With support from donors, the Statistical Institutes havemade major progressin
developing anew representative household survey for monitoring livingstandards, basedon the Living
StandardsMeasurement Surveys (LSMS). The first representative post-war survey was completed in2001.
The profile and data analysis have been critical inputsto MTDSdevelopment.

We are buildingon the progress already made to improve household level data inseveral ways. First,the
BHGovemment hasrecently approvedthe draft LawonStatistics, which for the first time provides aclear
legal framework for organizationand distribution of statistical information, includingregulatingrelations
between the State and Entity Statistical Institutes. This should be enactedby the BHParliament thisyear.
Second, the Statistical Institutes initiated a HouseholdBudget Survey inearly 2004 and will complete field
work by the end o f the year. Third, we have completed the first and the secondpanel rounds of the LSMS.
Fourth, the StatisticalInstitutes are makinghousehold survey results freely available to the public for
further research and analysis. This has beendone with the LSMS under a DataUsers Agreement, and will
continue with subsequent survey data. Fifth,we intend to conduct a Labor Force Survey in2005, the first
since the war, for which we have fundingidentified. Finally, we will support the ongoing work of the Data
User Groups, which we consider an effective forum to maximize the linksbetween data collection, data
users, andpolicy development.

111.     Conclusion

We hope that the above elaborationo f the programfor social policy reformhas clearly expressedour
commitment to improving the welfare o fhouseholds throughout Bosnia andHerzegovina. The proposed
agenda includes a number o f challenging and important steps inwhat we view as a fundamental and
ongoing reformof social protectionpolicies inBiH. Itis also complementary to our reformefforts inother
areas, including the business environment, macroeconomic and fiscal adjustment, and other areas of social
and labor policy as outlined inour MTDS. Over the mediumterm, we hope to realize more fully the goals
of this ambitious agenda as a core element o f MTDSimplementation. The continuedcontribution of the
InternationalDevelopment Association and the rest o f the international community i s an essential part o f
this challengingtask.
                                                            1I

0

aQ
Y
e,
3




  .3

     m
I


I   -




         .B




                    c1
                    0
                    E




          m    m

      :I  4   8




N
vr




                   ml 0

                                            53




     Annex 7: Additionalmonitoringindicatorsfor mediumtermSOSACI1program

Area                       Indicatorslmonitoringbenchmarks
Veterans' benefitsand         Spending on veterans' benefits and programs as: (i) of Entity
                                                                                    share
programs                     budgets; (ii) ofEntityGDP; and(iii) o f cantonal
                                          share                           share
                             budgetsinFBH.
                             Numberofbeneficiaries ofveterans' benefitsandprograms by
                             beneficiary category.
                             Number o fregions with fully functional and up-to-date
                             beneficiary database.

Socialand childprotection    Level and share of Entitybudget spending on social assistanceand
                             child protection.
                             Total number ofhouseholds and people inreceipt of regular social
                             assistanceand child allowances.
                             Levelo fregular social assistancebenefitsby region relative to
                             cost of livingbenchmark(s).
                              Share ofbeneficiary households below poverty line.

Pensionsanddisability       0Number o fpensioners for whom pensionpayment is switched
                             from one EntityPI0 to the other.
                            0 Share of entity budget on civil victim o f war benefits.
                             Stock o f outstanding pensioncontribution arrears.
                             Annual reports of ERC-ZIP0 to Government andlor Parliament.

Employment programs          Budgets of State level Labor Agency and number o f international
                             labor agreements concluded by Agency.
                             Share of long-term unemployed(more than 2 years).
                             Annual rate o fre-entry to workforce o fregisteredunemployed.
                             Spending level and share o f Employment Institutes on active labor
                             programs, and withinALPSonjob brokerage andrelated
                             informational services.
                            0Financial management o f Employment Institutesmeasuresagainst
                             action program for improvement.
                            0InFBH,annualreports ofcantonal employment services.

NGOand civilsociety          Number o fregistered local NGOs.
participationinsocialpolicy  Number ofmunicipalities where local CSW has partnership or
                             contracting out arrangement withNGO.
                            0Number o f clients served byNGOs financed from public funds.

Monitoringlivingstandards   0Analysis, publication andpublic access to the HouseholdBudget
and informingsocialpolicy    Survey.
                             Status o fLabor Force Survey preparations.

                                             54



Public information on social 0Fulltime equivalent staff engaged inpublic infonnatiodextemal
policy                        relations functions inrelevant social line ministries.
                             0Frequency o fpublic consultation between highlevel ministerial
                              officials and civil society.

                                                     55


                 Annex 8: SummaryoffindingsfromCommunityAssessment44

 1.      This summarizes results from anumber of focus group discussions on social safety netreform
carried out with financing under the SOTAC duringlate 2002 and early 2003. Eleven focus group
discussions were held inbothruraland urban areas, with groups consisting o f a cross section ofpeople
comprisingboth employed and unemployed personsof all ages, of which some receivedbenefits and
some didnot. The main viewsloutcomes from those discussions are very much inline with the broader
SOSAC IIagenda.

2.       General Findings:         People are aware o f impending social reforms butunclear o f the
specifics and how they would be affected individually. They generally agree on the need for change, and
that progress has been too slow, and generally tend to be cynical about the nature of the reformprocess
to date. There i s a general perceptionthat many current social cashtransfer beneficiaries are "double-
dipping", or receivingbenefits for whichthey arenot elipble. People realizethe need for tough choices
inlightofvery limitedresourcesavailable for social protection. Themajority ofparticipantsagreed
that:


0    social welfare reforms areneeded, becausemanypeople inneeddo not receive anything or those
     who receive something do not receive enough, while some people who are able to work receive
     benefits.
0    more emphasis on employmentpromotion i s neededto allow governments to target social
     assistanceto those unable to work.
0    more money mustbe spent on child support.

0    handicapped, pensioners and children are considered priority groups.

0    Centers for Social Work (CSW) are the bodies most trusted and seen as best able tojudge real
     levels o f need, as opposed to higher authorities.

Disability benefits: Many participants felt that:


0    many disabled persons are not receiving the assistancethey need, while others (such as some war
     veterans) receive disability benefits without actually being disabled.
0    thelabor market shouldabsorb those able to work to free upresources for those too disabledto
     work.

Veterans: Many participants (butnot all) said that:


0    while war veterans deserve compensation andrecognition for their contribution and suffering
     duringthe war, there are manywho are gettingmore than their "fair share" or are receivingbenefits
     they arenot entitled to (such as those who are claiming disability as result of the war without
     actually being disabled).
0    there i s aneed for a beneficiary audit, especially for family beneficiaries.

0    the labor market should absorb those veterans who are able to work, to save disability benefitsfor
     those who cannot work.




~~




44Fordetailed results and discussionofthe methodology ofthe communityassessment, see KPMG:Final
   Analytical Reportfor BHSocialProtection Public Information Campaign. (February 2003).

                                                  56



Pensions: Most participants felt that:

    tax and labor laws should be enforced so that companies are accountable for paying social
    contributions for employees.
    many people are not registered inthe systemand fear not receivingadequate pensions after
    retirement.
e   current pension levels are too low.

Labor market:There i s a general feelingthat:

e   Employment Institutes are ineffective inhelpingpeople find employment.
e   employment practices are corrupt and only those with "connections" have opportunities.
e   labor market reform and improvedjob creation are the single most important steps to change
   people's lives.

                                                       57


          Annex 9: Outline Of Social Sector TechnicalAssistanceCredit (SOTAC)

1.      The following outlines components o fthe SOTAC, approved inDecember 2000, and which will
complete implementation in2004. The objective of the SOTAC i s to provide technical assistanceand
other capacity buildinginareas which are key to the policy agenda supported by SOSAC Iand SOSAC
If,andalsoto enablemorecontinuity inthepolicy dialoguewiththe authorities. Where feasible,the
aimhas been to coordinate activities closely between Entities, e.g. commonprocurement of consultancy
which would be implemented inbothEntities, This supports the objective o fpromoting harmonization
betweenthe different systems,

Maincomponents of SOTAC:

a   Client registries for Centers for Social Work. This has been identified as a clear priorityby
    social welfare officials inbothEntities, There are a range o fneeds inorder to put the systemin
    place, and ensure that it i s effective, including equipmenb`networking, training o f staff inuse o f
    systems, review o f the existing database to ensure that it covers informational needs without putting
    unnecessarydemands on CSW staff etc.

a   N G O l C S Winnovation activities: The objective of this component i s to support innovative
    collaborationsbetween local NGOs andCSWs, e.g. on contracting out o f service provision for
    particular services such as home-basedelderly care. The component reviews fundingapplications
    local NGOsendorsed by CWSs, and finances service contracts with the NGOsfor successful
    applicants, who are assessedaccordingto agreedcriteria.

a   Technical Assistance on Social Protection:              This supports anumber ofareas:

(i)   Functional review of Social Protection in both Entities. This not only reviews existing roles and
      responsibilities across the socialprotection sector, but also aims to identify key skills
      development and institutional strengtheningneeds inthe mainministries and agencies involved in
      social protection. This work hasbeen co-financed byUKDFID.

(ii)Public    information campaigns on objectives and nature of labor market and socialprotection
      reforms: SOTAC supported the design and imp~emen~tiono fthe "40 Days o f Dialogue on
      Social Reforms" public information campaign on labor market and social protectionreforms,
      completed in2003.

(iii)Socialassistancetechnicalassistance:           Thishas supported technical assistanceinarange o f
      areas associatedwith social assistanceincluding operationo f future entity-level funds; assessment
      and improvement o fprocedures inCSW; assessment o f existing social work methods, which are
      frequently outdated by Europeanstandards etc. Consultant reports were finalized after Entity
      workshops in2003.

(iv) Special reviews of EmploymentInstitutes: This supports special reviews, including audits, ofall
      Employment Institutes inBH(State, Federation, Mostar andRS). Work on the audits was
      completed in2003.


(v)   TechnicalAssistanceon disabili~prog~ams:          This sub-component supports technical assistance
      and workshops to expose staff to international practice, and support reforms inthe systemof
      disability inBH. The reports o f the consultants were submittedto Governments in2003.

                                               58




Social Protection Expenditure Strategy: This supportsthe SPES exercise initiated in2000, in
order to prepare SPES for the 2003 and 2004budgets, as part of the overall BudgetFramework
Papers.

Training: There is training for social protection staff at different levels inorder to expose them
further to international practice inkey areas where reforms are being designed or implemented.
This would involve workshops, study tours and other training.

Project implementation: This covers costs of the PELRPPrUsto cany out basic project
management functions for SOTAC, including procurement and financial management. Given the
small size o f SOTAC, it was not feasible to have a separate PIU.

                                                       59


                        Annex 10: Summary of Poverty Assessment Findings

1.       The Bosnia and Herzegovina Poverty Assessment was completed in2003, usingas itsprimary
source the LSMS from late 2001. Overall, the study found significant levels ofpoverty inBH, though
no measuredextreme poverty. Italso found significant variations inpoverty rates, bothbetween and
within Entities. Overall, around one fifthofthe populationwas below the poverty line, butwitha
further significant shareclusteringnot far abovethe line. Consistent with this finding, inequalityinBH
was not high,though this i s likely to be more aproduct of the general decline inliving standardsas a
result o fthe war. The key results onpoverty and inequality inBHfrom the Poverty Assessment are
outlined inTable 1below.




2.       The LSMS also allows incidence analysis of different parts of the public transfer system. The
first beneficiary group o f interest with respect to the SOSAC 11-supportedpolicy agenda is recipients of
veterans'benefits. The key findings on this group are presentedbelow. I t i s notable that ex-post,
veterans' benefit beneficiaries are better off than the average for the population. This raises obvious
questions about the incidence o f the "targeted" program. The second graph o f ex-ante incidence i s
therefore o f great interest. The important feature o f the ex-ante incidence i s that there is such a notable
kinkinthe Lorenzcurve, indicating the great importance ofveterans' benefits for movingthe lowest
quintile andto a lesser extent the secondandthirdquintiles out ofpoverty. Thisisvery consistent with
the reforms supported inbothEntities, which focus the reformed systems on the lower income groups,
bothaccordingto level o f disability and accordingto prevalence o f other non-transfer sources o f
income.



        Ex-post concentration curve for                    Ex-ante concentration curve for
                veteran's benefits                                 veteran's benefits

                                                                 1

                                                               0.8

                                                               0.6

                                                               0.4

                                                               0.2

                                                                 0
                                                                  0      1       2     3       4   5
                                                      I
                0      1      2      3       4  5                   Quintiles (from POOT to rich)
                 Quintiles (from poor to rich)




3,       Withrespect to social welfare transfers, the LSMS-while not as precisely formulated for
incidence analysis -indicates that targeting in2001 was very poor. Only 4 percent o f the poor received
some targeted financial assistance. At the same time, around 75 percent o f beneficiaries were not poor.
The "targeted" social welfare therefore performed little better than a randomdistribution o f benefits.

                                                     60


The analysis also confirmed that some recipienthouseholdsreceived significantly morethan neededto
alleviate poverty, while many others received almost nothing. The incidence of "over-payment" seems
to be highest among those displacedby the war, and subject to strong geographical concentration
consistent with decentralizedfiscal arrangements.

4.      Overall, it i s very clear from the PovertyAssessment analysis that the small amount currently
spent on social welfare inBHare is not usedefficiently. Comparisons with other CEE and SEE
countries reveal that the efficiency (measure oftargeting) o fthe systeminBHi s among the lowest in
the region, with only Russianbeing less efficient. Effectiveness o f the system interms o f poverty
reduction i s even lower, with lessthan 5 percent o f the poverty gap inBHeliminated by targeted
transfers. The analysis suggests not only that aggregate allocations needto be increased, butthat
reforms o fboth financing and targetingo fbenefits needto be part o f the reformpackage. This is
consistent with the direction of reforms supported under SOSAC II.

5.      Apart from these two key beneficiary groups andprograms, there are several other findings
which were relevant indefining the reformagendaoutline inthe MTDSand supportedby SOSAC II.
These are:

    Households with no employedadult member had an average poverty rate o f 25 percent, which was
    almost 30 percent higher than average. This reinforces the importance o fpromoting re-entry to the
    labor force, a key objective o f the reforms inemployment services and active labor policies
    supported by the operation.

    Poverty rates o f households with 2 or more children were significantly higher than average, with 27
    percent o f two childhouseholds livinginpoverty and 56 percent of households with 3 or more
    childrenbeingpoor. Harmonizing and improvingthe social welfare system, including child
    protection, is consistent with addressing the needs of these groups.

    Households with one or more elderly people were on average no poorer than the general population.

                                                                  61


                                            Annex 11: CountryAt a Glance
                  Bosnia and Herzegovina at a glance                                                                               5117104


                                                          Bosnia EuroDe8        Lower-
POVERNand SOCIAL                                             and   Central      middle-
                                                     Herzegovina     Asia       income      Developmentdiamond'
2003
Population,mid-year (millions)                                4.2      473        2.408                   Lifeexpectancy
GNI percapita (Atlas method, US$)                           1,540    2,160        1,400
                                                                                                                 T
GNI (Atlas method, US$billions)                                                            I
                                                              6.4    1,023        3,372

Average annual growth, 199743
Population (%j                                                2.2       0.0         0.9
Laborforce (%j                                                2.4       0.5         1.2     GNI
                                                                                            per
Most recent estimate (latest year available, 1997-03)                                       capita
Poverty(% ofpopulationbelownationalpovertyline)               20
Urbanpopulation(% of~ota/populafi~)                           44        64           49
Lifeexpectancyat birth(yeam)                                  74        69           69
Infantmortality (per 1,000 live bifths)                       15        31           32
Childmalnutrition(% of childrenunder5)                         4                      9           Access to improvedwater source
Access to an improvedwater source I%ofpopulafion~                       91           61
Illiteracy (% ofpopulation age 15+)                                       3          13
Gross primaryenrollment (% of school-agepopulation)                    103          112        -Bosnia        and Herzegovina
    Male                                                               104          113        __Lower-middle-incomegroup
    Female                                                             102          111

KEY ECONOMIC RATIOSand LONG-TERMTRENDS
                                                  1983       1993    2002         2003
                                                                                            Economic ratios'
GDP (US$ billions)                                                      5.6         7.0
Grossdomestic investmenffGDP                                          20.4         19.9                        Trade
Exportsof goods and serviceslGDP                                      26.2         26.0
Grossdomestic savingslGDP                                            -13.4        -12.5
Gross nationalsavingslGDP

Currentaccount balanceiGDP                                           -18.5        -17.4     Domestic
InterestpaymentslGDP                                                    1.2         0.7                                        Investment
                                                                                            savings
Total debffGDP                                                        42.2         34.0
Totaldebt servicelexports                                               8.5         7.6
Presentvalue of debffGDP
Presentvalue of debffexports
                                                                                                            Indebtedness
                                       1983-93 1993-03       2002    2003       2003.07
                                                                                                                                          I
(average annualgrowth)
GDP                                         ,.     17.8       3.9       3.5         4.7         -Bosnia        andHerzegovina
GDP per capita                              ..     15.4       2.4       2.6         4.4                 Lower-middle-incomeorou~
Exportsof goods and services                ..     23.7       5.3      11.5         6.1

-~

STRUCTURE of the ECONOMY

(% of GDPj
Agriculture                                                            17.9         16.7    40

Industry                                                               37.2        34.7     30

   Manufacturing                                                       22.6        21.0     2o

Services                                                              44.9         48.6     j0

                                                                                             0
Privateconsumption                                                                                    98    94    W       01     02    03
Generalgovernment consumption
importsof goods and services                                           59.2        57.9                 -GDI             -GDP


                                                                                                                                          I
                                               1983-93 1993-03       2002                    Growthof exports and imports (%)
(average annualgrowth)
Agriculture                                                   8.0                           8o T
Industry                                              ..     26.2                           60
   Manufacturing                                      ..     17.0                      ..   40
Services                                              ..     37.2                      ..   20

Privateconsumption                                                                           0

Generalgovemment consumption                                                           ..  -20
Gross domesticinvestment                              ..     35.6                                     -Exports           *Imports
Importsof goods and services                          ..     11.2      -1.9         10.6


Note:2003 data are preliminaryestimates. Groupdata are for 2002

  The diamondsshow four key indicatorsin the country(in bold)comparedwith its incomegroup average. If data are missing, the diamondwill
    be incomplete.

                                        .




                                                   62




                                                                               Bosnia and Herzegovina

PRICES and GOVERNMENTFINANCE
                                        1983  1993   2002   2003
Domesticprices
(% change)
Consumer prices                                        0.3    0.1
ImplicitGDP deflator                                   2.1    1.1

Govemment finance
(% of GDP, includes" e n f grants)                                                                                 I
Current revenue                                      48.1   46.7
Current budget balance                                 6.3    4.5            -GDP      deflator &CPl
Overallsumlusldeficit                                 -2.2    0.4

TRADE                                                                                                              I
                                        1983  1993   2002   2003
(US$ mi//ions)                                                       Exportand import levels (US$ mill.)

Totalexports (fob)                                   1,046  1,407  4 . m  T
 Commodity1                                                        4.m
 Commodity2                                                        3.m

 Manufactures                                                      3,"
                                                                   2,500
Total imports (cifl                                 3,122   3,845  2.m
 Food                                                               1,500

 Fueland energy                                                    1,wO
                                                                     5w
                                                                   I
 Capitalgoods                                                          0
                                                                            97  98    f4    W       01     02
Export price index (1995=100)
Importpriceindex (1995=700)                                                        WExports          Wlmports
Terms of trade (1995=100)

BALANCEof PAYMENTS
                                        1983  1993   2002   2003
(US$miiiions)                                                        Currentaccount balanceto GDP(%)               c
Exports of goodsand services                         1,786  2,277     0

Importsof goods and services                        3,387   4,132    -5
Resource balance                                    -1,601 -1,855   -10
Net income                                             248          -15
Net currenttransfers                                   566    631
                                                                    -20
Currentaccount balance                              -1,035 -1,224   -25

Financingitems (net)                                  977     798   -30
Changesin net reserves                                  58    446   -35

Memo:
Reservesincludinggold (US$ mi//iOnSl                        1,416
Conversionrate (DEC,iocaVUS$)                          2.1    1.7

EXTERNALDEBTand RESOURCEFLOWS                                                                                       I
                                        1983  1993   2002   2003
(US$miiiions)                                                        Compositionof 2003 debt(US$ mill.)
Totaldebtoutstandingand disbursed                    2,502  2,536
  IBRD                                        424      538    515                       G:65
  IDA                                           0      570    613

Totaldebt service                                      150    191
  IBRD                                          0       45     42
  IDA                                           0        4      4

Compositionof net resourceROWS
  Official grants                              32
  Officialcreditors                                     70     51                                          B 613
  Privatecreditors                                      16    -30
  Foreigndirect investment
  Portfolioequity                                                                             C 141
                                                                                                                    I
World Bank program
  Commitments                                                   0    A IBRD
                                                                       -                               E Bilateral
  Disbursements                                 0       97     35    B - IDA    D -Other multilateral F Private
                                                                                                        --
  Principal repayments                          0       23     23    C IMF                             G Short-term
                                                                         ~                                ~




  Netflows                                      0       74     12
  Interestpayments                              0       26     23
  Nettransfers                                  0       40    -11


DevelopmentEconomics                                                                                          5117104

