Page  1
The World Bank 
1818 H Street N.W. 
(202) 477-1234 
I
NTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
 
Washington, D.C.  20433 
Cable Address:  INTBAFRAD 
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
 
U.S.A. 
Cable Address:  INDEVAS 
CONFORMED COPY 
January 31, 2003 
 
H.E. Ljerka Maric 
Minister of Treasury of BiH Institutions 
Trg Bih 1 
71000 Satajevo 
Bosnia and Herzegovina 
 
Re:  
Japanese Grant for the Preparation of the Social Sector Adjustment 
 
Credit II (Grant Number TF026524) 
 
Amendment to the Japanese Grant Agreement 
 
           
Excellency: 
 
Pursuant to the Request on Reallocation of Components and Activities under the above-
referenced Japanese Grant Agreement (TF026524) between the Bosnia and Herzegovina and the 
International Development Association (the Association) dated January 19, 2001 and countersigned 
on January 24, 2001 (the Japanese Grant Agreement) approved by the Government of Japan on 
October 7, 2002, we are pleased to inform you that the Association has agreed to amend the said 
Japanese Grant Agreement as follows: 
 
1. 
Sections (a), (b), (c) and (d) of paragraph 1.1 of the Annex to the Japanese Grant 
Agreement are amended to read: 
 
“(a)  
Social Assistance (US$160,841); 
 
Provision of technical assistance to: (i) develop social and child protection  reform policy, including 
the legal framework; (ii) develop policy and implementation guidelines for collaboration between 
public and non-governmental organizations (NGOs) and private sectors in provision of social 
protection and associated services; and (iii) provide support on developing resource allocation 
mechanisms for social and child protection. 
 
(b) Veteran’s 
benefits 
(US$85,100); 
 
Provision of technical assistance to  review and develop with local counterparts proposed amendments 
to existing veterans’ benefit laws and policies in both Entities of the Recipient. 
 
(c)  
Unemployment Benefits and Social Insurance (US$76,009); 
 
Provision of technical assistance to: (i) conduct detailed sustainability analysis of employment 
programs, simulated under various assumptions on registered unemployment and revenues; and (ii) 
review of management structure and operational procedures in employment offices and support 
development of reforms of both as needed. 
 
(d) Disability 
Programs 
(US$156,900); 
 
Page  2
-
2
-
Provision of technical assistance to: (i) prepare a comprehensive review of existing programs, 
including simulation of their sustainability under various reform and fiscal scenarios; and (ii) review of 
existing disability assessment and categorization procedures in civilian and military disability 
programs, develop guidelines which would bring practices into line with international standards.” 
 
2. 
Attachment to the Japanese Grant Agreement is revised to read: 
 
“
Consultants' Services
1.    Consultants' services shall be procured in accordance with the relevant provisions of Statement 
15.00 of the Bank's Administrative Manual, dated December 2002 (the Administrative Manual), 
Sections I and IV of the "Guidelines: Selection and Employment of Consultants by World Bank 
Borrowers" published by the Bank in January 1997 and revised in September 1997, January 1999 
and May 2002 (the Consultant Guidelines), paragraph 1 of Appendix 1 thereto, Appendix 2 thereto, 
and the following provisions of this Attachment. 
2. 
Services for disability programs, unemployment benefits and social insurance technical 
assistance  shall be procured under contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions of 
paragraphs 3.1 and 3.7 of the Consultant Guidelines (Selection Based on Consultants' 
Qualifications. 
 
3. 
Services for veterans’ benefits, social assistance and labor market analysis shall be 
procured under contracts awarded to individual consultants in accordance with the provisions of 
paragraphs 5.1 through 5.3 of the Consultant Guidelines.” 
 
Please confirm your agreement to the foregoing amendment by signing, dating and 
returning to us the attached copy of this letter. This amendment shall become effective upon our 
receipt of the countersigned copy of this amendment letter.  
 
Sincerely, 
 
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION 
 
By /s/ Joseph K. Ingram 
Country Manager 
Bosnia and Herzegovina 
Europe and Central Asia Region 
 
CONFIRMED: 
 
BOSNIA AND HERZEGOVINA 
 
By:   /s/ Ljerka Maric 
 
Authorized Representative 
 
Date:  2/7/2003 
 
cc: H. E. Dr. Mila Gadzic, Minister of Foreign Trade and Economic Relations
Page  3
-
3
-
