Document of
The World Bank
FOR OmFCIAF USE ONLY
Report No. 5169
t
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
CHAD - SAHELIAN ZONE PPOJECT
(CREDIT 739-CD)
June 29, 1984
Projects Department
Western Africa Regional Office
Agriculture D Division
lThd documn hs a rausuicted distr-butio and way be used by recpiets ony in te perfonnce of  l
|dmir officid duies Its contet may not oherwie be didsed withno  Wodd Bak auhorizton.



ABBREVIATIONS
ASECNA              Agency for Air Safety in Africa and Madagascar
CIDA                Canadian International Development Agency
GWANC               Committee of War Against National Calamities
IDA                 International Development Association
ONDR                National Rural Development Office
SERARRY             Rural Water Supply Agency
SZP                 Sahelian Zone Project
U1NDP               United Nations Development Program



FOR OFFICIL USE ONLY
CHAD
SARELIAN ZONE PROJECT (CREDIT 739-CD)
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
Table of Contents
Page No
Preface                                                      i
Basic Data Sheet                                            ii
Highlights
I.   PROJECT FORMULATION AND APPRAISAL                             1
A. Background                                               -1
B. Project Objectives and Description                        1
C. Appraisal                                                 1
D. Project Cost and Financing Arrangements                   2
II.   IMPLEMENTATION                                                2
III.    BENEFITS AND JUSTIFICATION                                   4
IV.   INSTITUTIONAL PERFORMANCE                                     5
V.   BANK PERFORMANCE                                              5
VI.   COFINANCING                                                   6
Annex 1
Table 1 - Total Disbursements by Category and Subproject Status       7
Table 2 - Consolidated Project Account as of February 1980            8
Annex 2
Letter from Co-financier CIDA                                         9
This document has a resiced disdbutxn and may be used by recipients only in the performance
of their oMcisd dutieIts contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



CHAD
SA8ELIAN ZONE PROJECT (CREDIT 739-CD)
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
Preface
This is a completion report of the Sahel£an Zone Project for which
*      Credit 739-CD for US$1.9 million was approved in September 1977. In December
1983, after only US$0.23 million Lu disbursements, final agreement was reached
between all parties for cancellation of the project.
This desk study was prepared by the West Africa Region office on the
basis of a review of the project files, Appraisal Report (1585 b-CD) of August
4, 1977, President's Report (P-2107-CD) of August 23, 1977, Credit Agreement
of September 28, 1977 and interviews with Bank staff associated with the
project. Due to the continuing security problems and the limited achievements
of the project, a PCR Field Mission was not undertaken.
A copy of the report was sent to the Government and the co-financier
CIDA. for comments. While no comments have been received from Government,
CIDA's letter is reproduced in Annex 2.
This project has not been audited by the Operations Evaluation
Department.



PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
CHAD - SAHEL1AN ZONE PROJECT
(Credit 739-CD)
BASIC DATA SHEET
Actual or
Appraisal    Estimated
KEY PROJECT DATA                                 Estimate     Actual
Total Project Cost (USS million)                   3.96         0.33 a/
Underrun                                             -            92Z
Credit Amount (USs million)                        1.9          1.9
t  CIDA (Cofinancing)                                 1.9             -
Board Approval Date                             09106/77    09/06177
Credit Agreement Date                           09/28/77    09/28/77
Effectiveness Date                               12/27/77    05/15/78 b/
Closing Date                                    06/30/80    07/31/84 i/
Date Physical Components Completed               12/31/79    Not completed
Proportion Completed on that Date                   100Z     Not available
Economic Rate of Return                              21Z d/  Not available
CUMUlATIVE DISBURSEMENTS                            FY78       FY79          FY80
Appraisal Estimate (US$ million)                     0.9        1.6           1.9
Actual (USS million)                                 0.1        0.1           0.2
Suspension of Disbursements 07/19/79
Final Disbursement Date - 03/31/80
Cancellation Date - 04/30(84 c/
MISSION DATA                                        Date
(Month/    No. of      Manweeks  Performance-               Types of
Mission                                             Year      Persons      in Field  rating h/      Trend i/  Problems j/
identification                                      12/76        2             1          -           -            -
Appraisal                                           02/77        2             7          -            -           -
Supervision I                                       05/78        1           0.5          -           -            -
Supervision II e/                                   10/78        1          0.8           2           _            M
Supervision III                                    06/79         1 f/       0.2           -           -            -
Supervision IV g/                                  02/80         1          0.4           2           2            P,C,M
Supervision V                                       12/82        1           0.2          -            -           -
Supervision VI                                      05/83        1           0.2          -           -            -
OTHER PROJECT DAMA
Borrower                                           Government of Chad
Executing Agencies                                  CWANC k/ and Eight in-Line Government Agencies: ONDR, Agriculture
Dept., Livestock Dept, SERARHY, Water Bureau, Forestry Dept., CWANC,
ASECRA
Fiscal Year (project)                               October 1 - September 30 I/
Name of Currency                                    Cormmnaute Financiere Africaine Franc (CFAF)
Currency Exchange Rate:
Appraisal Year Average (1977)       US$1.00 - CFAF 245
Final Disbursements Year Average
(1980)       USS1.00 - CFAF 211
First Mention in Files or Time Table                11/05/76
Government's Application                            10/26/76
g   Appraisal                                           02/77
Negotiations                                        06/77
Follow-on Project                                   None
a/ Very rough estimate based on IDA disbursement data assuming CIDA paid its 50Z share for each disbursement
category. Excluding funds from revolving fund account which were transferred to Cr. 664.
b/ Although the project became effective in May, 1978 the revolving fund was not operational until January, 1979.
cI Cancellation of the credit balance of US$1.6 million is expected in July, 1984.
d/ ERR calculated for 3 subprojects only.
e/ First supervision mission for which a full supervision report was prepared (specialization , project economist).
El The mission was also represented by an official from CIDA.
II Second and the last supervision for which a full supervision report was prepared (specialization - proj. economist).
hI/ 1 - problem free: 2 - moderate problems; 3 - major problems.
i/ 1 - improving; 2 - stationary; 3 - deteriorating.
j/ P - political; P - financial; N - managerial; 0 - others.
k/ Responsible for overall coordination.
1/ The Government's fiscal year is January 1 - December 31.



- iii -
HIGHLIGHTS
The Sahelian Zone Project (SZP) was the tenth IDA operation, the
sixth project in the agriculture sector and the second drought relief project
in Chad. It was developed in response to the 1976 crop failure and to
Government's decision to allocate investments more equitably between the
cotton and Sahelian zones. The project was intended as a two-year non-renewal
operation composed of 14 subprojects. It was prepared primarily by Government
and was well formulated.
Serious delays it project effectiveness and start-up stemmed from the
late decision to cofinance the project with the Canadian International
Development Agency (CIDA). It was not until a full 13 months beyond the
project's expected start-up date that the project revolving fund became
operational. By this time, project implementation had come to a standstill
due to civil war (see para 2.03). Shortly thereafter, disbursements for all
IDA projects in Chad were formally suspended effective July 18, 1979. In
February 1980, a supervision mission recommended resumption of disbursements
for IDA agriculture projects including SZP, but the political situation in
Chad continued to change rapidly and this proved impossible. The subsequent
IDA agriculture mission in December 1982 found that only a few of the SZP
subprojects were still feasible, due primarily to weakened executing agencies
and security issues, and recommended that the viable ones be financed by the
Rural Projects Fund (Cr. 664-CD) for which auspension of disbursements was to
be partially lifted. By June 1983, IDA and Government had come to a tentative
agreement to cancel the SZP since viable subprojects had already been picked
up for financing by other donors and the remaining subprojects either needed
complete redesign or were located in insecure areas (see Table 1, Annex 1).
Final agreement was reached between all parties in December 1983 to cancel the
project (see para 2.05).
Due to delays in project implementation and the rapidly changing
political and security situation in Chad, the project accomplished very
little. Only about 8% of the originally estimated project cost was paid
out. The vaccination campaign, an on-going activity from the first drought
relief project, was the only subproject for which activities were to some
extent successfully undertaken. Although expenses were incurred for 4 other
subprojects, no activities were completed.
*                The overall performance of IDA was fully satisfactory particularly in
view of the constantly changing political circumstances in which it had to
operate. Potential security risks had been taken into account at the time of
*       appraisal and adequate safeguards had been taken.  It was simply not possible
to foresee the severity of the situation which arose. Even after the civil
war disturbances of 1979, IDA staff believed that certain subprojects could be
implemented (see para 2.04). However, Chadian arrears to the Bank soon became
an additional limiting factor. One general lesson of this project is that IDA
should have considered more carefully the risk of including a bilateral aid
agency, which might become subject to substantial organizational constraints,
in a cofinancing arrangement for a project which was for a small amount, short
time period and for which the processing was well advanced.



I. PROJECT FORMULATION AID APPRAISAL
A. BACKGROUND
1 .01    The Sahelianx Zone Project (SZP) was the tenth IDA operation, the
sixth project in the agriculture sector and the second drought relief project
in Chad.  The first Drought Relief Project (Cr. 445-CD) was financed by IDA
for US$2.0 million in 1973 as part of the Western Africa Drought Relief
Program to six Sahelian countries suffering from the region's worst drought in
50 years.  Following the 1976 crop failure, the Government of Chad requested
IDA assistance to finance activities in the drought affected zone. The
project concept was identified by IDA in December 1976 and Government
subsequently played the major role in project preparation.
B. PROJECT OBJECTIVES AND DESCRIPTION
1.02     The main objective of the project was to initiate quickly actions of
a drought-alleviating nature that could sustain or lead to increased
development of the crop, livestock and forestry resources of the Sahelian
Zone. The project also included two principal secondary objectives: to help
Government put into effect its new strategy for the rural sector and to
strengthen those Government agencies that had effectively participated in
project preparation, notably the National Committee of War Against Natural
Calamities (CWANC) and its subordinate technical committee. The project was
intended as a two-year non-renewal operation which would finance 14 sub-
projects selected on the basis of five criteria established for the first
drought relief project. These were that subprojects be of a drought
alleviating nature, help restore the productive base of areas seriously
affected by the drought, generate benefits quickly, benefit a relatively large
number of people, and be demonstrably needed and supported by a local
community which would be prepared, where feasible, to make a contribution to
its costs through the provision of labor or local materials. An additional
criterion was that implementation of the subprojects be done by existing
institutions with no significant increase in staff.
1.03     Fourteen subprojects were included in the project.  Some of these
were pilot operations that might constitute the core of a future broad-based
regional development project (bottomland development, village warehouses, Lake
Fitri rural development center, forestry management and nurseries,
construction wood supplies, and air transport). Others were stop-gap measures
to be undertaken prior to and leading into the Second Livestock Project
(vaccination campaign, vaccine production equipment, open well repairs,
tubewell operations, and groundwater level surveys). The vegetable production
and garage construction subprojects were independent operations.
1.04     The CWANC, an interministerial committee, was responsible for overall
project management. Its technical committee, composed of directors of
technical departments, which had worked with the line agencies to prepare the
subprojects was responsible for day-to-day coordination of the eight executing



-2-
agencies. Financial management was the responsibility of the Office of
Foreign Aid Accounting in the Department of Planning.
C. APPRAISAL
1.05     The project was appraised in February/March 1977 and there were no
serious points of disagreement between the mission and the Government. Four
issues were discussed at the Issues Meeting and the two most relevant issues
were security and Government's financial capability. It was recognized that
the security situation in the Sahelian Zone might have an impact on IDA
supervision of five subprojects.  The security risks made four of the
subprojects partially inaccessible and one subproject totally inaccessible to
supervision missions. It was, hovever, decided to retain all the subprojects
in the financing plan as the disbursement of funds was subject to IDA staff
being afforded all necessary facilities to carryout adequate supervision.
Furthermore, due to the discrete nature of the subprojects it was argued that
the failur-e to implement some subprojects was not a risk to the project as a
whole.
1 .06    It was agreed that a revolving fund would be established in view of
Government's inability to pre-finance the initial stages of project
implementation. The opening of a special account for the revolving fund was
made a condition of project effectiveness. The appraisal mission also
examined closely the recurrent cost implications of the subprojects. Only
three of the 14 subprojects required continued Government financing but only
for a modest amount; the other subprojects were either self-financing or
provided for by new activities such as IDA's Second Livestock Project.
D. PROJECT COST AND FINANCING ARRAJGEMEITS
1.07     The project costs were estimated at US$4.0 million (net of taxes)
with a foreign exchange component of 58 percent. IDA was to finance US$1.9
million (48 percent of the project cost) and the Canadian International
Development Agency (CIDA) was to finance an equal amount as a grant which was
to be disbursed pari passu with the IDA Credit. The remaining project cost of
US$0.2 million was to be contributed by the oubproject beneficiaries and by
Government.
II. IMPLEMENTATION
2.01     The Credit Agreement was signed in September 1977 and the project was
expected to become effective in December. However, Credit effectiveness was
conditional upon the signing of an agreement between Canada and Chad which
caused a delay until May 15, 1978. Procurement of equipment for the
vaccination campaign, vaccine production, well repair and tubewell subprojects
began, but no other payments could be made until the establishment of the



-3-
project revolving fund. The fund did not become operational until the end of
January 1979, a full 13 months beyond the project's expected start-up date,
when CIDA paid in its US$125,000 share.
2.02     In the light of these delays as well as the security uncertainties,
the project executing agencies revised their work programs in September
1978. However, this did not result in a change in the original project
content or justification. The first full supervision mission of October 1978
considered that the revised work programs were a wise response to the changed
security situation and confirmed the prudence of the Chadian Government. The.
mission noted the increasing ineffectiveness of CWAXC. An agreement was
reached with all the concerned parties to appoint an executive secretary of
CWANC, at least on a part time basis, and to designate the project manager of
the IDA financed Rural Projects Fund as the procurement advisor. No executive
secretary was appointed and during the renewed outbreak of civil war in
February 1979, key staff of CVANC fled the country.
2.03     By the time the revolving fund became operational, project
implementation had come to a standstill due to civil war. A May/June 1979
mission which reviewed the broad political/military situation as well as
project-specific matters, recommended sending all expatriate staff working on
Bank-assisted projects out of the country and formally suspending
disbursements for all Bank projects in Chad. Suspension became effective July
18, 1979. However, it made an exception for expenditures and commitments
already incurred and permitted the use of remaining resources in the project
revolving funds for certain well defined project expenditures that would be
useful to protect existing assets and maintain minimal continuity for the full
resumption of project work which was expected in September. For the SZP, the
bottomland development and village warehouse subprojects would be started in
the four sites close to N'Djamena on the basis of the executing agency's
detailed cost estimates. For the vaccine production subproject, equipment
orders would not be cancelled. In the c.ase of the 11 other subprojects, no
activity would be undertaken. At the time of the Nay/June mission there was a
balance of CFAF 52.2 million (equivalent to about US$238,792) in the project
revolving fund. As a precautionary measure, the mission agreed with the
Chadian authorities that the funds not needed to effect outstanding payments
for SZP would be transferred into the revolving fund of the Rural Projects
Fund (664-CD) which had incurred various expenses for which it lacked funds.
This decision was justified by the urgent situation in the field, but IDA
headquarters later found it to be legally unacceptable.  However, by the time
Government was notified of this decision, the funds had already been
transferred and spent.
2.04     The second full supervision mission took place in February 1980.
This was a full two months after the original completion date of the project
yet only about 10 percent of the Credit amount was disbursed and the CWANC was
virtually non-existant. The bottomland development and village warehouse
projects had not proceeded in part due to the exhaustion of the revolving fund
and suspension of disbursements which prevented its replenishment. The
mission recommended the lifting of suspension of disbursements for the four
IDA-financed agriculture projects in Chad and proposed a work program and
budget for the period up to September 1980. Four subprojects of SZP were
recommended for implementation. The remaining 10 were considered infeasible
due to political insecurity, weakness of executing agencies and, in some



- 4 -
cases, the need for total redefinition or abandonment of the subproject.  The
mission recommended the appointment of a liaison officer to be financed by
UNDP to take over the coordination of the project in view of the CWANC's
failure.
2.05     The political situation in Chad continued to change rapidly and it
was not possible to lift suspension of disbursements as recommended. The next
IDA mission which included a review of agriculture projects was in December
1982. By this time, in addition to security problems, Government arrears to
the Bank had become a matter of concern.  This mission recommended the partial
lifting of suspension of disbursements for two agriculture projects, Sategui-
Deressia (489-CD) and Rural Projects Fund (664-CD). In the case of SZP, the
mission found that few of the subprojects were still feasible and that these
could be financed by the Rural Projects Fund. Therefore, the SZP was not
included in the partial lifting of suspension in April 1983. A supervision
mission was sent to Chad in April/May 19853 to review all IDA agriculture
projects. In June, this mission recommended the cancellation of the SZP since
the viable subprojects had already been picked up for financing by other
donors and the remaining projects either needed complete redesign or were
located in insecure areas (see Table 1, Annex 1).   Due to continuing
uncertainties about the Bank's activities in Chad and the political situation
there, a final decision about cancellation of the project was delayed until
the next Bank field mission in December 1983 when final agreement was reached
between all parties that this was the best course of action.
III.  BENEFITS AND JUSTIFICATION
3.01     At the time of appraisal, the rates of return were calculated for
only three subprojects (bottomland development, vegetable production and open
well repairs) which constituted 21 percent of the project base costs and the
weighted average rate of return was 21 percent. However, no rate of return
was calculated at the time of preparing the project completion report as these
subprojects were not implemented 1/. Benefits from the vaccination campaign
and drugs subproject, which was by far the largest subproject (with 27 percent
of total base cost), were expected to accrue to about 250,000 families.  This
was originally to be a one-year operation during 1977/78. The only activity
in 1977/78 was provision of CFAF 33.6 million in vaccines using existing
vehicules and equipment.  This was substantially less than the original
allocation for the subproject and the February 1980 supervision mission agreed
that some of the resources would be used to buy drugs for the 1979 campaign.
Disbursements information shows that only 19% of the Credit allocation was
expended and there is no readily available information concerning the number
of livestock and families who benefitted. In suimmary, the vaccination
campaign was the only subproject for which activities were to some extent
1/ US$97,000 was expended under the open well repair subproject, but no
information is included in the February 1980 supervision report as to
whether any repairs were completed.



-5-
successfully undertaken. Although expenses were incurred for the vaccine
production, open well repair, bottomlands and tubewell operation subprojects,
no activities were completed. (See Tables I and 2, Annex 1).
IV. INSTITUTIONAL PBRFORKANCE
4.01     No new institutions were created under the project.  The appraisal
mission considered CWANC to be an effective agency for coordinating the
activities of the eight agencies responsible for implementing the
subprojectBs. ive of the in-line executing agencies were already involved in
execution of IDA projects and had performed satisfactorily. All eight had
been involved in the project preparation and were represented on the CWANC.
Unfortunately, for reasons which are not clear, the leadership of the CWANC
began to lose interest in the project and supervision missions repeatedly
expressed concern about its declining effectiveness. Apart from two meetings
in 1978, CWAIC did not meet and eventually collapsed. Several measures were
proposed to alleviate this problem (see para 2.04).
4.02     These developments and the earlier failure of such a committee under
the first drought relief project (see PPAR No. 2807, January 1980) raise
questions about the effectiveness of a high-level committee as a coordinating
agency for smal'l subprojects. In retrospect, it appears that a project
coordinator in the Planning Department might have been a better choice
considering the uncertainties of that time. However, it should be noted that
any organizational form had a high probability of eventually breaking down
u-nder the strain of the civil war conditions and the general collapse of the
civil service in 1979.
V. BANK PERFORMANCE
5.01     The overall performance of IDA was fully satisfactory particularly in
view of the circumstances in which it had to operate. IDA's prompt response
to the urgent request by Government to process the SZP was commendable and the
project was well formulated considering the urgency with which it was
prepared. The CWANC's good performance in project preparation gave the
appraisal mission strong reason to believe it would perform well as a
coordinating agency. Supervision missions were responsive to the problems
created by delays in initial implementation and by the constantly changing
political circumstances which prevented regular supervision. Potential
security risks had been taken into account at the time of appraisal and even
after the civil war disturbances of 1979 it was believed that certain
subprojects could be implemented (see para 2.04). Perhaps the IDA
recommendation for project cancellation could have been made prior to December
1982 since the project was only a two-year non-renewable operation and the
political and economic turmoil continued well beyond expectations. However,
IDA adopted a wait-and-see attitude which seems appropriate given the degree
of uncertainty.



VI. COPINANCING
6.01     IDA was originally planning to fully finance SRZP. However, prior to
appraisal, reservations were expressed about providing 100% finaning for the
project. Around the time of appraisal, CIDA expressed an interest in
participating in the SZP and this was agreed upon after appraisal. This
resulted in serious delays in project effectiveness and early implementation
(see pars 2.01 and 2.03).  Considerable time and energies were spent by IDA
staff trying to resolve the problems arising out of the cofinancing
arrangement. It is possible to speculate that if there had not been such a
long delay in making the revolving fund operational, several of the
subprojects would have been substantially completed prior to the now outbreak
of civil war in 1979. IDA should have considered more carefully the risk of
including a bilateral aid agency in a cofinancing arrangement for a project
which was for a small amount, short time period and for which the processing
was well advanced.



-7
Annex 1
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
CHAD - SAiELIAN ZORE PROJECT
(Credit 739-CD)
Table 1
Total Disbursements by Category and Subproject Statas
t
6i                                                              Subproject Status and
*000 US$         New Flnancing Sources
Category                      Credit    Actual    As of End April 1983
A. ONDR
A-.  Bottomlands                 180         2        Fifth FED
A-2  Village Warehouses          120        0         Fifth FED
A-3  Vegetable Production        120        0          (Needs Redesign)
A-4 Lake Fitri Rural
Development Center       50         0         (Postponed)
B. Dept. of Livestock
B-1  Vaccine Campaign & Drugs   420        79         FED/FAC
3-2 Vaccine Prod. Equipment      70        14         FAC
C. SERARRY '
C-1  Open Well Repairs          110        13         (Needs Some Redefinition)
C-2 Tubewell Operation
First Project Year          50         0         (Needs Redefinition)
Second Project Year         25         0
C-3  Groundwater Level Survey    25         0         (Postponed)
D. Dept. of Forestry
D-1  Forestry Managememt         60         0         FAO
D-2  Forestry Nurseries          80         0         FAO
D-3 Construction Wood
Supplies Proj. Prep.        25         0         (Postponed)
E. CWANC: Garage Construction
and Equipment                 220         0         PNUD
F.  ASECNA: Airstrip Rehab.          45         0         (Overtaken by Events)
Unallocated                          160        0
Initial Advance Revolving Fuad a/   125        125
Total                              1900       233
a/   30 million CFAF of this amount (approximately US$137,237 at original
value) transferred out of revolving fund and utilized for credit 664.



-8-
Annex 1
PROJECT COBPLETION REPORT
CHAD - SAEELIA  ZONE PROJ3E
(Credit 739-CD)
Table 2
Consolidated Project Account as of February 1980
'000 CFAF
Receipts
IDA (USS125,000)                       27,788
CIDA                                   26,867
Total                                  54,654
Expenditures
B-2 Vaccine Production                 12,767
C-1  Open Well Repairs                  5,364
C-2  Tubewell Operation                 6,519
Exceptional Transfer to 664-CD         30,000
Outstanding Balance in
Revolving Fund                           4



- 9 -                    Annex 2
Translation
Canadian International Development Agency (CIDA)
May 4, 1984
Hr. Shiv S. Kapur
L     Acting Director General,
Operations Evaluation
The World Bank
Washington, D.C.
Re: Project Completion Report on Chad Sahelian
Zone Proiect (Credit 739-CD)
Dear Hr. Kapur:
This letter is in response to your letter of April 4, 1984
pertaining to the project in question.
I have read the Project Completion Report you sent us with a great
deal of interest and I am in general agreement with the content of the
report. It is, however, very difficult to elaborate on the report's
conclusions in view of the fact that the project had to be terminated shortly
after start-up (summer of 1979) owing to circumstances beyond our control.
Nonetheless we hope that new avenues for cooperation can be studied
between CIDA and the World Bank for other French-speaking countries in Africa
under more favorable conditions. To this end, we are interested in exploring
with you ways in which we could strengthen and extend cooperation between our
two institutions, while ensuring that our respective agencies are involved in
the project planning process from the outset.
Yours, etc.
Isl Francois Pouliot
Vice President for
D                                                      French-speaking Africa






