Document of
E1iOTS H           h 9   De World Bank
ONt WEPI FO OFFICIAL USE ONLY
FILE COPY
Report No. P-2107-CD
REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION
OF THE
PRESIDENT OF THE
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
TO TEE
EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS
ON A
PROPOSED CREDIT
TO
THE REPUBLIC OF CHAD
FOR A
SAHELIAN ZONE PROJECT
August 23, 1977
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



-RETURN TO AEpORTS DESK
ROOM A-124 BY:
SEP    18  978
CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
Currency Unit         CFA franc (CFAF)
US$1.00            c  CFAF 245
CFAF 1,000            US$4.08
ABBREVIATIONS
ASECNA          Air Safety Board
BDT            Chadian Development Bank
CIDA           Canadian International Development Agency
CWANC          Committee of War Against Natural Calamities
EDF             European Development Fund
FAC            Fonds d'Aide et de Cooperation
OFAA           Office of Foreign Aid Accounting
ONDR           National Rural Development Board
PWD             Public Works Department
SERARHY        Rural Water Supply Agency
SZP            Sahelian Zone Project
UNDP            United Nations Development Program
FISCAL YEAR
Government                   January 1 - December 31
Project                      October 1 - September 30



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
CHAD
SAHELIAN ZONE FUND
CREDIT AND PROJECT SUIMMARY
Borrower:             Republic of Chad
Amount:               US$1.9 million
Terms:                Standard
Project Description:  The proposed project is designed to finance drought
alleviating activities in the Sahelian Zone. The
project consists of 14 subprojects leading to:
i)   increased development of crop farming;
ii) sustained and improved animal health services;
iii) maintenance of water supply;
iv) expansion of forestry activities; and
v)  increase in Government's capacity to deliver
transport services.
Benefits from the vaccination subproject, which is
by far the largest subproject, at 27 percent of total
base cost, would accrue to some 250,000 families. In-
creases in output under seven other subprojects
would benefit about 20,000 families or 75,000 people.
The remaining subprojects are aimed at improving
the region's productive base, facilitating access to
remote areas and saving costs.
The project faces the risks associated with Chad's
difficult budgetary situation and the internal security
situation. Five subprojects are either partly or wholly
located in areas currently considered unsafe. Among
these subprojects, three require on-site supervision.
These three subprojects will either not be initiated
until areas are secured or will not be extended outside
areas recognized by both the Association and Government
as safe.
This document has arestricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance
of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



Estimated Costs 1/
Local      Foreign      Total
-------(US$ thousand)-------
Bottomland development                         214         168         382
Village warehouses                             191          54         245
Rural Development Center:   Lake Fitri          95         127         222
Vegetable production                            44          62         106
Vaccination campaign and drugs                 313         608         921
Vaccine production equipment                    -          143         143
Open well repairs                               80         143         223
Tubewell operation                              99         111         210
Groundwater levels/water points                 21          28          49
Forestry management                            131          35         166
Forestry nurseries                             103         96          199
Preparation of a construction wood project      15          35          50
Garage construction and equipment               81         368         449
Rehabilitation of airstrips                     72           3          75
Audit and Reporting                              4          21          25
Base cost estimate                           1,463       2,002       3,465
Physical contingencies                          62          77         139
Expected price increases                       153         202         355
Total Project Cost                           1,678       2,281       3,959
Financing Plan:
Foreign     Local       Total
… --  (US$ thousand)--------
Beneficiaries                                  65         65
Government                          -          94         94
CIDA                              1,140       760      1,900
IDA                              1,141        759      1,900
Total                       2,281      1,678      3,959
Estimated Disbursement:
(Anmount in US$ million)
IDA Fiscal Year                            1978     1979     1980
Annual                                   0.9      0.7      0.3
Cumulative                               0.9      1.6      1.9
1/   Net of taxes.   All project goods and services would be imported duty-
free as is customary for IDA-financed project in Chad.



- i:ii -
Rate of Return:        The subprojects for which rates of return can be cal-
culated represent 21 percent of project base cost and
have a weighted average rate of return of 21 percent.
Appraisal Report:      Appraisal of a Sahelian Zone Project - Chad, No. 1585-CD,
dated August 4, 1977.






INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION OF THE PRESIDENT
To THE EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS ON A PROPOSED
CREDIT TO THE REPUBLIC OF CHAD
FOR A SAHELIAN ZONE PROJECT
1.        I submit the following report and recommendation on a proposed
development credit to the Republic of Chad for the equivalent of US$1.9
million on standard IDA terms to help finance a Sahelian Zone Project.
CIDA, the Canadian Aid Agency, would participate in the financing of the
project with a grant of US$1.9 million equivalent.
PART I - THE ECONOMY
Background
2.        The following paragraphs incorporate the conclusions of an Economic
Memorandum (Report No. 1340-CD) based on missions which visited Chad in 1976
and 1977, and distributed to the Board in July 1977.
3.        With scarce natural resources, a harsh climate, limited social
and economic infrastructure and a pervasive lack of skilled manpower, Chad
faces unusually large handicaps in its economic development. High cost of
transportation to and from the outside world compounds the problem: the main
centers of activity of this vast landlocked country are about 2,000 km from
the sea; freight rates from the port of Douala in Cameroon to Southern Chad
were about US$130/ton for bulk goods and US$180/ton for general goods in
early 1976.
4.        In 1975, Chad's GNP per capita was estimated at US$120.    Chad is
therefore one of the poorest countries in Africa and is classified as one of
the world's 25 "least developed" countries by the United Nations. Close to
90 percent of the population, estimated at about four million, lives in rural
areas deriving their livelihood from agriculture and livestock. About half
of the rural population lives in the southwest or cotton zone, where average
rainfall is about 1,000 mm/year, and grows millet and sorghum as food crops
and cotton as a cash crop. The other half are mainly pastoralists living in
the dry grassland belt, with lower and less reliable rainfall. Recently,
efforts have been made to intensify traditional rice growing on the flood
plains of the Logone River.
5.        During the 1960s, real GDP increased about 2 percent annually.
The highest growth rates were achieved in the market economy (mainly import
substitution industries and services), while the growth of livestock and sub-
sistence crops probably did not reach that of population estimated at about
2 percent per year. Incomes have risen faster in the small urban sector than
in the rural areas; and within the rural population, producers of cash crops
have gained more than the pastoralists.



-2-
Recent Developments
6.        Three factors have affected economic growth and the financial
situation since the late 1960s: internal security problems, drought and a
deterioration in the ternis of trade. The rebellion that broke out in 1968
made large areas insecure and cut traditional cattle routes. Due to lack of
security and maintenance funds, wells were neglected and the water supply for
livestock dwindled. Animal disease control suffered a setback. The impact
of the internal security problems was compounded by severe droughts, which
occurred in three of the five years, 1969-1973. Water levels in the rivers
reached an all-time low, and Lake Chad shrunk to one-third of its normal
size. Livestock losses were substantial, and the cattle herd was reduced to
two-thirds of its normal size- Food crops were also hard hit; production of
millet and sorghum fell to about 70 percent of pre-drought levels in 1972 and
to about 60 percent in 1973- Emergency food shipments from abroad helped the
hard hit areas. With the return of normal rainfall, food production recovered
to pre-drought levels in 1974/75. However, in 1976, a localized drought
occurred again in Chad's Sahelian zone affecting agricultural output and
necessitating the resumption of food aid.
7.        After the 1973 drought, cotton production picked up considerably
reaching a record volume in 1975/76 (175,000 tons); this was accompanied by
a proportional increase in the number of draft oxen used. The upturn in crop
production stimulated industry, transportation and trade. However, production
declined in 1976/77 to 150,000 tons of seed cotton, mainly because of uneven
rainfall in the south. On the other hand, livestock offtake, after surging
in the drought years because of emergency slaughtering, has substantially
decreased, reflecting the reduction of the herd and the beginning of its
reconstitution. While the livestock sector was also constrained by past
marketing policies, the Government has recently improved the situation by
adopting a more liberal approach involving state and private enterprises
participation. Since 1974 the economy has borne the full impact of accele-
rated import price inflation and the current decline in cotton export prices.
Consequently, the terms of trade worsened by about 11 percent between 1972
and 1974, improved in 1975 but are estimated to have deteriorated again in
1976.
8.        Up to 1968, the budget was in balance and, in view of the country s
development constraints, fiscal performance could be considered as satisfac-
tory. After 1968, however, expenditures began to grow more rapidly than
revenue, as military spending increased (security and defense now account for
about one-third of the current budget). The drought also increased demand
for Government services while it reduced revenues. Further contributing
factors were the continuous and recently accelerated inflation of import
prices and the rise in Government employment--a means of containing unem-
ployment especially among school leavers. As a result, the overall budget
deficit (excluding capital expenditures financed by foreign aid) rose from
CFAF 2.0 billion (15-5 percent of revenue) in 1970 to CFAF 4.1 billion (30.5
percent of revenue) in 1974, but dropped to CFAF 2.1 billion (13.5 percent
of revenue) in 1975 due to special efforts to collect tax arrears and to some
reduction in spending. However, in 1976, the overall deficit increased to



3.6 billion CFAF. Budgetary revenues in 1976, while lower in absolute amounts
than 1975, were above medium-term trends mainly as a result of increased cot-
ton sales. On the other hand, expenditures rose more rapidly than revenues,
mainly because of the rise in Government employment. Foreign budgetary
assistance had been instrumental in closing the budgetary gap in the past and
this assistance has been stepped up in 1976. The remainder of the gap was
financed for the most part through the accumulation of arrears of payments to
local and foreign suppliers which, at the end of 1975 stood at 10.3 billion
CFAF (US$42 million). In 1976 the level of arrears increased by only 3 per-
cent thanks to increased budgetary assistance and the Government's own debt
servicing efforts.
9.        Recurrent expenditures expanded continuously, while Government-
financed investment--about CFAF I billion per year until 1972--has shrunk
to virtually nil. Furthermore there has been a progressive curtailment of
supplies required for the operation and maintenance of Government services,
affecting those services related to economic activities. In 1974, for example,
road maintenance expenditures were less than 1 percent of total expenditures,
and of the allocation for the Department of Agriculture and Livestock (less
than 5 percent of the budget total) all but 12 percent was for wages and
salaries. Because of the lack of supplies from stationery to spare parts,
most Government services cannot function effectively.
External Aid
10.       Since 1973, aid flows have been substantial, grants alone about
equalling tax revenue in 1973 and 1975, and exceeding it by 24 percent in
1974. Total disbursements of external aid in 1973-1975 were US$222 million,
three-quarters of which were grants. Aid from OPEC countries rose from zero
in 1972 to 10 percent of the total aid in 1973 and 18 percent in 1975 (US$15
million). Nearly two-thirds of official aid disbursements came from bilat-
eral donors (France, 52 percent; USA, 5 percent; Germany, 4 percent; Canada,
3 percent), the remainder from multilateral sources (FED, 26 percent; UN
organizations, 6 percent; IDA, 3 percent). External aid financed practically
all public investments. The inflow of foreign aid offset the large deficits
in the goods and services account of Chad's balance of payments, so that its
reserve position with the Bank of Central African States did not deteriorate.
At the end of July 1976, total net foreign reserves stood at US$13.1 million.
11.       The external debt of Chad is a considerable burden for a country
with such limited resources. The total outstanding (including undisbursed)
external debt is estimated at approximately US$200 million at the end of 1976
or about 66 percent of the estimated GDP for that year of which about 60
percent had been disbursed at the end of 1976. The largest increases in out-
standing debt occurred between 1973 and 1975 during the worst period of the
recent drought at a time when the Government was undergoing severe budgetary
difficulties. These difficulties also led to Chad's increasing inability to
service the debt resulting in the accumulation of arrears of about US$10
million at the end of 1976. For 1976, the external public and guaranteed debt
service due (excluding arrears) was estimated at US$10.5 million or 7 percent



- 4 -
of exports of goods and non factor services, and is estimated to be about 12
percent in the mid 1980's, if we assume that Chad's present attempts to re-
schedule the accumulated arrears of payments to foreign lendors will be
successful and that the Government will not undertake large new commitments
on unfavorable terms. While the ratio of debt service to exports is manage-
able, the bulk of service payments would have to come from budgetary revenues.
The debt service ratio with respect to budgetary revenues (excluding arrears)
was estimated at 17 percent in 1976. The Government has established a Caisse
Autonome d'Amortissement, an agency which has been charged with overall debt
management and administration, financed with earmarked revenues, whose direc-
tor reports directly to the Head of State. The Bank is presently assisting
the Caisse Autonome in setting up debt reporting and monitoring procedures.
Development Prospects
12.       Chad's development potential lies primarily in agriculture.    Oppor-
tunities for productive employment in the urban areas will remain small. But
progress in the rural economy, even assuming political stability and normal
rainfall, will be slow. Recently, the Government announced the discovery
of oil in the northwestern and southern parts of the country. However, it
will take time to assess the size of oil deposits and the feasibility of their
exploitation.
Financial Prospects and Recurrent Costs
13.       The fiscal situation is a serious obstacle to development, since
the Government cannot contribute to the financing of required investments nor
finance all recurrent costs of ongoing and new high-priority projects. The
Government has undertaken a review of the tax system with IMF help and,
recently, has increased export taxes on cotton, but the narrow tax base and
the rising cost of maintaining even the present level of public services make
it unlikely that budgetary savings can be generated during the remainder of
the 1970's. Assuming normal weather and a continuation of the recent level
of security expenditure in real terms, a small budgetary surplus could be
achieved by 1982 if certain measures are taken to restrain expenditure growth.
In view of its financial constraints, Chad's poverty and its modest growth
prospects, external funds should be provided on the most concessionary terms
possible. Moreover, in the next few years foreign aid agencies should finance
a high proportion of total project costs, including local costs and some
development-related recurrent costs.
PART II - BANK GROUP OPERATIONS IN CHAD
14.       Development of Chad's agriculture, transportation and human re-
sources continues to be the main objective of Bank Group assistance to the
country. Nine IDA credits to date amount to US$49.2 million. Five credits
and a supplementary credit helped finance agricultural projects, two credits
financed transport projects and two credits educational projects. Our last



- 5 -
credit was in November 1976 for a Rural Projects Fund comprising essen-
tially agricultural development schemes but also transport and rural water
supply. Five of the nine projects are either completed or near completion;
the others are progressing satisfactorily. Delays have occurred in project
implementation mainly due to lack of counterpart funds and/or supplies, but
also because of building design problems and late signing of consultant con-
tracts. A common constraint to development in all sectors is insufficiency
of Government funds for maintenance and recurrent costs. Annex II contains
a summary statement of IDA credits as of June 30, 1977, and notes on the
execution of ongoing projects.
15.       In agriculture our main objectives are to help Government assure
a sufficient food supply for the growing urban as well as the predominantly
rural population and to protect Chad's production base against the vagaries
of climate. In rainfed agriculture, past IDA lending has been designed to
raise rural productivity mainly through the provision of infrastructure,
equipment and storage facilities. Our first livestock project assisted the
Government with the rehabilitation and construction of Sahelian pastoral
wells; a recently appraised second project would involve animal health ser-
vices, animal husbandry, and pastoral development, pastoral wells, credit
and marketing. In irrigation IDA is assisting in the financing of the
Sategui Deressia and Lake Chad Polders projects which will produce rice,
wheat and seed cotton. The proposed Sahelian Zone Project would initiate
actions of a drought-alleviating nature that would sustain or step up crops,
livestock and forestry exploitation in the zone.
16.       In transportation, we give priority to road maintenance and to
improvement of feeder roads and agricultural export routes. Our first project
helped to build-up a primary road maintenance capacity in the Department of
Public Works. Our Second Highway Project and the road component of the Rural
Projects Fund are designed to improve feeder roads; a proposed third highway
project, recently appraised, would essentially serve to improve and maintain
about 5,000 km of primary and secondary roads in the South and in the Sahelian
Zone. We are also considering projects which would improve Chad's transport
links with the sea, although much of the improvement will come from transport
investments in the coastal countries.
17.       Two education projects in 1968 and 1971 assisted the Government in
setting up institutions for training teachers, agriculturalists and techni-
cians--the most needed skills in the economy. A proposed third education
project, recently appraised, would improve mainly primary education facilities
in rural areas.
18.       Chad's severe financial and manpower constraints limit investment
opportunities and necessitate special arrangements for counterpart funds,
recurrent costs, training and institution building. IDA and other donors have
assisted the Government in financing local costs pending the improvement
of the economic situation. Our discussions with the Government have insti-
gated a beginning in cost recovery and better recurrent cost financing. In



- 6 -
all our projects we will, as in the past, include training and other provi-
sions necessary for strengthening institutions and improving sector policies.
19.       Our operations in Chad have been coordinated with other donors and
all our large projects are being executed under joint or parallel financing.
The recent focus of attention to the problems of Sahel has increased the
number of donors seeking cofinancing with IDA.     The proposed project like the
three others in the pipeline will benefit from cofinancing. The amount of
cofinancing thus tentatively pledged in FY78 and FY79 is likely to match the
proposed IDA lending to Chad during this period. Also IDA lending accounted
for 17 percent of the total outstanding disbursed external public debt at the
end of 1976, and, on the average, 4 percent of Chad's projected debt service
over the 1977-1985 period.
PART III - THE RURAL SECTOR
20.        The rural sector contributes about 55 percent to GDP and about 90
percent to exports, of which cotton, livestock and animal products, and fish
are the main commodities.    While not able effectively to redistribute food
grains surpluses to meet the needs of deficit zones, Chad is normally self-
sufficient in cereals and leguminous crops; the only agricultural products
imported in any volume in "normal" years are wheat and sugar.
Production
21.       Agricultural activities are essentially related to latitude, to
which both total rainfall and rainfall variability are closely correlated.
In the south or cotton zone, which generally produces a small surplus of
coarse grains, two substantial changes in farming techniques have recently
taken place: the application of fertilizers and insecticide to cotton, and
the use of work oxen have both more than doubled between 1973/74 and 1976/77
as a result of the productivity program financed with Fond d'Aide et de
Cooperation (FAC) and European Development Fund (EDF).     Seed cotton production
increased from about 100,000 tons/year in the mid sixties through 1973/74 to
the record of 175,000 tons in 1975/76 but, due to unfavorable rainfall dis-
tribution, declined to 150,000 tons in 1976/77. Chad is now the leading
cotton exporter in West Africa.    In the Sahelian Zone, defined as the area
north of the 600 mm isohyet, in which population is about 1.2 million, live-
stock is the main output by value; even in "normal" years there is a small
deficit in coarse grains. In this zone there have been no significant changes
in farming techniques or livestock management; nor, however, has there been
much official effort to promote or even research possible changes until quite
recently. The past neglect of the Sahelian Zone affords opportunity in that,
although the absolute production can never be great, the relative increase can
be substantial.
Impact of 1976 Crop Failure
22.        In 1976, rainfall was generally 20-30 percent less than the long-
term average and the monthly distribution was also unfavorable. As a result,
cereal output in the Sahelian Zone is estimated at 140,000 tons or only 60
percent of "normal" production. Emergency relief is required once again,



although not on the scale of 1973. While many donors have pledged emer-
gency supplies, none has pledged the kind of assistance envisaged in the
proposed project. Earlier, however, the EDF had committed CFAF 1.7 billion
(US$7 million) to be shared equally between the agricultural and livestock
sub-sectors in the Sahelian Zone; this sum would be used for activities that
are complementary to, and in three cases a continuation of, the subprojects
in the proposed project.
Sector Strategy
23.       The Government intends to (i) substantially increase services to
the crop and livestock subsectors; (ii) initiate work on variety selection
for coarse grains and leguminous crops; (iii) take the opportunity afforded
by present low stocking rates to encourage pastoralists to form grazing
associations; (iv) maintain rather than expand stock watering points; (v)
explore all possibilities whereby beneficiaries can contribute to the cost of
specific services rendered; and (vi) expand work in the forestry and fishing
subsectors. Many of these intentions are new and, although some have not yet
been put to the test, they constitute a welcome change. With its numerous
worthwhile investment components in dryland farming, improved animal health,
maintenance of pastoral water supplies, forestry activities and improved
transport infrastructure and equipment maintenance, the proposed project fits
well into Government's new strategy for the rural sector in the Sahelian
Zone.
Marketing and Pricing
24.       Government has been rethinking its approach to marketing and pric-
ing, particularly of livestock. The prohibition on live animal exports was
lifted in February 1977 and normal trade with Nigeria has now resumed. Live-
stock producer prices have increased accordingly. This measure reflects a
general tendency to remove arbitrary impediments to internal and external
commerce and to revert to a more market oriented approach to pricing.
Institutions
25.       The Ministry of Rural and Pastoral Development is responsible for
the agricultural sector. It supervises seven of the entities involved in
the project implementation. These entities are described in para. 29 of this
report. There are also relatively autonomous agencies involved in the rural
sector of which the two most important, neither of which operates in the
Sahelian Zone, are the COTONTCHAD and the Caisse de Stabilisation des Prix du
Coton (CSPC). The first one is a Government majority owned cotton purchasing,
processing and marketing agency. It is essentially managed by expatriates.
The CSPC is an autonomous Government agency which besides evening out fluctua-
tions of the level of prices paid to cotton producers is also responsible for
carrying out the Government's productivity program by supporting parts of the
cost of the subsidies for improved inputs. An average of 24 percent of total
net benefits arising from cotton production are retained by those two insti-
tutions.



- 8 -
PART IV - THE PROJECT
Background
26.       Following the 1976 crop failure, the Government of Chad has re-
quested IDA assistance to finance a Sahelian Zone Project (SZP) which would
include small subprojects. The project concept was identified by IDA in
December 1976 and Government subsequently played the major role in project
preparation. An IDA mission appraised the project in February/March 1977.
A report entitled "Appraisal of a Sahelian Zone Project - Chad", No. 1585-CD,
dated August 4, 1977, is being distributed separately and a credit and project
summary is presented at the beginning of this report.    Negotiations for the
proposed credit were held in Chad from June 29 to July 1, 1977 with a Chadian
delegation led by Mr. N'Gartando Blayo, Director of Plan and Development.
Project Objectives and Description
27.       The main objective is to initiate quickly actions of a drought-
alleviating nature that could sustain or lead to increased development of the
crop, livestock and forestry resources of the Sahelian Zone. The project
would also help Government to put into effect its new strategy for the rural
sector in the zone and to strengthen those Government agencies that have
effectively participated in project preparation, notably the National Commit-
tee of War Against Natural Calamities (consisting of Ministers) and a subor-
dinate Technical Committee (consisting of heads of departments and parastatal
agencies). The two entities were created in August 1973 in the wake of the
1973 drought in order to design Government assistance program for the zones
affected by drought or any other natural calamity. The technical committee
(CWANC) will also play a major coordinating role during project implementation
(see para. 29). The SZP is intended as a two-year, non-renewable operation,
but subprojects which prove particularly successful and merit expansion would
be considered for inclusion in future IDA projects. The project activities
would be generally located within a 200 km belt north of the 600 mm isohyet
(Map 12896).
28.       Subprojects were selected by reference to tne five criteria estab-
lished for the West Africa Drought Relief Fund Project of 1973 (Cr. 445-CD).
These criteria were that the subproject be of a drought alleviating nature,
help restore the productive base of areas seriously affected by the drought,
generate benefits quickly, benefit a relatively large number of people and be
demonstrably needed and supported by local community which would be prepared,
where feasible, to make a contribution to its costs through the provision of
labor or local materials. A further criterion was adopted for selection of
subprojects for the SZP, namely that implementation be possible by existing
institutions and without undue recourse to additional senior staff.



-9-
The project would comprise 14 subprojects in the following five fields:
a. Crop Farming: increased development of crop farming,
through: (i) minor land improvements in bottomlands (about
2,000 ha); (ii) construction of 28 village warehouses;
(iii) a new extension and applied research program for flood
recession cultivation at Lake Fitri; and (iv) inputs for
increased vegetable production near N'Djamena;
b. Animal Health: sustained and improved animal health services,
through: (i) a comprehensive vaccination campaign together with
adequate drug supplies in 1977/78; and (ii) partial re-equipment
of the vaccine production plant at Farcha;
c. Water Supply: maintenance of pastoral water supply through:
(i) major repairs to 40 open wells in Kanem; (ii) operation
of 12 tubewells in Chari Baguirmi; and (iii) observation
of groundwater levels and water points;
d. Forestry: expanded forestry activities through: (i) expan-
sion of forestry management near N'Djamena (about 3,500
ha); (ii) establishment of four forestry nurseries; and
(iii) preparation of a project for supply of construction
wood; and
e. Transport: improved capacity for Government to deliver
services through: (i) construction and equipment of a
garage and workshop; and (ii) rehabilitation of six
airstrips.
Project Implementation
29.       No new institutions would be required for the organization and
management of the project. Overall responsibility for the coordination
of project implementation would be vested in CWANC whose technical committee
would report semi-annually to the National Committee and to IDA. Financial
control would be vested in the Office of Foreign Aid Accounting located in
the Department of Planning. Subproject execution would be the responsibility
of the following eight respective in line executing agencies, which are all
represented on CWANC:
Executing Agency                       Subprojects
1.   National Rural Develop-       Bottomland development; village warehouses;
ment Board (ONDR)             rural development center at Lake Fitri;
2.   Agriculture Department        Vegetable production;
3.   Livestock Department          Vaccination campaign and drugs; vaccine
production equipment;



- 10 -
4.   Rural Water Supply            Open well repairs; tubewell operation;
Agency (SERARHY)
5.   Water Bureau                  Groundwater levels and water points;
6.   Forestry Department           Forestry management; forestry nurseries;
preparation of a project for supply
of construction wood;
7.   Department of War Against     Garage construction and equipment;
Natural Calamities
(DWANC)
8.   Air Safety Board (ASECNA)     Rehabilitation of airstrips,
in cooperation with Public
Works Department (PWD)
30.       The first five agencies are already involved in execution of
IDA projects and all have performed satisfactorily. The Forestry Department
has recently launched two successful pilot projects with UNDP technical
assistance in the area of forestry management. Assurances were obtained that
Government would, by December 31, 1977, make arrangements satisfactory to the
Association to ensure the continued availability of technical assistance for
the implementation of the forestry management subproject (Section 3.03 (a) of
the draft Development Credit Agreement). The Department of War Against
Natural Calamities is well managed and is geared up to play the major role in
distribution of emergency food relief in 1977. The emergence of CWANC as an
effective means of project preparation is due in large measure to the energe-
tic management of the Department. A condition of disbursement of the garage
construction and equipment subproject, which is not yet fully prepared, would
be that DWANC had furnished a detailed economic and financial justification,
detailed design plans and specifications therefor and a financial plan to
secure adequate working capital, all to be satisfactory to the Association
(para. 3 (c) of Schedule I of the draft Development Credit Agreement). ASECNA
has a proven record of technical competence in air safety. A condition of
disbursement of the airstrips rehabilitation subproject would be that Govern-
ment had entered into an agreement, satisfactory to the Association, providing
that ASECNA would execute the subproject in cooperation with PWD (para. 3 (d)
of Schedule I of draft Development Credit Agreement). The Management Unit of
the Rural Projects Fund (Credit 664-CD) and the Planning Unit of the Ministry
of Rural Development would participate in monitoring and report accordingly to
the Committee of War Against Natural Calamities (CWANC). CWANC would intro-
duce, by December 31, 1977 and in agreement with IDA, a reporting and moni-
toring system satisfactory to IDA and be responsible for timely reporting
thereafter (Section 3.05 (c) of the draft Development Credit Agreement).



Cost Estimates and Financial Arrangements
31.       Project costs for the two-year period beginning October 1977 are
estimated at US$4.0 million, with a foreign exchange component of 58 percent.
All project goods and services would be imported duty-free as is customary for
IDA-financed projects in Chad. It is proposed that an IDA credit of US$1.9
million be made to Government on standard terms covering 48 percent of project
costs. The Canadian International Development Agency (CIDA) would also
contribute US$1.9 million or 48 percent of project costs as a grant to be
disbursed pari passu with the IDA credit. A condition of IDA credit effective-
ness would be that conditions precedent to disbursements under the CIDA grant
were fulfilled, save only the condition that the IDA Development Credit
Agreement had become effective (Section 6.01 (b) of the draft Development
Credit Agreement). Together IDA and CIDA would cover the foreign exchange
component (US$2.3 million) and 91 percent of the local costs (US$1.5 million).
The remaining project costs estimated at US$159,000 would be contributed by
beneficiaries in the tubewell operation subproject and by Government in the
forestry management and forestry nurseries subprojects.
32.       The IDA credit would be channeled through an account to be opened
at the Chadian Development Bank. The opening of this account would be a con-
dition of IDA Credit effectiveness (Section 6.01 (a) of the draft Development
Credit Agreement). Since Chad is unable to prefinance project expenditures,
IDA and CIDA would each contribute 50 percent to an initial deposit of
US$250,000 in a revolving fund for this project account. The Office of
Foreign Aid Accounting would authorize disbursement of these funds as grants
to the subproject executing agencies. Should, however, any disbursement from
the Project account finance expenditures that are not eligible for financing
from the proceeds of the Credit, Government would be under the obligation to
deposit the corresponding amount into that account (Section 2.02 (e) of the
draft Development Credit Agreement).
Financial Implications for Government
33.       Of the 14 subprojects, two would become self-financing by project
completion: vegetable production and tubewell operation. Two subprojects
are studies and would entail no recurrent costs: preparation of a project
for supply of construction wood and the inventory of groundwater levels and
water points, which should permit future cost savings by better planning of
water supply works and maintenance. Two subprojects involve works that
would be maintained by the beneficiary communities and would entail no other
recurrent costs: bottomland development and village warehouses; in both
cases, an expansion of the SZP-financed works is envisaged under the EDF
fourth phase. Four subprojects would entail recurrent costs but such costs
would be financed through new projects currently under preparation: animal
health services, vaccines and open well repairs would each be financed under
the proposed IDA/EDF livestock project, which would include significant cost
recovery mechanisms; the rural development center at Lake Fitri would be
financed for a further three years under the EDF fourth phase, whereupon



- 12 -
a regional development project would be prepared.    Of the four remaining
subprojects, two would entail recurrent costs to be borne by Government,
namely forestry management (CFAF 3 million/year US$12,000) and forestry
nurseries (CFAF 12 million/year-US$49,000). The garage subproject would
entail recurrent costs but would be undertaken only if significant cost
savings were to be realized. Finally, the airstrip rehablitation subproj-
ect would entail recurrent maintenance costs of about CFAF 4 million/year
(US$16,000) or a rehabilitation program every five years.   This would bring
the Government's total contribution to recurrent costs to only CFAF 19 mil-
lion (US$77,000) per year between the end of the project and 1982 when EDF's
project would be completed. At this time the budget is expected to be in
far better shape and thus would be capable of handling the entire recurrent
costs of all project components.
Procurement and Disbursement
34.       Contracts worth US$50,000 or more for the supply of vehicles and
equipment (estimated cost US$1.3 million) and materials for force account
works (estimated cost US$0.2 million) would be awarded after international
competitive bidding in accordance with IDA guidelines. Such contracts of
less than US$50,000 but more than US$10,000 and all contracts for civil works
not executed by force account, would be awarded after competitive bidding
advertised locally in accordance with procedures acceptable to IDA. Bidders
for the civil works for the construction of the garage shall be prequalified
in accordance with procedures acceptable to the Association. For contracts
of US$10,000 or less, price solicitations from bidders would be invited.
The services of the short-term consultant required for the preparation of a
project for supply of construction wood would be obtained following standard
Bank Group procedures.
35.       Each of the proposed subprojects would constitute a disbursement
category; three additional categories would contain funds for auditing,
advance for revolving fund, and unallocated. The proceeds of the IDA credit
would be disbursed against 50 percent of expenditures with the exception of
the tubewell operation subproject for which disbursements would be against
50 percent of expenditures in the 12 months following the date of the Devel-
opment Credit Agreement or October 1, 1977, whichever is later and thereafter
against 25 percent of expenditures; at this time beneficiaries are expected
to assume a larger share of the costs of the subproject. An amount of US$0.2
million would be unallocated. Disbursements would be fully documented except
for operating costs for which they would be made against certified statements
of expenditures, the documentations for which would not be submitted for
review but would be retained by the Borrower and available for inspection by
the Association during the course of project supervision missions. (For
special conditions of disbursements see paragraphs 30 and 37).
Benefits and Justifications
36.       Benefits from the vaccination campaign and drugs subproject, which
is by far the largest subproject (with 27 percent of total base cost), would
accrue to about 250,000 families; it would have a benefit-cost ratio over 12



- 13 -
months of about 3:1.   The seven other subprojects with identifiable direct
beneficiaries would reach 18,900 families or over 75,000 people.    For those
subprojects for whiich rates of return can be calculated, the results are:
bottomland development: 21 percent; vegetable production: 23 percent; and
open well repairs: about 19 percent. These tihree subprojects conlstitute 21
percent of project base costs and their weighted average rate of return would
be 21 percent.  Thie project would also have an important institutional benefit
in that the CWANC, having emerged as an effective agent for project prepara-
tion, would be given a furthier opportunity, through responsibility for manage-
ment, to test its usefulness. The project would also have an important staff
training benefit thirough acquisition of experience on-the-job; this is what is
now required in Chad where, due to lack of funds, formally-trained staff have
little opportunity to gain practical experience.
Risks
37.       There are areas in Chad which are intermittently occupied by rebels
and which are therefore considered restricted areas. Four subprojects of the
proposed project (bottomlands development, village warehouses, vaccination
campaign and drugs and tubewell operations) would be partially located within,
and one subproject (rural development center at Fitri) entirely within these
areas.  During negotiations it was decided that the bottomland development and
village warehouses subprojects which require on-site supervision would not be
extended into these restricted areas until it is determined feasible to do so
and that the exact locations of bottomlands to be developed and warehouses
to be constructed would be determined by both Borrower and the Association
(Section 3.07 of the draft Development Credit Agreement). The vaccination
campaign and drugs and tubewell operation would not necessitate supervision
in the restricted areas.    It was also agreed that initial disbursements for
the rural development center at Lake Fitri would be subject to furthier agree-
ment between the Government and the Association that the security conditions
permit efficient project execution and supervision (Section 3.01(a) of the
draft Development Credit Agreement). In addition an understanding was reached
with Government that, in accordance with normal Bank Group requirements,
disbursements would be conditional on IDA staff being afforded all necessary
facilities to carry out adequate supervision of subproject activities. There
is a further safeguard in that, because of the discrete nature of the subproj-
ects, delay or even failure of one subproject would not have serious reper-
cussions on the others.
38.       The innovative nature of some of the subprojects in which the
executing agencies have had little or no opportunity to prove their compe-
tence poses an additional risk. However, these agencies were represented on
the CWANC and fully participated in project preparation during which time
they showed considerable dedication to the success of the project. A further
risk arises from the fact that the Government may be unable to provide
recurrent cost financing after project completion. This would, however,
affect only three subprojects, namely forest management, forestry nurseries
and airstrips for which the recurrent costs to be financed by Government would
amount to CFAF 19 million/year (US$77,000). The prospects for Government
being able to finance those costs are discussed in paragraphs 13 and 33 of
this report.



- 14 -
PART V - LEGAL INSTRUMENTS AND AUTHORITY
39.       The draft Development Credit Agreement between the Republic of Chad
and the Association, the Report of the Committee provided for in Article V,
Section l(d) of the Articles of Agreement and the text of a draft Resolution
approving the proposed Credit are being distributed to the Executive Directors
separately.
40.       Special conditions of the project are referred to in Annex III of
this report.
41.       Special conditions of credit effectiveness would be:    (a) signing
of CIDA agreement and fulfillment of initial disbursement conditions under
the CIDA agreement, save for the effectiveness of the IDA Credit, and (b)
opening of the Special Account (Section 6.01 of the draft Development Credit
Agreement).
42.       Conditions of disbursement (para. 3 (b) and (c) of Schedule 1 of
the draft Development Credit Agreement) for specific subprojects are:
(a) For the rural development center at Lake Fitri, an
agreement had been reached between Government and
IDA that security conditions permit efficient project
execution and access by IDA staff for purposes of
supervision.
(b) For the garage construction and equipment subproject,
that the Association has received satisfactory economic
and financial justification, plans and a financial plan
to secure adequate working capital.
(c) For the airstrips rehabilitation subproject, that the
Government entered into a satisfactory agreement, pro-
viding for the execution of the subproject by ASECNA
in cooperation with PWD.
43.       1 am satisfied that the proposed Credit would comply with the Ar-
ticles of Agreement of the Association.
PART VI - RECOMMENDATION
44.       1 recommend that the Executive Directors approve the proposed Credit.
Robert S. McNamara
President
by I. P. M. Cargil
Attachments
August 23, 1977



C4       m                     M!
16
Ift
0 8
DM-                                                                                 Zw                   c
C.C                    a
40
a.           -rclo    -1
X r
2
I CC
VI I I
In
7                                                                         :. : Ir-
ol                                                          In,
In In,                                                                                                               o
10



-16 -
AIIPEX 1
Page 2 of 4 pages
Unless _terls     otc, lat,. for 19o) refer to any year between 1959 and 1961, for 1970 between 1968 and 1970, and for M4oat Peceat Estimate
between 137, -oo 1070.
-h etral. Afrooso fz;r      s been selected as an c1 ective coutry for Chad because it is also landlocked but at. a higher level
of d,evelpmnt.
CRA                         I        4C   955-57;     t    1 l6-64, African popslatlon;  /s   Age group 0-17, 18-59 and 60 mand nver respectively;
*d1  Ra,tio of population unde  17 and 60 and over to total labor force;     ft   1958, population;
r 1962;    fE  Including aidodve   and asaistant nureca ini government medical nentern;
AGovernment hospital -otablishmenta only.
igo /n  1961-66
M7S7 RECENT ESTIRMATE:   /a  1972;    ft  Age 15-59 and 60 yeara and over respectively;      ft   RatIo of
populatIon under 15 and 60 and near no total labor force;         dI inclding
oldulve   and assistant midwives;    ft   1969-71 average.
Rl1111970                           '5   Rtio of popuation under 15 and 65 and over to total labor force;         flt Governmet hospital1
notablishnents only;    ft   1964-66.
BOLIVIA                     1972    5p   Ptio of populathon under 15 and 65 and over to total labor force;            bA. percetage of labor
fcr-  In eplnyoyent;    ft   Piojalation;  fd   1964-66;    As  Betwen 195ad 1970 the duration
of general secondary eduontion Van reduced frpm 6 to 4 years.
CENTRAL AFRICAN EMPiRE      1970     ft. Ratio of population under 15 and 65 and over to total labor force;       ft  Including oldalve,
assistant   ldulve  and assistant nures
i5, flay 19, 1977
DnFlitnOls OP SOCIAL, flNDICATO
Land A-s (thws he2)                                                                    PPo1sistio nor --ara has ars   - pouaisdicded by numbar of pranining
T.tel - Total eorfs-  sees espricing ha,d ares   ad isisad .aters.                      aia and fee1s g-adustenoe,         t-sisd" on   nerttlflad"- s.tes. an d
Agri--- - ne- rate... as .tite of  ri-1-1ee   sees uad n-psrsriiy or pseme-             e,siiiary parsoam1 with trsini.8 or sop-rianna.
astly far ne  pa, -etoe.   karss    hsnbe  gerde-  or -5 lie nation.               .Poso1siom -o isooinsi bed - roptie-ioo dMcd.d by asebar of hospitsi ned.
anstibie is pb!lo end priests saerisd sp.cisifeed hoasisal end
i'P P ea  oais.121) - liprpernp t      a -Pi   te t -inrroc -orktn price,                rhbIlitstion nennera; ...nludee sarsing home and .... bltisse.ts for
-clostetd byams comeerion emibod asW-ld Bsnk sties f1973-75 basis);                     uenodis1 and pr-aticane..
i960; 1970 sad i97 5 dens.                                                           Per nePit. asupnly of ocionise ft of rassiremente) - Cnomputed irma anergy
squi,sientsofP st.foodp e-pisteisi         scnrsy psr oepits ps     day;
Poelaios imid-yas -llo)       O   fii    frt      fntseisbis,       -.eSe              nhsnge  Is stok; ne   enppiiee a-Jlds snimal feed, se.de, q   -itte   sed
ofioad-eretimates  1&6i, i9f70 sad f1975' dotsinfo                                    p-o.s.siag ed loesee in distribution; r-qoirsne.t wre estieited
by FAO base d en phyafingiosl needs for noenia sticity sad health -said-
P    duini adesityf- per soosre leo - id-year popaletion per square kilometer      acIng esir_smeIs t_poraure, body -iegbte, *sg      cad ace dietnihutiome of
1100 hentseo) ofttlrs                                                                   .popstiasi, and ellewiag lt for cast  anI household icco...
Psgeriseisa daaeitv -Pe soce    eo erc ia           Computd as shove fsrPrnnt                     onyo      rni     oe.ar     ds's  - Proteis ostase of par capita
agriotinrsi Isad onty.                                                               oat -Pppip of food per dsy; sat supply of food is defimed as shoe; rquire-
ments Car sil o-ootriea established by UiSDA Enomomic iecsrib~ iSrein-
Pital statsticis                                                                         provide for a minimum alima-eo  of h0 grate of tetsi pranain per dsy, sand
trdad bi.rbratet nor thousand, ...v..a -.anual ice ,.birnhe pr thoseand9of,              2i gram  of animal ade poise protoin, of hbich if grat  should be s.ims I
ai-erpopolsion; tee-year erl&feeti   . rvcgeedIng  1ini60 and 1970,              protin;th..e. send-rds srs imer thas those of 75 ar-s of total protein
and fi-e-yesr serag   eadn    n17    for oms tr...nt estimate,                         cad 23 grom  of esimel protein as snav-rge foe the acrd, p-op-ad b;, coo
Crude dethrs      a  tbhsed. -ora     - sesnal deaths por thousand of aid-year           in the Third World Food So-cy.
ppitiem; isayear -ritihatin   orgsedn        ist 1960 end 1970 sod fiv-           Per osnits nroten  -snnlv from enms ad eu1sa - Protein s-Pply of food
year -vrege ending is 197   fr nsa tre  nse thte                                       danced fo    an  alssd pluiees Sa rea    per day.
Infant -nrnlitr nate i/thou   A- oo    deaths of infaotendoer no   Test of geg           ath rat1th.n) eae1-4 - osnnaI desthe par tho....nd Is ege grop 1-4
per thaussad lIce births.                                                              yara, tohildrse is this. egarnop; eagges ted aenindicator of
les sansotasny atibirth fers) - oeAgeS nenhor of years of life remaining at              usletrtitino
birth; uauay fc-yesr averges onding in 1960, 170 and 1975 for develop-
Ing ousstrins.                                                                       Educstion
Gees reostnrot-serg             Ivnde    flv     ec esaumnwl            mnajse eIrlnanrein - eri                       s sohovi - fErsilomat of sil ege ca per-
in bar nrmal repoduotiv  period  f eke sperience  preeson ags-enfinostsg           ofpiayahn-g              sltisa ; imniuds ohiidr-   gagd b-il yesre
fertility rete; usualY fiv--ysr -ceregas ending in 1960, 1970 end 1975                 but adjusted for difiarest langiha of Primary ed-anane; for neasrie     with
for developing  tonries.                                                               snv        dosom      aotmtmy entead tOot sians en         puptis er hoist
Ponulatis grooth rate It) - tonal - Compoomd    -1uo groeth rates of aid-year            or abov  she.offIniaehol ag..
population for 1950-60, l960-7i sadC1970-75.                                         Adjusted erilen retio -seoeadsry s.obol - Composed as above; aenoedery
Ponletsa rseh rta  t)- -ebs   -Cmputed iihe gromnb rein of totaleo1to                         rquire   st lacat foor pear  of epprovd prhasry imecstrotian;
popuission; difforens deinitions of urban eroce uy effeet comparcbility of             proidna generci, vontional or teenbe    training imasntntisna for pupila
dats amn    oetisf i2 to i7 years of sae; norreepandean                                                                         courses are gama.roIly .aniluded.
Ulrba npnoistinf   of stal.) - Ratin of orbo   to... too1 popnlation; difiecons        Yasreh o1f% anonisas.r idad Ifilres, iad enad Iec-isl - Total year:  o
dafiitiam   of rashe  areas ny ef-so  coparbility of dais emnn    nenria                nooig; enanner.so1cmnoa instrtion may he petsly or
Ama etruotare fnrnn     -.Childrsm  u0-u1 eas) noriag-ag     (i5-64 pear),             Yosimlerimn           to    sodrl        - P taionI instinstisas  i-tlde
sed reired (5 veor  sd aa  as parnetagS. of aid-year ppsuistiom.                  tnohni-1l, industrial or other Pr.S-r   hisih  parata imdspasdaetly or a
bar donndeecyra sic- Otoi of Popu.lasin uodsr 15 o-d iS ood over sohese            dep-rnens   of esosadaryisinto.
of ages1   nhogb    i                                                                Adni ittc      aei)-i 0a            dlsfbet         edadwis         spr
fo-nomft d!neadeocy ha tlo - notun of pon.ianom -ndnr 15 sod 6) end over to              notag-co totaldl (     pops-iein  aged 15bl year  sad over.    .    .   pr
the isbor Corns in geg group of 15-6i years.of-1d1                                                              P1.ingd5yer              d   ..
Cathy, elann im-nnesnore f,mltv.tn)- Ns1-iato               somber of ...neptors       H..naino
of brnb-oonrl deineeunde.as pine    of national fatily planing progro            Penn nor roo      forbn)  A- oregs nober of percate per roo   in om-pied
at.g.. of -rri.d s---            rennsgeof el.drnoped dasitags
Tassl sbot Crns ihousso) - fomominiiy ssive prsona d icniadin  seine-d     c.IiacrciyI d    Ifrin,  qthua riprds  oeto tonpid dweling        to urasa
in osinsuanoeisaeassesael.Sridenme snote insieoninsr t)                                                                             Co   puteda shov   for rurj~si
foemelaed it o labar oree) -fenepisad are  esa__y.efined1s pereosewho_Eomesoo
ar    bl   adwlln     to  aheh  a a ob, eat of aIl  -job on a gives uday, ratid sa     eioeetesfa hmsa                   l  ye    of C-ticer.fo rdin.g brathes
of uneploedndu     soyrns oft -Idiai,eg, hasapi-e - ffite       deai fi.ts,eapi        dens for rces   year ma mat.r he empr       fi simo  east  omanrs shalisbd
t. -ri.- ..-tr  tamp.e.bl..                                    RPuseZ!     orsfsr ho nel-        eaeneecas      omris     onr ee   sssa
Lbrecie   byr I grichest= 5  rnb  Agi-t, orest Sit,r fcad poisa  notr ofhone-.ty       CcPthinsblfoe-
"'t"g "d 'i'h  -- Pe-sal.g. -f 1pblc ed                                      rivtealetroly i klosntheasaernapsa                geerll
ilsrih  io  of lead,r fnrshie - U.penntge  of lend ond.fby     .  prolhies  lot        based  on pouno      as    nnasaivaafrloe               egishtci.
end. pJoresi     .ig     r lofooen r . p-gd nor prdenoo-rneg cadth export                                           of allenseisiiy.        .fo    .i.b-
-y not b.   -p r:bl- b.~~~~~~~~~~                          siaenrirdIb/yrnor fpd        Pernepis aeualeadtapsin inboiseaI
oafica ususriciad                                                                       eadcimatadPI   f-ria .dosin p.r.hraiimpu  eat imprt ofenwspint
?opljjgy4peg.r,phyqisep - Popuitisa dicida  by m~er a  prtnI.nin
pbysisiemquaisfteWro  a ndin.t  ebsia     fmvrst     lvL.                          d 



- 17 -
ANIE). I
ECONOMIC DEVILOPMENT DAbTAPae                                                      o4Pgs
(Amounts in iallions of U.S.dJollra-r7s
Actual                         Projected              1968-    1972 -    1975 -    1980 -       '
l9c   92       19 7_       19 7 h          190    5      1972     19 7 h       P9o     9        19 0     19 75     9
RATIONAL ACCOUINT-S                                                                                        _
3-Yeai- Average at 1967- 1969 Prices      II ;xhange Ra1tes     Av~erage AnualI Growth Rates          As Percent of GDY
Gross Domestic Product              uSl4.7    .',a. 4    86.R       300.9     339.3    394 33.5    0.1      2.0       3.        3.0      100.0     9       97.7
G3ains from Terms of Trade ()         -        -3.1       1.7        -1~       -2.L     -9.7        .                                      - 
Gross Domestic income                         7~79      IM-         -7T7      7'-9     73373       0.1      2n )       .6       2.7     -100.0    iOfl- 0  l0
Import (incl. NSs)                   54 . 1    3         93.0       105.-     129.7    141.0       )7'      1.7       6.9       2.3       31.8 h9           u
Exports    11(import capacity)      -~0       -62. 3    -94 5         6.0     -69.7    -81.?       0.      -4.s                 4 ..7     24.1.    19 3    ?o.6
Resource Gap                         737       23.8     -3'6         C96). ~              2        ~       1           . 3       6        :        tC 
Consumption Expenditures            219.1     267.2     277.8       299.6     311.7    338.6       1.8      1.3       4.4       2..        0.O. P  2      102.9
Investment    "1 (mncl. stocks)      3l.0)     22.2      43.7        46.6      52.3    6S0.9     11 . 0    18.4       32~       3.1        C.]3    I-, .   15.
Domestic Sav-ings                    11.8      -1.3       5.2        -2.9      -7.7     -3.3        .                            .         '.6      I.     -0.
National Savings                     13.7       3.9      10.9         6.1       1.9     10.0     -37.9     42.0                            5 .2     1i      2 .6
MERCHANDISE TRADE                             Annual Data at Current Prices                                                              As Percent of Total.
IMDortS
Capital goods                      12.1      15.7      30.6        35.0      59.0     96.1       6.7?    21.'      11.0      10.2       21.5     22.0    D3.3
Intermediate goods (pm1.fuels)     17,8      15.5      26.7        30.3      47.6     77.1       5.0     19.9      12.5      10.1       22.P     19.2    15.7
Fuels and related materials         9.2       8.8      15.1        17.'.'    23.9     49.1      -1.1     19.8      13.9      11.2       16.4     10.9    15.9
of which:   Petroleum n
g~p~4ooodls (cine. fool)2.1            3.        66.         86.7     123.5    189.        181:9             131        8:9       39.3     47.9    42.l
To~Mer 5  i~7ots      of)        'T       --        135.8       17.        5.       12.2      -T7      20 .9     13.3       9-       T   0     =1 o   a100.0
Exports
Primary products (91. fuels)       25.3      33.       541.   ~    70.6     107.0    164.1       7.3     17.7      11.4       8.9       80.8.    741.   72.4
F'uels and related materials
of which:   Petroleum             -         -         -           -         -        -                   .         .
Manufactured goods                  o.0       6.1      19.1        19.0      31.6     62.1       1.6     13.3      13.1      12.5       19'.2    25.9    27.6
Toa  ec.Exports (fob)                   .         ..                    .       . 
Tourism and Border~ Traae          31.3      39.9      73.8        89.6     141.7    226.5       6.3     22.7      13.9       9.8      100.0    100.0   102.0
Merchandise Trade Indices                       Average 1967-69    10
Fxport Price Index                103.75    13309     23.8        221.01    294.7P   38~5.17     6.5     13. 7      6.6       5.5
Import Price Index                105.05    138.25    216.72      222.30    305.21   129.11      7.0     16.6       7.9       6.9
1'eriss of Trade Index             987'S     96.27    103.2        99.42     96.58    99.63     -0.6      2.1      -1.3      -1.3
exports Volume Index               98.5     100.7    103.8        110.1     128.9   153.1        0.6     2.6        3.5-      3.5
VALUE ADDED BY SECTOR               Annual Data at 1967-69 Prices and Exchange Rates         _      Average Annual Growth Rates          As Percent of Total
Agriculture                       132.8     141.2     137.3       141.1     i56.8    179.2       1.6     -0.9       2.7       2.7       55.5     49.8    18.2
Industry and Mining                22.2      27.0      36.5        37.9      44.4     54.1       1.9    10.4       4.0       4.0         9.     1.2      16
Service                            812       92.0    102.0        10 .1     118.6   j3~.31       2.2      3.1      3.1       3.1         .e       .0j.  V...,2
Total                             239.2     2b.       275.9       284.1    3-20.1    371.7       2.1      2.0       3.1       3.1     100.0    100.0    102.0
P1101cC FINiANCE 1/                   197       197       1       12T7      1080   1985                                                   As Percent of GDP
(Cu2ntral Government)                         Actual                    Estimates
Current Receipts                  19.5      71.2        59.8   60.4      84.1    163.1          7.5     12.9      10.9      10.4       i6.2     14.3    13.0
Current E-xpenditures             60.2      3,           3J    7.        891     1403           8.4      9.9       6.5       84        i±        60     1.
Budgetary Savings                -1.1       -87       -49-10             -,3          ~        1.        53       i         21.4        2.o      i- .7-  T3
Olther Public Sector                .. 9
Public Sector Investment          13.       46.2          .       .      56.2     83.6          2.5     35.0      12.5       8.3        5.5      9.2     3.0
CURRENT EXPENDITURE DETAILS                     Actual         Prelim.    Est.     Proj.        DETAIL ONus                                         milo
As % Total.Current Expend.)               1973     19 74      19 75     19 76    19 77        PUBLIC SECTOR                            At current     Irico
Education                                                                                     INVESTMEN  PROGRAM                    (1967 /71   -L1972 /175
Other Social Services                     IN       19-         194       19.9    10.1         Social Sectors                           22.2         27.8
Agriculture                                46       3:1I       3.5      l~~lj~                Agriculture                              15.9         32.8
Other Economic Services                    1.0      0. 8       1.0       1.0      1.0         Industry and Mining                        3.2         4.1
Administration and Defense                59.9     64.1       62.2      59.8     58.0         Power 
Other                                     11.6     12.3       13.2      14.2     15.4         Transport and comnsnications             38.1         10.5
Total Current Expenditures in                      __                                         Other                                    20.6         214 3
thousand of US  ~ ~ ~~~79.         70.6      -757        0=     B57           Total Expenditures in thousand
8f Us $             82.177     120.036
SELECTED INDICATORS                                  1960-      1965-     1970-    1973-        FINANCING
(Calculated from 3-year averaged data)               1965       1970      1975     1978
Average ICOR                                           -          -Pbi                                        ~trSvns1.0                                .1
Import Elasticity                                      .          .        3.5                     Pulc3~trSvns1.0                                     .1
2.5                      Program aid counterpart               --            --
Yarginial Domestic Savings Rate                       ..         .                 02Forgeign Project Aid                                £  73      114.024
Marginial National Savings Rate                        .          .        .        0.02           Toa    Fnncn      i7hosn
of US $             82.177     120.036
LABOR FORCE AND                                  Total Labor Force                                    Val-ue Added Per Worker(1      -      Prices &   Excc. Rates)
OUTPUT PER WORKER                  In Milions          % fTta                9    -            InUSDlas             Prcent olf Avrge1.
ig    19         19  19          9        Growth Rate.j              19         19     i          19         Growth Rate
Agriculture                        .            .       .          - 
Industry                           ..                   ...
Service
Total                              ..                               ..
not applicable         - nil or negligible
not available         --less than half the
smallest unit shovn
r-es ad exchange ra-tes in 1JS$
May 1977



- 18 -
A10N5X I
TA ACr OF P           LUL ASSISSANCE AND IEBT                                         Page 4 of 4 pages
(eonte in rnA      okf U.S. clolers at current pricea)
Avg. Annul
Actual                      kteftad                                 ProJected                               4awth Rate
1                                 7S                     1976       I l7       1i         1           9173      1985       1.975-1985
S    IadR BU ISC OP PA1ITS
Worta (mel. aPs)                    79.3       85.3      102.1      120.1       126.7         133.9      150.4      i67.4       188.4      212.3      348.5       10.7
Mmorta (inl. IIS)17 0                      113.2      152.0      175.0       213.6         263.0      294.3      326.2      360.7      395.8      624,6       11.4
Reeource bBlanc (X~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~-3I                                                                        -727. 5-129. ;8 -17.2_13.5  -2-76.1  12.2
mmterest (nMt)                      -O.6       -0.3       -0.5       -0.7        -1.5          -1.2       -o.6       -0.9       -0.8       -1.0        -2.4        4.9
Direst Onv,,as nt Inoea              -1.7      -1.8       -2.5       -2.6        -2.7          -2.9       -3.0       -3.2       -3.2        -3.4       -4.2        4.5
whrlksrst Reritt-a n               -5         -5.3       -6.4       -2.3         4.8             5        5.8        6.2         6.5        6.8        8.2        5.5
Cammet Sr smers (mDt)                98         27         26         43.621.                             23.        254          7.        3.         46.5       21.7
Bel nce on C4rrsnt ccqunt -1~~~~~~~-6.0                                                    -1                                            3 4.07; ;5Z -2 .b7t-1S72,,7
Private Direct 0rveatent             1.4        1.9        6.1        14.9        17.6         26.8       30.1        33.1       37.7       42.3       74.5       15.5
Official Capitl OQranta             19.0       21.3       31.9       42.7         44.6         53.9       58.3        63.0       68.1       73.7      108.7        9.3
Public BdtitLSoan. 
Dipbli eaente                       8.0       2.4        13.4       18.1        19.4         18.9       22.9        25.8       24.4       25.4       26.9        3.1
-Repaymsnta                        -5.7       -3.5       -2.8       -2.9        -4.9          .2.9       -8.5       -9.2       -6.6       -4.9        -6.8        3.2
Net Visbo seaents 2.3trr            -          1.3                   !. 14               .     !T70    1    7.b --                         20.5        20.2        3.0
Other M&LT loans
Disb4rseraft.                       ...        ...        ...        ...         ...         ...        ...        ...         ...        ...        ...
A ctuR1  ___t____________-_-
Capital Srac-acrione n.e.i.           3.4       -3.6      -9.9       -17.5         *                                               1      3  1974    19 7S      1976
Charee in Net Rseroem                10.1       -2.8       -7.2        6.o         ..        DEBT AND 3EBT SRVIC
Public Debt Ort. & I8bur-sd            38.5    55^ 9    69.5       92 7
C2ANT hRD WOAM (lOTYhB(XtfS
Oficial Grants t  Grant-like         25.6       37.2       50.1       57.0        75.3         interest on Public Debt             0o5       0 7      i.4         1.2
Repayorente on P-ubic Debt           2.8      2.9      4.9         2.9
Public MILT loans                                                                              Total Public Debt Service            3.3      3.6      6.3         4.1
rIRD                                 -          -          -          -           -          GOter Debt Ser-ice (net)              ..
1DA                                 2.2        2.2        2.9       11.0         5.0         Total Debt Service (not)             ..
Other altilateral                   --         --         __         3.9         5 0       Brde   n Roport Serrdge (%)
Go-ern ento                         0.7        1.1       21.7       57.7        13.6
Suppliers                           3.6         -         5.1         -          0.9         Public Dsbt Seritce                   3.2      3.0      5.0        7.0
Pi-nnial Ie-titutiona               0.3         -         6.8         -     _                Total Debt   ,ice                      .
Band.                                           - _        _          _           _          TDSDir8rct  east. Inc.                .
Public Lons n.e.i.-
Tota   i Piblic  -iLT Oo.         3.3                      72 . 7   6             24.5       Avea.ge Te,mn uf Public Debt
Di Ban  Actusl DebOtt o       31. 1976                '.t. as  Prir Tear   &D               1.7      1.7      2.4        1.7
M   DEtBA  DMeure Ol                                         Prcnla                                    Pri-r Tear~ D536          10.8       7.5      8.7       4.1
Wurld hB..
IDA                                                                                           JRDetOt          Di-e 
Othsr ulItilateral                           15.4               16.6                          m    e  O Pubti. DbsteD                -         -        -
G.~~~~mts ~~~6.8                                     7.4                           ean % Public Debt 06r8                -
Suppliers                                    48.5               52.3                          '   a S Pablic Debt Service
rin   ci.l  letitutins12.6                                      10.5                        MDA Debt Out. & Disburoed                4.5      6.9     11.9       15.4
Bonds                 9.4               10.2                          ~   ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~an 6 Public Debt OtO  11.6  12.3    17.1      16.6
Public Debts n..ei na n                                                                                Publitc Debt Service          1.C      1.4      0.5        0.3
Total Public XALT Debt                       0.                 0.
Othe 5LT Debts
Short-tw. Debt (di.b. only)
.not pplicable                                            e staff eatinte
not available                                             - nil or negligible
cot aailable aseartatly                                   1-lan than half tbe
but included in total                                       a-flewt unit ebsn
May 1977



- 19 -
ANNEX II
Page 1
THE STATUS OF BANK GROUP OPERATIONS IN CHAD
A. STATEMENT OF IDA CREDITS (June 30, 1977)
Credit
Number   Year     Borrower    Purpose           -----       US$ Million-----------
(less cancellations) (undisbursed)
125     1968      Chad     Highway maintenance         4.1                0*
126     1969      Chad     Education                    2.2 /1             -
251      1971     Chad     Education                    2.7 /2            0.3
309     1972      Chad     Livestock                    2.2               0.2
445      1973     Chad     Drought Relief               2.0               0.1
489      1974     Chad     Irrigation                  7.5                3.6
489-1   1976      Chad     Irrigation                  8.0                8.0
490     1974      Chad     Second Highway              3.5                1.5
592     1975      Chad     Lake Chad Polders           5.0                3.9
664     1976      Chad     Rural Projects Fund        12.0               11.5
Total now held by IDA                49.2 /3           29.1
Total undisbursed                    29.1
/1   Includes supplementary credit of US$0.4 million.
/2   Includes supplementary credit of US$0.5 million.
/3   Prior to exchange rate adjustment.
*    16,314.94 undisbursed.
B. STATEMENT OF IFC INVESTMENTS (June 30, 1977)
Nil.



- 20 -
ANNEX II
Page 2
C. PROJECTS IN EXECUTION 1/
Credit No. 125    Highway Maintenance Project:   US$4.1 million Credit of
August 14, 1968; Effective Date: February 11, 1969;
Closing Date: December 31, 1977.
The project consisted of (a) a 5-year program for highway main-
tenance including technical assistance, the procurement of equipment and
materials, repair shop extension, training of operators and mechanics, and
establishment of traffic data collection system; and (b) feasibility studies,
and if found justified, detailed engineering for the Djermaya-Djimtilo road.
The project was practically completed on December 31, 1973 but two
of its components were not implemented: the training program was dropped at
the Government's request because the cost of the consultants' proposals ex-
ceeded the amount available under the credit. However, a comprehensive
training program is included in the second highway project. The feasibility
study for improvement of the Djermaya-Djimtilo road was completed; however,
detailed engineering found premature, has been deferred due to low traffic
volume. The project closing date has nonetheless been postponed to allow
disbursements of available credit funds to complement the training program
being carried out under the second Highway Project.
Credit No. 126     Education Project:  US$2.2 million Credit of August 29,
1968 (as amended); Effective Date: December 31, 1968;
Closing Date: Closed (fully disbursed).
The project consists of (a) the construction and equipping of a
teacher training college at Moundou and (b) the construction and equipping of
an agricultural technician training center at N'Djamena (transferred to Sarh
under Credit 251).
The teacher training college has been completed and put into
operation and the credit fully disbursed in the first quarter of 1976 about
two and a half years behind schedule. Reasons for the delay have been (a)
delay in reaching agreement on each stage of design; (b) the need to revise
the design and negotiate with the lowest bidder because of cost overruns; and
(c) the need to amend the Credit Agreement to resolve the financial problems
created by the US dollar fluctuation and internal budgetary difficulties.
However, this college will not be able to operate in the foreseeable future
because of inadequate budgetary funds to finance recurrent costs and lack of
1/   These notes are designed to inform the Executive Directors regarding
the progress of projects in execution, and in particular to report
any problems which are being encountered, and the action being taken
to remedy them. They should be read in this sense, and with the under-
standing that they do not purport to present a balanced evaluation of
strengths and weaknesses in project execution.



-- 21 -
ANNEX II
Page 3
technical assistance.   An IDA mission is scheduled to visit Chad in early
October and discuss with the Government a plan for rendering this      coLlege
operational.
Credit No. 251     Second Education Project:   US$2.7 million Credit
of June 16, 1971 (as amended); Effective Date:
December 28, 1971; Closing Date: December 31, 1977.
The project consists of (a) the construction and equipping of a
secondary technical school at N'Djamena; (b) supply of complementary equipment
for the existing vocational training center at N'Djamena; (c) the transfer of
the agricultural technician training center, financed under Credit 126, from
N'Djamena to Sarh; and (d) a study of young farmers' training schemes.
The project is almost totally completed about 12 months behind
schedule due to (a) delay in reaching agreement on the educational and
architectural programs for the technical secondary school; (b) delay in
preparation of equipment lists; and (c) the need to amend the Credit Agree-
ment to resolve the financial problems created by the fluctuation of the
US dollar and internal budgetary difficulties. The new agricultural tech-
nician training center and the secondary technical school are not yet open.
It is unlikely that either of these institutions will operate this year
because of difficulties similar to those outlined for the teacher training
college (Cr. 126-CD), namely inadequate financing and lack of technical
assistance. The same measures to be taken to render this last institution
operational would also be extended to the agricultural technician training
center and the secondary technical school. The Government has also received
an offer for technical assistance from the Federal Republic of Germany.
Credit No. 309     Livestock Development Project:    US$2.2 million Credit of
May 31, 1972; Effective Date: November 28, 1972; Closing
Date: December 31, 1977.
The project now comprises: (a) the construction of 18 new pastoral
wells and the repair and rehabilitation of 18 existing wells in the Batha
prefecture; (b) the establishment of two well maintenance units, including
their operating costs for the first two years; and (c) special studies
carried out by a Livestock Development Unit (LDU) established with UNDP
assistance.
Although the credit became effective in November 1972, project
implementation was begun only following the Board's decision to finance 100
percent of project costs, net of duties and taxes, and to establish a re-
volving account, which became effective in March 1974. Well construction
and repairs were completed by end of 1976. Well maintenance units are in
operation. Mlost of the studies, including water extraction and livestock
taxation are completed. Field works on the remaining studies namely the
identification of pastoral groups and sheep and goats are also completed.
UNDP did not extend its assistance to LDU, due to unsatisfactory results
and this unit is now integrated in the Livestock Services.



- 22 -
AtiNEX II
Page 4
Credit No. 445     Drought Relief Fund Project:   US$2.0 million Credit of
December 7, 1973; Effective Date: March 22, 1974; Closing
Date: December 31, 1977.
The project is designed to help people in areas affected by the
drought to re-establish their productive base; it comprises the following
eight subprojects: equipment, workshops, technical assistance and operating
costs for underground water development; equipment and operating costs for
"Genie Rural", "Water Survey Bureau", and "Land Development Department";
equipment, buildings and operating costs for the Livestock Service; con-
struction of warehouses; equipment and operating costs for a vegetable
growing pilot scheme; and equipment and operating costs for the Planning
Department.
Physical execution of the project is satisfactory, with all of
the eight subprojects completed or nearly completed.
Credit No. 489     Sategui-Deressia Irrigation Project:-/ US$15.5 million
Credit of October 7, 1976; Effective Date: February 9,
1977; Closing Date: June 30, 1980.
The project covers the development of 11,000 ha in the Sategui-
Deressia plain under controlled flooding for rice production. It includes
(a) the construction of an intake on the right bank of the Logone River to
provide water for the whole irrigated area, protection dykes against high
floods, main canals and drains, feeder roads, buildings, a rice mill and
storage facilities, (b) strengthening of the project authority with manage-
ment staff, facilities and equipment and (c) agricultural research and in-
service training.
Heavy earthmoving equipment for project construction by force
account has been delivered on site and is operating since April 1977 satis-
factorily. However, Chad faces a general shortage of fuel which could
jeopardize the whole program of civil works construction although to date
project management has been successful in obtaining supplies. Other activ-
ities such as use of labor for irrigation works, building construction and
preparation of the cropping season are being carried out satisfactorily.
Credit No. 490     Second Highway Project:  US$3.5 million Credit of
June 28, 1974; Effective Date: Mlarch 7, 1975; Closing
Date: June 30, 1980.
The project comprises (a) a five-year program for improvement and
maintenance of feeder roads in cotton growing areas; (b) pre-investment
studies for about 120 km in cotton export routes; (c) a two-year training
program for DPW staff; (d) technical assistance for the reorganization of the
1/   Including the supplementary credit of US$8.0 million approved on
August 10, 1976.



- 23 -
ANNEX II
Page 5
road transport industry; (e) a two-year traffic count on about 2,000 km of
the most important roads; (f) reconditioning of ferry boats and their interim
maintenance over a three-year period; and (g) feasibility study for replace-
ment of ferry boats and improvement of dock facilities.
Project implementation is about ten months behind schedule. Pre-
investment studies were completed. However, detailed engineering for the
roads studies were not implemented as one road was not economically justified
and the second was contingent upon construction of a soap factory which was
then cancelled by the Government. Because of higher than anticipated rate of
inflation, the delay in project implementation, and the increased requirement
for construction materials, a cost overrun is expected. The Association and
the Government agreed to include in the proposed Third Highway Project about
US$250,000 required to complete the five-year maintenance program.
Credit No. 592     Lake Chad Polders Project:   US$5 million Credit of
November 26, 1975; Effective Date: February 26, 1976;
Closing Date: December 31, 1980.
The project comprises rehabilitation or construction of irrigation
and drainage networks of two polders of about 1,200 ha, to permit cotton and
wheat cultivation.
Although the project initially suffered a one year delay because
the expatriate consultants were not appointed on time, this delay will be
progressively reduced and should be made up for the time the second polder
developed under the project is completed. Most contracts have been awarded
and on this basis, project costs are estimated to be well within appraisal
estimates. Building on this initial success, Government is exploring with
other external donors the financing of the contiguous Mamdi polder (1,600
ha), which would bring the total area under polder development to 2,800 ha,
and thus create an important nucleus for development in that part of the
country.
Credit No. 664     Rural Projects Fund:  US$12.0 million of December 8,
1976; Effective Date: March 2, 1977; Closing Date:
March 31, 1980.
The project comprises seven subprojects: (a) small-scale irriga-
tion, (b) warehouses, (c) pastoral wells, (d) village water supplies, (e)
feeder road improvement, (f) animal feed and poultry marketing, (g) bottom-
land development as well as a management unit.
The management unit is now fully staffed and key personnel have
been engaged for five of the seven subprojects. Execution of the work pro-
gram for 1976/77 has suffered from delayed effectiveness but the project is
now gearing up for full scale operations in 1977/78.



- 24 -
ANNEX III
Page I
SUPPLEMENTARY PROJECT
DATA SHEET
Section I:        Timetable of Key Events
a)   Time taken by country to prepare project:   6 months.
b)   Project prepared by Committee of War Against Natural
Calamities and IDA.
c)   Documents (proposals for 23 subprojects) were presented
to IDA on December 7-18, 1976 during visit of IDA identi-
fication mission. These proposals were reviewed by IDA
during a project brief review meeting held on January 24,
1977.
d)   Departure of Appraisal Mission:   February 25, 1977.
e)   Negotiations completed in Chad: July 1, 1977.
f)   Planned date of effectiveness: October 31, 1977.
Section II:        Special IDA Implementation Actions
None.
Section III:      Special Conditions
1.   CIDA agreement fully signed and all conditions precedent
to its disbursements, save for the effectiveness of the IDA
Credit, fulfilled (conditions of effectiveness, para. 31).
2.   Opening of the Special Account (conditions of effective-
ness, para. 32).
3.   Agreement between Government and the Association that
security conditions permit efficient execution of rural
development center at Lake Fitri subproject and access
by IDA staff for purpose of supervision (condition of
disbursements, para. 37).
4.   Agreement between Government and ASECNA that the latter will
execute airstrip rehabilitation subproject in cooperation
with PWD (condition of disbursements, para. 30).
5.   DWANC has furnished satisfactory economic and financial
justification, design plans and financial plan to secure
adequate working capital for the garage subproject (con-
ditions of disbursment, para. 30).



- 25 -
ANNEX III
Page 2
6.   Assurance that CWANC would introduce by December 31, 1977
a reporting and monitoring system (para. 30).
7.   The Government will deposit in the account any amount dis-
bursed therefrom and found by IDA to be ineligible for
financing under Credit, (para. 32).
8.   Government would, by December 31, 1977, make arrangements,
satisfactory to IDA, to ensure continued availability of
technical assistance for the implementation of the
forestry management subproject (para. 30).
9.   Agreement between the Association and the Borrower on the
location of bottomlands to be developed and warehouses to be
constructed (para. 37).






L I BY A                       A.R.E.
k \    g          'S-N                           1.~~~  l2
. (F a  <              oN        .             I
1\' t''      SAHELIAN ZONE PROJECT                  !
..       z       n , ,9 4 PROJECTAREA  'N
BORKOU- EN NI-DI -TI BEST]
AF RI CA   <|'
NIGERa            j             (<,.2            ;, /    -     <     ^
(S~ ~ ~            I                0cSm        __ 
,,> ,4
V AEN ANARI            N  EMIR
S.-  n8  Dsw6                            r          .....~~~~~~~~~~~~~
_U   _     p           I _     S  t1.'~-|              )DileC EmrAGU82
v                   j  1. - 5 | '-fiITsIN~G E  /ItnaRr.a ll
)   /  + /   g    t  rG UER ^  <2      X   -   i}  Dg  RarnfAl SA  m
?_fWv)S\ e
't  0°e  at           e     ~   ~~~~~ zT 0NJIL
b     X           C- EN ~~Al AFRICA N  EMPIRE                     oc
L  r _   ¢  s /   .  F  -  - . -  .  ,   ,   g  W,whl E /i S eI 1ll.>,.L   J   N (b~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~. ... .. 






IBRD 12897R
I.A'                     16                      is.                      2                       22-         L            4        AUGUST 1977
/ '-   I                                              ~~~~~~~~~~~~C HAD)
F      [      T)  NJ              SAHELIAN ZONE PROJECT
0SaIoI                                      I           ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~LOCATIONS OF SUBPROJECTS
/      I~~~~~~~~~~~~~~Btonan eeomn
t\  or' ~ ~ ~~~~~!Vegetalbles
-N       ~~                                     B  A  T  H3AMAOVaccination campaign area
I     accination  production equipment 4'-
ABECHE~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ ~Open well repair
Tuewell operation
JE]                   I  A~~~~~~~~~~ Forestry management
J~~~~L4\K\EO  nor    ..                                      -  ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ n~~~~~en  Forestry nurseries~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~E  orstyrusee
Ad,    ~    ~       Construction wood
\¾  ~ ~ ~ ~~~~   .    .m*  --~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~  I  A    /              U  ~~~~~~~~~~~~Garage
--  ) ~~~~eHadier  U A  D D   I         ~           irstrip rehobilitation
EGD o                                    All-weather roads:
* ~~~~~->-~~~~  \~~~ssobon ~~~~~~~~-½'  ,i  yutli~~~~~~~~~~~-,  )  **~~~~~~~~~~~~i*  /  /  SUDAN  Secondary~SU  A  Sconar
N ~~~~~~~~'~r-or          -N-                             easonal roads:
----' -------                              Primary
Secondary
Rivers
~~ssonuet ~~~~~~~B..i                                                           M\atj roairports
11 ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~I~                     \Mae!rn~Ga,.e,id.                                    Sec'ondary airports
DJAMENA  ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~U)*Airtields
12' ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~®Nationol capital                                         12-
0At  Prefecture capitals -
N I G E                                                                                      - ATI ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~Prefeclure boundaries
- - - - - - -                ,                    .-*    -   *-     t        --- nternational boundaries
-                    ~  ~  ~~~   ~~~   ~~~~~~0 50  100  ISO
A5SENYA       Ab.D6,. N~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~CLeStS
KsLiM ERS
/:    S~~~~~ A L AM  A T    *
,10 r-l ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~HrzMsignelO
p~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~p
6,                                                               ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~Ch d ~   iE      I
D                                                                            ~~~~~~~~~~V
E't                      P I R E~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~f~O 
in  NIERtu)~~N*DO  ~ 5UDAN1
HI-Id &,A-d i. ~ffft'I.  .      N-
e'urldO,kordlrr,ffIo,rArE*OO   CENTRAL
14-                                                29-                      ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~22  C0SONI  AFRICAN EMIRelE



