Document of
The World Bank
Report No: 19991-CHA
PROJECT APPRAISAL DOCUMENT
ONA
PROPOSED LOAN
IN THE AMOUNT OF US$74 MILLION
TO THE
PEOPLE'S REPUBLIC OF CHINA
FOR THE
WATER CONSERVATION
PROJECT
November 16, 2000
Rural Development and Natural Resource Sector Unit
East Asia and Pacific Region



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
(Exchange Rate Effective October 2000)
Currency Unit = Renminbi (RMB) Yuan(Y)
Y 1.00 = US$0.12
USS1.00 = Y8.3
FISCAL YEAR
January 1 to December 31
ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
BP       Bank Procedure                              NPV    Net Present Value
CAS      Country Assistance Strategy                 O&M    Operation and Maintenance
CFB      County/Township Finance Bureau              OCC    Opportunity Cost of Capital
CNAO    China National Audit Office                  OD      Operational Directive
CPCG     Central Project Coordination Group          OP      Operational Policy
CPMO    Central Project Management Office            PAD    Project Appraisal Document
EA       Environmental Assessment                    PFB     Provincial/Municipal Finance Bureaus
EMMP    Environmental Mitigation and Monitoring Plan  PHRD   Professional Human Resource Development
EMP      Environmental Monitoring Program            PIP     Project Implementation Plan
ERR      Economic Rate of Retum                      PLG     Project Leading Group
ET       Evapo-transpiration                        PLO      Project Loan Office
FMS      Financial Management System                 PMO    Project Management Office
FRR      Financial Rate of Return                   PPMO   Participating Provincial/Municipal PMO
GP       Good Practice                              PRC      People's Republic of China
IBRD     Intemational Bank for Reconstruction and   RAP    Resettlement Action Plan
Development                                SA      Special Account
IAIL     Irrigation Agricultural Intensity Loan      SDPC   State Development and Planning Commission
ICB      International Competitive Bidding           SFEP    Sample Form of Evaluation Report
ICR      Implementation Completion Report            SIDD    Self-Financed Irrigation and Drainage District
IDA      Intemational Development Association        SOE     Statement of Expenditures
IWHR    Institute of Water and Hydropower Research   SRFP    Standard Request for Proposal
LPP      Low Pressure Pipeline                       TA      Technical Assistance
MIS      Management Information System               WCP    Water Conservation Project
MOF      Ministry of Finance                         WRB    Water Resources Bureau
MST      Mobile Specialist Team                     WSO    Water Supply Organization
MWR      Ministry of Water Resources                WTO    World Trade Organization
NCB      National Competitive Bidding                WUA    Water User Association
NGO      Non-Govemment Organization
Vice President:   Jemal-ud-din Kassum, EAPVP
Country Director:    Yukon Huang, EACCF
Acting Sector Director:    Mark D. Wilson, EASRD
Task Team Leader/Task Manager:    Liping Jiang, EACCF



CHINA
WATER CONSERVATION
CONTENTS
A. Project Development Objective                                                      Page
1. Project development objective                                                      2
2. Key performance indicators                                                          2
B. Strategic Context
1. Sector-related Country Assistance Strategy (CAS) goal supported by the project     2
2. Main sector issues and Government strategy                                          2
3. Sector issues to be addressed by the project and strategic choices                  4
C. Project Description Summary
1. Project components                                                                 7
2. Key policy and institutional reforms supported by the project                       8
3. Benefits and target population                                                     9
4. Institutional and implementation arrangements                                       9
D. Project Rationale
1. Project alternatives considered and reasons for rejection                         10
2. Major related projects financed by the Bank and other development agencies        11
3. Lessons learned and reflected in proposed project design                          12
4. Indications of borrower commitment and ownership                                   13
5. Value added of Bank support in this project                                        13
E. Summary Project Analysis
1. Economic                                                                          14
2. Financial                                                                          15
3. Technical                                                                          17
4. Institutional                                                                      17
5. Environmental                                                                     21
6. Social                                                                            22
7. Safeguard Policies                                                                24
F. Sustainability and Risks
1. Sustainability                                                                    24
2. Critical risks                                                                     25
3. Possible controversial aspects                                                     27



G. Main Conditions
1. Effectiveness Condition                                                            27
2. Other                                                                              27
H. Readiness for Implementation                                                         31
I. Compliance with Bank Policies                                                        31
Annexes
Annex 1: Project Design Summary                                                         32
Annex 2: Detailed Project Description                                                   38
Annex 3: Estimated Project Costs                                                        45
Annex 4: Cost Benefit Analysis Summary                                                  49
Annex 5: Financial Summary                                                              67
Annex 6: Procurement and Disbursement Arrangements                                      69
Annex 7: Project Processing Schedule                                                     80
Annex 8: Documents in the Project File                                                   81
Annex 9: Statement of Loans and Credits                                                  82
Annex 10: Country at a Glance                                                            87
Annex 11: Social Assessment                                                              89
Annex 12: Environmental Review                                                          93
Annex 13: Financial Management Capacity Strengthening Action Plan                       104
MAP(S)
Project Areas in Beijing Municipality  IBRD 30948
Project Areas in Hebei Province    IBRD 30949
Project Areas in Liaoning Province    IBRD 30947
Project Areas in Qingdao Municipality  IBRD 30946



CHINA
WATER CONSERVATION
Project Appraisal Document
East Asia and Pacific Region
EACCF
Date: November 16,2000                             Team Leader: Liping Jiang
Country Manager/Director: Yukon Huang              Sector Manager/Director: Mark D. Wilson
Project ID: P056516                                Sector(s): Al - Irrigation & Drainage, VM - Natural
Resources Management
Lending Instrument: Specific Investmnent Loan (SIL)  Theme(s):
Poverty Targeted Intervention: N
Project Financing Data
l Loan          [I Credit      CU Grant         O Guarantee     LI Other (Specify)
For LoanslCreditslOthers:
Amount (US$m): $74.00
Proposed Terms: Variable Spread & Rate Single Currency Loan (VSCL)
Grace period (years): 5                                Years to maturity: 20
Commitment fee: 0.75%
Front end fee on Bank loan: 1.00%
Firancing Plan:    Source                                     Local         Foreign         Total
GOVERNMENT                                                     35.00           17.82         52.82
IBRD                                                            6.19           67.81         74.00
FARMER ORGANIZATIONS                                           58.85            0.00         58.85
Total:                                                         100.04          85.63        185.67
Borrower: PRC
Responsible agency: MINISTRY OF WATER RESOURCES
Provinces of Hebei and Liaoning; Municipalities of Beijing and Qingdao
Address: Ministry of Water Resources, Department of Rural Water Resources, Baiguang Rd., Beijing, China
Contact Person: Mr. Liu Bin, Director of Central Project Management Office
Tel: (8610) 6320-2127                Fax: (8610) 6320-2027                Email: nfb@mwr.gov.cn
Estimated disbursements ( Bank FY/US$M):
FY         2001       2002        2003      2004       2005       2006       2007
Annual    6.90        8.40       15.00 I    18.40     16.80       8.50
Cumulative    6.90       15.30      30.30      48.70      65.50      74.00
Project implementation period: 01/16/2001 to 12/31/2005
Expected effectiveness date: 03/14/2001  Expected closing date:  06/30/2006
OCS PAD Fo-n. Rs9 Mad,, 200



A. Project Development Objective
1. Project development objective: (see Annex 1)
The Project will enhance beneficial use of water resources, agriculture production capacity and farmer
incomes by: (a) increasing the value of agriculture production per unit of consumed water through
increasing yields and reducing non-beneficial water losses; and (b) establishing mechanisms for sustainable
use and management of water resources in irrigated areas.
2. Key performance indicators: (see Annex 1)
The Project will use the following main indicators for each Project county (pre-Project and then annually):
(a) increase in agriculture production, in kilograms per cubic meter of ET; (b) increase in farmers' annual
income, in yuan per capita; (c) increase in water conveyance and field efficiencies; (d) number of O&M
institutions functioning independently and self-financed; (e) implementation of volumetric water charges,
and increase in water charges; and (f) water balance analyses in subproject areas and groundwater level
monitoring.
B. Strategic Context
1. Sector-related Country Assistance Strategy (CAS) goal supported by the project: (see Annex 1)
Document number: 16321             Date of latest CAS discussion: March 18, 1997
Progress Report was discussed on May 28, 1998
CAS objective(s) supported by the Project: The Project will support the Bank Group Strategies to: (a)
promote continued development of sustainable techniques to upgrade marginal land; (b) incorporate water
storage, transfer, irrigation, drainage and flood control investments into projects; and (c) support rational
and environmentally sustainable use and development of natural resources.
2. Main sector issues and Government strategy:
Water Scarcity especially in Northern China is becoming an increasingly serious problem. In many areas,
ever increasing demand for water for use in agriculture, industry and municipalities can no longer be met
by increasing water supply through construction of hydraulic infrastructure such as storage reservoirs. In
large areas of the North China Plain and in other northern areas, groundwater over-exploitation is a
continuing and increasing problem that is inherently un-sustainable. Compounding the water scarcity
problem are serious and increasing water pollution problems resulting from heavy industrialization and
urban population growth. Demand for Municipal and Industrial (M&I) water is increasing steadily,
putting water supply for irrigated agriculture under mounting pressure. China's total annual water use is
currently estimated to be 520 billion m', with agricultural use constituting about 70% of this amount. To
enable further growth in agricultural production and to satisfy the anticipated growth in M&I demand, it is
estimated that China's available water supply would need to increase to 670 billion rn by 2010 if existing
water use requirements are maintained. It is estimated that only about one half of this incremental demand
can be met through additional development of water resources; the remainder will need to be addressed
through water savings, demand management, and/ or "deficit irrigation". In recognition of these problems,
the Chinese Government concluded that major water savings in agriculture is one of the important
strategies to deal with water scarcity and to counteract growing water demands in the North China Plain.
The Ministry of Water Resources (MWR) took the initiative in the mid-1990s through the National
Irrigated Agriculture Water-Saving Program. Under that program, 300 pilot water saving counties were
selected in 1996 and used to test different water-savings technologies, such as canal lining, buried pipeline,
- 2 -



sprinkler and drip irrigation.
Rehabilitation of irrigation systems and application of improved irrigation technologies (engineering
measures) to increase agriculture production are priority objectives of the National Irrigated Agriculture
Water-Saving Program. With 22% of the world's population, China has only 7% of the arable land, about
50% of which is irrigated producing about 75% of national agriculture output. In addition, encroachment
of urban and industrial areas continually reduces the land available for agricultural production. These
circumstances require increasingly intensive use of irrigated agriculture. It is essential to increase output
from irrigated land where yield potentials are highest. However, most of the irrigation systems in China
were built in the 1960s, in many cases with substandard designs and quality, many were left incomplete due
to lack of resources. Furthermore, the traditional flood irrigation with low field efficiencies is still practiced
at the field level in most irrigated areas. In the North China Plain, the current overall irrigation water use
efficiency is only around 35-50% for surface systems (water conveyance efficiency 50-60% and field
efficiency 70-80%), and for well systems about 70%. Most of these irrigation systems are in need of
rehabilitation and upgrading including improvements of water conveyance and field efficiencies and of
traditional irrigation technologies. Government policy is directed towards rehabilitation of irrigation and
drainage systems to improve these efficiencies.
Irrigation Institutional Reform has been identified by MWR as an important goal for sustainable
irrigation in China. A major problem faced by almost all irrigation and drainage systems in China is
inadequate O&M which is due primarily to insufficient government budget and low water charges. It is
also due to lack of direct farmer participation and lack of feeling of "ownership" in project design,
implementation and management. This has resulted in a vicious cycle of implementation, deterioration and
rehabilitation of irrigation and drainage systems. Low water charges and the lack of accurate water
measurement and volumetric water charging have resulted in inefficient use of water resources. Key issues
for the irrigation sub-sector are how to pay for irrigation investments and make them sustainable, how to
increase local participation and "ownership" in irrigation, how to implement irrigation investments to
consistently higher technical and institutional standards as needed for agricultural intensification, and how
to promote water savings and efficient water usage through water measurement and volumetric water
charging. To address these issues, government policy recognizes the strong need for institutional reforn
incorporating: (a) the user pays principle; (b) decentralization of services delivery; (c) market oriented
development; (d) treatment of water as a valuable economic resource; (e) water measurement and
volumetric water charging; and (f) participation of water users. Institutions responsible for operation and
maintenance of irrigation and drainage systems need to be: (a) organized along hydraulic boundaries, (b)
established with and organized to have legal personality to be able to enter into contractual relationships
with other entities; (c) managed to be self-financing; and (d) designed to pay for bulk water deliveries on a
volumetric basis.
-3 -



3. Sector issues to be addressed by the project and strategic choices:
Concept of "Real" Water Savings. Experience has shown in China and in other parts of the world that
projects that only concentrate on improvements to physical irrigation and drainage systems may achieve
improvements in water use efficiency, but may not result in much "real" water savings because of the
return-flow factor. Some of the losses from existing inefficient systems return to the groundwater aquifers
or downstream surface water systems and become available for other users, and are therefore not lost to the
hydrologic system. In such areas, improvements in water use efficiencies by upstream users simply
reduces water available for downstream users. Thus in such areas, even where individual systems are
inefficient, overall basin efficiency may be quite high. However, some of the losses due to inefficiencies are
absolute and unrecoverable. "Real" water savings results in part from reductions of non-recoverable losses
such as evapo-transpiration (ET) or losses to non-usable water bodies such as saline aquifers or the ocean.
"Real water savings can also result form the reduction of crop ET per unit of production. The concept of
"real" water savings has been applied in the design of the Project with the objective of substantially
reducing non-beneficial losses and increasing crop production per unit of crop ET through an Integrated
Comprehensive Approach, which is described latter in this section. Recognizing that the use of only
engineering measures cannot fully reach the objective of increasing production while reducing water
consumed, and to improve the National Irrigated Agriculture Water-Saving Program, MWR decided to
take this Project as a demonstration project for the National Program incorporating the concept of "real"
water savings in order to enhance the program in accordance with the government's strategy of agriculture
water savings in the North China Plain.
Increase of Agriculture Production Per Unit of ET. The current agriculture production per unit of ET in
the North China Plain is only about 0.85 kilograms of grain per cubic meter on average compared with
over 2 kilograms per cubic meter in some developed countries like Israel and the USA. There is a big
potential to increase agriculture production while reducing the amount of consumptive water use or ET by
soil moisture management, agronomic measures and improved irrigation technologies. This potential has
been shown by experiments in Huantai County of Shandong Province in North China. Before 1988, the
county experienced serious over exploitation of groundwater, and the agriculture production per unit of ET
was 1.45 kilograms per cubic meter. After 10 years of practice in soil moisture management, agronomic
measures, and improved irrigation technologies, the groundwater over exploitation has been substantially
mitigated, the groundwater balance has been essentially reached, and most importantly, agriculture
production per unit of ET increased to 2.45 kilograms per cubic meter. The key to these achievements is
that the farmers and the county government paid much more attention to good soil moisture management
and agronomic measures under a detailed irrigation program, which used the improved irrigation
technologies, such as buried pipeline and sprinkler irrigation. Non-beneficial ET has been substantially
reduced as well as other non-beneficial water losses based on the concept of "real" water savings, while
increasing grain production per cubic meter of water consumed.
Integrated Comprehensive Approach. To increase agriculture production per unit of ET by an integrated
package of measures based on the "real" water-savings concept is the core objective of the strategy for
agriculture water savings in the North China Plain under this Project. This is different from the present
National Irrigated Agriculture Water-Saving Program, which mainly focuses on engineering measures to
save water. As explained above, such savings from engineering mesasures alone may not result in much
"real" water savings from the standpoint of the hydrological system. The Project investments will focus on
the three sets of integrated measures that when taken together will result in both "real" water savings and
increase of agricultural yields. The three sets of measures are: (a) physical improvements to irrigation and
drainage systems at the tertiary level and on-farm; (b) agronomic measures; and (c) management measures.
- 4 -



The physical improvements included in the Project are: (a) canal lining; (b) low-pressure pipes for small
distribution systems; (c) facilities for groundwater recharge and conjunctive use of surface and
groundwater; (d) drainage systems and reuse of return flows; (e) improved surface irrigation systems
on-farm; (f) sprinkler systems; and (g) micro-irrigation systems. Experiments and practice has shown in
China and elsewhere that significant improvements in irrigation reliability and quality can be achieved
through these types of the measures. They enable increased crop production per unit of water diverted, and
in addition provide "real" water savings to the extent that they result in reduction of non-beneficial ET and
reduction in other non-recoverable losses.
Agronomic measures include land leveling, non-tillage in the dry season, deep plowing in the rainy season,
soil fertility improvements, organic and plastic mulching, seeds improvements and development of drought
resistant varieties, balanced fertilization, improvements to planting and cultivation techniques, changes in
cropping patterns, etc. In addition, forestry shelterbelts around fields will slow wind velocity and help
reduce evaporation. Experiments and practice has shown in China and elsewhere that substantial increases
in agricultural production (and value) per unit of ET can be achieved through these types of measures.
This is "real" water savings.
Management measures can be broken down into two types: (a) irrigation and drainage system management
improvements; and  (b) on-farm  irrigation  management improvements.   Irrigation  management
improvements under this Project include water measurement, volumetric water pricing, and institutional
development through establishment of SIDDs. On-farm irrigation management improvements include soil
moisture control and management through irrigation scheduling with help of the improved irrigation
methods. Experiments and practice have shown in China and elsewhere that significant increases in
agricultural output per unit of water consumed can be achieved through these management measures. To
the extent that these improvements result in ET reductions and reductions in other non-recoverable losses,
this is "real" water savings.
Given that there is no expansion of the existing irrigation areas under the Project except for a few special
cases with sufficient water resources, the increase in agricultural production under the Project will come
from the following three effects: (a) increase of crop production per unit of ET, which will result in less
water consumption; (b) increase of crop yields due to better irrigation service and higher irrigation
reliability, which will result in more water consumption by the crops; and (c) increase of crop yields with
removal of small ditches or field ridges, which will also result in more water consumption by the crops.
However with the integrated package of measures, the substantial reduction of non-beneficial water losses
or non-recoverable water losses, and the reduction of crop ET per unit of production will result in net "real"
water savings which will help ease the groundwater overdraft situation. The Project design with strict water
balance in each of the sub-project areas ensures that the "real" water savings will more than offset the
incremental crop water consumption, which will help mitigate overexploitation of groundwater within the
Project areas.
Sustainable Use of Groundwater Resources. In the North China Plain, groundwater in many well
irrigation areas has been overexploited due to rapid urban and agriculture development. The Project design
ensures that the Project activities will mitigate the overexploitation of groundwater and will not contribute
to worsening of groundwater overdraft in the Project areas. In addition, the Project will support measures
for groundwater quality protection, such as monitoring and control of use of pesticides and chemical
fertilizers. The following measures are taken under the Project for groundwater protection: (a) water
balance; a strict groundwater balance analysis over a several-year hydrologic cycle is conducted for each
sub-project area, and any water deficit is compensated through "real" water savings from reduction of
- 5 -



non-beneficial ET and other non-recoverable losses by united contributions from engineering measures,
agriculture measures and management measures, including deficit irrigation; (b) Project monitoring and
evaluation; a set of groundwater monitoring criteria has been selected, based on the Environment
Assessment report for monitoring and evaluation; (c) County Groundwater Management Plans will be
prepared by each Project county for the whole county area and implemented during project implementation.
As a first stage, one pilot county was selected from each of the four provinces/municipalities to prepare and
implement the plan and then extend the preparation and implementation of the plans to the other project
counties. The plan will include: administrative and legislative measures; institutional and educational
measures to promote the institutional reform including farmer participation in groundwater management;
and technical measures, such as groundwater monitoring, modeling and assessments.
Institutional Improvements in Operation and Maintenance. The Project is designed to incorporate
institutional measures to ensure an Integrated Comprehensive Approach for improved operational
efficiencies in water use, and sustainability and self-financing of irrigated agriculture, improve irrigation
system performance, and to enable effective decentralization of irrigation services, cost recovery and
farmer participation in line with Chinese and Bank water resources policy. An important component in the
new institutional structure for improved water resources management is the implementation of institutional
measures to address these operation and maintenance aspects, in particular the implementation of
self-financed irrigation and drainage districts (SIDDs) or similar institutional measures and volumetric
water charges to cover costs in all sub-project areas. SIDDs are presently being implemented as a part of
the Bank-financed Yangtze Basin Water Resources Management Project and being piloted in the Irrigated
Agriculture Intensification II Project and the Tarim Basin II Project. Each complete SIDD comprises: (a) a
Water Supply Organization (WSO) that formed to operate and maintain the main and branch canals and
drains; and (b) Water User Associations (WUAs) that are formed and managed by farmers to operate and
maintain the lower-level irrigation and drainage systems and purchase water from the WSO. In the Project,
WUAs or similar organizations will be established in each subproject area. Each province/municipality
will also pilot at least one complete SIDD including a WSO. Water deliveries to WSOs and WUAs and
other bulk water users will be measured, and measuring devices will be located at the WUA head-gates and
will be included in the physical infrastructure designs. Water charges will be increased to cover the full
cost of system operation, maintenance and replacement and will also partially cover investment costs.
Higher water charge rates and volumetric charges will be encouraged and promoted with farmers in order
to provide incentives for improving water use efficiencies. Adaptations of the standard SIDD model will
also be included for other types of irrigation investment under the Project. WUAs will be established by
farmers to own, operate and maintain well, pipeline, sprinkler, and drip systems, and each WUA will be
responsible as an entity to repay the loan and O&M costs for its irrigation system. In addition, the WSO
component will be adapted especially in groundwater irrigation subprojects to become a "Water Services
Company" to provide assistance to WUAs in operating and maintaining their irrigation systems through
provision of spare parts, repair services, rental of spare pumps for wells, technical guidance, training, etc. I
n order to enhance the participatory approach with the Project, the following 10 criteria will be used to
evaluate performance of the W-UAs established or similar farmer groups: (a) establishment with charters
and other regulations based on the hydraulic boundaries; (b) being under protection of local law or
officially registered; (c) participation in the whole process of Project design and construction; (d)
responsibility for O&M of on-farm irrigation works including laterals; (e) implementation of volumetric
water charges; (f) implementation of scientific irrigation or irrigation scheduling; (g) participation in
groundwater management; (h) receipt of transfer of on-farm irrigation facilities from government (in some
cases); (i) signing a contract for loan repayment (in some cases); and (j) financial autonomy including
collection of water charges from farmers and payment of water charges to the WSOs or other water
suppliers based on a contract between the WUA and the water supplier.
-6 -



Program Approach. The traditional approach to project planning and implementation in China does not
provide flexibility to incorporate lessons leamed during implementation or to change subprojects which
prove to be sub-optimal, and it requires adaptation for the Project. Because of the new technology and
complicated subproject design, it will be important to continuously improve Project design criteria based on
the experience and lessons learned as the Project develops. It is important that Project planning be flexible
and done incrementally in order to incorporate lessons leamed and use resources most efficiently. This is
especially important given the innovative nature of the Project. The overall Project concept and the
selection of all sub-project areas were agreed during Project preparation. The design and implementation
of the sub-projects, which include integrated comprehensive technology and institutional/management
packages, will be carried out throughout the five-year Project implementation period following standards
and criteria under the program approach as agreed during Project preparation. The first year's sub-projects
have been selected and designed during Project preparation and account for about 17% of the total Project
cost; the second year's sub-projects will be designed during the first year of implementation and will
incorporate improvements learned during the first year; and so on. The Project monitoring and evaluation
program will be used to provide feedback into the program approach on lessons learned.
C. Project Description Summary
1. Project components (see Annex 2 for a detailed description and Annex 3 for a detailed cost
breakdown):
The Project will support integrated improvements to irrigated agriculture in the Chinese provinces of Hebei
and Liaoning, and in the municipalities of Beijing and Qingdao. Twenty seven counties from the provinces
and municipalities have been identified and all of the subprojects have been prepared at the feasibility level.
Project components are: (a) Irrigation and Drainage Works and Onfarm Systems, including canal
lining, low-pressure pipes, drains, wells, small structures, surface irrigation inrpovements, sprinlder
systems and micro-irrigation systems; (b) Agriculture Support and Services, including land leveling,
non-tillage in the dry season, deep plowing in the rainy season, soil fertility improvements including
incorporation of green manure and stalk, organic and plastic mulching, cropping pattern adjustments, seeds
improvements and development of drought resistant varieties, balanced fertilization, and improvements to
planting and cultivation techniques; (c) Forestry and Environmental Monitoring, including forestry
development for windbreak protection and soil conservation, tree nurseries, and enviromnental monitoring
systems to monitor the Project's environmental impact on soil and water; and (d) Institutional
Development, including training, technical assistance and research, as well as the establishment and
strengthening of operation and maintenance entities made up mostly of water users.



Indicative            Bank.      % of
Component                   Sector        costs     % of    financing   Bank-
_________________________               (LJS$M)909    Total-   (USM)  financing
Irrigation and Drainage Works and  Irrigation &      131.70       70.9     47.24       63.8
Onfarm Systems                     Drainage
Agriculture Support and Services   Agricultural       22.05       11.9      14.15      19.1
Extension
Forestry and Environrmental Monitoring  Forestry       4.83        2.6      2.86        3.9
Institutional Development          Institutional       14.47       7.8      9.01       12.2
Development
0.0                 0.0
Total Project Costs                  173.05       93.2     73.26       99.0
Interest during construction                11.88        6.4      0.00       0.0
Front-end fee                    0.74        0.4      0.74        1.0
Total Financing Required                   185.67      100.0     74.00     100.0
2. Key policy and institutional reforms supported by the project:
The Project will enhance beneficial use of water resources, agriculture production capacity and farner
incomes by: (a) increasing the value of agriculture production per unit of consumed water through
increasing yields and reducing non-beneficial water losses; and (b) establishing mechanisms for sustainable
use and management of water resources in irrigated areas. To achieve these objectives, the Project will
provide support for institutional reforms, including: (a) installation of measurement devices and increasing
volumetric water charges in surface irrigation systems and collecting volumetric water resources fees or
increasing electrical charges for well irrigation systems in order to provide incentives to farmers to save
water; (b) formation and strengthening of SIDDs and similar organizations to improve operation and
maintenance of facilities, to increase water user "ownership" and to improve financing mechanisms; (c)
preparation and implementation of County Groundwater Management Plans with farner participation and
strong support from the County Governments.
-8-



3. Benefits and target population:
The Project will generate substantial benefits by: (a) implementation of water-saving facilities and
technologies for irrigation and distribution systems at the tertiary and on-farm level in an area of about
107,000 ha to enhance effective water supply and improve on-farm irrigation efficiency through reducing:
(i) diversions and groundwater pumped (overdraft reduced), (ii) excessive deep percolation, (iii) crop
evapo-transpiration, and (iv) evaporative losses from delivery systems within the water scarcity areas of the
four provinces and municipalities located in Northem China; (b) increasing water and agricultural
productivity, and improving quality and yields of a wide range of crops, by enhancing the extension of
irrigated agronomy, improving onfarm irrigation management, and replacing water-intensive crops with
higher-value cash crops that use less water to improve productivity (and value) per unit of water consumed;
(c) increasing per capita income and rural employment for about 2 million farm laborers, and a smaller
general increase in per capita income for other households which will indirectly benefit from increased
agricultural production; (d) protecting and enhancing the ecological-environmental system of the Project
area through forestation, protection of groundwater from overexploitation through County Groundwater
Management Plans; protection of groundwater quality from salinization, chemical fertilizers and pesticides,
and rational use of land and water resources; (e) developing and implementing a program approach for
irrigated agriculture investment and development which will support sustainable use, development and
management of water and land resources; and (f) developing and establishing SIDDs (WSOs and WUAs)
which will contribute to a better link between the irrigation service, agricultural extension service and
farmers participation, and also contribute to better collection of water charges and lower fiscal burdens for
irrigation O&M on local governments. The Project will be located in the North China Plain which is not a
poverty area although the farmers are still relatively poor. The North China Plain has severe water scarcity
and groundwater overdraft problems that the Project is helping to address. The Project's focus on the
enviromnental, sustainability and food security aspects of "real" water savings is top priority for China and
will benefit all Chinese including the poor.
4. Institutional and implementation arrangements:
A Central Project Coordination Group (CPCG) in MWR will oversee Project preparation and
implementation and be chaired by the Director General of the Rural Water Resources Department of
MWR. The CPCG will also include representatives from SDPC, MOF, and MWR's Intemational
Cooperation Departnent and the PMO heads from each of the four provinces/municipalities. Project
implementation will be under the overall coordination and management of a Central Project Management
Office (CPMO) which will be located within MWR. Each of the four provinces/municipalities and each of
the twenty seven Project counties will have similar Project Leading Groups (PLGs) and PMOs. The
provincial/municipal and county PLGs will include representatives from the Water Resources, Agriculture,
Forestry, Environment, Finance Bureaus and the Planning Commission. The PMOs will be located within
the Water Resources Bureaus at each level.
-9-



D. Project Rationale
1. Project alternatives considered and reasons for rejection:
During Project preparation, the mix of institutional activities and physical activities was evaluated to
maximize economic benefits and minimize environmental and social impacts within the limitations of
institutional and policy constraints. For each of the first-year-implementation subprojects, different surface
irrigation, sprinkler and drip alternatives for on-farm improvements were evaluated and the most feasible
selected. The selection was based on economics, farmers' preferences and technical constraints.
Consideration of large interbasin transfers of water to provide alternative water supplies rather than
improving water use efficiencies in Project areas was considered to be outside the scope of this Project.
However, preliminary cost estimates indicate that interbasin transfers would be much more costly than
water conservation measures that achieve "real" water savings.
The proposed Project is to be implemented under the management of MWR and by the Water Resources
Bureaus at the Provincial/Municipal and county levels. An alternative that would only concentrate on
water conservation and on-farm  measures and would not include agricultural improvements and
institutional reform was considered. Although this alternative would be simpler to implement, it was
rejected because the Project's benefits are dependent on increased agricultural production while decreasing
water consumed, and on the concept of "real" water savings that will result from agronomic measures and
improvements in water system and on-farm management.
A conventional project in which all of the subprojects would be selected and designed during Project
preparation was also considered and rejected. Using a program approach in which the subprojects are
designed and implemented throughout the Project period will significantly improve Project sustainability,
replicability, and incorporation of lessons learned.
- 10 -



2. Major related projects financed by the Bank and/or other development agencies (completed,
ongoing and planned).
Latest Supervision
Sector Issue           |          Project                 (PSR) Ratings
(Bank-financed projects only)
Implementation   Development
Bank-financed                                                   Progress (IP)   Objective (DO)
- Rehabilitation and improvement of   Yangtze Basin Water           S             S
irrigation and drainage systems,  Resources Project
self-financing irrigation and drainage  ($210 million)
districts and river basin management
-Rehabilitation and improvement of    Second Irrigated Agriculture  S             S
irrigation and drainage systems and    Intensification Project
agriculture services improvement    ($300 million)
-Rehabilitation and improvement of    Second Tarim Basin Project    S             S
irrigation and drainage systems,    ($150 million)
agricultural services improvement and
improvements in water resources
management
-Rehabilitation and improvement of    Northern China Plain          S             S
irrigation and drainage systems and    Agriculture Project
agriculture services improvement    ($54 million)
-Expansion of irrigation and water  Shaanxi Agriculture             U             U
systems, agriculture support and  Development Project
agro-industries                    ($106 million)
-Rehabilitation and improvement of   Irrigated Agriculture         HS            HS
irrigation and drainage systems and    Intensification Project
agriculture services improvement    ($335 million)
-Rehabilitation and improvement of    Shandong Agriculture          S             S
irrigation and drainage systems and    Development Project
agriculture services improvement   (SDR 82.5 million)
-Rehabilitation and improvement of    Henan Agriculture             S             S
irrigation and drainage systems and    Development Project
agriculture services improvement   ($110 million)
-Rehabilitation and improvement of    Hebei Agriculture Development  S            S
irrigation and drainage systems, and    Project
expansion of agriculture services and    ($150 million)
agro-industries
Other development agencies
IP/DO Ratings: HS (Highly Satisfactory), S (Satisfactory), U (Unsatisfactory), HU (Highly Unsatisfactory)
- 1 1 -



3. Lessons learned and reflected in the project design:
The Bank has assisted in financing 17 water resources and irrigation projects in China over the last 15
years, serving more than 5 million hectares of irrigated area. Generally, these projects have been
implemented efficiently, and time and cost overruns have not been excessive despite periods of sharp price
escalation. Likewise, rates of return have equaled or exceeded appraisal estimates. A notable feature of
these projects in recent years has been the increasing level of local community involvement in planning,
design, and implementation. The projects in which the Water Resources Bureau at all administrative levels
has been fully responsible and accountable for project design, planning, and implementation of water
conservancy components have generally performed well.
The Operations Evaluation Department of the Bank has identified O&M, water charges, financial
autonomy and irrigators' ownership as key issues in irrigation system design and sustainability. The Bank's
Rural Development Departnent, in its irrigation subsector portfolio quality assurance review, identified
(inter alia) strong governnent commitment and ownership and beneficiary participation as important
requirements for good performance of irrigation projects. On-going Bank-supported sector studies (Rural
China: Transition and Development, and Water Strategy) have identified improved management of scarce
water resources for irrigation and other uses as a key area requiring continued focus. Other key lessons
from previous Bank-financed water resources projects in China are that: (a) detailed organizational and
staff arrangements should be formulated and agreed before implementation; (b) counterpart funding should
be committed before implementation, including the direct participation of the provincial Planning
Commissions and Finance Bureaus; (c) project design should support the "user pays" principle, and user
(farmer) participation should be explicitly built into project planning, implementation and operation and
supported under the Project; (d) irrigation, drainage and flood protection investments should include cost
recovery from beneficiaries; (e) irrigation and water conservancy projects should include provisions for
unified irrigation system management based on hydraulic units and not on political or administrative
boundaries; (f) projects should include institutional development support for the strengthening of provincial
and local Water Resources Bureaus; and (g) agricultural support services should be included in irrigation
and drainage projects to ensure realization of benefits. Experience with operation and maintenance
institutional development, including SIDD development under the Yangtze Basin Water Resources Project,
the Irrigated Agriculture Intensification II Project and the Tarim Basin II Project indicates that strong local
government support is necessary for its success, and that specialized TA during preparation and early
implementation is important to help promote, teach and establish institutional reforms before full
implementation begins.
The 1993 World Bank Policy Paper on Water Resources Management and Chinese Government policy are
compatible and emphasize the following principles: (a) water resources should be managed and developed
in a comprehensive integrated manner and consider cross-sectoral issues with the goal of ensuring the
sustainability of the water environment for multiple uses as an integral part of the country's economic
development process; (b) water resources planning and management should be carried out considering the
interrelationships between water, land and human resources with the objective of enhancing economic
growth and development in an environmentally sustainable manner; (c) water is an economic resource and
therefore should be managed in an economically efficient manner; (d) the river basin should be the basic
unit for planning and managing water resources; (e) water users should participate directly in water
resources management and development; and (f) water use should be efficient and environmentally
sustainable.
- 12 -



4. Indications of borrower commitment and ownership:
This Project has the direct support of the State Council, the SDPC, MOF and MWR. These key central
government entities have identified water savings as a major objective in order to meet increasing water
demands and deal with water scarcity. The CPCG and CPMO have already been officially established and
most of the provincial/municipal and county PLGs and PMOs have been officially established. The Chinese
government already has an extensive National Irrigated Agriculture Water-Saving Program underway in
300 counties.  MWR has designated this Project as a demonstration project for its National Irrigated
Agriculture Water-Saving  Program.   In addition, high-quality  feasibility reports and Project
Implementation Plans were prepared by the provincial/municipal and central PMOs and reviewed and
determined to be adequate during Project appraisal.
5. Value added of Bank support in this project:
The Bank is helping the Chinese Government to better orient the National Irrigated Agriculture
Water-Saving Program on a sound economic and technical basis, specifically in the areas of "real" water
savings, irrigation technology selection, agricultural practices improvement, institutional reform and
on-farm irrigation management. The Project will serve as a vehicle for undertaking sound economic and
technical selection, design and implementation of integrated subprojects that will maximize the agriculture
yields per unit of water consumed, be financially viable, have water user "ownership" and be sustainable.
The Project has been designed specifically to demonstrate the following aspects: (a) project design; the
project design aims at reducing water wastes while increasing crop yields and values in project areas; the
core of project design is based on the concept of "real" water savings resulting from reductions in
non-beneficial or non-recoverable water losses; (b) integrated measures; the combined effects of the
integrated package of measures (engineering measures, agronomic measures, irrigation management
measures and institutional management measures) will result in significant reductions of non-beneficial or
non-recoverable water losses; (c) irrigation management measures; implementation of well designed
irrigation management measures including soil moisture management is a key part of the integrated
package of measures and if effectively implemented will result in substantial reductions in non-beneficial
water losses while significantly increasing the crop yields; the irrigation management measures will be
emphasized and implemented with great attention through the combined efforts of water specialists,
agricultural specialists and the institutional specialists; (d) farmer incentives; in the end, it is the farmers
who will implement the National Irrigated Agriculture Water-Saving Program; therefore, farmers must
have their incentives for water savings; the economic and financial analysis and social assessment of farmer
households under the Project show that improved surface irrigation technologies with lower costs are most
suitable to field crops and welcomed by farmers; and the other irrigation technologies with higher costs like
sprinkler and drip irrigation systems should be used for higher value crops subject to both local conditions
and farmer willingness; and (e) sustainable development; the Project will provide a whole set of workable
mechanisms for sustainable development of agricultural production and sustainable use of limited water
resources in North China, including project design with integrated measures, program approach, Mobile
Specialist Team (MST), county Groundwater Management Plans, farmer participation and training,
monitoring and evaluation, MIS as well as the intemational-standard methods for project management.
The Bank is also helping to introduce new technologies and improved designs in areas such as land
leveling, improved surface irrigation methods, and better selection and design of sprinkler and drip
systems, as well as improved agricultural practices.
Operation and maintenance institutional development and volumetric water measurement and charging are
relatively new to China. Bank support in these areas brings both know-how and impetus for reform, which
should result in improved operation and maintenance, and effective farmer "ownership" and participation in
- 13-



the management of water delivery systems.
In addition, the Bank is also helping to promote the sustainable use of groundwater resources, and
protection of groundwater from overexploitation and pollution through Project design with strict water
balance analysis, monitoring and control of salinity, pesticides and chermical fertilizers, and preparation and
implementation of the County Groundwater Management Plans prepared under the Project.
E. Summary Project Analysis (Detailed assessments are in the project file, see Annex 8)
1. Economic (see Annex 4):
* Cost benefit    NPV=US$88.4 rnillion; ERR = 20.7 % (see Annex 4)
O Cost effectiveness
O Other (specify)
Economic Evaluation Issues. The Project investment in integrated measures will entail shifting from the
past reliance on irrigation expansion, to emphasis on using/managing water in an economically optimal
and sustainable fashion through the implementation of water-saving measures in existing irrigated areas.
The economic analysis included the quantifiable benefits derived through substantial improvements in the
water-use efficiency and improvements in irrigated agriculture productivity (and value) due to the
implemnentation of integrated water-saving measures including irrigation technology, agronomic and
management measures. The cropping pattern was shifted to higher value crops and higher cropping
intensity, which will be achievable with improved technologies and management. The analysis also included
estimated economic costs, but not the benefits, from institutional development and improved environmental
management. The analysis presents "with Project" (the upgraded irrigation system with canal lining, low
pressure pipeline, semi-fixed sprinkler and micro/drip irrigation systems plus agronomic and management
measures) and "without Project" (the existing groundwater irrigation system  with wells and the
conventional canal facilities and techniques, groundwater is the dominant water resources for about 70
percent of total agricultural water supply within the Project area) scenarios. The overall ERR for the
Project was estimated to be 20.7%, and the NPV was estimated to US$88.4 rnillion using a 12% discount
rate. For the subproject areas the ERRs were estimated to be 18.1% for Beijing municipality, 21.0% for
Hebei province, 21.7% for Liaoning (Shenyang) province and 20.5% for Qingdao municipality. The
benefits resulting from "real" water savings were also estimated (see below), but because of their
uncertainty these were not included in the NPV and ERR calculations.
Benefits from "Real" Water Savings. The Project aims to improve water use efficiencies and reduce
non-beneficial losses through measures resulting in "real" water savings. Even though benefits from "real"
water savings are potentially quite large and the direct result of the achievement of one of the main Project
objectives, they are also somewhat uncertain. For this reason, the conventional economic analysis does not
include benefits from "real" water savings. Although the agriculturally derived benefits in the economic
analysis are sufficient to economically justify the Project, the Government's objective to achieve sustainable
irrigated agriculture in the North China Plain is the driving force behind the Project and behind the
Government subsidies to the Project beneficiaries, which will amount to about 28% of the Project costs.
The benefits from "real" water savings can be divided into two parts: (a) direct benefits to Project
beneficiaries form less groundwater drawdown resulting in less O&M and replacement costs in pumping
areas; and (b) benefits to the overall society resulting from preservation of the water resource. The total
net present value of these benefits could be as much as US$ 100 million. If these benefits had been
included in the economic analysis, the Project total NPV and ERR would have both been much higher than
the values shown above. It should be noted that potential even greater benefits could be achieved if the
Groundwater Management Plans result in county-wide groundwater stabilization.
- 14 -



2. Financial (see Annex 4 and Annex 5):
NPV=US$ 47.4 million; FRR = 16 % (see Annex 4)
Financial Analysis. Financial analysis was prepared to indicate the financial incentives of farmers to
participate in the Project, cost of water service and the farmer's ability to pay those costs, and the financial
feasibility of their doing so successfully. During Project preparation, the overall incentive framework for
beneficiaries, including land tenure, SIDD development, water pricing, and agricultural marketing issues,
was reviewed. Financial analysis was carried out to indicate the financial viability of the proposed
investments, as if the irrigation districts were expected to be self-financing. The Project will substantially
improve the financial viability of farning through increased annual returns to farm labor and capital
investments.   Financial analysis has been carried out for each individual irrigation technology,
provincial/municipal subproject area, and typical beneficiary farm household based on Project cost
estimates. The overall FRR for the Project was estimated to be 16%, and the NPV was estimated to
USS47.4. For the subproject areas the FRRs were estimated to be 14.7% for Beijing municipality, 15.6%
for Hebei province, 16.2% for Liaoning (Shenyang) province, and 14. 1% for Qingdao municipality.
Market Analysis. All four provinces and municipalities have done market research of agricultural
products in Project areas and they are included in the PIP. The agricultural products in the Project area can
be classified into five main categories, i.e. grain (including corn, rice, wheat and soybean), cotton,
vegetables, fruits (including pear, apple, peach, grapes) and some other cash crops (including peanuts,
fresh flowers etc.). According to the market survey there are no difficulties in selling these agricultural
products for farmer producers in the Project areas at market-deternined prices in the without-Project
condition. Because the incremental increase in production of these products is relatively small in
comparison to the total amounts in the local market, it is not anticipated that there will be difficulties selling
these agricultural products during Project implementation. Annex 4 presents more details on the market
analysis.
Farm income. The Project will increase beneficiary farmers' income and improve their living standard. A
total of 257,000 farm families will directly benefit from the Project. The farm model analysis shows
substantial increase in beneficiary farmers' income with the comprehensive implementation of integrated
water-saving facilities/technologies, the better extension of irrigated agronomy and the improvement of
irrigation management. Several items have been considered to calculate and assess the impacts on typical
household income, such as various incremental taxes (agricultural tax, specialty tax and fee, etc.); an
incremental water charge which will cover the full operation and maintenance costs for the upgraded
irrigation system; and a portion of the Project loan repayment.
Farmers' Ability to Pay. The farm incomes analyses show that Project investments generate substantial
increases in net farm incomes for all groups of farmers who implement the different type of irrigation
technologies and cropping patterns. It shows the growth rates of household income from Project start to
Year 3 in various subproject areas. The estimated incremental annual farm incomes due to the Project are
financially attractive and provide adequate incentives for farmers to make the proposed investments, take
over the full responsibility for O&M and pay the increased water charges.
"Real" Water Savings Benefits. The reduced O&M costs due to the stabilization of the groundwater
tables resulting from the integrated measures will enhance the financial feasibility and the farmers' ability to
pay. As in the economic analysis, these financial benefits were not considered in the financial analysis
because of their uncertainty.
- 15 -



Fiscal Impact:
Financing Plan. The total Project financing required is estimated at USS185.67 million (Y 1,559.74
million) including the interest during construction and the front-end fee. The World Bank will finance
US$74 million, which is 39.9 per cent of the total Project financing required The remaining US$111.67
million of the Project financing required will be financed by the Borrower including province/municipality
(US$29.55 million; 15.9 percent), prefecture (US$4.85 million; 2.6 percent), county and township
(US$18.42 million; 9.9 percent) in the form of grant as well as farmers (US$58.85 million; 31.7 percent}.
The farmner contribution will be funded in cash (US$30.45 million; 16.4 percent) and labor input (US$28.4
million; 15.3 percent). The provinces and municipalities have provided the World Bank with a commitment
to provide the necessary counterpart funding.
Repayment of the Bank loan will be the responsibility of the Borrower, which will recover from
provincial/municipal govemments (Beijing, Hebei, Liaoning (Shenyang) and Qingdao).  In turn the
provincial/municipal governments will recover from local governnents (prefectures, counties and
townships) and Project beneficiaries. Most of the loan repayment will be the responsibility of Project
beneficiaries. Some will be repaid by the provincial/municipal govemments to cover technical assistance,
training and some project management costs. The terns of on-lending the IBRD Loan has been agreed
between the Central Government and the Government of Beijing, Hebei, Liaoning (Shenyang) and Qingdao.
The Ministry of Finance will on-lend the IBRD Loan of US$74 million to provincial and municipal Finance
Bureaus on terms and conditions as received from the Bank: 20 year repayment including a 5 year grace
period, Bank charged interest rate, a 1% front-end fee and a 0.75% commitment fee. Foreign exchange
risks will be borne by the provinces and municipalities. The details of these financial arrangements have
been agreed, along with commitments for adequate and timely counterpart funding by provincial/municipal
and local governments. The CPMO will submit to the Bank by September 30 of each year, the annual work
program for each province/municipality, financial plans and budgets for the following year's
implementation plans. The submission will include evidence that the provincial/municipal and local
governments will provide adequate and timely counterpart funding.
Fiscal impact and cost recovery. The primary fiscal impact will be short-term, mainly with regard to the
provision of adequate and timely counterpart funding for implementation. As per the Project financing plan,
the provincial/municipal and local govenmments will cover 28.4 percent of the total Project cost through
counterpart funding which is about US$52.8 million equivalent, inclusive of about US$6.8 million
equivalent of duties and taxes, the government's net contribution will therefore be about US$45.9 million
equivalent over five years (construction period). The govenmment contribution will not be recovered from
the farners but considered to be a subsidy that is justified by the national benefits derived from the
preservation of the water resource due to the "real" water savings. The provincial/municipal governments
will also be responsible for some of the loan repayment. In the longer term, it is expected that the Bank
loan repayment requirements would be expected to be recovered from the incremental production and
income by beneficiaries during the Project operation. The major portion of the cost recovery from the
farmers will be through increases in irrigation water charges and through labor and cash contributions by
farmers. Other assessments including agricultural taxes and land-lease fees may also be used for cost
recovery if water charges cannot be raised sufficiently. The county governments will be responsible for
loan repayment to the higher government levels and will collect funds from the farmers through water
charges and/or other assessments in order to do this. Under the agricultural component, cost recovery for
the soil improvement works will be out of the increased crop production, the agricultural inputs for
fertilizers, seeds, plastic film, moisture retainer and agro-machinery will be operated on a commercial
basis, and the sales prices for agricultural inputs and services will be fixed on the basis of market
conditions and would have to cover costs including distribution costs for the facilities to remain financially
- 16 -



viable. Nevertheless, it is estimated that farmers will be responsible for paying approximately 51 per cent
of the total Project investment (excluding the labor inputs which amount to another 21 per cent of the
costs).
3. Technical:
Technical Issues. With and without Project water balance analyses have been carried out that considered
all of the inflows and outflows to and from the subproject areas and therefore estimated the "real" water
savings and the impact of improved efficiencies on third parties. Water balance analyses indicate that the
subprojects will not make the situation worse, but will in fact improve the groundwater overdraft situation
somewhat. In order to completely affect the groundwater situation, groundwater management plans need to
be developed and implemented. In one pilot county in each province/municipality where there are presently
problems of groundwater overdraft, groundwater management plans are being developed and agreed which
will seek to achieve a stabilized groundwater situation during a period of time specified in the plan. All
other Project counties will develop similar plans based on the experience and lessons gained from the pilot
counties during Project implementation. Planning of irrigation and drainage system improvements, on-farm
improvements, agricultural improvements and management improvements have sought to define the
optimum interventions from economic, environmental and social standpoints for the subproject areas within
the limitations of institutional and policy constraints. Irrigation and drainage system designs have been
improved with technical assistance provided through the PHRD preparation grant; continual improvements
are expected during Project implementation. O&M programs will be defined and agreed during Project
implementation.
4. Institutional:
4.1 Executing agencies:
A Central Project Coordination Group (CPCG) will oversee Project implementation and be chaired by the
Director General of the Rural Water Resources Department of MWR. The CPCG which has already been
established includes representatives from SDPC, MOF, and MWR's International Cooperation
Department, as well as the Project Management Office (PMO) head from each of the
provinces/municipalities. The Project will be under the overall coordination and management of a Central
Project Management Office (CPMO) which is located within  MWR.   Each of the four
provinces/municipalities and each of the twenty seven Project counties will have Project Leading Groups
(PLGs) and PMOs. The provincial/municipal and county PLGs will include representatives from the Water
Resources, Agriculture, Forestry, Environment and Finance Bureaus, and the Planning Commission. The
PMOs will be located within the Water Resources Bureaus at each level, and Project Loan Offices (PLOs)
will be located within the Finance Bureaus at the provincial/municipal level.
4.2 Project management:
Role of MWRICPMO: MWR has decided to take the Project as a demonstration project for its National
Irrigated Agricultural Water-Saving Program and therefore MWR will play a key role in Project
implementation. In order to ensure that the Project is well implemented and plays the maximum
demonstration role in accordance with the Project design and objectives, MWR and the CPMO will seek to
ensure that: (a) technical designs are correct and implemented properly; (b) consistent training and
technical assistance is provided to field staff during implementation; (c) a comprehensive management
information system (MIS) is established and operated efficiently; (d) monitoring and evaluation is
continuous and accurate; (e) good and effective quality control of the technical aspects of the Project at all
levels is maintained; (f) regular and comprehensive supervision of subprojects is carried out; (g) a large
- 17-



amount of cross-fertilization occurs between the Project provinces and municipalities as well as between all
of the Project counties to allow for continuous Project improvement during implementation; (h) experiences
and lessons from the Project are introduced to the other irrigated agricultural water saving projects in
China, including the 300 pilot counties within the National Irrigated Agricultural Water-Saving Program;
and (i) sufficient funds are allocated for the operational and management activities of CPMO and to assist
the Project provinces/municipalities and counties in Project implementation.
The CPMO will have an especially critical role in setting up and supporting these functions. In addition,
under the program approach, the CPMO will work with and provide assistance to the Bank for Project
supervision, monitoring and evaluation, reporting and specialized technical assistance. The CPMO will also
be responsible for the following 10 specific tasks: (a) review and approval of subproject appraisals carried
out by provincial/municipal PMOs including spot-review of county annual design reports, review of
provincial/municipal annual implementation plans, and signing of appraisal sheets with comments, and
consolidation of annual implementation plans (including annual cost estimates, annual procurement plans,
and Project implementation schedule), making comments and recommendations for final clearance by the
Bank; (b) review and approval of provincial/municipal annual TA plans for research, training and study
tours (including overseas study tours), and consolidation of annual TA plans, making comments and
recommendations for final clearance by the Bank; (c) periodic monitoring and supervision of the overall
Project progress including physical, financial and TA progress, Bank loan disbursement, counterpart
financing,  and  achievement  of  Project  objectives,  making  recommendations  to  Project
provinces/municipalities, and consolidation of the Project progress reports from provinces/municipalities,
making comments and recommendations for review by MWR and the Bank; (d) monitoring and supervision
of the status of implementation of loan covenants, make recommendations to Project provinces and
municipalities, and consolidate the reports from provinces/municipalities with comments for review by
Govenmment and the Bank; (e) review, supervision and provision of technical guidance to the work of
monitoring and evaluation including 12 typical hydraulic areas for detailed monitoring and evaluation, and
for county groundwater management including implementation of County Groundwater Management Plans
in for 4 pilot counties, making recommendations to Project provinces and municipalities for improvements,
and consolidation of the reports for monitoring and evaluation and the other related reports from provinces
and municipalities with comments for review by MWR and the Bank; (f) provision of specialized technical
assistance to provinces/municipalities and counties during Project implementation, especially for
preparation of annual design reports, monitoring and evaluation, groundwater management, SIDD
development, procurement and MIS, and organization and carrying out of special training programs at the
central level as necessary; (g) organization of completion and acceptance of the Project components; and
consolidation of the implementation and completion reports from Project provinces and municipalities, and
preparation of the general Implementation Completion Report (ICR) for the whole Project for submission
to MWR and to the Bank; (h) supervision of O&M of the completed components, making recommendations
to Project provinces/municipalities and counties for improvements, and consolidation of O&M plans with
comments for review by MWR and the Bank; (i) summarizing experiences and lessons from Project
implementation, and introduction and extension of the relevant experiences to the other parts of the
National Irrigated Agricultural Water-Saving Program including the 300 pilot counties in China, and
consolidation of summary reports from Project provinces and municipalities with comments for review by
MWR and the Bank; and () serving as an extemal window to the Bank for the Project, and reporting the
Project implementation status to MWR, SDPC and MOF.
Mobile Specialist Team. MSTs will be established at the provincial/municipal level to assist the PMOs in
technical aspects during Project implementation. MSTs will play a critical role in effective application of
improved agronomic and scientific irrigation technologies and improvement of irrigation management at the
grass roots level. The MSTs, employed at the provincial/municipal level, will have three primary
- 18-



functions: (a) providing specialized technical assistance and training to lower levels (county and township
Water Resources Bureaus, Water Management Stations and Agro-technology and Service Centers and
Stations, County Drought Fighting Centers, etc.); (b) providing technical assistance and training as
necessary to WSOs, WUAs, and farmers, including assistance in setting up local demonstration and
monitoring activities; and (c) carrying out appraisal of subprojects to be financed under the loan. The MST
members will be employed as individual consultants selected based on the Bank guidelines, and each MST
should be equipped with the necessary vehicles and equipment/tools in order to take field trips to provide
hands-on training at the county, township and village levels.
Institutional Reform. The Project will support the introduction of innovative institutional reforms for the
management of water resources in the basins and irrigation areas. Emphasis will be placed on the
institutions being self-financing with farmer participation and control, and also ownership where feasible.
Water measurement and volumetric water charging, in addition to self-financing levels of water charges
will be incorporated into the institutional design. Specialized TA and training has been built into Project
training and implementation. The Project will finance costs of the program and institutional development.
It must be recognized that participation, establishment of "ownership", educating decision makers and staff,
passing and promulgating the necessary laws, regulations and/or edicts, and increasing water charges to
self-financing levels will take extra time and effort. Adequate time and resources for this must be provided
to achieve the required quality at entry and good implementation results. Groundwater Management Plans
will include institutional aspects including the setting up of County Water Affairs Bureaus that will carry
out the county-wide water resources management activities.
4.3 Procurement issues:
Procurement Arrangements. An assessment of the procurement capabilities of the PMOs was carried
out. In general the experience and procurement capabilities were found to be adequate with some identified
deficiencies. These deficiencies will be corrected through specialized training before and during
implementation. The assessment document is included in the Project files. A complete set of procurement
packages was developed and agreed for the first year and a detailed procurement schedule was also
developed and agreed. Bidding documents have been prepared for the first year procurements. The PIP
includes procurement management regulations which have been developed and agreed in accordance with
Bank guidelines. Model bidding documents for small works, shopping, force account and community
participation have been developed and agreed.
4.4 Financial management issues:
Financial Management Arrangement. A review was carried out to assess the adequacy of the Project
financial management system. In general, the experience and financial management capabilities were found
to be adequate with some identified deficiencies. The results of the assessment and corresponding Action
Plan to address measures needed to improve capabilities are included in Annex 13, and specifically address
the following aspects (inter alia) Section IV: Financial and Accounting System, Section V: Internal
Controls, Section VII: Project Reporting Requirements and Section VIII: Audit Arrangements.
The Project Financial Management System (FMS) was reviewed and found to be acceptable. The
provincial/municipal finance bureaus except for Qingdao have already carried out several Bank-financed
projects, and appropriate regulations and procedures are in place. The provinces/municipalities use the
guidelines developed by Ministry of Finance in cooperation with the Bank for financial management,
accounting and financial reporting. During appraisal, a financial management assessment was conducted
by the Bank's financial management specialist to review the Project organization structure, financial
management, intemal controls, accounting, financial reporting, budgeting and auditing. The Project FMS
has met the Bank's requirements. It was agreed that the PMR-based disbursement will not be used for this
- 19 -



Project. The assessment report can be seen in Annex 13.
The Project financial management Manual was prepared by CPMO to document operational procedures,
accounting, reporting and auditing. Each province/municipality prepared documentation on the financial
management arrangements within the province/municipality which included on-lending, counterpart fund
collection and management, set-up of Project accounting system at county level, etc. Several training
workshops have been provided to the Project financial staff, particularly to the staff of Qingdao
municipality which is the first time to implement the Bank financed Project. More training on Project
financial management will be carried out before Project implementation. In accordance with the agreement
between the Bank and MOF, the financial report including the following statements will be submitted to the
Bank semi-annually: (a) Balance Sheet; (b) Sources and uses of the Project funds; (c) Statement of
withdrawals of the loan; (d) Special Account statement. These tables can be found in Project
Implementation Plan (PIP).
Disbursement. It has been agreed that four Special Accounts (SAs) will be set up, with
provincial/municipal finance Bureau to manage, monitor and maintain SAs respectively. The Finance
Bureaus will reconcile the SA, check and monitor withdrawal applications and to verify payment requests
meet Bank requirements. Applications for withdrawal of the proceeds of the loan and for replenishment of
SA will be prepared and submitted to the Bank by the Finance Bureaus. The Bank funds will flow from
Provincial/municipal Finance Bureau to County Finance Bureau, then to County PMO for Project im
plementation. The County PMO will verify the accuracy and validi y of expenses submitted, progress
reported and prepare requests for payment. The anplication will be further reviewed and approved by the
County Finance Bureau before submitting to .ovincial PMO for approval. The original financial
documents will be maintained in county PMO.
Auditing. In line with other Bank-funded China projects, China National Audit Office (CNAO) will have
an overall responsibility for auditing the project accounts. Under the supervision of the CNAO, Beijing,
Hebei, Liaoning and Qingdao Audit Bureaus will perform an annual audit of the project accounts. The
Bank currently accepts the audits performed under the responsibility of the CNAO. Audit reports including
opinions on Project Financial Statements, Special Account, Statement of Expenditures and Internal Control
Memorandum will be submitted to the Bank no later than six months after the close of the fiscal year. No
outstanding audits or audit issues exist with any of the executing agencies involved in the project.
Loan Repayment. The issue of loan repayment has been addressed during Project preparation. In addition
to the loan commitments from County and Provincial Finance Bureaus which are normally required and
have been agreed, the mechanisms for loan repayment below the county will be established, which include
procedures of signing a contract for loan repayment using mechanisms such as volumetric water charges,
payments in kind, and land lease fees etc. The PMOs and Finance Bureaus at the county level will hold
meetings with township governments and take field visits to discuss the loan repayment with
villages/farmers. In this regard, close linkages between volumetric water charges/power charges and loan
repayment will be established in order to give farmers more incentives to save water and perform scientific
irrigation including soil management and irrigation scheduling. Also, the WUAs or similar farmer groups
established with financial autonomy under the Project will be encouraged to be the basic organizing
elements for loan repayment, which will get strong support from township governments and villages. The
provincial/municipal govenunent will be responsible for repayment of the loan associated directly with
environmental monitoring, TA activities, training and some Project management costs.
-20 -



5. Environmental:                  Environmental Category: B (Partial Assessment)
5.1 Summarize the steps undertaken for environmental assessment and EMP preparation (including
consultation and disclosure) and the significant issues and their treatment emerging from this analysis.
There are no major environmental issues. Minor issues include: (a) monitoring and control of water
quality and groundwater as related to irrigated agricultural improvements; and (b) adequate drainage to
control water table levels and secondary soil salinity in certain areas. Annex 12 presents a review of the
environmental aspects of the Project.
During Project preparation consultation was carried out with project beneficiaries and other interested
parties. Discussions and investigations were carried out to obtain input and opinions from Project
beneficiaries and other interested parties on different water savings technologies, economic and financial
analysis, necessary water charges and other fees related to Project financing and loan repayment,
environmental aspects including soil and water quality. Covered under these discussions and investigations
were a sampling of people from each of the provinces/municipalities including 362 people in Beijing , 361
in Hebei, 2416 in Liaoning (Shenyang) and 1953 in Qingdao. The Project design was modified and
adjusted and the Environmental Mitigation and Monitoring Plan (See Annex 12) was improved based on
the input during these consultations. In general Project beneficiaries understand and strongly support the
Project and are aware of their financial obligations under the Project. There is a general perception that the
Project will benefit the environment.
Notice of availability of EAs was disclosed in provincial/municipal level newspapers in April 2000 and the
documents were made available in local PMO offices. There was significant response to this notification
and interest from the public. Some adjustments were made to the Project design during appraisal based on
comments received after this disclosure process. Appraisal was from May 3 to 17, 2000.
5.2 What are the main features of the EMP and are they adequate?
Environmental mitigation and monitoring measures are included in the EAs prepared by the
provinces/municipalities and summarized in Annex 12 which includes a description of the Environmental
Mitigation and Monitoring Plan (EMMP). Project impacts are generally positive. However, the EMMP
addresses mitigation measures related to potential adverse impacts during construction, proper use of
fertilizers and pesticides to ensure no significant negative impacts, although pesticides are not included in
the Project. The EMMP mainly focuses on the monitoring of: (a) surface water quality; (b) groundwater
levels and quality; and (c) soil quality, moisture and fertility.
5.3 For Category A and B projects, timeline and status of EA:
Date of receipt of final draft: Final drafts of the EAs were received
and sent to the InfoShop on April 27,
2000.
5.4 How have stakeholders been consulted at the stage of (a) environmental screening and (b) draft EA
report on the environmental impacts and proposed environment management plan? Describe mechanisms
of consultation that were used and which groups were consulted?
During preparation of the EAs farmers and water, environment, agriculture, environmental, forestry and
social experts were consulted through surveys. In general there was concurrence with the conclusions of
the assessment that the Project environmental impacts will be minor and that the mitigation measures and
monitoring plan is adequate.
- 21 -



5.5 What mechanisms have been established to monitor and evaluate the impact of the project on the
environment? Do the indicators reflect the objectives and results of the EMP?
Environmental mitigation and monitoring plans in each province/municipality have been developed and
agreed to mitigate and monitor the Project's effects on the environment including responsible entities and
costs. Soil moisture, fertility and quality; surface and groundwater quality including levels of pesticides and
nitrates, and groundwater and surface water levels and volumes will be monitored. Annex 12 provides
more information and the EAs prepared by the provinces/municipalities and provides more information on
the environmental mitigation and monitoring plans.
6. Social:
6.1 Summarize key social issues relevant to the project objectives, and specify the project's social
development outcomes.
A social assessment was conducted for the Project to ensure that the needs and aspirations of the Project
beneficiaries and impacted people were taken into account in consideration of their economic, social and
gender differences. The social assessment was carried out to: (a) investigate local socio-economic situations
in order to ensure that Project interventions were suitable for local development; (b) learn farmers'
expectations and attitudes so as to ensure that the Project incentives for change as expressed in different
irrigation and agriculture skills are acceptable and welcome to the target population; (c) adopting the
participatory approach to Project management in order to encourage farmer involvement and assure
farmers of their equitable access to Project activities in consideration of their economic, social, and gender
differences; and (d) diagnosing social costs of the Project to mitigate negative impacts wherever they might
appear. In addition, a common understanding was also achieved during Project preparation that the Project
social assessment should be carried out in close combination with the Project SIDD subcomponent
(Self-Financing Irrigation and Drainage District), a subcomponent regarding the institutional improvement
in local irrigation management by introducing a market-oriented approach to the irrigation sector and
building farmers' commitment and capacity to participate.
All the PMOs assigned social assessment teams to carry out social investigations and analyses of the
Project areas in June 1999, with a focus on the model SIDD sites which were planned (two in each
province/municipality). The CPMO invited domestic professionals and consultants for methodological help.
Firstly, extensive information of the subproject areas was collected from secondary sources and reviewed
by the teams, which helped determine further sample survey and questionnaire requirements. The social
assessment teams of the provinces/municipalities, consisting of technicians from the line agencies, visited
villages and held group meetings and household interviews in the form of two-way communication with
farmers. For each of the samples surveyed, six investigation tables were filled out conveying detailed
information about local physical resource base (soil, water, and land use), farming systems and irrigation
patterns (crop planting and livestock, production costs and yields, and farmers' tactics and skills in local
irrigation systems), as well as about community organizations and farm household livelihoods. In addition,
the teams administrated questionnaire surveys, leaming and clarifying farmers' attitudes and wishes
towards different Project components; as well as other Project stakeholders' views and comments (such as
local government officials, technical line agencies, etc.). About 5,800 people were surveyed by the
questionnaire and more than 87% of them fully supported the Project activities. Meanwhile, farmers also
expressed their expectations and enthusiasm for the subprojects from various perspectives, such as
economic benefits, financial analysis, water saving technologies, and the loan repayment. Project
implementation will contribute to sustainable development at the macro-level by saving water. It will also
contribute to equitable use of irrigation resources among farmers by establishing WJUAs and participation
of water users. Annex 11 presents a summary of the social assessment.
- 22 -



6.2 Participatory Approach: How are key stakeholders participating in the project?
Participatory Approach        Preparation      Implementation     Operation
Farmers/WUAs/community groups   IS, CON, COL   IS, CON, COL          IS, CON, COL
Design Institutes                IS, CON, COL   IS, CON, COL         IS, CON, COL
Local govenmuent                 IS, CON, COL    IS, CON, COL        IS, CON, COL
Note: IS-Information Sharing, CON-Consultation and COL-Collaboration
Water user participation will be a key element in subproject implementation. In order for the subprojects to
be successful it will be necessary for the water users to provide inputs, agree to all aspects of subproject
design, and to pay the costs allocated to them. SIDD development will focus on water users organizing into
legal entities that can assume ownership and repayment responsibilities. SIDD development plans have
been prepared using a social assessment (information sharing) and stakeholder participation (consultation).
Participation of women in SIDD development is encouraged through the social assessment and follow-up
activities. Women play an important role in farm and irrigation management because men often leave the
farms for extended periods to earn money in other types of endeavors. Implementation will be carried out
with direct participation of stakeholders, especially farmers, in planning and layout of the local irrigation
networks (consultation), and in construction of the works, management of the systems upon completion and
repayment of costs (collaboration).
6.3 How does the project involve consultations or collaboration with NGOs or other civil society
organizations?
T'he Project includes strong emphasis on farmer and farmer group participation during Project preparation,
implementation, monitoring and operation. Water user organizations and farmer associations as well as
other local civil organizations are involved in these processes at the subproject level. A Mobile Specialists
Team will be established. The team will consist of specialists from different organizations. The
development of SIDD will be a key component of the Project.
6.4 What institutional arrangements have been provided to ensure the project achieves its social
development outcomes?
The Water Users Associations (WUAs) are the legitimate organizations set up by farmers benefited from
the Project. The farmers have rights to put forward any suggestions and demands on the Project design and
implementation to the PMOs at different levels established for implementation of the Project. The WSOs
will provide service of water supply to WUAs at their requests, and collect charges directly from WUAs
based on the signed contracts and volumetric water measurements and will be responsible for maintenance
of main irrigation facilities to raise the water conveyance efficiencies. These institutional arrangements will
ensure the Project achieves its social development outcomes.
6.5 How will the project monitor performance in terms of social development outcomes?
With the assistance of social scientists, Project beneficiaries played an active role in Project preparation
and will continue to actively participate during implementation and monitoring and evaluation of the
Project. Project monitoring mechanisms include farmer participation that will be carried out through the
farmers' organization such as village communities and water users' associations established under the
Project. Monitoring and evaluation programs include household surveys on a sampling of households in
the Project area which will be compared to baseline surveys. Township and county statistics will also be
utilized in monitoring and evaluation.
- 23 -



7. Safeguard Policies:
7.1 Do any of the following safeguard policies apply to the project?
Policy                                    Applicability
Environmental Assessment (OP 4.01, BP 4.01, GP 4.01)           * Yes 0 No
Natural habitats (OP 4.04, BP 4.04, GP 4.04)                    0 Yes 0 No
Forestry (OP 4.36, GP 4.36)                                    0 Yes 0 No
Pest Management (OP 4.09)                                      0 Yes 0 No
Cultural Property (OPN 11.03)                                  0 Yes 0 No
Indigenous Peoples (OD 4.20)                                   0 Yes 0 No
Involuntary Resettlement (OD 4.30)                             * Yes 0 No
Safety of Dams (OP 4.37, BP 4.37)                               * Yes 0 No
Projects in International Waters (OP 7.50, BP 7.50, GP 7.50)    0 Yes * No
Projects in Disputed Areas (OP 7.60, BP 7.60, GP 7.60)          0 Yes * No
7.2 Describe provisions made by the project to ensure compliance with applicable safeguard policies.
Resettlement Policy Framework The Project does not include any large main structures. No resettlement
and land acquisition due to the construction or improvement of canals, drains and onfarm systems is
anticipated at this stage. However, in case such resettlement would occur during Project implementation,
the Resettlement Policy Framework would apply. The CPMO prepared an outline of the Policy Framework
in accordance with OD 4.30 as well as Chinese laws concerned. All four provinces and municipalities
prepared the Policy Framework for Resettlement and Land Acquisition based on the CPMO's outline. A
brief summary of the Policy Framework is provided in Annex 11. Annex 17 to the PIP contains the
complete Policy Framework.
As described above, EA and EMMPs were prepared in accordance with OP/BP/GP 4.01.
In accordance with OP/BP 4.37, a total of nine existing dams serving Project areas were identified and
inspected using procedures acceptable to the Bank. Either existing dams were determined to be in good
condition or required remedial works were carried out during Project preparation. PIP Annex 18 provides
details related to dam safety aspects.
F. Sustainability and Risks
1. Sustainability:
Project sustainability hinges first on the effectiveness of Project management arrangements to produce high
quality, innovative designs for subprojects including integrated physical, agronomic and management
measures, and to assure high quality of construction/implementation. Second, sustainability would be
determined by how effective the introduction of institutional arrangements are in establishing effective and
successful water resources management institutions. Third, sustainability would be further ensured through
the program approach to Project implementation which incorporates continuous improvement in design and
implementation during the Project implementation period. Fourth, sustainability of Project physical works
will be addressed through the development and implementation of operation and maintenance plans during
Project implementation. And finally, the Project design based on the strict groundwater balance analysis,
and County Groundwater Management Plans prepared under the Project would ensure the sustainable use
of groundwater resources, which is the main source of water supply for irrigation within the Project areas.
- 24 -



2. Critical Risks (reflecting the failure of critical assumptions found in the fourth column of Annex 1):
Risk                   Risk Rating            Risk Mitigation Measure
From Outputs to Objective
Government does not maintain focus on      N        High-level dialog between Bank and
overall reform program and on improved              Government will be maintained to strengthen
water resources and land management.                current policies and strategies.
External shocks affect terms of trade,     N        Bank and Chinese government continue to
current account balance or foreign                  support financial and trade stability.
exchange rates.
Product prices decline and are not        M         Prices and farmers' incomes will be monitored
sufficient to generate net benefits for             during Project implementation. Extension will
households.                                         focus on assisting farmers to maximize their
returns including cropping pattern adjustments
while at the same time minimize their water
consumption.
The Project does not result in the amount  M        With and without Project water balance analyses
of "real" water savings (especially                 were carried out during preparation using the
reduction of Non-Beneficial                         best accepted technical procedures. During
Evapo-Transpiration (NBET)) estimated               implementation, water balance analyses will be
during Project preparation.                         carried out for individual subproject and
compared with predictions; analysis of causes
will be done where "real" water savings in less
than predicted. Monitoring of technical
parameters needed to calculate "real" water
savings will be carried out under the Project.
Training will be provided to ensure that there is
a good understanding of the Project actions and
how their implementation result in "real" water
savings.
CPMO is unable to provide adequate        M         Central Project Coordination Group will
coordination and technical assistance               enhance its coordination role among Project
since MWR has no direct control over                provinces and municipalities with support from
flow of Project financing including Bank            MOF/SDPC/MWR and the Bank.
financing.
From Components to Outputs
- 25 -



The adverse impact of the Project on the    M         Project Environmental Mitigation and
environment and on water use                          Monitoring Plan will be implemented.
downstream is not mitigated.
Lack of cooperation between the Water       M         Project Leading Groups at the province/
Resources Bureaus and the Agriculture                 municipal and county levels will ensure
Bureau at provincial/municipal and                    cooperation. Mobile Specialist Teams will be set
county levels for implementation of                   up in each province/municipality to assist with
integrated measures.                                  technical training and communications including
integration agriculture and irrigation activities.
Farmers do not leam to manage soil          M         The Project includes intensive training for
moisture and irrigation scheduling.                   farmers. The Mobile Specialist teams will assist
in technician training and in farmer training.
PMOs and water user organizations lack      M         Training programs will be provided to PMO
adequate development and implementation               staff and to water user organizations.
capacity.
Project implementers and beneficiaries do   M         Sufficient training of Project implementers and
not perceive sufficient incentives to                 beneficiaries would be provided at all levels
change institutional arrangements and/or              through workshops, study tours, and training
to introduce and pay for integrated                   before and during Project implementation.
physical, agronomic and management
measures.
Water tariffs will not be raised             S        Water tariffs and charging will be monitored
sufficiently to ensure financial                      and evaluated during Project implementation.
sustainability and will not be                        Farmers would be informed before construction
volumetrically based; farmers will not                of their responsibilities to pay increased water
accept higher charges.                                charges. Workshops and training will be
provided to farmers to increase awareness of
importance of higher water charges.
Counterpart funding is not available on     M          The tirnely availability of counterpart funds will
time.                                                  be monitored on a continuing basis during
Project implementation by the PMOs. Financial
management measures will be established by the
PMO, and control mechanism for counterpart
fund allocation will be strengthened and
specified in the Financial Management Manual
for the Project.
- 26 -



PMO personnel is not adequate in number   M         Project performance and personnel will be
and capacity; key inputs are not available;         monitored on a continuing basis. A
Project components are not adequately               comprehensive MIS will be established. Annual
implemented and owned by farmers,                   progress reports will be prepared by the PMO
villages, townships, counties,                      which provide detailed information on the
provinces/municipalities and MWR;                   progress of implementation of all Project
sub-optimum irrigation and drainage,                components. The progress reports will include
agriculture and institutional packages are          the monitoring and evaluation of physical and
implemented.                                        financial indicators, and the identification of
problems and solutions. Training will be
provided to all levels and beneficiary
participation will be included in all aspects of
subproject design, implementation and operation
and maintenance; the program approach
includes required steps to ensure participation
and ownership. Adequate acceptable technical
processes will be used, manuals will be
prepared, training will be provided, and the
subprojects will be designed and implemented
throughout the Project period in accordance with
the program approach. Adequate participation
of agricultural experts will be closely monitored
and ensured.
Overall Risk Rating                       M
Risk Rating - H (High Risk), S (Substantial Risk), M (Modest Risk), N(Negligible or Low Risk)
3. Possible Controversial Aspects:
None.
G. Main Loan Conditions
1. Effectiveness Condition
(1) Standard
2. Other [classify according to covenant types used in the Legal Agreements.]
Legal covenants
(I)    Standard Covenants
(2)    Project Management Organizations. Maintain throughout the period of project implementation,
the CPCG and CPMO within MWR and the PLGs and PMOS at the provincial/municipal and county
levels with composition and staffing acceptable to the Bank.
(3)    Expert Advisory Group. Establish, not later than January 31, 2001, an expert advisory group
responsible for providing technical advice to the CPMO and assisting the CPMO in undertaking annual
reviews of Subprojects, with composition and staffing acceptable to the Bank.
- 27 -



(4)    MST. Each project province/municipality shall establish, no later than January 31, 2001, and
maintain throughout the period of Project implementation, a mobile specialist team responsible for
providing technical advice to the PPMO and for assisting in the design and implementation of subprojects,
with composition and staffing acceptable to the Bank.
(5)    Subproject preparation and implemention. Subprojects shall be prepared and implemented in
accordance with the Program Approach (PIP Annex 4) by the County PMOs with the review and oversight
of the provincial/municipal PMOs and CPMO.
(6)    Annual Plan. Prepare annual work plans and budgets for each province/municipality, consolidate
them and send them to the Bank by September 30 of each year.
(7)    Training, study tours and research. Each project province/municipality shall carry out the
training, study tours and research under its respective part of the Project in accordance with PIP Annexes 9
and 10. The CPMO shall coordinate and report on overseas study tours. The plans for each overseas study
tour shall be submitted to the Bank for its review and comment.
(8)    MIS Development. Develop and install within the PMOs a comprehensive management
information system not later than January 31, 2001.
(9)    Monitoring and Evaluation. Monitor and evaluate Project implementation on an ongoing basis, in
accordance with indicators in Annex 1 and in PIP Annex 14. Monitoring and Evaluation Plans for all
project provinces/ municipalities shall include complete monitoring and evaluation of at least three
hydraulic units in each province/municipality. The governments at all levels shall ensure that the necessary
background information and historical data satisfactory to the Bank are available to support
implementation of the Monitoring and Evaluation Plans.
(10)   Loan Repayment. Each project province and municipality shall: (a) not later than January 31,
2001, prepare and furnish to the Bank for its review and comment, a general plan for on-lending to and
recovery from prefectures and counties included in its respective part of the Project, of a part of its
allocated amount, on substantially the same terms and conditions as the Loan, which plan shall include a
commitment by said project province or municipality to repay that portion of its allocated amount
withdrawn in respect of expenditures for environmental monitoring and institutional development activities;
and (b) not later than September 30 in each year, prepare and furnish to the Bank a detailed annual plan for
on-lending to and recovery from prefectures and counties included in its respective part of the project, of a
part of its allocated amount.
(11)   EMMP. Each project province or municipality shall: (a) ensure that all activities under its
respective part of the Project shall conform to environmental standards and guidelines satisfactory to the
Bank, including the environmental regulations and guidelines issued by the State Enviromental Protection
Agency (SEPA) of PRC and said project province or municipality's Environmental Protection Bureau; and
(b) to that end, implement the part of the Environmental Mitigation and Monitoring Plan applicable to its
respective part of the Project, in a manner satisfactory to the Bank. Each project province or municipality
shall: (a) not later than January 31, 2001, prepare and furnish to the Bank a report identifying groundwater,
surface water and soil quality monitoring frequency and monitoring parameters for the monitoring of the
environmental impact of its respective part of the Project, and providing preliminary information
concerning monitoring sites, including specific identification of groundwater, surface water and soil quality
- 28 -



monitoring sites for the first year of implementation of its respective part of the Project; and (b) not later
than August 31 in each year, prepare and furnish to the CPMO, together with said project province or
municipality's annual work plan prepared for forwarding to the Bank by September 30 of each year, a
report specifically identifying groundwater, surface water and soil quality monitoring sites for the next
calendar year.
(12)   Resettlement. Each project province or municipality shall: (a) ensure that all works to be carried
out under its respective part of the Project shall be planned in accordance with the objective of avoiding,
where feasible, any change in land or water use that would result in the involuntary loss by persons of
shelter, of productive assets or access to productive assets, or of income or means of livelihood; (b) to this
end, ensure that its PPMO gives due attention to said objective in the preparation of annual works plans for
its respective part of the Project; and (c) if, during the preparation of any such plans, said PPMO
determines that such change in land or water use would nevertheless be unavoidable, ensure that said
PPMO takes the following actions, and shall confirm to the Bank that said actions have been taken, prior to
the commencement of any such works: (i) prepare a resettlement action plan on the basis of policies,
planning principles, institutional arrangements and design criteria acceptable to the Bank and set forth in
the Resettlement Policy Framework, so as to improve the living standards and production levels of said
persons, and furnish said action plan to the Project Entity and, if more than 200 persons are involved, to the
Bank, for approval; and (ii) carry out such resettlement action plan as shall have been approved by the
relevant project province or municipality (and the Bank, if more than 200 persons are affected).
(13)   Groundwater Management Plan. Each project province or municipality shall: (a) develop a
groundwater management plan, including water licensing and use controls, limits on new groundwater
development and integrated measures to achieve water savings; (b) take all steps necessary, not later than
January 31, 2002, to obtain all necessary approvals for the implementation on a trial basis of said plan in
at least one county within the project province or municipality; and (c) take all steps necessary, not later
than June 30, 2003, to obtain all necessary technical approvals for the implementation of groundwater
management plans in all counties within the Project Area. Implementation of these addition groundwater
management plans will be contingent upon available financing.
(14)   SIDD Development. Each project province or municipality shall carry out a pilot program, in
accordance with PIP Annex 11, for the establishment and operation in its territory of SIDDs in accordance
with the arrangements as follows: (a) not later than December 31, 2001, at least one WSO and one WUA
shall be established in each province/municipality; (b) establish additional WUAs in counties within the
Project Areas in accordance with a schedule in PIP Annex 11; (c) define the rights and obligations of each
WSO in a water system operation and maintenance arrangement to be entered into between the Project
province/municipality and the WSO; (d) define the rights and obligations of each WUA in a water users
contract to be entered into between said WVUA and the WSO or other agency responsible for operating and
maintaining the facilities through which water used by said WUA is delivered; (e) provide technical
assistance to each WUA, and technical and, as appropriate, financial and technical assistance to each WSO
in order to enable them to properly to carry out their respective responsibilities.
(15)   WUA Extension. Each project province or municipality shall form water user groups in all other
parts of the Project Areas with a view to conversion of the water user groups to WUAs when feasible
during project implementation with the 10 evaluating criteria set forth in the PIP report.
(16)   Water Charges. In furtherance of the policy to recover the recurrent costs of operation and
maintenance and a portion of the capital costs of the irrigation facilities, drainage systems and water supply
facilities in its territory from users of the water delivered through the facilities, each project
- 29 -



province/municipality shall: (a) establish and ensure collection of volumetric water charges from users of
water, which charges shall be increased progressively during the period of project implementation in order
to fully cover, by December 31, 2005: (i) the operation and maintenance costs of said facilities as they are
incurred; and (ii) a portion of the capital costs of said facilities; and (b) maintain a separate accounting for
funds collected within its jurisdiction and cause all these funds to be used exclusively for the purposes of
operations and maintenance of the facilities and debt repayment and debt service obligations.
(17)   O&M. With respect to each subproject under its respective part of the Project involving an
irrigation and drainage systems, each project province or municipality shall, in order to ensure the proper
operation and maintenance of such systems, prior to the completion of each system, prepare and furnish to
the Bank for review and comment a proposed operation and maintenance plan for such system and,
thereafter, ensure the prompt implementation of each the plan.
(18)   Financial Management. Each project province and municipality shall maintain records and
accounts adequate to reflect in accordance with sound accounting practices the operations, resources and
expenditures related to the carrying out of its respective part of the Project. For all expenditures with
respect to which withdrawals from the Loan Account were made on the basis of statements of expenditure,
the PMOs shall: (a) maintain or cause to be maintained in accordance with sound accounting practices,
records and separate accounts reflecting such expenditures; (b) ensure that all records (contracts, orders,
invoices, bills, receipts and other documents) evidencing such expenditures are retained until at least one
year after the Bank has received the audit report for the fiscal year in which the last withdrawal from the
Loan Account was made; and (c) enable the Bank's representatives to examine such records.
(19)   Audits. Each province/municipality shall: (a) have the records and separate accounts and those for
the Special Accounts for each fiscal year audited, in accordance with appropriate auditing principles
consistently applied, by independent auditors acceptable to the Bank; (b) furnish to the Bank as soon as
available, but in any case not later than six months after the end of each year the audit report including a
separate opinion by the auditors as to whether the statements of expenditure submitted during the fiscal
year, together with the procedures and intemal controls involved in their preparation, can be relied upon to
support the related withdrawals.
(20)   Reports. The CPMO shall prepare and fumish to the Bank: (a) semi-annual reports, not later than
March 31 and September 30 in each year, setting forth the physical and financial progress in the
implementation of the Project, both cumulatively, and in respect of the preceding calendar semester,
consolidating the reports prepared by each province/municipality; (b) annual reports, not later than March
31 in each year, summarizing the results of the monitoring and evaluation activities carried out by it in
respect of the preceding calendar year, consolidating the annual reports furnished by the Project
provinces/municipalities,  including  the  mobile  specialist  team   reports  for  each  project
province/municipality, and setting out the measures recommended to ensure the efficient carrying out of the
Project and to further the objectives thereof during the then current calendar year; and (c) a mid-term
report, not later than December 31, 2003, summarizing the results of the monitoring and evaluation
activities from the inception of the Project, consolidating the mid-term reports furmished to it by the project
provinces and municipalities and setting out the measures recommended to ensure the efficient completion
of the Project and to further the objectives thereof; and (d) after fumishing to the Bank each report referred
to in subparagraph (a), (b) and (c) of this paragraph, review such reports with the Bank and, thereafter,
promptly take all measures required to ensure the efficient completion of the Project and to ensure the
achievement of the objectives thereof as shall have been agreed between the PRC and the Bank.
- 30 -



(21)   Future Operational Pla. Each project province or municipality shall: (a) prepare and furnish to
the Bank not later than six (6) months after the Closing Date, a plan for the future operation of its
respective part of the Project; and (b) afford the Bank a reasonable opportunity to exchange views with
such project province or municipality on said plan;
H. Readiness for Implementation
0 1. a) The engineering design documents for the first year's activities are complete and ready for the start
of project implementation.
0 1. b)Not applicable.
0 2. The procurement documents for the first year's activities are complete and ready for the start of
project implementation.
ER 3. The Project Implementation Plan has been appraised and found to be realistic and of satisfactory
quality.
O 4. The following items are lacking and are discussed under loan conditions (Section G):
1. Compliance with Bank Policies
0 1. This project complies with all applicable Bank policies.
E] 2. The following exceptions to Bank policies are recommended for approval. The project complies with
all other applicable Bank policies.
Liping Jiang                      Mark D. Wilson                   4fukon Huang
Team Leader                       Sector ManagerlDirector           Country Manager/Director
- 31 -



Annex 1: Project Design Summary
CHINA: WATER CONSERVATION
Key  efnnc
Hierarchy of Ob::ctive            Indiat 7r"-         Moiorig & E                   Crcal           t
Sector-related CAS Goal:   Sector Indicators:          Sectorl country reports:    (from Goal to Bank Mission)
I. Sustainable development   1. I Gross value of agriculture 1. I Annual review of statistics Government maintains focus
and management of water and output and farmers' living    and data from central   on improved water resources
other natural resources.   standard increased in Project  government and Project  and land management.
The sector-specific        areas.                      provincial or municipal
Thenstrumentsmentione in the                           governments, and comparison No large external shocks that
instruments mentoned in the                            of census indicators.       would affect terms of trade,
CAS to achieve these                                                               cretacutblneo
objectives are: a) Promotion of                                                    current account balance or
bectie utilzar tion of mar   1.2 Groundwater           1.2 Annual review of       foreign exchange rates.
better utlizatlon Of margial  overexploitation (due to  groundwater data from MWR
sustainable techniques, and b) agriculture use) controlled or  and Water Resources Bureaus
Incorporation of water     mitigated in Project areas.    of Project provinces or
schemes into future projects                           municipalities.
that include institutional
reform and user participation
as integral components.
Project Development        Outcome / Impact            Project reports:           (from Objective to Goal)
Objective:                 Indicators:
Enhance beneficial use of
water resources, agriculture
production capacity and
farrner incomes by:
1. Increasing the value of  1. I Amount of agricultural   1I.1 Results of household  Product prices are sufficient to
agriculture production per unit production in tons increased   surveys, progress and  generate net benefits for
of consumed water through   in each Project area       monitoring and evaluation    households.
increasing yields and reducing (pre-Project and then   reports and results of baseline
non-beneficial water losses;   annually).              survey in 2000.
and                        1.2 Annual farmer incomes   1.2 Results of household
per capita increased in each   surveys, progress and
Project area (pre-Project and   monitoring and evaluation
then annually).            reports and results of baseline
survey in 2000.
1.3 Increase of agriculture    1.3 Project progress and  The Project results in "real"
yields in kilograms per unit of monitoring and evaluation    water savings (especially
water consumed or ET       reports and results of baseline reduction of NBET) as
(pre-Project and then      survey in 2000.             estimated during Project
annually).                                             preparation.
1.4 Estimated total reduction  1.4 Project progress and
of non-beneficial water losses monitoring and evaluation
per year in each county    reports and results of baseline
(pre-Project and then      survey in 2000.
annually).
- 32 -



2.
Establishing mechanisms for  2.1 Area of irrigation  2.1 Project progress and   CPMO is able to provide
sustainable use and       subproject self-financed where monitoring and evaluation    adequate coordination and
management of water       farmers responsible for O&M  reports and results of baseline technical assistance to
resources in irrigated areas.   of on-farm irrigation works in survey in 2000.  provinces/municipalities and
each county (pre-Project and                         counties.
then annually).
2.2 Water for irrigation  2.2 Project progress and
volumetrically charged at  monitoring and evaluation
lateral or field level in each   reports and results of baseline
county (pre-Project and then  survey in 2000.
annually).
2.3 Water charges         2.3 Project progress and
progressively increased in  monitoring and evaluation
each Project county to cover  reports and results of baseline
O&M costs and a portion of  survey in 2000.
the investment costs by
December 31, 2005.
2.4 Annual groundwater    2.4 Project progress and
overexploitation controlled or monitoring and evaluation
mitigated and quality     reports and results of baseline
improved in each county with survey in 2000.
two comparable indicators: (a)
within the last 10 years the
lowest annual groundwater
drawdown with the equivalent
inflow frequency to the
observed hydrologic year; and
(b) the groundwater quality
criteria observed in both high
and low groundwater tables in
2000 (an arid year with inflow
frequency higher than 75%).
-33 -



Key Perfno ance
Hierarchy of qbjectives            Indicars              Monitoring & Evaluation    Critical Assumptions
Output from each            Output Indicators:           Project reports:             (from Outputs to Objective)
Component:
1. Engineering Measures:    1.1 Canal conveyance         1.1 Prefecture and county    The adverse impact of
efficiencies increased      statistics; progress and     engineering measures on
Irrigation efficiencies and  (pre-Project and then       monitoring and evaluation    ecological environment and on
reliability increased in    annually).                   reports and Bank missions.   water use downstream is
subproject areas and soil                                                             minimized.
salinity controlled.         1.2 Field efficiencies increased 1.2 Prefecture and county
(pre-Project and then       statistics; progress and
annually).                  monitoring and evaluation
reports and Bank missions.
1.3 Drainage modulus        1.3 Prefecture and county
increased (pre-Project and  statistics; progress and
then annually).             monitoring and evaluation
reports and Bank missions.
1.4 Estimated amount of     1.4 Prefecture and county
none- beneficial water losses  statistics; progress and
in canal system reduced per   monitoring and evaluation
year in subprojects         reports and Bank missions.
(pre-Project and then
annually).
2. Agronomic and Forest     2.1 Comprehensive            2.1 Progress and monitoring  Water Resources Bureaus and
Measures:                   Agriculture Development      and evaluation reports.      Agriculture Bureaus at all the
(CAD) Standards for land                                 levels cooperate to ensure that
Consumptive water use (ET)  leveling and deep plowing.                                the integrated package of
reduced while yields                                                                  engineering, agronomic and
increasing with better quality. 2.2 CAD standards for    2.2 Progress and monitoring  management and institutional
balanced fertilization for soil  and evaluation reports.  measures can be implemented.
fertility, soil nutrients and
physical characteristics.
2.3 CAD standards for quality 2.3 Progress and monitoring
seeds, plastic mulch and other and evaluation reports.
cultural practices.
2.4 CAD standards for tree    2.4 Progress and monitoring
plantation at on-farm level.   and evaluation reports.
2.5 Agriculture yields per mu 2.5 Results of household
increased per year in       surveys; progress and
subprojects (pre-project and   monitoring and evaluation
then annually).             reports and Bank missions.
2.6 Estimated reduction of    2.6 Results of household
water consumptive use in    surveys; progress and
cubic meters per year in    monitoring reports and Bank
subprojects (pre-Project and   missions.
then annually).
- 34 -



_         3.                           ____;___-__,,_______-___;
Irrigation Management      3.1 Groundwater pumped for  3.1 Progress and monitoring   Farmers learn to handle how
Measures:                  irrigation in cubic meters per reports and supervision  to control soil moisture and
mu reduced.                mission reports by Bank     irrigation scheduling through
Soil moisture well managed;                           missions.                   the intensive training.
effective rainfall sufficiently
utilized; and irrigation   3.2 Scientific irrigation   3.2 Progress and monitoring
scheduling optimized.      program prepared and        reports and supervision
implemented in the fields.    mission reports by Bank
missions.
3.3 Intensive training is  3.3 Progress and monitoring
provided down to farmers    reports and supervision
through Mobile Specialist    mission reports by Bank
Team.                      missions.
3.4 Estimated reduction of    3.4 Progress and monitoring
non-beneficial losses per year reports and supervision
during irrigation practice.    mission reports by Bank
missions.
4.                         4.                          4.
Institutional Measures:    The number of registered or   Progress and monitoring  PMOs and water user
non-registered WUAs or     reports and supervision     organizations have adequate
similar groups established  mission reports by Bank    development and
with financial autonomy, and  missions.               implementation capacity.
the number of WSOs.
4.1 Farmers' enthusiasms and 4.1 Results of farmer    4.1 Progress and monitoring   Project implementers and
incentives to the project  interviews by govemments   reports and supervision     beneficiaries perceive
observed in terms of their   and Bank missions.       mission reports by Bank     sufficient incentives to change
incomes increased and labor                           missions.                   institutional arrangements
inputs reduced.                                                                   and/or to introduce and pay
for integrated physical,
agronomic and management
measures.
4.2 Farmers are organized for 4.2 The number of farmers   4.2 Progress and monitoring
training on scientific     received training on scientific reports and supervision
irrigation including soil  irrigation.                 mission reports by Bank
moisture management and                                missions.
irrigation scheduling.
4.3 Water for irrigation   4.3 The number of contracts  4.3 Progress and monitoring
treated with market- oriented  for water supply signed  reports and supervision
approach.                  annually between WUA or    mission reports by Bank
similar farmer groups and  missions.
WSo.
- 35 -



4.4 Farmers pay water charges 4.4 The number of water  4.4 Progress and monitoring  Water tariffs will be raised
volumetrically.           measuring facilitates installed reports and supervision  sufficiently to ensure financial
at inlet of WUAs or similar   mission reports by Bank  sustainability and will be
groups, and records kept.  missions.                 volumetrically based; farmers
will accept higher charges.
4.5 Water charges increased  4.5 Time table for increasing  4.5 Progress and monitoring
as per the timeframe.     water charges prepared by    reports and supervision
provincial Governments.   mission reports by Bank
missions.
4.6 Farmers participated in   4.6 County Groundwater  4.6 Progress and monitoring
groundwater management.   Management Plans prepared, reports and supervision
approved by County People's  mission reports by Bank
Congress, and implemented.  missions.
4.7 Experiences and lessons   4.7 Monitoring and     4.7 Progress and monitoring
obtained from previous year  Evaluation Plans prepared   reports and supervision
implementation.           and implemented.           mission reports by Bank
missions.
Project Components I      Inputs: (budget for each   Project reports:           (from Components to
Sub-components:           component)                                            Outputs)
1. Irrigation and Drainage    US$ 131.70 Million     1. I Project MIS and Annual  1.1 Counterpart funding is
Works and On-farm System                             Progress Reports.          available on time.
1.2 Disbursement Records    1.2 PMO personnel is
and Audit Reports.        adequate in number and
capacity.
1.3 Bank missions and     1.3 Key inputs are available.
physical inspection.
1.4 Group of local experts;    1.4 The Project components
annual reviews together with  are adequately implemented
international experts.    and owned by farmers,
villages, townships, counties,
provinces/municipalities and
MWR.
1.5 Beijing-based Bank staff,
annual specific supervision of
disbursement and
procurement.
2.
Agriculture Support and   US$ 22.05 Million          2.1 Project MIS and Annual  2.1 Counterpart funding is
Services                                             Progress Reports.          available on time.
2.2 Disbursement Records    2.2 PMO personnel is
and Audit Reports.        adequate in number and
capacity.
2.3 Bank missions and     2.3 Key inputs are available.
physical inspection.
- 36 -



2.4 Group of local experts;   2.4 The Project components
annual reviews together with  are adequately implemented
international experts.    and owned by farmers,
villages, townships, counties,
provinces/municipalities and
MWR.
2.5 Beijing-based Bank staff;
annual specific supervision of
disbursement and
procurement.
;                 3.                                                      _ - _llarlwiri3.
Forestry and Environmental  US$ 4.83 Million         3.1 MIS and Annual Progress 3.1 Counterpart funding is
Monitoring                                           Reports.                   available on time.
3.2 Disbursement Records    3.2 PMO personnel is
and Audit Reports.        adequate in number and
capacity.
3.3 Bank missions and     3.3 key inputs are available.
physical inspection.
3.4 Group of local experts;   3.4 The Project components
annual reviews together with  are adequately implemented
international experts.    and owned by farmers,
villages, townships, counties,
provinces/municipalities and
MWR.
3.5 Beijing-based Bank staff;
annual specific supervision of
disbursement and
procurement.
4.
Institutional             US$ 14.47 Million          4.1 MIS and Annual Progress 4.1 Counterpart funding is
Development including                                Reports.                   available on time.
irrigation management
4.2 Disbursement Records    4.2 PMO personnel is
and Audit Reports.        adequate in number and
capacity.
4.3 Bank missions and     4.3 Key inputs are available.
physical inspection.
4.4 Group of local experts;   4.4 The Project components
annual reviews together with  are adequately implemented
international experts.    and owned by farmers,
villages, townships, counties,
provinces/municipalities and
MWR.
4.5 Beijing-based Bank staff;
annual specific supervision of
disbursement and
procurement.
-37 -



Annex 2: Detailed Project Description
CHINA: WATER CONSERVATION
The Project will support integrated improvements to irrigated agriculture in the Chinese provinces of Hebei
and Liaoning (Shenyang), and in the municipalities of Beijing and Qingdao. Twenty seven counties from
the provinces and municipalities have been identified and all of the subprojects have been prepared at the
feasibility level.
The Project will enhance beneficial use of water resources, agriculture production capacity and farmer
incomes by: (a) increasing the value of agriculture production per unit of consumed water through
increasing yields and reducing non-beneficial water losses; and (b) establishing mechanisms for sustainable
use and management of water resources in irrigated areas.
Experience has shown in China and in other parts of the world that projects that only concentrate on
improvements to physical inigation and drainage systems may achieve improvements in water use
efficiency, but may not result in much "real" water savings because return flows from existing inefficient
systems return to the groundwater or surface water systems and become available for other users (are not
lost to the hydrologic system). "Real" water savings results from reductions of non-recoverable losses such
as evapo-transpiration (ET) or from reductions in losses to non-usable water bodies such as saline aquifers
or the ocean. This Project is designed to focus on three sets of integrated measures that when taken
together will result in both "real" water savings and increased agricultural yields. The three sets of
measures are: (a) physical improvements to irrigation and drainage systems mainly at the tertiary level and
onfarm; (b) agronomic measures; and (c) management measures.
Physical improvements. The physical improvements included in the Project are: (a) canal lining; (b)
placing small distribution systems in low-pressure pipe; (c) construction and rehabilitation of well fields,
small headworks and small reservoirs; (d) groundwater recharge and conjunctive use of groundwater; (e)
drainage systems and reuse of return flows; (f) improved surface irrigation systems onfarm; (g) sprinkler
systems; and (h) micro-irrigation systems. These improvements taken by themselves will result in
significant improvements in water use efficiencies but may not result in much "real" water savings unless
they are combined with the other two sets of measures.
Agronomic measures. Agronomic measures include land leveling, non-tillage in the dry season, deep
plowing in the rainy season, soil fertility improvements, organic and plastic mulching, seeds improvements
and development of drought resistant varieties, balanced fertilization, improvements to planting and
cultivation techniques, cropping pattern adjustments, etc. Experiments and practice have shown in China
and elsewhere that significant improvements in the amount of agricultural yield per unit of
evapo-transpiration can be achieved through these types of measures. This is "real" water savings.
Management measures. Management measures can be broken down into two parts; (a) irrigation and
drainage system management improvements; and (b) onfarm irrigation management improvements. Project
system management improvements include: (a) measurement and volumetric pricing; and (b) SIDD.
Onfarn irrigation management improvements include soil moisture management through irrigation
scheduling. Experiments and practice have shown in China and elsewhere that significant improvements in
the amount of agricultural yield per unit of evapo-transpiration can be achieved by soil moisture
management through irrigation scheduling. This is "real" water savings.
- 38 -



It is important to point out that the physical improvements and system management improvements will
improve water use efficiencies, and may also result in some "real" water savings in and of themselves.
However, if designed and implemented properly, the physical improvements and system management
improvements may significantly facilitate and enhance the opportunity for "real" water savings from
agronomic measures and soil moisture management through irrigation scheduling. For example, it may be
much easier to apply a calculated uniform amount of water at a specified time (irrigation scheduling) with
sprinkler and drip systems and with improved surface irrigation systems than it is without these
improvements.
The design and implementation of an integrated Water Conservation Project that results in "real" water
savings and increased yields is much more complicated than just designing and implementing physical
improvements. The Project will be implemented using the program approach which means that only the
first year's Project is prepared in detail prior to initiation of Project implementation. Subsequent year's
Project will be prepared in detail during the year preceding its implementation. China has an existing large
water savings program that has concentrated mainly on physical improvements, but has also included some
agronomic and management measures. Approximately US$3 billion have already been invested in this
program during the last 5 years. The Water Conservation Project has the added purpose of acting as a
demonstration program to improve the integrated application of the three sets of measures and thereby
improve the National Irrigated Agriculture Water-Saving Program. The Project includes an important
monitoring and evaluation program that when coupled with a program approach should result in a
continuously improved set of measures and an improved Project, and that also can be replicated throughout
China and the National Program.
By Component:
Project Component 1 - US$131.70 million
Irrigation and Drainage Works and Onfarm Systems. This component involves imnprovements in
irrigation and drainage systems which are broken down into the following types of areas: (a) canal lining
areas, 17,100 ha, which will involve lining of tertiary canals and laterals and onfann surface irrigation and
drainage system improvements; (b) low-pressure pipe areas, 47,800 ha, which will involve replacing
tertiary canals and laterals with buried low-pressure pipes and onfarm surface irrigation and drainage
system improvements; (c) installation and rehabilitation of wells, small headworks, small reservoirs and
drains; (d) sprinkler irrigation areas 26,800 ha, which will involve replacing tertiary canals and laterals
with buried pressure pipe and sprinkler irrigation systems mostly using semi-fixed technologies; and (e)
micro-irrigation areas, 15,100 ha, which will involve replacing tertiary canals and laterals with buried
pressure pipe and micro irrigation systems such as micro-sprinklers or drip systems with corollary filtration
systems. Approximately 70% of the area will use groundwater as the water source and the systems in these
areas also include well construction and pumping equipment, where these are not presently available or
adequate. The improvements will be carried out in areas that are already irrigated, will be dedicated mainly
to tertiary and onfarm systems.
The improvements will also include gates and other structures, and measuring devices at key diversion
points. The measuring devices are designed such that each operational unit (lateral) will have a measuring
device at its head. Individual farm tumouts will not have measuring devices but will have water deliveries
determined through gate calibrations and farmers best practices. Water pricing will be based on the volume
of water delivered as measured with the measuring devices. The component will also include: (a)
implementation of groundwater recharge schemes in areas where groundwater overdrafl is a significant
problem; (b) rural roads where necessary for irrigation system operation and maintenance; and (c) small
transmission lines and transformers where necessary for electrification of pumps.
-39 -



Irrigation and Drainage Works and Onfarm Systems Component
(Area in ha)
Hebei         Liaoning         Beijing         Qingdao          Total
Canal lining       6620            5730             1920           2820            17090
Low-pressure       12200           3750            18370           13460           47780
Pipe
Sprinkler           1200           20140           2000             3460           26800
Micro-             2880             9280            1810            1160           15130
Irrigation
Total              22900           38900           24100           20900           106800
Project Component 2 - US$22.05 million
Agriculture Support and Services. Agronomic measures include land leveling, non-tillage in the dry
season, deep plowing in the rainy season, soil fertility improvements including incorporation of green
manure and stalk, organic and plastic mulching, cropping pattern adjustments, seeds improvements and
development of drought resistant varieties, balanced fertilization, improvements to planting and cultivation
techniques, etc. The Project will include improvements to the extension system; development of seed
improvement facilities; and procurement of farn machinery, fertilizer and plastic film. Land leveling will
cover an area of about 70,900 ha; deep plowing about 47,700 ha; stalk shredding and incorporation, about
36,500 ha; and plastic mulching, about 12,900 ha. About 9300 tons of balanced fertilizer will be
purchased and utilized. About 4600 ha of land will be developed for fine variety seed development and
breeding. About 628 tractors, 215 stalk shredders, 735 fertilizers/tillers, 1021 seeders, 198 harvesters and
23 accessories will be purchased.
Project Component 3 - US$ 4.83 million
Forestry and Environmental Monitoring. This component will involve forestry development for
windbreak protection and soil conservation. Tree nurseries will also be included in the Project. In some
cases trees for economic production of fruits, nuts and wood will be used. A total of about 1730 ha of land
will be developed as windbreaks and an additional about 1000 ha will be developed for economic
production of fruit, nuts and wood. Environmental monitoring systems will be established to monitor the
Project's environmental impact on soil and water.
Project Component 4 - US$14.47 million
Institutional Development This component will involve support to improvements in water conservation
technologies and developments including training, technical assistance and research. The component will
also include support to the establishment and strengthening of operation and maintenance entities made up
mostly of water users, principally through the established Chinese mechanism of self-financing irrigation
and drainage districts, or variations thereof
-40 -



Topics that will be covered in training, technical assistance and research include:
World Bank Project management
*  procurement
* financial management and disbursement
*   Project management
*  monitoring and evaluation
*   MIS
Irrigation and drainage systems
*   site selection
*   system planning and options evaluation
* irrigation and drainage system design
*   economic and financial analysis
*   operation and maintenance of irrigation and drainage systems
*   SIDD development
*  water measurement
*  water pricing
*  water licensing
Water resources
*   "real" water savings
*  water balance analysis
*   surface water modeling
-   surface water management
_   groundwater modeling
3   groundwater management
_   conjunctive use
Agricultural techniques and agronomic water savings measures such as
-  non-tillage
-   land leveling
-   deep plowing
_   soil fertility improvements
-   organic and plastic mulching
*   cropping pattern adjustments
*   seeds improvements
*   balanced fertilization
*  planting and cultivation techniques
Onfarm irrigation management
*   irrigation scheduling, scientific irrigation
The Project will strongly emphasize training of agriculture, irrigation and water resources technicians at the
township and county levels. The Project will also include a strong subcomponent of training of farmers.
The training will be provided in integrated irrigation technology, agronomic and management measures to
ensure an integrated approach to Project implementation. Demonstration households in each subproject
area will be selected for intensive training and to be used as examples for the other farmers in the
subproject area.
Monitoring and Evaluation is covered in detail in Annex 14 of the PIP and includes: (a) overall Project
progress including physical, financial and TA and research/training/study tours progress, Bank loan
disbursement, counterpart financing, and achievement of Project objectives; (b) status of implementation of
-41 -



loan covenants; (c) detailed monitoring and evaluation of 12 typical hydraulic areas (3 in each
province/municipality); (d) county groundwater management including implementation of County
Groundwater Management Plans in 4 pilot counties and in other Project counties; (e) SIDD development;
and (f) MIS development Environmental monitoring programs in each province/municipality have been
developed and agreed to monitor the Project's effects on the environment including responsible entities and
costs. Soil moisture, fertility and quality; surface and groundwater quality including levels of pesticides and
nitrates, and groundwater and surface water levels and volumes will be monitored. Annex 12 provides
more information and the EAs prepared by the provinces/municipalities provide more informnation on the
environmental monitoring. Project monitoring mechanisms including farmer participation will be caried
out through the farmers' organization such as village communities and water users' associations established
under the Project. Monitoring and evaluation programs include household surveys on a sampling of
households in the Project area which will be compared to baseline surveys. Township and county statistics
will also be utilized in monitoring and evaluation.
Management Information System will be designed and implemented in the CPMO, and in
provincial/municipal and county PMOs, including hardware, software and training. The MIS will be used
in monitoring and evaluation, financial management, procurement management, annual report preparation.
Mobile  Specialist Team. The  Mobile  Specialist Team  (MST) will be  established  at the
provincial/municipal level to assist the PMO in technical aspects during Project implementation. The MST
will play a critical role in effective application of improved agronomic and scientific irrigation technologies
and improvement of irrigation management at the grass roots level. The MSTs, employed at the
provincial/municipal level, will have three primary functions: (a) providing specialized technical assistance
and training to lower levels (county and township Water Resources Bureaus, Water Management Stations
and Agro-technology and Service Centers and Stations, County Drought Fighting Centers, etc.); (b)
providing technical assistance and training as necessary to WSOs, WUAs, and farmers, including
assistance in setting up local demonstration and monitoring activities; and (c) carrying out appraisal of
subprojects to be financed under the loan. The MST members will be employed as individual consultants
selected based on the Bank guidelines, and each MST should be equipped with the necessary vehicles and
equipment/tools in order to take field trips to provide hands-on training at the county, township and village
levels.
Scientific Irrigation. Scientific irrigation will apply the following two water-savings oriented irrigation
programs rather than the traditional inefficient irrigation program: (a) program for irrigation scheduling,
which will be widely applied in all Project areas. Under this program, the soil moisture will be managed
such that it will average the minimum level necessary to achieve full yields; investigations have shown that
the lower limit of soil moisture for irrigation could be decreased on average by about 10% of field capacity
without negatively impacting the normal crop photosynthesis such that the highest yields could be achieved;
(b) program for deficit irrigation, which will be applied in a few subproject areas where groundwater
overexploitation due to agriculture water use is most serious and a water balance cannot be reached even
after applying irrigation scheduling. Under this program, less than optimum amounts of water for irrigation
will be applied and only at critical demand periods such that maximum yields per unit of water are
achieved, but yields are less than the highest possible. However, the program could meet the water demand
for the designed yield.
The following activities have been included under the Project for implementation of scientific irrigation: (a)
detailed irrigation programs will be prepared for each crop and soil type in the subproject areas according
to the framework of irrigation programs (irrigation scheduling or deficit irrigation) for each of the 10 major
-42 -



crops in appendix 3 of Annex 14 of PIP report; (b) the irrigation forecasting system based on the
soil-moisture monitoring will be established in all subproject areas according to appendix 4 of Annex 14 of
PIP report. The date and water amount for each irrigation of each crop will be issued to farmers in the
subproject areas based on the results of soil-moisture monitoring; (c) WUAs or similar fanner groups, or
demonstration farmer households will be established in each subproject area, under the support from the
village committees and township governments, for on-farm irrigation management including organizing and
implementing the scientific irrigation; and (d) the MST will provide the intensive training to technicians at
county and township levels, and further down to the WUAs or farmer groups.
Monitoring and Measurement of Soil Moisture. Soil moisture monitoring plays a key role in
implementation of scientific irrigation and measurement of the ET or "real" water savings. Intensive soil
moisture monitoring will be carried out using neutron probes in experimental areas for calibration
purposes, sampling and weighing soil samples and other simpler methods (including tactile methods) at a
large number of horizontally and vertically distributed sites throughout the subproject areas. Soil moisture
monitoring will be done at critical dates of each growth stage of crops to decide when and how much water
to apply based on the irrigation program.
Monitoring and Estimation of ET. In the Project area, the major part of the "real" water savings comes
from reduction of non-beneficial ET and hence from increases in agriculture production per unit of ET
through a package of integrated measures, which is a core objective of the Project. Therefore, the
monitoring and estimation of ET under the conditions of with and without Project have been included as
important aspects for the monitoring and evaluation. A simplified method has been developed under the
Project to estimate the actual ET based on experimental ET data, soil moisture monitoring, considering the
change of average soil moisture content compared with previous time intervals and estimates of effective
rainfall.
Training of Technicians and Farmers in Scientific Irrigation. Training of technicians and farmers has
been included under the Project as a very important subcomponent. The following activities will be
conducted in the training program during Project implementation: (a) preparation of an easy-to-leam
operational manual on scientific irrigation for farmers and technicians. The manual will be written and
prepared by the CPMO and the provincial/municipal PMOs with the participation of the MSTs. The
manual will include the basic knowledge of integrated agricultural, irrigation and management
water-savings measures, and the guidelines and procedures for each specific measure, O&M of irrigation
technologies, flowchart for irrigation scheduling and deficit irrigation, soil moisture management,
monitoring and evaluation, and groundwater management etc.; (b) CPMO and provincial/municipal PMOs,
together with MSTs will organize the training courses for the county and township irrigation and
agricultural engineers and technicians. Then county or township will organize the training courses for the
representatives from WUAs and similar farmer groups or demonstration farmer-households. During
implementation of the scientific irrigation, the MSTs will supervise the implementation and provide
additional training to the technicians and selected farmers.
SIDD. The Project is designed to incorporate institutional measures to ensure improved operational
efficiencies in water use, and sustainability and self-financing of irrigated agriculture, improve irrigation
system performance, and enable effective decentralization of irrigation services, cost recovery and farmer
participation in line with Chinese and Bank water resources policy. An important component in the new
institutional structure for improved water resources management is the implementation of institutional
measures to address these operation and maintenance aspects. The Project incorporates the implementation
of self-financed irrigation and drainage districts (SIDDs) or similar institutional measures in all subproject
areas. Under the complete model, each SIDD comprises: (a) a Water Supply Organization (WSO) that will
- 43 -



be formed to operate and maintain the nain and branch canals and drains; and (b) Water User Associations
(WUAs) that will be formed and managed by farmers to operate and maintain the lower-level irnigation and
drainage systems and will purchase water from the WSO. In the Project, WUAs or similar organizations
will be established in each subproject area. Each province/municipality will also pilot at least one complete
SIDD including a WSO. Water deliveries to WSOs and WUAs and other bullc water users will be
measured. Measuring devices will be included in the physical infrastructure where necessary. Water
charges will be increased to cover the full cost of system operation, maintenance and replacement and will
also partially cover investment costs. Higher water charge rates will be encouraged and promoted with
farmers in order to provide incentives for improving water use efficiencies. Adaptations of the standard
SIDD model will also be included for other types of irrigation investment under the Project. WUAs will be
established by farmers to own, operate and maintain well, pipeline, sprinlder, and drip systems. In
addition, the WSO will be adapted to become a "Water Services Organization" to provide assistance to
WUAs in operating and maintaining their irrigation systems through provision of spare parts, repair
services, rental of spare pumps for wells, technical guidance, training, etc.
Groundwater Management Plans. The Project will also include the development and implementation of
groundwater management plans in one pilot county in each province/municipality. These plans will be
implemented in counties with groundwater overdraft problems and will have the objective of achieving zero
drawdown after a period of years as defined in the plan. The plans will include water licensing and use
control, strict limits on new groundwater development, and integrated measures to achieve "real" water
savings and thereby reduce consumption while at the same time maintaining or even increasing agricultural
yields.
- 44 -



Annex 3: Estimated Project Costs
CHINA: WATER CONSERVATION
Local       Foreign       Total
Proje  Cost B.y Componnti US $million   US $million   US $million
A. Irrigation and Drainage Works and Onfarm Systems                                 0.00
1. Canal Irrigation                                   10.73         5.61        16.34
2. Low Pressure Pipeline Irrigation                   19.69        11.89        31.58
3. Sprinkling Irrigation                              13.31         8.96        22.27
4. Drip Irrigation                                    26.89        16.48        43.37
5. Facility Improvement of Water Source                3.11         1.59         4.70
B. Agriculture Support and Services                      8.59         11.22        19.81
C. Forestry and Environmental Monitoring                 1.96         2.37          4.33
D. Institutional Development                                                        0.00
1. Institutional Development and Support               0.90         7.52         8.42
2. Project Survey Design and Management                4.69         0.00         4.69
Total Baseline Cost                                     89.87        65.64        155.51
Physical Contingencies                                  4.49          3.28         7.77
Price Contingencies                                     5.68         4.08          9.76
Total Project Costs            100.04        73.00       173.04
Interest during construction               11.88        11.88
Front-end fee                   0.74          0.74
Total Financing Required            100.04        85.62        185.66
L cal       Foreign       Total
Project Cost By Category               US $milfion   US $million   US $million
Civil works and structure                                 75.80         38.74       114.54
On-farm works                                             11.29          2.82        14.11
Equipment                                                  5.43         16.29        21.72
Vehicles                                                   0.00          1.35         1.35
Production materials                                       1.25          3.76         5.01
Training                                                   0.50          4.29         4.79
Consultant                                                 0.00          0.92         0.92
Research/study/demonstration                               0.81          4.83         5.64
Other                                                      4.96          0.00         4.96
Total Project Costs   100.04         73.00       173.04
Interest during construction              11.88        11.88
Front-end feel                  0.74         0.74
Total Financing Required    100.04        85.62        185.66
-45 -



Estimated Project Costs
The total cost of the Project is estimated at Y 1455 million (US$173 million equivalent), including physical
and price contingencies of about Y 164 million. The direct and indirect foreign exchange component is
estimated at about US$73 million equivalent, or about 42 percent of total costs. The base cost totals Y
1290.8 million (US$155.5 million equivalent), of which Y 981.8 million (US$118.3 million; 76 percent of
the total base costs) is for the Irrigation and Drainage Works and Onfarm Systems component; Y 164.3
million (US$19.8 million; 13 percent) is for the Agriculture Support and Services component; Y 35.9
million (US$4.3 million; 3 percent) is for the Forestry and Environmental Monitoring component; and Y
108.8 million (US$13.1 million; 8 percent) is for the Institutional Development component. The interest
during construction is estimated at about Y 98.6 million (about US$11.88 million). The front-end fee is Y
6.14 mnillion (about US$0.74 million). This will result to a total financing required of about Y 1559.7
million (US$185.7 million equivalent).
The Project base costs are expressed in February 2000 prices and include local taxes and duties computed
at about US$6.8 million equivalent. The unit costs and estimated annual quantities are based on typical
designs with a uniform physical and technical standard for each province. Cost estimates for civil works
are derived from costs of activities recently completed in China Irrigated Agriculture Intensification II
Project. Cost estimates for electrical and mechanical equipment, materials, and vehicles are based on
recent quotations from manufacturers and suppliers or prices of similar goods that were recently purchased.
Consultant costs are based on the experience in the country with recent consulting contracts for similar
tasks. Physical contingencies are about an average rate of 5 percent for all items based on the detailed
engineering designs of the sub-component.
Standard Bank local and foreign inflation rates were used over the Project's five-year implementation
period. For costs expressed in U.S. dollars, the expected average price increase is estimated at 2.5, 2.6,
2.4, 2.3, and 2.4 percent for 2001-2005 respectively. For costs expressed in yuan, the annual rates are 2.5,
3, 3.5, 4, and 4.5 percent for 2001-2005 respectively. The total Project costs are summarized below:
- 46 -



Table A: Project Components by Year
Project Components by Year                                                      Totals Including Continoencies (RMB 000)
- Totals Including Contingencies               2001            2002            2003            2004            2005            Total
A. Irrigation and Drainage Works and Onfarm Works
1. Canal Irrigation
a. Beijing                                           3,930.8          2024.7          2,855.0         1,345.7              -         10,156.2
b. Ongdao                                            13,358.8        9,723.1          4,007.2         4,157.7          811,9         32,058.7
c. Hebei                                             6,335.2         14,040.1        14,106.8        10,652.9         3,810.2        48,945.2
d. Liaoning (Shenyang)                               10,323.3        12,868.9        19,571.8        12,150.1         5,382.5        60,296.6
Subtotal Canal Inigation                               33,948.1        38,656.8        40,540.8        28,306.4        10,004.6       151,456.7
2. Low Presure Pipeline Irrigation
a. Beijing                                          23,889.1        22,974.8        28,954.1         29,519.5        20,228.9       125,566.5
b. Oingdao                                           3,701.7         8,878.9        21,515.1         24,303.2         7,569.7        65,968.5
C. Hebei                                             9,914.4        17,068.6         16,125.2        18,910.5         8,327.2        70,345.9
d. Liaonin9 (Shenyang)                               5,645.1         5,438.6          8,077.2         2,960.6        13,827.5        35,94s.0
Subtotal Low Presure Pipeline Irrigation               43,150.3        54,361.0        74,671.6        75,693.7        49,953.2       297,829.8
3. Sprinnking Irrigation
a. Beijing                                           4,180.9         4,115.9          2,634.2              -               -         10,931.1
b. Ongdao                                              407.2         2,466.7          6,066.6         2,660.3         9,122.6        20,723.5
c. Hebei                                              1,107.4         1,643.8         1,658.1         2,271.2          389.4          7,069.9
d. Liaoning (Shenyang)                              20,924.5        39,897.6         47,694.8        45,714.7        16,154,3       170,385.9
Subtotal Sprinkling Irnigaion                          26,620.0        48,124.0        58,053.8        50,646.2        25,666.4       209,110.4
4. Drip Irrigation
a. Beijing                                           8,927.6         6,617.7         16,280.1        14,025.6         8,530.7        54,381.8
b. Oingdao                                           5,694.6         5,902.1          3,509.3         1,860.7          411.8         17,378.5
c. Hebei                                             2,355.6          3,497.4         3,596.3         3,805.1         1,097.6        14,351.8
d. Liaoning (Shenyang)                              50,371.5        60,8271          69,562.8        67,213.4        31,7933        319,768.1
Subtotal Drip Irrigation                               67,349.3        96,844.3        92,948.5       106,904.7        41,833.4       405,880.2
5. Facility Improvement of Water Source
a. Beijing                                           3,505.3        29,244.4           238.9          1,048.6         1,128.6        35,165.8
b. ingdao                                             1,866.7          600.8           670.8           870.0          3,409.A         7,418.0
d. Uaoning (Shenyang)                                  212.6           218.5           112.8                               -           543.9
Subtotal Facility Improvement of Water Source           S,a46          30,063.7         1,022.5         1,s18.5         4,538.3        43,127.7
Subtotal Irrigation and Drainage Works and               17T,652.3       268,049.8       267,237.2       263,469.5       131,996.0     1,107,404.7
Onfarff Works
B. Agriculture Support and Srvices
1. Beijing                                             10,124.1         9,405.7         9,991.0         6,634.7         6,287.1        42,442.5
2. cjingdao                                             2,535.6         4,386.9         5,139.4         5.558.4         4,258.5        21,878.7
3. Hebei                                                3,591.3         6,321.2         6,394.8         6,619.6         2,512.0        25,438.9
4. Liaoning (Shengyang)                                13,783.4        22,214.5 _      23,786.7        24,687.5        11,261.4        95s733.5
Subtotal Agriculture Support and Services                 30,034.4        42,328.3        45,311.9        43,500.1        24,318.9       185,493.7
C. Forstry and Environmental Monitoring
1. Beijing                                              3,422.2         1,932.5         2,846.8         6,114.3         2,004.6        16,320.3
2. Qingdao                                              1,160.8         1,539.4         1,285.6         1,357.3           778.8         6,121.9
3. Hebei                                                1,219.9         1,951.6         2,023.2         1,745.6         1,293.9         8,234.3
4. Liaoning (Shengyang)                                 1,661.9         2,212.7         2,288.5         2.368.9         1,447.9          9,976.8
Subtotal Forestry and Environmental Monitoring             7,464.9         7,636.2         8,444.1        11,583.0         5,525.1        40,653.3
0. Institutional Development
I Institutional Development and Support
a. Beijing                                           10,552.8        7,688.7          5,650.1         3,769.2         2,663.4        30,324.2
b. Qingdao                                           4,324.8          5,072.9         2,513.9         2,320.4         1,485.4        15,717.5
c. Hebei                                             5,335.1          1,639.3         1,731.0         1,842.8         1,760.3        12,308.4
d. Liaoning (Shengyang)                               5,604.9        6,341.3          3,082.8         2,571.7         1,576.6        19,17T.2
Subtotal Institutional Development and Support         25,817.5        20,742.1        12,977.7         10,504.2        7,485.7         77,527.3
2. Project Survey Design and Management
a. Beijing                                           2,036.1         2,754.2          2,496.6         2,076.6         1,504.2        10,867.8
b. Qingdao                                             980.0         1,310.7          1,499.9         1,460.5          835.5          6,086.6
c. Hebei                                               965.3         1,562.1          1,612.9         1,673.5          793.1          6,606.9
d. Liaoning (Shengyang)                              3,238.2          4,791.1         4,946.2         5,0o.1          2,310.6        20,3662
Subtotal Project Survey Design and Management           7,219.6        10,418.1        10,555.7        10.290.7         5,443.4         43.927.5
Subtotal Institutional Development                        33,037.2        31,160.2        23,533.4        20,794.9        12,929.1       121,454,9
Total PROJECT COSTS                                      247,188.7       349,174.5        344,526.5       339,347.6       174,7692      1,455,006.6
Interest during Construction                              6,930.50       12,931.10       19,978.70       26,881.60       31,868.90       98,590so
Front End Fee                                             6,142.00 47 -         -               -                               -         6,142,00
Total Financing Required                                260,261.23      362,105.64      364,505.21      366,229.24      206,638.10     1,559,739.41



Table B: Expenditure Accounts by Year
Expenditure Accounts by Years -                        Totals includina Contingencies (USS 0001
Totals Including Contingencies         2001        2002        2003        2004        205        .Total
Investment Costs
A. Civil works and structure            18,768.3    28,266.7    27,636.5    26,531.9    13,336.1   114,539.4
B. On-Farm Works                        2,322.5     3,145.1     3,495.9     3,529.2     1,615.5    14,108.3
C. Equipment & machines                 3,951.1     5,131.6     5,060.3     5,096.5     2,488.4    21,727.8
D. Vehicles                               776.2       467.6       107.5           -           -      1,351.4
E. Production & construction materials    797.1     1,042.4     1,188.7      1,354.4      633.2     5,015.8
F. Training and study tours               918.0     1,281.9     1,045.4       974.9       570.9     4,791.1
G. Research/study/demonstration          1,180.4    1,282.2      1,202.8     1,141.5      831.9      5,638.7
H. Consultants                            247.0       181.9       181.2       172.8       140.1       923.0
I. Survey, design & management            821.2    1.187.0      1.206.1      1.156.6      586.9   4.957.9
Total PROJECT COSTS                       29,781.8    41,986.3    41,124.5    39,957.9    20,203.0   173,053.5
Interest during Construction                835.0     1,558.0     2,407.1      3,238.7    3,839.6    11,878.4
Front End Fee                               740.0           -           -           -           -       740.0
Total Financing Required                 31,356.8    43,544.3    43,531.6    43,196.6    24,042.6   185,671.9
Expenditure Accounts by Years -                        Totals Includina Continaencies (RMB '000)
Totals Including Contingencies         2001        2002        2003        2004        2005        Total
Investment Costs
A. Civil works and structure           155,776.7   235,076.5   231,528.4   225,326.1    115,365.9   963,073.6
B. On-Farm Works                        19,276.6    26,156.0    29,287.7    29,972.5    13,975.5   118,668.3
C. Equipment & machines                 32,793.7    42,676.3    42,393.4    43,282.9    21,526.0   182,672.3
D. Vehicles                             6,442.5     3,888.9       900.9           -           -    11,232.3
E. Production & construction materials  6,615.9     8,669.1     9,958.4    11,502.6     5,477.7    42,223.7
F. Training and study tours             7,619.6    10,660.5     8,758.2      8,279.6    4,938.6    40,256.6
G. Researchtstudy/demonstration         9,797.6    10,662.9    10,076.6     9,694.0     7,196.5    47,427.6
H. Consultants                          2,050.3     1,512.5     1,518.4      1,467.3     1,211.5    7,760.1
I. Survey, design & management          6.815.6     9.871.9    13104.5      9.822.6     5.077.4    41.692.0
Total PROJECT COSTS                      247,188.7   349,174.5   344,526.5   339,347.6   174,769.2  1,455,006.6
Interest during Construction             6,930.50    12,931.10    19,978.70    26,881.60    31,868.90    98,590.80
Front End Fee                            6,142.00           -           -           -           -    6,142.00
Total Financing Required               260,261.23   362,105.64   364,505.21   366,229.24   206,638.10  1,559,739.41
- 48 -



Annex 4: Cost Benefit Analysis Summary
CHINA: WATER CONSERVATION
To assess financial and economic viability, the preliminary financial rates of return and economic rates of
return for a period of 20 years have been calculated separately for individual irrigation technologies
including canal lining, low pressure pipeline, semi-fixed sprinkler and micro/drip irrigation in each
subproject area, and aggregated for subproject areas in Beijing, Hebei, Qingdao, and Liaoning (Shenyang)
provinces/municipalities, and for the Project as a whole. Given the price and cost structures in each
subproject area, as well as the objectives of the Project, rates of return for all subprojects are acceptable.
The results are presented below:
[For projects with benefits that are measured in monetary terms]
Present Value of Flows                    Fiscal Impact
Economic    Financial Analysis'
Anatysi-s    _______________        Taxes         Subsidies
Benefits:
(unit: Y million)
1. Beijing Irrigation     494.07            487.97
Subproject4907877
2. Hebei Irrigation        458.57           438.73
Subproject
3. Qingdao Irrigation      389.53           381.02
Subproject3853810
4. Liaoning
(Shenyang)               2464.33           2410.24
Irrigation Subproject
Total Project             3806.50          3716.96
Costs:
(unit: Y million)
1. Beijing Irrigation     384.66            426.93
Subproject3866469
2. Hebei Irrigation        349.76           385.53
Subproject
3. Qingdao Irrigation      299.21           351.38
Subproject2921318
4. Liaoning
(Shenyang)               2029.77           2159.83
Irrigation Subproject
Total Project             3063.40          3323.67
- 49 -



Net Benefits:
1. Beijing Irrigation
Subproject                   109.41             61.04              12.35              36.02
2. Hebei Irrigation
Subproject                   108.81             53.20              35.22              20.39
3. Qingdao Irrigation
Subproject                    90.32             28.64              22.56              39.12
4. Liaoning
(Shenyang)                   434.56            250.41              37.72             146.43
Irrigation Subproject
Total Project                743.10            393.29             107.85             241.96
IRR:
1. Beijing Irrigation
Subproject                     18.1               14.7
2. Hebei Irrigation
Subproject                     21.0               15.6
3. Qingdao Irrigation          20.5               14.1
Subproject
4. Liaoning
(Shenyang)                     21.7               16.2
Irrigation Subproject
Total Project                  20.7               15.6
If the difference between the present value of financial and economic flows is large and cannot be explained by
taxes and subsidies, a brief explanation of the difference is warranted, e.g. "The value of financial benefits is less
than that of economic benefits because of controls on electricity tariffs."
Summary of Benefits and Costs:
Economic Evaluation Issues. The Project investment in integrated measures will entail shifting from the
past reliance on irrigation expansion, to emphasis on using/managing water in an economically optimal
and sustainable fashion through the implementation of water-saving measures in existing irrigated areas.
The economic analysis included the quantifiable benefits derived through substantial improvements in the
water-use efficiency and improvements in irrigated agriculture productivity (and value) due to the
implementation of integrated water-saving measures including irrigation technology, agronomic and
management measures. The cropping pattem was shifted to higher value crops and higher cropping
intensity, which will be achievable with improved technologies and management. The analysis also included
estimated economic costs, but not the benefits, from institutional development and improved environmental
management. The analysis presents "with Project" (the upgraded irrigation system with canal lining, low
pressure pipeline, semi-fixed sprinkler and micro/drip irrigation systems plus agr6nomric and management
measures) and "without Project" (the existing groundwater irrigation system with wells and the
conventional canal facilities and techniques, ground water is the dominant water resources for about 70
-50 -



percent of total agricultural water supply within the Project area) scenarios. The benefits resulting from
"real" water savings were also estimated (see below), but because of their uncertainty these were not
included in the NPV and ERR calculations.
Project Costs. All Project costs, including Project investments and physical contingencies, production
costs and O&M costs (including reduced energy requirements for pumping due to the improved irrigation
efficiencies), have been considered in estimating the economic costs of the Project, but price contingencies,
taxes, duties, and other charges were omitted. World Bank price projections were used to estimate
farmgate prices in constant terms for traded inputs and outputs using 2000 as the base year.
Irrigation Benefits. Under the Project the improved water system efficiencies, "rear' water savings and
increased agricultural production per unit of ET result in substantial direct production benefit in the Project
area. It is estimated that overall cropping intensity with the Project will increase by 16.8 percent from
133.7 percent to 150.5 percent; cropping pattems will shift from grain crops (which fall from 81.6 percent
to 70 percent) to higher value cash crops (which increase from 18.4 percent to 30 percent, mainly reduced
corn area by 24,372 ha and increased vegetables, fruits and fresh flower areas by about 23,241 ha); and
crop yields will increase by about 5 percent to 25 percent for various crops in each subproject area due to
improvements in irrigation systems, increased irrigation reliability, improved agriculture practices, and
improved soil conditions. Total production is expected to increase significantly by the time the Project
reaches full development (beginning in Year 8 for various subproject areas), based on these improvements
in 106,800 ha of irrigated agriculture land. At full development, incremental annual production will total
roughly 113,700 tons of wheat, 14,500 tons of rice, 4,900 tons of peanuts and chestnuts, 400 tons of millet
and other crops, 660 tons of soybean, 1300 tons of cotton, 19,800 tons of peach and pear, 11,600 tons of
watermelon and apple, 7,400 tons of grape, 540 million units of fresh flowers and aloe, 1.37 million ton of
vegetables, and 57,900 cubic meters of timber. Corn production will decrease by about 129,000 tons. The
total incremental gross value of production is estimated at Y 785.9 million annually. The increased
production of various crops will also provide substantial increases in crop residues and forage, which will
be used as coarse feed for increased livestock production, and for incorporation into soils to improve their
organic content, fertility and water holding capacity. The detailed incremental cropped area, yield and
production of various crops are summarized below:
- 51 -



Incremental Crop Area, Yield and Production
Crops             Without Project                With Project                    Increment
Area    Yield  Production  Area    Yield   Production    Area    Yield      Production
(ha)   (kg,ha)    ton      (ha)   (kg/ha)      (ton)      (ha)   (kg/ha)       (ton)
Wheat             46150      4551    210048   63826      5072      323746    17676        521      113699
Com               67763      5783    391858  43391       6058      262843   -24372        275     -129016
Rice               7733      7500     58000    7733      9375       72500                1875       14500
Soybean             882      2830      2497     907      3482        3159       25        652         663
Other crops         463      2000       926     463      2856        1323                 856         396
Peanuts            5346      3892     20806    5275      4801       25326       -71       909        4520
Cotton             3198       800      2559   4101         945       3877      903        145         1318
Greenhouse         8047    62096    499689    7359      75187      553303      -688     13090       53614
vegetables
Field vegetables   3815    78294    298716   4309       84726      365061      493       6432       66345
Field vegetables                              21880     57000    1247179    21880       57000     1247179
(Shenyang)
Apple              3344    13515      45189    3369      16642      56058       25       3126        10869
Peach              2528    19744      49913    2975     23103       68732      447       3359        18819
Pear                207    13333       2760     207      17937       3713        0       4604         953
Grape               1066    14565     15526    1314      17457      22938      248       2892        7412
Chestnut            999      2999      2996     999      3419        3416         -       420         420
Watermelon           120   37500       4500     120     43500        5220         -      6000         720
Timber (cum.)          -        -          -    964         60      57858      964         60       57858
Flower ('000 no.)                          -   1147        469     537897      1147       469      537897
Aloe ('000 no.)        -                   -     89         30       2661        89        30        2661
Economic Rate of Return. Given the linkage between the different components, detailed rate of return
calculations have been carried out based on the above assumptions. The analysis compared   the
quantifiable benefits derived through the improvements in irrigation facilities and technologies, water and
agricultural productivity, and the eco-environmental system (forestry shelter belts), and the estimated
economic costs. It did not include the indirect benefits from institutional development, and improved
enviromnental management. Comparing costs and benefits over a period of 20 years, the estimated ERRs
are all favorable. The ERRs for individual irrigation technologies range from about 17.4 percent for canal
irrigation to 24.5 percent for sprinkler irrigation for the whole Project, and from 18.1 percent in Beijing
municipality to 21.7 percent in Liaoning (Shenyang) province for various subproject areas, depending on
the assumed crop yields and the years to reach full development, cropping intensity and cropping pattern,
the size of the irrigation and planted area, and the investment, production, and the O&M costs for each
different type of irrigation technologies at the time of implementation and operation in the subproject area.
The overall Project discounted economic benefits are Y 3806.5 million, total discounted costs are Y 3063.4
million, and the ERR is 20.7 percent with a net present value of about Y 743.1 million.
Benefits from "Real" Water Savings. The Project aims to improve water use efficiencies and reduce
non-beneficial losses through measures resulting in "real" water savings. Even though benefits from "real"
water savings are potentially quite large and the direct result of the achievement of one of the main Project
objectives, they are also somewhat uncertain. For this reason, the conventional above economic analysis
does not include benefits from "real" water savings. Although the agriculturally derived benefits in the
above economic analysis are sufficient to economically justify the Project, the Government's objective to
- 52 -



achieve sustainable irrigated agriculture in the North China Plain is the driving force behind the Project and
behind the Government subsidies to the Project beneficiaries, which will amount to about 28% of the
Project costs. The benefits from "real" water savings can be divided into two parts: (a) direct benefits to
Project beneficiaries from less groundwater drawdown resulting in less O&M and replacement costs in
pumping areas; and (b) benefits to the overall society resulting from preservation of the water resource.
The total net present value of these benefits could be as much as Y 850 million. If these benefits had been
included in the economic analysis, the Project total NPV and ERR would have both been much higher than
the values shown above. It should be noted that potential even greater benefits could be achieved if the
Groundwater Management Plans result in county-wide groundwater stabilization.
Direct benefits from less groundwater drawdown resulting in less O&M and replacement costs in
pumping areas. Integrated measures in the subproject areas will result in "real" water savings and
consequent reductions in groundwater overdraft, which will help stabilize groundwater levels. By
comparing the projected water supply and demand in the without-Project scenario, the total water deficit in
the subproject areas would be about 75 million cubic meters in 2000, 85 million in 2005 and 91 million in
2010, and the groundwater table would continue to fall at about 0.1-0.56 meters per year in Beijing,
0.1-0.94 meters in Hebei, 0.1-0.26 meters in Liaoning (Shenyang) and 0.05-0.18 meters in Qingdao. The
range of values in each case is because of different values in different subproject areas and different kinds
of water years (i.e. wet-, dry- or average-). The current rate of groundwater extraction has seriously
exceeded recharge. The water demand projections, supplies and shortages for each subproject area are
summarized below:
Estimated Local Water Demand in Project Area
Without Project
Project     Year                      Water Demand (in Million mL.
Area                  Irrgation    Industrial  Household &    Others     Total
Municipal
Present         167.16       2.73           6.54       6.74     183.17
Beijing     2005            167.16       3.36          7.56       6.93     185.00
_  2010            167.16       3.69          8.69       7.10     186.64
Present         169.33       3.30          10.95       0.14     183.72
Hebei      2005            169.33       3.68          13.50       0.15     186.66
===z=r_ _2010  169.33       3.56          14.63       0.15     187.67
Present         103.37       3.33           5.65       0.05     112.40
Qingdao      2005           103.37       5.29           6.81       0.05     115.52
2010           103.37       6.87           7.62       0.05     117.91
Liaoning    Present         110.45       0.39           0.69       1.23     112.76
(Shenyang)    2005          110.45       0.37           0.86       1.40     113.08
(Shenyang)    2010           110.45       0.35           1.00       1.45     113.24
Present         550.30       9.75          23.83       8.15     592.04
Total      2005            550.30      12.70         28.73       8.54     600.26
2010          550.30      14.47          31.94       8.75     605.46
- 53 -



Projected Water Demand, Supplies and Shortages
Without Project
(in Million mi3)
Present                 2005                     2010
Demand Supply Deficit Demand  Supply Deficit Demand   Supply  Deficit
Beijing     183.17  157.17    -26   185.00 157.17  -27.83   186.64   157.17  -29.47
Hebei       183.72  149.76  -33.96   186.66  146.68  -39.98   187.67   146.68  -40.99
Qingdao     112.40  90.31  -22.09   115.52  91.08  -24.44   117.91    91.08  -26.83
Liaoning    112.76  119.90   7.14   113.08  119.90   6.82   113.24   119.90   6.66
(Shenyang)
Total       592.05 517.14  -74.91   600.26 514.83  -85.43   605.46   514.83  -90.63
In every sub-project area, the subprojects are designed to at least eliminate the deficit in the water balance
related to the irrigated agriculture if the integrated measures are effectively implemented. Reducing the
extraction and stabilizing the groundwater table will reduce the annual operation and maintenance costs
(O&M) including repair, maintenance, electricity and fuel (for pumping costs), management, overhead,
depreciation and the extra replacement cost for deeper wells and larger size of pumps, etc. If the water
tables were stabilized, the estimated annual reduction in O&M costs would be about Y 57 million on
average for the groundwater used in agricultural production in the subproject areas, and the total benefits
including the groundwater used in the urban and industrial sectors would be about Y 62 million in the
subproject areas. Assuming an average six-year lag before the groundwater table could be stabilized, the
net present value of these savings would be Y 190 and 210 million, respectively. This analysis excludes:
(a) the negative impact on the subproject areas from surrounding areas that may continue to overextract
groundwater and thereby negatively impact the groundwater table in the subproject areas; and (b) the
positive impact of the groundwater stabilization in the subproject areas on surrounding areas lessening their
overall groundwater drawdown and consequent O&M costs related to groundwater extraction outside the
subproject areas. A potentially much larger O&M costs savings benefit would be achieved for all
groundwater users including all users outside the subproject areas in the counties that effectively implement
Groundwater Management Plans that result in groundwater stabilization throughout the county. In the case
of Guantao County in Hebei the overall water use is about 6 times the water use in the subproject areas and
the O&M costs savings benefits would be potentially at least 6 times as great as the benefits in the
subproject areas in Guantao County.
Economic Value of Water Resources Saveds In the future, the total annual amount of "real" water saving
under the Project will be about 60 to 95 million cubic meters if the Project achieves planned targets. The
economic value of "real" water savings under the Project is likely to be relatively high. To provide an
additional water source for the Project area and relief in areas where the current rate of groundwater
extraction exceeds recharge, an alternative source would be the importing of surface water from the
Yangtze River Basin to the North China Plain region (especially in Hebei and Beijing). The investment and
operation and maintenance cost for the water transfer project is roughly estimated at about Y 2 per m' on
average (in early 2000 prices). Because this transfer project is considered to be feasible and the best
additional-water-source alternative, the "opportunity cost" of the water resource in the North China Plain
could be estimated to be at least equal to the cost of this transfer water. Therefore the economic value of
the "real" water savings under the Project could thus be as high as Y 120 million to Y 190 million annually
(based on the above assumptions for the total amount of "real" water saving) for the whole Project area.
Again assuming a six-year lag before these water savings would be realized, the net present value of these
- 54 -



savings would be about Y 400 million to Y 640 million. Again, in the case of Guantao County in Hebei, if
groundwater stabilization is achieved throughout the county, the benefits could be 6 times as great. The
Project will therefore contribute to the preservation of a valuable natural resource, groundwater, which is
the main source for cities, towns, industries, agriculture and drought relief, and contribute to the
sustainable use of groundwater in the North China Plain region.
Financial Analysis. Financial analysis was prepared to indicate the financial incentives of farmers to
participate in the Project, cost of water service and the farmer's ability to pay those costs, and the financial
feasibility of their doing so successfully. During Project preparation, the overall incentive framework for
beneficiaries, including land tenure, SIDD development, water pricing, and agricultural marketing issues,
was reviewed. In addition, a financial risk analysis has been carried out to evaluate the potential impact of
WTO accession on the expected irrigated agriculture benefits and farmers' income in the Project area.
Financial analysis was carried out to indicate the financial viability of the proposed investments, as if the
irrigation districts were expected to be self-financing. The Project will substantially improve the financial
viability of farming through increased annual returns to farm labor and capital investments. Financial
analysis has been carried out for each individual irrigation technology, provincial/municipal subproject
area, and typical beneficiary farm household based on Project cost estimates. FRRs for all financial
options are estimated to range from 14.1 percent (Qingdao) to 16.2 percent (Liaoning (Shenyang)), and the
overall Project FRR is 15.6 percent.
Detailed results of economic and financial rate of return analyses for individual irrigation technologies in
each province/municipality are summarized below:
- 55 -



Cost Benefit Analysis Summary for Irrigation Area
(Yuan Million in 2000)
Present Value of Flows       Present Value of
Flows
Province/Municipality          Financial                  Economic
Subproject                      Inc. Net      FRR (%)       Inc. Net     ERR
Benefits                    Benefits   _(%!
Beijing City                      61.04         14.7         109.41      18.1
-Canal Lining                      1.42        14.7            1.65     15.3
-Low Pressure Pipeline            45.89         15.2         71.64      18.1
-Sprinkler                         3.78        15.0           4.34      15.9
-Micro/Drip                        9.95        13.5          31.78      19.1
Hebei Province                    53.20         15.6         108.81      21.0
-Canal Lining                      7.20         14.0          17.31     17.5
-Low Pressure Pipeline            34.25        17.1          60.25      22.9
-Sprinkler                         2.45        15.9            4.78     21.0
-Micro/Drip                        9.30        14.4          26.47      21.0
Qingdao City                      28.64         14.1          90.32      20.5
-Canal Lining                     11.02        16.2          26.26      25.3
-Low Pressure Pipeline             6.71         13.0         34.34      18.7
-Sprinkler                         1.84        12.8            9.22     17.1
-Micro/Drip                        9.07         16.1         20.50      23.4
Liaoning (Shenyang)              250.41         16.2         434.56      21.7
Province
-Canal Lining                      5.28         13.2           7.87     13.9
-Low Pressure Pipeline            11.23        15.3          23.69      21.7
-Sprinkler                        71.20         15.7         189.55     26.5
-Micro/Drip                      162.70        17.1         213.45      20.6
Total Project                    393.29         15.6         734.10      20.7
-Canal Lining                     24.92        14.2          53.09      17.4
-Low Pressure Pipeline            98.08         15.2         189.92     19.6
-Sprinkler                        79.27         15.4        207.89      24.5
-Micro/Drip                      191.02        16.3         292.20      20.6
Water Charges. The present rates for water charges in Project irrigation areas range from 5 fen per m in
Qingdao to 14 fen per mr in Hebei. These rates comprise only a part of the average actual O&M
expenditures, and the overall collection rate is low. The shortfall is generally covered by subsidies from
government budgets. However, for the Project, detailed analysis of water charges has been undertaken
assuming long-term  financial stability and independence to the water saving irrigation areas, and to
determine water charges needed to make WSOs and WUAs self-financing. Future O&M costs, including
costs for periodic overhaul, repair and replacement have been projected for all irrigation technologies in
each subproject area. The water demand in the field at full development has been used for computation of
the water cost per m, and less water will be used by farmers for the same crops due to the integrated water
saving technologies applied in the field. The calculation shows that the O&M cost per m of water supplied
to the head of a lateral varies significantly between irrigation technologies and subproject areas, depending
mainly on the type of irrigation system and investment costs. For water charges to cover all O&M and
replacement costs, rates would have to be raised from  13 to 31 fen per m  for canal lining irrigation
systems, 13 to 37 fen per m for low pressure pipeline irrigation systems, 13 to 30 fen per m for sprinkling
irrigation systems, and 34 to 41 fen per m for micro/drip irrigation systems. These rates would be
- 56 -



reasonable for farmers to pay, especially with the cropping patterns shifted toward higher value cash crop.
Full O&M cost recovery can be achieved through the WUAs due to their strong institutional interest in
provision of good irrigation services for their members. Detailed tables for the water charge analysis in
each subproject area and the summary table on impact of water costs on household income by different
irrigation technologies are presented below.
Impact of Water Costs on Household Income by Different Irrigation Technology
Water used at        Rate of Water                                  Base Case
field level       charges (YIM3)
(M3/ha)                                 Water cost (Y/ha)         Income (Y)    Water cost as % of
gross income per ha
Component/   Present   Future  Present  O&M   Full-  Present   O&M           Full-  Present  Future   Present O&M   Full-
Irrigated                                          cost*                     cost                                      cost
Area-
Canal lining
Beijing          7858     3678      0.07    0.12  0.13    550.1    441.4  478.1   11171   12168          4.9   3.6    3.9
Hebei            3881     3279      0.14    0.18   0.31    543.4    590.3  1016.6    7115     9138       7.6   6.5    11.1
Qingdao          3712    3498       0.05    0.08  0.18    185.6    279.8  629.6   10958    14161         1.7   2.0    4.4
Liaoning         8605    8455       0.11    0.18   0.23    946.6   1521.9  1944.7   10500    13125       9.0  11.6   14.8
(Shenvane)                                                                                 __l____                    _
Low pressure
Beijing          3428     1839      0.07    0.37  0.47    240.0    680.5  864.4   11400    13110         2.1   5.2    6.6
Hebei            3881     3242      0.12    0.15  0.26    465.7    486.2  826.6    7115    9138          6.5   5.3    9.0
Qingdao          3627     3414      0.05    0.13  0.21    181.4    443.9  717.0   15326    19397         1.2   2.3    3.7
Liaoning         2094     5660      0.11    0.32  0.37    230.4   1811.2 2094.2    6750   22800          3.4   7.9    9.2
(ShenvanR)_______
Sprinkler
Beijing         11800    5245       0.07    0.22  0.25    826.0   1153.9  1311.2   45202    51984        1.8   2.2    2.5
Hebei            3881     3158      0.12    0.25  0.37    465.7    789.6  1168.6    7115    9289         6.5   8.5   12.6
Qingdao          3679     3104      0.05    0.13  0.26    184.0   403.6  807.2   11787   15339           1.6   2.6    5.3
Liaoning         2093     5660      0.11     0.3  0.35    230.3   1698.0  1981.0    6750   22800         3.4   7.4    8.7
(Shenvan -)                                         _ .
Drip
irrieation
Beijing         11798     6863      0.07    0.41  0.57    825.9   2813.7  3911.7   90000   117000        0.9   2.4    3.3
Hebei            6126      543      0.16    0.34  0.52    980.2   1846.3  2823.7   19187   23896         5.1   7.7    11.8
Qingdao          8340    4010       0.05    0.36   0.76    417.0   1443.6           78803   97500        0.5   1.5    3.1
Liaoning         1200      900      0.11    0.38  0.53    132.0   342.0  477.0    7200        8550       1.8   4.0     5.6
(Shenyang)               _             _                                     _            _
* Full cost includes full 0 & M costs and replacement costs in terms of different investment costs and other
related costs for different irrigation technologies in each subproject area.
Farm income. The Project will also increase beneficiary farmers' income and improve their living standard.
A total of 257,000 farm families will directly benefit from the Project. The farm model analysis shows
substantial increase in beneficiary farmers' income with the comprehensive implementation of integrated
water-saving facilities/technologies, the better extension of irrigated agronomy and the improvement of
- 57 -



irrigation management. Several items have been considered to calculate and assess the impacts on typical
household income, such as various incremental taxes (agricultural tax, specialty tax and fee, etc.); an
incremental water charge which will cover the full operation and maintenance costs for the upgraded
irrigation system; and the Project loan repayment that will be charged at about Y 225/ha in Hebei, Y
300/ha in Qingdao, Y 300/ha in Liaoning (Shenyang), and Y 225/ha in Beijing. The standard charge for
these items is presented in the typical household farm model. At full development, annual net incomes of
the typical farm households who adopted the new irrigation technologies under the Project are estimated at
about Y 3,804 to Y 26,759 for canal lining and sprinkling irrigation farm in Beijing, about Y 6,453 to Y
12,192 for canal lining and micro/drip irrigation farm in Hebei, about Y 4,283 to Y 24,786 for low
pressure pipeline (LPP) and micro/drip irrigation in Qingdao, and about Y 4,924 to Y 6,259 for canal
lining and low-pressure pipe irrigation in Liaoning (Shenyang) for various crops. The summary table of
household net income in each province/municipality is presented below.
- 58 -



Income Impact on Typical Households
(Yuan in 2000)
Present Net Income          Future Net Income    Growth
_ Rate
Family    Family    Per Capita   Family   Per Capita       %
Size
Sub-comRonentiArea
Canal lining
Beijing                   4            2819         705       3804         951      34.94
Hebei                     5            5890        1178       6453        1291       9.56
Qingdao                   7            3808         544       4673         668      22.72
Liaoning (Shenyang)       3            3732        1244       4924        1641     31.94
Low pressure pipeline
Beijing                   4           12234        3059      17053        4263      39.39
Hebei                     5            5948        1190       6575        1315      10.54
Qingdao                   4            3506         877       4283        1071      22.16
Liaoning (Shenyang)       3            3097        1032       6259        2086     102.10
Sprinkler
Beijing                   5           23950        4790      26759        5352      11.73
Hebei                     5            6361        1272       6929        1386       8.93
Qingdao                   7            4194         599       5441         777      29.73
Liaoning (Shenyang)       3            2955         985       5055        1685      71.07
Drip/Micro
Beijing                   4           18814        4703      23493        5873      24.87
Hebei                     5           10615        2123      12192        2438      14.86
Qingdao                   4           20552        5138      24786        6197      20.60
Liaoning (Shenyang)       3            4301        1434       5006        1669      16.39
WTO Impact
Canal lining
Beijing                   4            2919         730       4061        1015      39.12
Hebei                     5            5922        1184       6386        1277       7.84
Qingdao                   7            3540         506       4140         591      16.95
Liaoning (Shenyang)       3            7332        2444       7348        2449       0.22
Low pressure pipeline
Beijing                   4           28622        7155      31855        7964      11.30
Hebei                     5            5980        1196       6508        1302       8.83
Qingdao                   4            3352         838       4117        1029      22.82
Liaoning (Shenyang)       3            4042        1347       6259        2086      54.85
Sprinkler
Beijing                   5           23950        4790      26759        5352      11.73
Hebei                     5            6436        1287       7059        1412       9.68
Qingdao                   7            3810         544       4970         710      30.45
Liaoning (Shenyang)       3            3765        1255       5055        1685      34.26
Drip/Micro
Beijing                   4           18814        4703      23493        5873      24.87
Hebei                     5           10647        2129      12124        2425      13.87
Qingdao                   4           20552        5138      24865        6216      20.99
Liaoning (Shenyang)       3            4015        1338       5004        1668      24.63
Farmers' Ability to Pay. The farm incomes analyses show that Project investments generate substantial
increases in net farm incomes for all groups of farmers who implement the different type of irrigation
technologies and cropping patterns. It shows the growtlt rate of household income from Project start to
Year 3 in various subproject areas, ranging from about 11.7 percent to 39.4 percent for farms in Beijing,
- 59 -



about 8.9 percent to 14.9 percent in Hebei, about 20.6 percent to 29.7 percent in Qingdao, and about 16.4
percent to 102 percent in Liaoning (Shenyang). The estimated incremental annual farm incomes due to the
Project are financially attractive and provide adequate incentives for farmers to make the proposed
investments, take over the full responsibility for O&M and pay the increased water charges. The full
O&M costs (with replacement cost) or increased water charges comprise about 3.9 percent (Beijing) to
14.8 percent (Liaoning (Shenyang)) of the farm gross income of the households for canal lining irrigation,
about 3.7 percent (Qingdao) to 9.2 percent (Liaoning (Shenyang)) for low pressure pipeline irrigation,
about 2.5 percent (Beijing) to 12.6 percent (Hebei) for sprinkler irrigation, and about 3.1 percent (Qingdao)
to 11.8 percent (Hebei) for micro/drip irrigation.
"Real" Water Savings Benefits. The reduced O&M costs due to the stabilization of the groundwater
tables resulting from the integrated measures will enhance the financial feasibility and the farmers' ability to
pay. As in the economic analysis, these financial benefits were not considered in the financial analysis
because of their uncertainty.
Market Analysis
All four provinces and municipalities have done market research of agricultural products in Project areas
and they are included in the PIP. The agricultural products in the Project area can be classified into five
main categories, i.e. grain (including corn, rice, wheat and soybean), cotton, vegetables, fruits (including
pear, apple, peach, grapes) and some other cash crops (including peanuts, fresh flowers etc.). According
to the market survey there were no difficulties selling these agricultural products for farmer producers in
the Project areas at market-determined prices in the without-Project condition. Because the incremental
increase in production of these products is relatively small in comparison to the total amounts in the
market, it is not anticipated that there will be difficulties selling these agricultural products during the
Project life.
Grain: Government purchase takes about one fifth to one third of total grain production. About one third
to two thirds of grain production will be consumed by farmer producers themselves. The remaining grain is
sold either by contracting with grain processing companies or through retail on the market. With the Project
implementation the total grain production will decrease. For example, the corn production will decrease by
some 32% in subproject areas while the government purchase will remain the same as in the without
Project condition. Therefore there should be no difficulties selling the grain produced in Project areas.
Vegetables: All the Project areas are near by big cities, such as Beijing, Shenyang, Qingdao and
Shijiazhuang and Handan. In the without Project condition, most of the vegetable production is supplied to
these cities. Both the variety and the amount of vegetables presently produced in Project areas only meets a
fraction of the demand of these cities. With the Project, vegetable varieties will be improved and the total
production will be increased by some 22%. Some reverse-season vegetables will be planted during Project
implementation. There should be no difficulty selling the vegetables produced in Project areas through
existing marketing channels. Market demand for vegetables has increased dramatically in recent years.
Fruits: Some one third of fruit presently produced in Project areas is sold to local fruit processing plants
and the remaining fruit is sold to many different places all over China (including local areas) before the
Project. Local fruit production does not meet the demand of local fruit processing plants in most Project
areas. With the implementation of the Project, the total production of fruit will increase by some 32%.
Most of the increase of fruit production will be absorbed by local markets and the remainder will be
marketed through existing channels in other parts of China. Market demand for fruit has increased greatly
in recent years.
- 60 -



Cotton: Cotton is produced only in some counties in Hebei Province within the Project area and the cotton
production will increase significantly in the locals areas due to the Project. All farmer cotton producers can
sell their all production through government purchase and no change is envisaged in the future.
Other cash crop products: These products constitute a small proportion in the total agricultural production
in the Project areas. Farners grow these crop either according to their own consumption needs or market
demand. Normally, they make adjustment for planting these cash crops every year according to their own
judgment of market conditions. In general the market demand for these cash crops is increasing rapidly.
The market prices of all above agricultural products vary in accordance with market factors including
supply and demand. The farmer producers in the Project area bear the risks of price fluctuations. The
farmers should improve their storage skill for high value fruits if they want to sell their products at top
price. Detailed marketing information and recommendation are included in the PIP.
The impact of the WTO accession on the project benefit. To assess the impact of the WTO accession a
financial risk analysis for the impact on the crop production and consumption was carried out, including an
income analysis for the impact on the affected farmers in the Project area.
The analysis attempted to evaluate the potential impact on the changes in China's domestic agricultural
production and consumption, and farmers income that may result from the various commitments in the
WTO negotiation agreement. In the Agreement on U.S. - China Agricultural Cooperation (the level of the
base import forecast) China agreed to a 4.5-million ton, 7.3-million ton, 2.66-million ton, 0.74- million ton,
and 1.72-million ton import quota for corn, wheat, rice, cotton and soy oil in 2000, rising to 7.2 million,
9.64 million, 5.32 million, 0.89 million and 3.26 million in 2004 and 2006 (for soy oil) respectively.
Imports within these amounts would be subject to a low duty ( less than 10 percent), while amounts above
these levels would be subject to much higher duties. Whatever happens on the export side, the most likely
scenario overall is that increased Chinese imports under WTO accession would bring about an increase in
world market prices and trade volumes, and may also result in downward pressure on domestic prices and
production for the above crops. Consumption will rise as a result of increased imports and reduced
domestic prices. However, the impact on the local crop production and consumption is unlikely to be
significant since the total amount of the grain imports is expected to be only about 3-5 percent of the total
amount of domestic consumption. Japonica rice that is grown in the Project area trades at international
prices exceeding those for comparable quality intemal production, making imports more expensive and
therefore less likely.
In the Project area the wheat, com, rice, cotton and soybean are the main crops that may be affected by
WTO accession. In a conservative analysis to assess the financial viability of the Project, a financial risk
analysis was carried out in which the world market prices in the year 2000 for the above crops were used
directly for the farm gate prices in projected crop budget without adding any transportation and other
internal costs in China, which is about 9 and 30 percent lower than the existing farm gate prices for
soybeans and wheat, and 10 and 50 percent higher for corn and rice, respectively. The crop budgets of new
varieties were also considered in the analysis to have the comparable high quality product (with lower yield
growth) in each subproject area. Coin (of all the commodities the likeliest to see the most activity under this
scenario) is reduced in the Project in area planted by 24,372 ha (shifting to wheat, vegetables and fruits),
resulting in reduced production by about 0.13 million tons in the Project areas. The resulting (FRRs) in
this WTO accession risk analysis for all subproject areas are: (a) Beijing - 13.8%; (b) Hebei - 14.2%; (c)
Qingdao - 11.7%; (d) Liaoning (Shengyang) - 11.0%; and Total Project - 12.1%.
- 61 -



The results show that the estimated FRR for the total Project and for the subprojects is 11% or greater,
which is considered to be an adequate financial return.
Based on the above scenario (following implementation of the WTO agreements) the farm income analysis
indicated that the net farm income for each irrigation technology in all subproject areas will be still
increased significantly (except the canal irrigation area in Shengyang, the farm who produces corn/wheat
mainly will be affected by lower world market price) when compared to the without Project condition. The
growth rate of household income will range from about 11.3 percent to 39 percent for farms in Beijing,
about 7.8 percent to 13.9 percent for farmns in Hebei, about 17 percent to 30 percent for farmns in Qingdao,
about 0.2 percent to 55 percent for farm in Liaoning (Shengyang). One important general conclusion that
can be drawn from the WTO accession risk analysis is that Chinese irrigated wheat will be less competitive
in the future which could require reconsideration of future cropping patterns.
Main Assumptions:
Financial Analysis. The main assumptions for the financial analysis were:
(a)    The analysis has been expressed in 2000 constant prices. Input and output prices used in the crop
budgets are 2000 average farm gate prices prevailing in the subproject areas and provided by the Project
authorities;
(b)    The opportunity cost of capital (OCC) in China is estimated at 12 percent;
(c)    The economic life has been assumed to be 20 years for all irrigation civil works, and 10 years for
equipment and vehicles;
(d)    Investment costs include taxes, duties, and physical contingencies. Total investment costs include
civil works and structures, onfarm works, vehicle and equipment, agricultural extension and inputs, staff
training and technical assistance, study/demonstration for different irrigation technologies, agricultural
intensification and services, afforestation/environmental protection and monitoring, and institutional
development (including the SIDD) components in all subproject areas;
(e)     The annual operation and maintenance costs (O&M) were estimated based on different irrigation
technologies and facilities, which cover repair, maintenance, electricity and fuel (mainly for pumping
costs), management, overhead, depreciation, etc. for sprinklers, low-pressure pipeline, canal lining, U-type
canal lining, and micro/drip irrigation system, and for with- and without-Project scenarios;
(f)    Irrigation efficiencies were considered for different irrigation technologies, which were designed
under Project from Irrigation Manual of MWR; namely, 45% for present earth canal, 70% for canal lining,
80% for low-pressure pipe, 85% for sprinklers, 90% for micro/drip irrigation. Most subproject are using
well irrigation, except for Qingdao, so water losses are relatively small. Based on the above assumptions,
as well as the irrigation quotas for various crops under different irrigation technologies, the gross and net
water demands were calculated for each subproject area, which were used for calculation of the associated
costs, especially O&M cost;
(g)    The water charges were calculated based on the above assumed irrigation efficiencies, water
volume used (gross and net volume), and O&M costs for different irrigation technologies in each
subproject area. The cost of water supply will be increased to cover full O&M costs and replacement
- 62 -



costs in terms of different investment costs, and other related costs for different irrigation technologies in
the with Project case;
(h)    The groundwater saving will reduce the annual incremental operation and maintenance costs in the
with-Project scenario, including incremental repair and maintenance costs (25 percent of the depreciation),
energy cost for pumping system (the incremental volume of electricity (Y) =0.00272 wh/e, w = the volume
of groundwater extraction, h = the decreased level of groundwater, and e = 0.6, the comprehensive
efficiency of the machine), management, overhead, depreciation (period decreased from 20 to 10 years for
wells and pumping equipment), and the extra replacement cost for deeper wells and larger size of pumps
(20 percent of the depreciation);
(i)    Financial benefits from each subproject area were based on detailed crop budgets, cropping pattem
changes, sowing area, multiple crop index, times and amount of irrigation, etc. prepared for different
irrigation technologies, reflecting representative scenarios in each subproject area;
(j)    The amount applied of agricultural inputs (mainly for seeds, fertilizers and plastic geomembranes)
were considered the same average levels for all irrigation technologies with the same crop in each
subproject area, but varied levels for different crops in different subproject areas with the various local
water and soil conditions. Labor for on-farm works, and agricultural production were priced at the
prevailing wage rate of Y15/day;
(k)    Projected yield increases are based on the experience with the IAIL I & II Projects.  The
without-Project situation yields are based on current average yield for existing irrigation technologies in
each subproject area. Achievement of full development yields was assumed over 3 years in each subproject
area. The yield under sprinkler technology has a slightly higher increase (about 10 percent) than the other
technologies due to removal of the field ditches and borders. Based on the planned phasing of investment
expenditure in each province/municipality over 5 years, crop yields will reach full development in the Year
8 in all subproject areas. Forestry output will start from year 15.. The projected agricultural yields and
production are based on existing models and systems, and are therefore realistic and sustainable, and would
provide both safety and adequate incomes for all farmers in the Project area;
(1)    Because the incremental increase in production for all crops in the Project counties is relatively
small when compared to total production in the areas, the increased production of food and cash crops will
be readily absorbed, predominantly by the local markets in the Project area, supplemented by export to
other national markets if necessary; and
(m)   Agricultural taxes differ according to the crop being cultivated: Y150-180 per ha for grain and
most other crops, 8 percent of sales income for timber and forestry products, and 16 percent of sales
income for fruit.
Economic Analysis. The economic analysis followed the assumptions used in the financial analysis,
except for the differences indicated below:
(a) All Project costs, including Project investment and production costs, physical contingencies, and O&M
costs have been considered in estimating the economic costs of the Project, but price contingencies, taxes,
duties and other charges were omitted. Labor contributed for civil works, on-farm construction and
agricultural production has been shadow-priced at the prevailing wage rate of YI 5/day;
- 63 -



(b) World Bank commodity price projections or export prices actually realized in China were used to
estimate farmgate prices in constant 2000 terms. These were then used to calculate the farmgate value of
wheat, maize, paddy rice, soybean, peanuts, and fertilizers, with appropriate adjustments for domestic and
intemational transport and handling costs for each subproject area. A standard conversion factor of I was
applied to all non-traded items; and
(c) All economic values were converted to local currency at the prevailing official exchange rate of Y8.3 to
US$1.0, and a discount rate of 12 percent was used to approximate the opportunity cost of capital in
China.
Sensitivity analysis / Switching values of critical items:
Sensitivity and Risk Analysis. The economic sensitivity and risk analysis of all subprojects was carried
out for the following scenarios: (a) natural disasters of drought, floods and insect pests; (b) reduced
market-determined prices of major crops (wheat, paddy rice, vegetables and fruits) by 10-15 percent; (c)
reduced benefits from lower irrigation (on-farm) efficiency due to insufficient incentives to carry out the
integrated physical, agronomic and management measures by the farmers; (d) increased O&M cost for new
irrigation facilities (sprinkler and pipelines); and (e) delay of Project completion by two years due to lack
of institutional capacity and financial support. These risks were evaluated with sensitivity analyses on a
variety of data and assumptions required for the estimation of ERRs. The results show that, even with
consideration of the risks mentioned above, the estimated ERRs of subprojects are higher than the
opportunity cost of capital (OCC) of 12 percent (except in the last scenarios where the ERR is slightly
below the OCC for Hebei, Qingdao and Liaoning (Shenyang)). Measures have been taken in Project
preparation and included under the Project to reduce these risks and minimize their effect.
Switching Values. Sensitivity analysis on the ERRs for all scenarios including the base cases and all
subprojects was carried out with switching values to determnine the effects of deviation from the main
assumptions on the economic viability of the Project, to identify levels at which the Project would become
economically nonviable, and to specify how far the total costs including operating, input and investment
costs could rise or benefits could fall (e.g., reduced yield and/or output price, and/or delay in benefits).
Overall, the Project would remain viable if cost increases about 20 percent or benefits decrease by 16
percent, and individual subprojects could tolerate similar cost increase and benefit reductions. In most
subprojects, viability is more sensitive to benefit reduction than to cost increases.
The results of sensitivity analysis for all irrigation technologies in each subproject area are summarized
below:
-64 -



Subject             Total Incremental Benefits      Total Incremental Costs
l  (Un its: YaMilo)(Un its: Yuan Million)
Base    Switching I Percentage   Base   Sicing  Percentage
IValue  IValue    I hne         Value    Value      Chanize
Beijing Munidpality       494.2      384.4        22.2    384.4      494.2        28.5
-Canal Linning              5.0        3.3        33.2      3.3        5.0        49.6
-Low Pressure Pipeline    254.1      184.1        27.5    184.1      254.1        38.0
-Sprinkling                 11.3       7.0        38.2      7.0       11.3        61.8
-Micro/Drip               223.8      192.6        13.9   192.6       223.8        16.2
Hebei Province            458.6      349.9        23.7    349.9      458.6        31.1
-Canal Lining              99.8       78.8        21.1     78.8       99.8        26.7
-Low Pressure Pipeline    209.1      147.8        29.3    147.8      209.1        41.5
-Sprinkler                 21.8       16.4        24.7     16.4       21.8        32.8
-Micro/Drip               127.8      107.3        16.0    107.3      127.8        19.1
Qingdao Municipality      389.5      299.2        23.2    299.2      389.5        30.2
-Canal Lining              94.4       75.3        20.3    94.4        75.3        25.4
-Low Pressure Pipeline     178.0     147.7        17.0   147.7       178.0        20.5
-Sprinkler                 52.6       44.2        16.0    44.2        52.6        19.0
-Micro/Drip                64.6       51.2        20.6    51.2        64.6        26.0
Liaoning (Shenyang) Prov   2464.3   2030.6        17.6  2030.6    2464.3          21.4
-Canal Lining              84.0       64.9        22.8     64.9       84.0        29.5
-Low Pressure Pipeline     159.6     130.8        18.0   130.8       159.6        22.0
-Sprinkler                1011.8     802.9        20.6   802.9      1011.8        26.0
-Micro/Drip              1208.9      940.7        22.2   940.7      1208.9        28.5
Total Prolect            3806.5    3064.3         19.5  3064.3      3806.5        24.2
-65 -



The results of sensitivity analysis for all scenarios with switching values including the base case
in all subproject areas were summarized below:
Total Incremental Benefits       Total Incremental Costs
(Unit: Yuan Million)             (Unit: Yuan MiHion)
Subproject                   Base    Switching  Percentage   Base   Switching  Percentage   ENPV    ERR
Value     Value      Change      Value     Value     Change (e)
A. Base Case
Beijing City               494.07      384.40       22.2    384.40    494.07         28.5   109.41     18.1
Hebei Province             458.60      349.90       23.7    349.90    458.60         31.0   108.81     21.0
Qingdao city               389.50      299.20       23.2    299.20    389.50         30.1    90.32     20.5
Shenyang City             2464.30     2030.60        17.6   2030.60   2464.30        21.3   434.56     21.7
B. Risk from Markets
Beijing City               444.64      384.66        13.5    384.66    444.64        15.6    60.01     15.4
Hebei Province             412.71      349.98        15.2    349.98    412.71        17.9    62.95     17.3
Qingdao city               350.59      299.05        14.7    299.05    350.59        17.2    51.38     17.0
Shenyang City             2217.89     2029.37         8.5   2029.37   2217.89         9.3   188.12     16.4
C. Risk from Natural
Disaster
Beijing City               471.37      384.64        18.4    384.64    471.37        22.5    86.72     16.9
Hebei Province             436.23      349.86        19.8    349.86    436.23        24.7    86.46     19.2
Qingdao city               371.39      298.97        19.5    298.97    371.39        24.2    72.18     18.9
Shenyang City             2345.03     2028.45        13.5   2028.45   2345.03        15.6   315.26     19.2
D. Risk from Low Canal
Efficiency
Beijing City               419.96      384.26         8.5    384.26    419.96         9.3    35.31     14.0
Hebei Province             389.79      349.64        10.3    349.64    389.79        11.5    40.02     15.4
Qingdao city               331.11      299.32        9.6    299.32    331.11         10.6    31.90     15.1
Shenyang City             2094.68     2029.74        3.1   2029.74   2094.68          3.2    64.91     13.6
E. Benefits delay two years
Beijing City               376.56      384.09       -2.0    384.09    376.56         -2.0   (8.10)    11.6
Hebei Province             348.22      349.61       -0.4    349.61    348.22         -0.4   (1.55)     11.9
Qingdao city               292.57      299.35       -2.3    299.35    292.57         -2.3   (7.16)     11.5
Shenyang City             1876.85     2027.00       -8.0      2027   1876.85         -7.4  (152.92)     9.7
- 66 -



Annex 5: Financial Summary
CHINA: WATER CONSERVATION
Years Ending
2005
-                   A~~~~~~~~~~~~~7-
Y Veari   |Year 2  I Year3  | Year4      Year 5    Year6  I Year7
Total Financing Required
Project Costs
Investment Costs          29.8       42.0       41.1      40.0       20.2        0.0       0.0
Recurrent Costs
Total Project Costs         29.8       42.0       41.1      40.0       20.2        0.0       0.0
Interest during   0.9        1.5        2.4        3.2       3.8        0.0       0.0
construction
Front-end fee    0.7                                                   0.0       0.0
Total Financing             31.4       43.5       43.5       43.2      24.0        0.0       0.0
Financing
IBRD/IDA                  13.9       17.7      17.1       16.8        8.5       0.0       0.0
Government                 8.3       12.2      12.5       12.5        7.3       0.0       0.0
Central                                                                     0.0        0.0
Provincial             8.3       12.2       12.5       12.5       7.3       0.0        0.0
Co-financiers                                                                  0.0        0.0
User Fees/Beneficiaries    9.2      13.6       13.9       13.9        8.2      0.0        0.0
Others                     0.0       0.0        0.0        0.0        0.0       0.0       0.0
Total Project Financing    31.4       43.5       43.5       43.2      24.0       0.0        0.0
Main assumptions:
Financing Plan. The total Project financing required is estimated at US$185.67 million (Y 1,559.74
million) including the interest during construction and the front-end fee. The World Bank will finance
US$74 million, which is 39.9 per cent of the total Project financing required. The remaining US$111.67
million of the Project financing required will be financed by the Borrower including province/municipality
(US$29.55 million; 15.9 percent), prefecture (US$4.85 million; 2.6 percent), county and township
(US$18.42 million; 9.9 percent) in the form of grant as well as farmers (US$58.85 million; 31.7 percent).
The farmer contribution will be funded in cash (US$30.45 million; 16.4 percent) and labor input
(US$28.40 million; 15.3 percent). The provinces and municipalities have provided to the World Bank with
a commitment on measures concerning provision of counterpart funding.
Repayment of the Bank loan will be the responsibility of the Borrower, which will recover from
provincial/municipal governments (Beijing, Hebei, and Liaoning (Shenyang), Qingdao). In turn the
provincial/municipal governments will recover from local governments (prefectures, counties and
townships) and Project beneficiaries. Most of the loan repayment will be the responsibility of Project
beneficiaries. Some will be repaid by the provincial/municipal governments to cover technical assistance,
training and some project management costs. The terms of on-lending the IBRD Loan have been agreed
between the Central Government and the Governments of Beijing, Hebei, Liaoning (Shenyang) and
- 67 -



Qingdao. The Ministry of Finance will on-lend the IBRD Loan of US$74 million to provincial and
municipal Finance Bureaus on terms and conditions as received from the Bank: 20 year repayment
including a 5 year grace period, Bank charged interest rate, a 1% front-end fee and a 0.75% commitment
fee. Foreign exchange risks will be borne by the provinces and municipalities. The details of these financial
arrangements have been agreed, along with conmmitments for adequate and timely counterpart funding by
provincial/municipal and local governments. The CPMO will submit to the Bank by September 30 of each
year, the annual work program for each province/municipality, financial plans and budgets for the
following year's implementation plans. The submission will include evidence that the provincial/municipal
and local governments will provide adequate and timely counterpart funding.
Fiscal impact and cost recovery. The primary fiscal impact will be short-term, mainly with regard to the
provision of adequate and timely counterpart funding for implementation. As per the Project financing plan,
the provincial/municipal and local governments will cover 28.4 percent of the total Project cost which is
about US$52.8 million equivalent, inclusive of about US$6.9 million equivalent of duties and taxes, the
government's net contribution will therefore be about US$45.9 million equivalent over five years
(construction period). The government contribution will not be recovered from the farmers but considered
to be a subsidy that is justified by the national benefits derived from the preservation of the water resource
due to the "real" water savings. The provincial/municipal governments will also be responsible for about
some of the loan repayment. In the longer term, it is expected that the Bank loan repayment requirements
would be expected to be recovered from the incremental production and income by beneficiaries during the
Project operation. The financial analysis indicated that the annual government revenue will increase from
Specialty taxes about US$ 1.1 million (about Y 9.28 million from incremental vegetable and fruit products),
and the forestry Fund about US$0.36 million (about Y 3 million from incremental forestry product). The
major portion of the cost recovery from the farmers will be through increases in irrigation water charges
(which will cover the full O&M costs), and through labor and cash contributions by farmers. Other
assessments including agricultural taxes and land-lease fees may also be used for cost recovery if water
charges cannot be raised sufficiently. The county governments will be responsible for loan repayment to
the higher government levels and will collect funds from the farmers through water charges and/or other
assessments in order to do this. The present rates of water charges comprise only a part of the average
actual O&M expenditures, and the overall collection rate is low. In the "with Project" situation the annual
incremental water charges for all irrigation technologies is estimated at about US$15 million (about Y 127
million). In addition, as SIDDs/WUAs are expected to assume much of the fiscal burden for irrigation
O&M, the fiscal impact on local governments will be significantly less than for traditional irrigation
development projects. (Detailed analysis of water charges for various irrigation technologies has been
undertaken during Project preparation and is presented in Annex 4). Under the Agriculture Support
Services component, cost recovery for the soil improvement works will be out of the increased crop
production, the agricultural inputs for fertilizers, seeds, plastic film, moisture retainer and agro-machinery
will be operated on a commercial basis, and the sales prices for agricultural inputs and services will be
fixed on the basis of market conditions and would have to cover costs including distribution costs for the
facilities to remain financially viable. Nevertheless, it is estimated that farmers will be responsible for
paying approximately 51 per cent of the total Project investment (excluding the labor inputs which amount
to another 21 per cent of the costs). The financial analysis undertaken using typical farm models indicates
that the growth rate of household income from Project start to Year 3 is estimated at about 11.7 percent to
39.4 percent for farms in Beijing, about 8.9 percent to 14.9 percent in Hebei, about 20.6 percent to 29.7
percent in Qingdao, and about 16.4 percent to 102.1 percent in Liaoning (Shenyang), and participating
farmers will have the ability to pay for these Project related costs. Details on this analysis is provided in
Annex 4.
- 68 -



Annex 6: Procurement and Disbursement Arrangements
CHINA: WATER CONSERVATION
Procurement
1. The Bank's Guidelines The Bank's "Guidelines: Procurement under IBRD Loans and IDA Credits"
(January 1995 revised in January, August 1996, September 1997 and January 1999) and "Guidelines:
Selection and Employment of Consultants by World Bank Borrowers" (January 1997 revised September
1997 and January 1999) will govern all Bank-financed procurement.
2. Bidding IDocuments and Bid Evaluation Reports
(i) The Bank-approved Chinese Model Bidding Documents will be adopted for all International
Competitive Bidding (ICB) and National Competitive Bidding (NCB) for goods and works and the
Standard Bid Evaluation Form will be used. Quotation Solicitation Form for Procurement of Small Works,
Quotation Solicitation Form for Procurement of Goods through Shopping Procedures, Construction
Agreement for Force Account Works and Procedures for Community Participation, developed by the
central PMO based on successful experience of many other Bank-financed projects in China and agreed by
the Bank, will also be used. The Bank's Standard Documents will be used where no relevant model
document exists, such as Standard Request for Proposal (SRFP) and Sample Form of Evaluation Report
(SFEP) for Selection of Consultants.
(ii) The Procedures for Community Participation to carry out works for access road construction,
development of improved seed fields, land leveling, return and reuse of straws and plantation of tree
nurseries, shelter-belt forest and trees for economic production would consist of the following: (a) selection
of local communities and/or non-governmental organizations should be in accordance with the requirement
of the project's program approach arrangements. They should be willing to invest in or contribute labor to
the Project, participate in and implement Project designing, construction and management; (b) participants
should be selected from the local community where the works are located; (c) women should account for no
less than 30 percent of the total local participants; (d) local communities and/or non-governmental
organizations should be well informed and encouraged to participate through a wide program of
information dissemination on the nature, function, content and requirements of the works; (e) county (city,
district) PMOs should sign agreements with township, village administrative agencies or Water User's
Associations of the local community where the works are located. The agreements should clearly state
responsibilities and benefits of the participating beneficiaries. The township, village administrative agencies
or Water User's Associations of the local community would be responsible for organizing the
implementation of the works; and (f) county (city, district) PMOs may entrust professional agencies in
agriculture, water conservancy, forestry etc. at county and township levels to provide technical guidance to
local participant to ensure quality and benefits of the works.
3. Supplementary Letter. A supplementary letter has been prepared and agreed to during negotiations by
the governments of Beijing Municipality, Hebei Province, Liaoning Province and Qingdao Municipality
(collectively, the Project Entities and individually a Project Entity) based on the Loan Agreement, the
Project Agreement and The Law on Tendering and Bidding of the People's Republic of China (adopted at
the 11th Session of the Standing Committee of the Ninth National People's Congress on August 30, 1999,
promulgated by Order No. 21 of the President of the People's Republic of China on August 30, 1999, and
effective as of January 1, 2000). This supplementary letter confirms the governments' agreement to the
procedures to be applied in the procurement of works and goods under national competitive bidding
- 69 -



arrangements referred to in the Project Agreement. This supplementary letter was agreed at Negotiations
and will be signed together with the Loan Agreement and the Project Agreement. In awarding contracting
in accordance with such provisions, each Project Entity will pay particular attention to ensure that the
following procedures are followed: (i) all invitations to pre-qualify or to bid shall be advertised both in a
newspaper of national circulation in the Borrower's country, and in a local newspaper of provincial-wide
circulation in the Project Entity; (ii) such advertisement shall be made in sufficient time for prospective
bidders to obtain pre-qualification or bidding documents and prepare and submit their responses; and in any
event a minimum of 30 days shall be given to bidders between the date of advertisement in such newspaper
and the deadline for submission of bids, and the advertisement and bidding documnents shall specify the
deadline for such submission; (iii) qualification requirements of bidders and the method of evaluating the
qualification of each bidder shall be specified in detail in the bidding documents; (iv) all bidders shall be
required to provide security in an amount sufficient to protect the Project Entity in case of breach of
contract by the contractor, and the bidding documents shall specify the required form and amount of such
security; (v) the time for opening of all bids shall be the same as the deadline for receipt of such bids; (vi)
all bids shall be opened in public; all bidders shall be afforded an opportunity to be present (either in person
or through their representatives) at the time of bid opening, but bidders shall not be required to be present
at the bid opening; (vii) no bid may be rejected solely on the basis that the bid price falls outside any
standard contract estimate, or margin or bracket of average bids established by the Project Entity; and (viii)
each contract shall be awarded to the lowest evaluated bidder, that is to say, the bidder who meets the
appropriate standards of capability and resources and whose bid has been determined (a) to be substantially
responsive to the bidding documents and (b) to offer the lowest evaluated cost. The winning bidder shall
not be required, as a condition of award, to undertake responsibilities for work not stipulated in the bidding
documents or otherwise to modify the bid as originally submitted.
4. Procurement Features
(i)    Decentralized Procurement Activities. Due to the scattered location and various implementation
schedules, each participating provincial/municipal PMO would undertake its own procurement for all
goods and consultant services under province/municipality and large civil works under jurisdiction of
province/municipality while each county/district PMO would undertake its own procurement for civil
works managed by county/district government under coordination of PPMO. Central PMO would guide
and supervise procurement work of PPMOs; organize overseas training and study tours for
provinces/municipalities; hire foreign specialists; organize training for project managers at
county/city/district level and above; coordinate scientific research plans; organize extension of research
achievements; coordinate procurement plan and reporting; and provide other supports to PPMOs when
needed. All procurement documents subject to the Bank's prior review will be sent to the Bank directly
from PPMOs. Procurement agents will be selected by each PPMO to provide assistance for ICB
procurement. The procurement profile is shown in Annex 6, Table A.
(ii)    Annual Program Approach. Under annual program approach arrangement, only the procurement
plan in the first year is precise. The plans for other years are assumptions based on percentage distribution
of total Project cost and the first year's estimation. The other years' plans will be updated and approved by
the Bank by the end of previous years.
5. Procurement Packaging. Due to decentralized procurement arrangement and annual program approach,
same kind goods will not be required to be grouped and packaged to bid for different province/municipality
and different years.
6. Procurement Capacity Assessment. A procurement capacity assessment was carried out during
- 70 -



Project preparation missions. The assessment concluded that participating provincial/municipal PMOs'
general procurement capacity is existing but inadequate with identified deficiencies. These deficiencies will
be corrected through specialized training before and during implementation. Based on the Bank's
recommendations, a Procurement Capacity Strengthening Action Plan was prepared by each PMO
specifying detailed actions to be taken to improve procurement capacity in the following general aspects: (i)
staffing, (ii) consultant services, (iii) training, (iv) incentives programs, (v) general environment, and (vi)
filing system. With the assistance of the Bank and contributions from all participating PPMOs, the
Procurement Management Regulations have also been prepared. The Procurement Management
Regulations and Procurement Capacity Strengthening Action Plans have been updated by each PPMO and
requirement raised in the pre-appraisal Aide Memoire are met. Most PMOs have assigned procurement
staff and training were conducted by CPMO and procurement specialist from the Bank's Office in Beijing
in March 2000.
7. Works. Civil works worth about US$128.64 million would be required for the Project to support
irrigation improvement, agriculture intensification, afforestation activities and institutional development.
Works would be scattered over 27 counties in the four participating provinces/municipalities and carried
out over a period of five years, and are not anticipated to be of interest to foreign construction firms.
Although not anticipated, any contract for works estimated to cost US$5 million equivalent or more would
be procured under ICB procedures.
(i)    NCB.  Contracts costing less than US$5 million equivalent may be awarded under NCB
procedures acceptable to the Bank. These works, worth about US$90.93 million, comprise mainly the
supply and installation of pipelines, (US$66.04 million), canal lining and structures (US$15.52 million),
water intake structures (US$4.41 million), water wells (US$2.86 million) and power supply lines (US$2.10
million).
(ii)   Small Works. About US$23.41 million worth of minor works, costing less than US$200,000
equivalent per contract and consisting of many small undertakings, include works for canal lining and
structures (US$1.39 million), water intake structures (US$0.75 million), water wells (US$5.38 million),
power supply lines (US$3.91 million), deep ploughing (US$2.43 million), renovation of warehouses and
seed stations (US$0.83 million), supply and installation of pipelines including drain and small reservoirs
(US$8.72 million). These works would be suitable for lump-sum and fixed-price contracts awarded on the
basis of quotations obtained from at least three qualified contractors registered with the local governments
and in response to a written invitation advertised locally.
(iii)   Force Account and Community Participation. Other works, not exceeding US$100,000 for each
assignment in value and with an aggregate value of about US$14.05 million, comprising access road
construction (US$6.21 rnillion), development of improved seed fields (US$0.57 million), land leveling
(US$3.87 million), return and reuse of straws (US$0.99 million), plantation of tree nurseries, shelter-belt
forest and trees for economic production (US$2.41 million) may be carried out using force account or
community participation procedures to best utilize the local know-how, available materials and
labor-intensive technologies. Bank's requirements in the Guidelines for force account would be followed
and Bank approved Procedures for Community Participation would apply. Progress payments for works
under force account and community participation arrangements would be based on unit prices and
quantities agreed annually with the Bank.
(iv)   Non-Bank Financing. About US$0.25 million worth of office buildings would be supported by
the Project but non-Bank funded.
- 71 -



8. Goods. Goods worth about US$28.14 million would be required for the Project. To the extent practical,
contracts for goods would be grouped by each PPMO into bid packages estimated to cost US$250,000
equivalent or more whenever possible to attract competition and permit bulk purchasing.
(i)    ICB. All contracts for goods costing US$250,000 equivalent or more may be awarded under ICB
procedures. A margin of preference equal to 15 percent of the CIF price of imported goods or the actual
customs duties and import taxes, whichever is less, would be allowed to qualified domestic manufactured
goods competing under ICB procedures. A total of about US$10.59 million worth goods are expected to be
procured through ICB. These contracts would cover pumps (US$5.79 million), sprinkler nozzle and other
micro irrigation equipment (US$3.31 million), chemical fertilizer (US$0.84 million), and four-wheel drive
wagons (US$0.65 million).
(ii)    NCB. All contracts for goods costing less than US$250,000 equivalent may be awarded under
NCB procedures acceptable to the Bank. These contracts, totaling about US$9.80 million equivalent,
would include pumps (US$1.02 million), water measuring devices (US$0.60 million), sprinlder nozzle and
other micro irrigation equipment (US$2.46 million), farm machinery (US$2.70 million), chemical fertilizer
(US$0.41 million), plastic geomembrane (US$0.54 million), moisture preserving agent (US$1.15 million),
improved seeds (US$0.11 million), MIS equipment (US$0.27 million) and passenger vehicles (US$0.54
million).
(iii)   National/International Shopping. The remainder goods worth about US$7.75 million, under
US$100,000 each contract, would be procured through national or intemational shopping in accordance
with procedures acceptable to the Bank. Shopping would cover pumps (US$0.18 million), water
measuring devices (US$0.33 million), sprinkler system, sprinkler nozzle and other micro irrigation
equipment (US$0.70 million), seed processing equipment (US$0.08 million), farm machinery (US$2.90
million), chemical fertilizer (US$0.71 million), plastic geomembrane (US$0.47 million), moisture
preserving agent (US$0.52 million), improved seeds (US$0.27 million), environmental monitoring
equipment (US$0.20 million), MIS equipment (US$0.40 million), passenger vehicles (US$0.22 million)
and office equipment (US$0.77 million). They will be procured in small batches from local markets and
suppliers or from intemational suppliers. All shopping contracts will require at least three price quotations.
International shopping will require a total of at least three price quotations from a minimum of two
countries.
9. Other. Other would include training and study tours, consultant services and miscellaneous costs worth
about US$28.89 million.
(i)    Training and Study Tours. Training and study tours (US$4.79 million), including both domestic
and overseas activities, would be reimbursed based on programs agreed with the Bank.
(ii)    Consultant Services. A total of about US$6.61 million equivalent of consultant services are
required for carrying out research activities, technical assistance, SIDD establishment and Project
monitoring and evaluation based on programs agreed with the Bank. In general, the "Quality- and
Cost-Based Selection" (QCBS) procedure would be followed for consultants to be hired through a firm. In
case when a contract for firm is very small, less than US$100,000, "Selection Based on Consultant's
Qualification" (CQ) procedures, with an aggregated amount of about US$3.50 million, may be used. About
30 percent of consultant services is expected to be individuals who would be employed in accordance with
the procedures applicable to individual consultants. All consulting assignments over US$200,000, though
unlikely, would be advertised in the United Nations' Development Business.
- 72 -



(iii)   Miscellaneous. About US$4.87 million worth of miscellaneous costs would cover Project survey
and design costs (US$2.83 million) and Project overhead expenses (US$2.04 million) which would be
entirely funded by the government.
(iv)   Interest During Construction and Front-end Fee. About US$11.88 million worth of interest
during construction for the Bank Loan is expected which would be funded by the government. A front-end
fee of US$0.74 million, equal to one percent of the Bank Loan amount, will be withdrawn by the Bank on
behalf of the Borrower from the Loan Account and paid to the Bank itself on or promptly after the Project
Effective Date.
10. World Bank Review. All contracts in excess of US$500,000 for works, the first NCB works and
Small Works contracts for the first two years for each province/municipality, all ICB contracts for goods,
the first NCB and shopping goods contracts for the first two years for each province/municipality, all
contracts for consultant services in excess of US$100,000 for firms and US$50,000 for individuals, all
contracts under QCBS procedures and all TORs would be subject to prior review by the Bank. For the
purpose of World Bank's prior review, contracts in excess of US$500,000 for works should not be
regarded as substitutes for the first NCB or small works contracts that are subject to prior review. All other
contracts would be subject to ex-post review by supervision missions. Details are provided in Annex 6,
Table B.
Procurement methods (Table A)
- 73 -



Table A: Project Costs by Procurement Arrangements
(US$ million equivalent)
Proquremen Methods
;' 2x                                                  pCat        *t9t100' ; ;t 0; 00m100000 0 pt*ar N.B.t.  Total Cost
~~ Category         1GB  ~~~~~~NCO               Other      ____
1. Works                                           90.93         37.46           0.25         128.64
()          (25.90)         (9.76)        (0.00)        (35.66)
2. Goods                            10.59          9.80           7.75           0.00          28.14
(10.59)        (9.80)         (5.81)         (0.00)        (26.20)
3. Services                                                       11.40          0.00          11.40
3/                                   (               0           (11.40)        (0.00)        (11.40)
4. Miscellaneous 4/                                                              4.87          4.87
o              0) ()         ()           (0.00)         (0.00)
5. Interest during                  0.00           0.00           0.00           11.88         11.88
construction
(0.00)         (0.00)         (0.00)        (0.00)         (0.00)
6. Front-end fee                                                  0.74           0.00          0.74
_________________________  o) o(0.74)     (0.00)         (0.74)
Total                            10.59         100.73          57.35          17.00        185.67
(10.59)        (35.70)        (27.71)        (0.00)        (74.00)
" Figures in parenthesis are the amounts to be financed by the Bank Loan. All costs include contingencies
2 Other procurement methods include force account and beneficiary participation for works, procurement
for small works, national/international shopping for small value equipment, minor vehicles and inputs,
training, study tour and consultant services.
3/ Including consultant services, training and study tours.
4/ Miscellaneous include US$2.83 million of project planning and design costs and US$2.04 million of Project
overhead expenses.
- 74 -



Table Al: Consultant Selection Arrangements (optional)
(US$ million equivalent)
Consultant                                Selectio    Method
Sesrvc
Expenditure    QCBS      Q8$       SF        LCS       Co      Other    N.S.F.  Total Costi
A. Firms           1.05     0.00  T  0.00       0.00     3.50      0.00      0.00     4.55
(1.05)    (0.00)    (0.00)    (0.00)    (3.50)    (0.00)    (0.00)    (4.55)
B. Individuals    0.00      0.00      0.00     0.00      0.00      2.06      0.00     2.06
(0.00)    (0.00)   (0.00)    (0.00)    (0.00)    (2.06)    (0.00)    (2.06)
Total   1.05     0.00      0.00     0.00      3.50      2.06     0.00      6.61
(1.05)    (0.00)    (0.00)    (0.00)    (3.50)    (2.06)    (0.00)    (6.61)
1\ Including contingencies
Note: QCBS = Quality- and Cost-Based Selection
QBS  Quality-based Selection
SFB = Selection under a Fixed Budget
LCS = Least-Cost Selection
CQ = Selection Based on Consultants' Qualifications
Other = Selection of individual consultants (per Section V of Consultants Guidelines)
N.B.F. = Not Bank-financed
Figures in parenthesis are the amounts to be financed by the Bank Loan.
-75 -



Prior review thresholds (Table B)
Table B: Thresholds for Procurement Methods and Prior Review
1. Works
=or>5,000                 ICB
<5,000                  NCB                     60.80
<200                Small Works                 0.64
2. Goods
=or>250                  ICB                     10.59
<250                   NCB                      1.07
<100                  Shopping                  0.22
3. Services
=or>100 for firms           QCBS                     1.05
=or>50 for individuals
Total value of contracts subject to prior review:  74.37
Overall Procurement Risk Assessment
Average
Frequency of procurement supervision missions proposed: One every 6 months (includes special
procurement supervision for post-review/audits)
'Thresholds generally differ by country and project. Consult OD 11.04 "Review of Procurement
Documentation" and contact the Regional Procurement Adviser for guidance.
- 76 -



Disbursement
Allocation of loan proceeds (Table C)
11. Disbursement for access road construction, development of improved seed fields, land leveling, return
and reuse of straws, plantation of tree nurseries, shelter-belt forest and trees for economic production
would be at 20 percent of total expenditures. Disbursement for works other than above would be at 33
percent. Disbursement for goods would be 100 percent of foreign expenditures, 100 percent of local
expenditures (ex-factory cost) and 75 percent of local expenditures for other items procured locally.
Disbursement for consultant services, training and study tours, would be 100 percent of total costs. 100
percent of the required front-end fee at one percent of total Loan amount would be payable at Loan
effectiveness. To assist smooth start-up of Project implementation, retroactive financing of $6.2 million is
recommended for expenditures incurred after December 1, 1999 estimate to be not more than 12 months
before the signing of the Loan agreement. The following activities would be covered: (i) implementation of
selected irrigation development activities, (ii) establishment of intensified agricultural facilities, (iii)
plantation of shelter-belt forests and fruit trees, (iv) training, study tours and technical assistance for PMO
staff and SIDD establishment, and (v) consultant services and procurement of essential office and MIS
equipment. The Project is expected to be completed by December 31, 2005 and the Loan is expected to
close on June 30, 2006. The allocation of loan proceeds is shown in Annex 6, Table C.
Allocation of Loan Proceeds (Table C)
Category                    Amount                  Percent Disbursement
(US$ million)
Beijing Municipality
(1) Works
Group I /a                              0.48         20%
Group 2 /b                              7.14         33%
(2) Goods                                  5.33         100% of foreign expenditures; 100% of local
expenditures (ex-factory cost) and 75% for
other items procured locally
(3) Consultant Services and Training       3.88         100%
(4) Front-end Fee                          0.17         100%
Sub-total                              17.00
Hebei Province
(1) Works
Group I /a                              0.43         20%
Group 2 lb                              5.21         33%
- 77 -



(2) Goods                                  1.70         100% of foreign expenditures; 100% of local
expenditures (ex-factory cost) and 75% for
other items procured locally
(3) Consultant Services and Training       2.56         100%
(4) Front-end Fee                          0.10         100%
Sub-total                               10.00
Qingdao Municipality
(1) Works
Group I /a                              0.26         20%
Group 2 /b                              4.78         33%
(2) Goods                                  3.00         100% of foreign expenditures; 100% of local
expenditures (ex-factory cost) and 75% for
other items procured locally
(3) Consultant Services and Training       1.86         100%
(4) Front-end Fee                          0.10         100%
Sub-total                               10.00
Liaoning (Shenyang) Province
(1) Works
Group I /a                              1.64         20%
Group 2 /b                              15.72        33%
(2) Goods                                 16.16         100% of foreign expenditures; 100% of local
expenditures (ex-factory cost) and 75% for
other items procured locally
(3) Consultant Services and Training       3.11         100%
(4) Front-end Fee                          0.37         100%
Sub-total                              37.00
Total                       74.00
/a Works for access road construction, development of improved seed fields, land leveling,
return & reuse of straws, plantation of tree nurseries, shelter-belt forest and trees for
economic production.
/b Works other than those under footnote /a above.
- 78 -



Use of statements of expenditures (SOEs):
12. SOEs would be used for disbursements against: (i) contracts for works costing less than $500,000; (ii)
contracts for goods costing less than $250,000; (iii) training and study tour expenses; and (iv) contracts for
consultant services costing less than $100,000 for firmns and less than $50,000 for individuals.
Disbursements for all works carried out under force account and community participation arrangement
would be made against statements of physical progress achieved at each site at unit prices agreed with the
Bank at the start of the Project and subject to annual review. The supporting documents for SOEs would
be retained by respective provincial/municipal PMOs and made available for review by Bank's supervision
missions. In the case of contracts for goods, works and services above these thresholds, disbursements
would be made against full documentation of the contracts and other supporting documents.
Special account:
13. To facilitate disbursement, four Special Accounts in US dollars, one for each participating
province/municipality, would be established in banks and on terms and conditions acceptable to the Bank.
The authorized allocations from the Bank would be $1.2 million for Beijing, $0.7 million for Hebei, $0.7
million for Qingdao and $2.5 million for Liaoning (Shenyang), the estimated average expenditures for a
four-month period. Applications for replenishment of the Special Accounts, supported by appropriate
documentation, would be submitted monthly or when the amounts withdrawn equal 50 percent of the initial
deposits, whichever comes first. Assurances have been obtained during negotiations that the Borrower
would open four Special Accounts in banks and on terms and conditions acceptable to the Bank.
- 79 -



Annex 7: Project Processing Schedule
CHINA: WATER CONSERVATION
Time taken to prepare the project (months)      23                            23
First Bank mission (identification)             04/20/98                      04/20/98
Appraisal mission departure                     04/24/2000                    05/01/2000
Negotiations                                    07/24/2000                    07/24/2000
Planned Date of Effectiveness                   03/14/2001
Prepared by:
Central Project Management Office in the Chinese Ministry of Water Resources
Project Management Offices in Beijing, Hebei, Liaoning (Shenyang) and Qingdao
Preparation assistance:
PHRD Grant TF025417
Bank staff who worked on the project included:
Name                                     Speciality
Douglas Olson                     Water Resources Engineer/Procurement Accredited
Jiang Liping                      Water Resources Engineer
Richard Reidinger                 Irrigation Economist
Li Qun                            Economist
Zhou Wieiguo                      Economist
Lin Zongcheng                     Anthropologist
Nancy Chen                        Financial Management Specialist
Chu Junxue                        Financial Management Officer
Yang Dawei                        Procurement Specialist
Robert Crooks                     Environmentalist
Wang Chaogang                     Social Development Specialist
Clifford Garstang                 Lawyer
Simon Bradbury                    Financial Management Specialist
Cecilia Belita                    Program Assistant
Yinfeng Zhi                       Task Team Assistant
Arlene D. Reyes                   Program Assistant
Matrice Denny                     Program Assistant
- 80 -



Annex 8: Documents in the Project File*
CHINA: WATER CONSERVATION
A. Project Implementation Plan
1. Project Implementation Plan - Central PMO
2. Project Implementation Plan - Beijing PMO
3. Project Implementation Plan - Hebei PMO
4. Project Implementation Plan - Liaoning (Shenyang) PMO
5. Project Implementation Plan - Qingdao PMO
The following annexes are included with each PIP
Annex I -    Project Background
Annex 2 -    Water Balance and Long-Term Water Distribution Studies
Annex 3 -    Project Organization and Management
Annex 4 -    Program Approach
Annex 5 -    Project Implementation Plan
Annex 6 -    Project Costs
Annex 7 -    Project financial and Economic Analysis
Annex 8 -    Procurement and disbursement Plan
Annex 9 -    Technical Assistance, Study Tours and Training
Annex 10 -    Applied Research Program/Plan
Annex 11 -    Water Institutional Development Plan (Including SIDDs)
Annex 12 -    Standards for Water Savings Technologies
Annex 13 -    Financial Management Guidelines
Annex 14 -    Monitoring and Evaluation Plan
Annex 15 -    Management Information System
Annex 16 -    Environmental Impact Assessment Report
Annex 17 -    Resettlement and Socio-Economic Analysis
Annex 18 -    Dam Safety
Annex 19 -    Repayment Mechanisms and Plan
Annex 20 -    Project Inspection and Supervision
B. Bank Staff Assessments
1. Procurement Capacity Assessment
2. Financial Management Assessment
C. Other
Study on Real Water Savings, prepared by the Institute for Water Resources and Hydropower Research
*Including electronic files
- 81 -



Annex 9: Statement of Loans and Credits
CHINA: WATER CONSERVATION
1 5-Oct-2000
Difference between expected
and actual
Original Amount in USS Millions          disbursements
Project ID     FY   Borrower                       Purpose                                      IBRD      I1A        Cancel.   Undisb.        Orig   Frm Rev'd
P040513        1996 China                     2ND HENAN PROV HWY                                 210.00       0.00       0.00     13576       8776       0o00
P003619        1998 China                     2ND INLAND WATERWAYS                               123.00       0.00       0.00     111.47      46.97       0.00
P003652        1996 China                     2ND SHAANXI PROV HWY                               210.00       0.00       0.00      66.62      48.62       0.00
P058844       2000 China                      3RD HENAN PROV HWY                                 150.00       0.00       0.00     150.00       0.00       0.00
P051856        1999 China                     ACCNTG REFORM & DEV                                 27.40       5.61       0.00      29.98      16.87       0.00
P003559        1993 China                     AGRIC. SUPPORT SERVI                                 0.00     115.00       0.00       4.13      -1.64       0.00
P050036        1999 China                     ANHUI PROVINCIAL HWY                               200.00       0.00       0.00     157.97      14.87       0.00
P003563        1996 China                      ANIMAL FEED                                       150.00       0.00      95.00      37.32     131.31      72.32
P049665        1999 China                     ANNINGVALLEYAG.DEV                                  g0.00      30.00       0.00      89.04       2.68       0.00
P042109       2000 China                      CH-BEIJING ENVIRONMENT II                          349.00       0.00       0.00     349.00      10.47       0.00
P003603        1995 China                      CH-ENTERPRISE HOUSING & SOC SEC REF               275.00      75.00      20.00     139.32     150.98      22.47
P096491        1998 China                      CH-HEBEI EARTHQUAKE REHABLITATION                   0.00      28.40       0.00       0.42      -304        0.00
P045910       2000 China                       CH-HEBEI URBAN ENVIRONMENT                        150.00       0.00       0.00     150.00       0.00       0.00
P003602        1996 China                      CH-HUBEI URBAN ENVIRONMENT                        125.00      25.00      28.32      74.49      93.27      10.48
P003598        1995 China                      CH-LIAONING ENVIRONMENT PROJECT                   110.00       0.00       0.00      38.81      38.17       0.00
P003637        1997 China                      CH-NATIONAL RURAL WATER III                         0.00      70.00       0.00      51.22      25.76      17.54
P040185        1998 China                      CH-SHANDONG ENVIRONMENT                            95.00       0.00       0.00      66.26      37.21       0.00
P003586        1994 China                      CH-SHANGHAI ENVIRONMENT PROJECT                   160.00       0.00       0.00      47.75      47.75       0.00
P003648        1996 China                      CH-SHANGHAI SEWERAGE PROJECT II                   250.00       0.00       0.00     123.99     107.80       0.00
P003599        1996 China                      CH-YUNNAN ENVIRONMENT PROJECT                     125.00      25.00       0.00     127.04      65.97       1.12
P036414        1998 China                      CHINA-GUANGXI URBAN ENVIRONMENT PROJECT            72.00      20.00       0.00      86.75      22.78       0.00
P043933        1999 China                      CHINA-SICHUAN URBAN ENVIRONMENT PROJECT           150.00       2.00       0.00     152.02       8.60       0.00
P003580        1993 China                      CHINA-SO. JIANGSU ENVMT PROTECTION PROJ           250.00       0.00       0.00       9.75       9.45       0.00
P003568        1992 China                      CHINA-TIANJIN URBAN DEV & ENVMT PROJECT             0.00     100.00       0.00       6.66       3.88       4.06
P003473        1993 China                      CHINA-ZHEJIANG MULTICITIES DEVELOPMENT              0.00     110.00       0.00      10.32      10.26       3.48
P036952        1997 China                      CN-EASIC ED. IV                                     0.00      85.00       0.00       8.60     -12.02       0.00
P036950        1996 China                      CN-BASIC ED. POOR III                               0.00     100.00       0.00       0.93       7.26       0.00
P003636        1995 Chira                      CN-BASIC EDUC IN POOR & MINORITY AREA II            0.00     100.00       0.00       0.48       2.56       0.00
P003566        1998 China                     CN-BASIC HEALTH (HLTH8)                              0.00      85.00       0.00      67.77      13.94       0.00
P003646        1996 China                      CN-CHONGQING IND POL CT                           170.00       0.00     153.99      15.61     151.36      26.60
P049436       2000 China                       CN-CHONGQING URBAN ENVIRONMENT                    200.00       0.00       0.00     200.00       0.00       0.00
P003589        1996 China                      CN-DISEASE PREVENTION (HLTH7)                       0.00     100.00       0.00      28.74      37.81       0.00
P003632        1993 China                     CN-ENVIRONMENT TECH ASS                              0.00      00.00       0.00       8.11       8.86       8.54
P036953        1999 China                      CN-HEALTH IX                                       10.00      50.00       0.00      54.42       4.07       0.00
P046051        1999 China                      CN-HIGHER EDUC. REFORM                             20.00      50.00       0.00      61.86      28.76       0.00
P003624        1992 China                      CN-INFECTIOUS DISEASES (HLTH5)                      0.00     129.60       0.00      15.39      11.71      11.67
P037156        1995 China                     CN-IODINE DEFICIENCY DISORDERS CONTROL               7.00      20.00       7.00       0.31       9.98       2.98
P034618        1996 China                     CN-LABOR MARKET DEV.                                10.00      20.00       0.00      17.10      19.33       0.00
P003634        1995 Chira                      CN-MATERNAL CHILD HEALT(HLTH6)                      0.00      90.00       0.00       9.22      12.12       0.00
P058308        1999 China                      CN-PENSION REFORM PJT                               0.00       5.00       0.00       4.84       3.75       0.00
P003502        1994 China                      CN-RURAL HEALTH MANPOWER (HLTH4)                    0.00     110.00       0.00       6.46       5.58       0.00
P057352        1999 China                      CN-RURAL WATER SUPPLY IV                           16.00      30.00       0.00      43.07       5.91       0.00
P003635        1997 Chira                      CN-VOC. ED. REFORM PROJ                            10.00      20.00       0.00       3.50       0.64       0.00
P003653        1999 China                      CONTAINER TRANSPORT                                71.00       0.00       0.00      68.36      61.66       0.00
- 82 -



Difference between
expected
Original Amount in US$ Millions            and actual
disbursements
Project ID    FY   Borrower                       Purpose                                     IERD          IDA    Cancel.   Undisb.       Orig  Frm Rev'd
P051 736       1998 China                     E. CHINA/JIANGSU PWR                              250.00      0.00       0,00     217.60     198.80      90.76
P003647        1995 China                     ECONOMIC LAW REFORM                                 0.00     10.00       0.00       4.98       5.65       0.00
P003606        1998 China                     ENERGY CONSERVATION                                63.00      0.00       0.00      59.38       7.83       0.00
P060270        1999 China                     ENTERPRISE REFORM LN                                0,00      5.00       0.00       4.86       4.68       0.00
P003507        1996 China                     ERTAN HYDRO II                                    400.00      0.00       0.00       8.43       7.51       0.00
P003623        1993 China                     FINANCIAL SECTOR TA                                 8.00     60.00       0.00      19.62      14.05      12.02
P036041        1995 China                     FISCAL & TAX REF. 8                                25.00     25.00       0.00      23.93      26.42       3.78
P003557        1994 China                     FOREST RESOURCE DEV                                 0.00    200.00       000       12.93      11.01     -34.46
P046952        1998 China                     FOREST. DEV. POOR AR                              100.00    100.00       0.00     163.47       0.86      34.99
P051705        1999 China                     FUJIAN II HWY                                    200.00       0.00       0.00     190.00      33.75       0.00
P003626        1994 China                     FUJIAN PROV HIGHWAY                               140.00      0.00       0.00      37.68      37.88      25.80
P003594        1996 China                     GANSU HEXI CORRIDOR                                60.00     90.00       0.00     105.22      42.83       0.00
P003627        1993 China                     GRAIN DISTRIBUTION P                              325.00    165,00       0.00     185.75     186.56      66.56
P058843        2000 China                     GUANGXI HWY Project                               200.00      0.00       0.00     200.00       6.50       0.00
P003614        1998 China                     GUANGZ. CITY CRT.TRP                              200.00      0.00       0.00     142.92      80.99       0.00
P051888        1999 China                     GUANZHONG IRRIGATION                               80.00     20,00       0.00      87.23      18.96       0.00
P038988        1997 China                     HEILONGJIANG ADP                                  120.00      0.00       0.00      64.56      30.21       0.00
P035698        1998 China                     HUNAN POWER DEVELOP,                              300.00      0.00       0.00     300.00     101.25       0.00
P003654        1997 China                     HUNANUGUANG HWY2-NH2                              400.00      0.00       0.00     218.02     108.02       0.00
P049700        1998 China                     IAIL-2                                            300.00      0.00       0.00     199.40      30.44       0.00
P003493        1995 China                     INLAND WATERWAYS                                 210.00       0.00      15.00       7.90      12.40       0.00
P041890        1999 China                     LIAONING URBTRANSP                                150.00      0.00       0,00     134.50      40.75       0.00
P003540        1994 China                     LOESS PLATEAU                                       0.00    150.00       0.00      10.71     -10.23       0.00
P056216        1999 China                     LOESS PLATEAU II                                  100.00     50.00       0.00     131.25      29.33       0.00
P036949        1998 China                     NAT.HWY 3-HUBEI                                  250.00       0.00       0.00     183.96      20.36       0.00
P041268        1999 China                     NAT.HWY4-HUBE11HUNAN                              350.00      0.00       0.00     319.17      25.17       0.00
P003590        1997 China                     QINBA MTS. POVTY RED                               30.00    150.00       0.00     111.54      94.61       0.00
P003570        1993 China                     RAILWAY VI                                       420.00       0.00       2.82      38.10      40.92       1.18
P003571        1995 China                     RAILWAYSVII                                      400.00       0.00      29.00     267.17     236.17      78.91
P003595        1994 China                     RED SOILS II DEVELOP                               0.0o     150.00       0.00      26.40      19.45       9.11
P003592        1993 China                     REF. INSTL& PREINV                                 0.00      50.00       0.00       7.97       8.39       0.00
P046829        1999 China                     RENEWABLE ENERGY DEVELOPMENT                      100.00      0.00       0.00     100.00       0.00       0.00
P003638        1996 China                     SEEDS SECTOR COMMER.                               80.00     20.00       9.40      46.85      33.80       0.00
P003622        1994 China                     SHANGHAI MTP II                                  150.00       0.00       0.00       3.89       3.89       0.00
P044485        1997 China                     SHANGHAI WAIGAOQIAO                              400.00       0.00       0.00     358.34     74.54        0.00
P003569        1996 China                     SHANGHAI-ZHEJIANG HI                             260.00       0.00      53.34      26.78      68.61      61,12
P003649        1996 China                     SHANXI POVERTYALLEV                                0.00     100.00       0.00      22.28      10.80       0.00
P003585        1995 China                     SHENYANG IND. REFORM                              175.00      0.00       0.00      54.32      45.82       0.00
P003609        1994 China                     SICHUAN GAS DEV & CONSERVATION                   255.00       0.00       0.00      94.52      53.02       0.00
P036947        1995 China                     SICHUAN TRANSMISSION                              270.00      0.00      65.00      46.35     111.35      28.20
P045284        2000 China                     SMALLHLDR CATTLE DEV                               93.50      0.00       0.00      91.96      13.57       0.00
P003593        1994 China                     SONGLIAO PLAIN ADP                                  0.00    205.00       0.00      10.76       1.19       0.00
P003639        1995 China                     SOUTHWEST POV. REDUC                              47.50     200.00       0.00      51.83      58.08       0.00
P003591        1998 China                     STATE FARMS COMMERCI                              150.00      0.00      80.75       8.45      14.25       0.00
P003539        1998 China                     SUST COAST RES DEV                                100.00      0.00       0.00      74.36       8.12       0.00
- 83 -



Difference between
expected
Orginal Amount in US$ Millions            and actual
disbursements
Project ID    FY   Borrower                     Purpose                                    IBRD         IDA      Cancel.   Undisb.       Orig  Frm Rev'd
P003597       1993 China                     TAIHU BASIN FLOOD CO                            100.00     100.00       0.00 4.79,118.76,     0.44      -5.00
P046563       1998 China                     TARIM BASIN II                                   90.00     60.00        0.00 41.41, 76.24,   37.98       0.00
P042299       1999 China                     TEC COOP CREDIT IV                               10.00     35.00        0.00      53.07,     -2.10       0.00
P003600       1995 China                     TECHNOLOGY DEVELOPME                            200.00      0.00        0.00     320.00,     61.14       0.00
P003616       1993 China                     TIANHUANGPING HYDRO                             300.00      0.00        0.00      176.23,    46.97       0.00
P056424       2000 China                     TONGBAI PUMPED STORA                            320.00       0.00        0.00     229.41,     0.00       0.00
P045788       1998 China                     TRI-PROVINCIAL HWY                              230.00       0.00        0.00     248.10,    61.33       0.00
P003650       1997 China                     TUOKETUO POWERtlNNER                            400.00      0.00       102.50     142.74,    263.96     58.44
P036405       1997 China                     WANJIAZHAI WATER TRA                            400.00      0.00        0.00 168.13, 0.13.   89.10       0.00
P046564       1999 China                     WESTERN POVERTY RED                              60.00     100.00       0.00  17.47, 6.73,   19.68       0.00
P034081       1997 China                     XIAOLANGDI MULTI. II                            430.00      0.00        0.00 194.38,6.85,    137.19      0.00
P003562       1994 China                     XIAOLANGDI MULTIPURPOSE                         460.00      0.00        0.00 22.63, 35.23,    4.66       0.00
P003644       1994 China                     XIAOLANGDI RESETTLEMENT                           0.00     110.00       0.00     210.00,     13.43       0.00
P003612       1995 China                     XINJIANG HIGHWAY I                              150.00      0.00        0.00       90.87      6.73       0.00
P003643       1997 China                     XINJIANG HWY II                                 300.00      0.00        0.00                129.38       0.00
P003596       1995 China                     YANGTZE BASIN WATER                             100.00     110.00       0.00                  1.44       0.00
P063123       1999 China                     YANGTZE FLOOD EMERGY                             40.00     40.00        0.00                 13.55       3.55
P003641       1994 China                     YANGZHOU THERMAL POW                            350.00      0.00        0.00                 35.23       0.00
P064730       2000 China                     Yangtze Dike Strengthening Prnoect              210.00      0.00        0.00                  0.00       0.00
P003642       1995 China                     ZHEJIANG POWER DEVT                             400.00      0.00        0.00                 38.81       0.00
Total:   15497.40    3955.61      662.12     9438.47   4247.51    614.22
- 84 -



CHINA
STATEMENT OF IFC's
Held and Disbursed Portfolio
1 5-Oct-2000
In Millions US Dollars
Committed                        Disbursed
IFC                             IFC
FY Approval        Company                        Loan   Equity   Quasi   Partic   Loan  Equity   Quasi  Partic
1999/00            Bank of Shanghai               0.00    3.84    0.00    0.00    0.00    3.84    0.00    0.00
1996               Beijing Hormel                 3.93    0.50    0.00    3.85    3.93    0.50       0.00    3.85
1998/00            CIG Holdings PLC               0.00     3.00    0.00    0.00    0.00    0.00    0.00    0.00
1996               Caltex Ocean                  21.00    0.00    0.00   45.00   21.00    0.00    0.00   45.00
1998               Chengdu Chemical               0.00    3.20    0.00    0.00    0.00    0.00       0.00    0.00
1998               Chengxin-IBCA                  0.00    0.36    0.00    0.00    0.00    0.36       0.00    0.00
1987/92/94         China Bicycles                 0.00    0.00    0.00    0.00    0.00    0.00    0.00    0.00
1994               China Walden JV                0.00    3.86    0.00    0.00    0.00    3.86    0.00    0.00
1994               China Walden Mgt               0.00    0.01     0.00    0.00    0.00    0.01      0.00    0.00
1994               Dalian Glass                   0.00    2.40    0.00    0.00    0.00    2.40    0.00    0.00
1999               Dujiangyan                    25.59    0.00    0.00   30.00    0.00    0.00       0.00    0.00
1995               Dupont Suzhou                  18.69    4.15    0.00   31.20   18.69    4.15      0.00   31.20
1994               Dynamic Fund                   0.00   10.23    0.00    0.00    0.00    8.57       0.00    0.00
2000               Elkem Carbon                    6.30    0.00    0.00     6.00    0.00    0.00    0.00    0.00
1999               Hansom                         0.00    16.10    0.00    0.00    0.00   16.10    0.00    0.00
1996               Jingyang                      40.00     0.00    0.00   92.31   40.00    0.00      0.00   92.31
1998               Leshan Scana                   6.10     1.35    0.00    0.00    4.50    1.35    0.00    0.00
1996               Nanjing Kumho                  10.71    3.81    0.00   30.45   10.71    3.81      0.00   3045
1995               Newbridge Inv.                 0.00    2.13    0.00      0.00    0.00    2.13     0.00    0.00
1997               Ningbo                         0.00    2.00    0.00      0.00    0.00    2.00    0.00    0.00
1997               Orient Finance                13.33    0.00    0.00    16.67   13.33    0.00      0.00   16.67
1997/00            PTP Holdings                   0.00    0.03    0.00    0.00    0.00    0.03       0.00    0.00
1997               PTP Hubei                     12.63    0.00    0.00   25.38   12.63    0.00       0.00   25.38
1996               Pacific Ports                  0.00    3.64    0.00    0.00    0.00    3.64    0.00    0.00
1998               Rabobank SHFC                   1.80    0.00    0.00     1.80    1.80    0.00    0.00    1.80
1998               Shanghai Krupp                30.00    0.00    0.00   68.80    0.00    0.00       0.00    0.00
1999               Shanxi                        19.00    0.00    0.00    0.00    8.30    0.00       0.00    0.00
1993               Sbenzhen PCCP                  3.76    0.99    0.00      0.00    3.76    0.99     0.00    0.00
1995               SuzhouPVC                      18.33    2.48    0.00    18.50   18.33    2.48     0.00   18.50
1998               WIT                            5.00    0.00     0.00     0.00    0.00    0.00     0.00    0.00
1996               Weihai Weidongri               3.60    0.00    0.00    0.00    3.60    0.00       0.00    0.00
1993               Yantai Cement                  10.39    1.95    0.00     5.54   10.39    1.95    0.00    5.54
1998               Zhen Jing                      0.00    2.00    0.00    0.00    0.00    2.00       0.00    0.00
Total Portfolio:       250.16    68.03     0.00   375.50   170.97    60.17    0.00   270.70
- 85 -



Approvals Pending Commitment
FY Approval       Company                         Loan    Equity    Quasi    Partic
2000              CIG Zhapu                     6000.00   5000.00     0.00      0.00
2000              CIMIC Tile                   15000.00   5000.00     0.00  15000.00
1998              Chengdu Chemical              7400.00     0.00      0.00   8600.00
1997              Chinefarge                   12800.00     0.00      0.00  20000.00
2000              Jinfeng                       9000.00      0.00     0.00   7300.00
1998              Orient Fin A Inc              3333.33     0.00      0.00     0.00
1998              PTP Hubei BLINC                  0.00     0.00      0.00   1500.00
2000              SBCF I                           0.00      0.00  15000.00     0.00
2000              SBLAV                            0.00      0.00  15000.00     0.00
2000              SIGC                             0.00      0.00   6000.00     0.00
2000              Shizuishan Carbn                 0.00      0.00   1700.00     0.00
2000              Wan Jie Hospital             15000.00      0.00     0.00      0.00
1998              XIB                          50000.00     0.00  20000.00     0.00
Total Pending Commitment:   118533.33  10000.00  57700.00  52400.00
- 86 -



Annex 10: Country at a Glance
CHINA: WATER CONSERVATION
East   Lower-
POVERTY and SOCIAL                                                Asia &    middleb
China    Pacific   Income        Development diamond
199
Population, mid-year (millions)                        1,253.6     1,837      2,094                  Life expectancy
GNP per capita (Atlas method. USS)                        780     1t000       t,200
GNP (Atlas method. USS billions)                        977.8      1.833      2,513
Average annual growth. 19113-99
Population(X                                               1.0        1.2       1        G1
Lrtbor force (%                                            1.0        1.3       1.2      GNP                                Gross
Labor force (S)                                                  ~~~~~~~~~~~~~per                   primary
Most recent estimate (latest ysr available, 1993-99)                                     capita                         enrollment
Povey (% ofpopulation below national povety line)           S
Urban population (% of total population)                   31         34         43
Life expectancy at birth (years)                           70         69         69
Infnt mortality (par 1.000 live births)                    31         35         33
Chid malnutrition (% of children under 5)                  16         22         15                Access to safe water
Access to improved water source (% of populetion)          83         84         86
Ililteracy (% of population age 15-)                       17         15         16
Gross primary enrollment (%of school-age population)      123        119        114               China
Male                                                    123        121       114                Lower-middle-income group
Female                                                  123        121       116
KEY ECONO4IC RATIOS and LONG-TERM TRENDS
1979     1989       1998       1999
Economic ratio*'
GDP (USS billions)                             175.6    342.3      938.3      996.3
Gross domestic investmentGDP                    36.5     36.0       38.8       38                        Trade
Exports of goods and services/GDP                6.4     12.7       21.9       22.1
Gross domestic savings/GDP                      35.3     35.3       43,2       41.2
Gross national savingslGDP                      35.5     35.4       41.9       39.9
Current account balanceiGDP                     .1.4     -0.9        3.1        1.6      Domestic 
Interest payments/GOP                           0.0       0.7        0.6        0,6      Savings             eo_    Investment
Total debtGOP                                    1.2     13.1       16.5       12.8                        \-
Total debt service/exports                       0.4      9.6        8.5        58
Pr;sent value of debtUGDP                                           14.4
Present value ot debtlexpots                                        63.3
Indebtedness
1S7149  1989-999      1998        1999   1999-03
(avere annua growth)
GOP                                   10.3      10.5      7.8        7.1        7.2                China
GNP per capita                         8.9       9.0      6.7        6.3        6.2     1         Lower-middle-income 9roup
Exports of goods and services         19.6      14.0      7.3       13.9       10.S
STRUCTURE of the ECONOMY
1979     1989       1998       1999      Growth of Investment and GDP (%)
(X of GDP)                                                                              30
Agriculture                                     31.2     25.0       18.6       17.3
Industry                                        47.4     43.0       49.3       49.7    20
Manufacturing                                 40.2     34.5        37.6      37.8      1o
Services                                        21.4     32.0       32.1       32.9
Private consumption                            49.5      52.7       44.7       45.8             94   s5  9t   97   so   99
General government consumption                  15.2     12.0       12.1       12.9                     GD1        'GOP
Imports of goods and services                    7.5     13.5       17.5       19.1
1979-89  1989-99       1998       1999      Growth of exports and Imports (%)
(saveage annual growth)
Agriculture                                      6.0      4.4         3.5       2.8    30
Industry                                        11.3     14.2        8.9        8.1    20
Manufacturing                                 10.5      13.6        8.7       77      20
Services                                        14.0      9.0        8.3        7.5    10
Pnivate consumption                             10.1      8.7        6.2        8.3
General government consumption                   9.9      9.8        8.4        7.9      0
Gross domestic investment                       11.0     12.0        7.6        3.8            94   95   98   97    so   99
Imports of goods and services                   20.4     12.2        3.0       20.7             -     E.ports      '  imports
Gross national product                          10.5     10.2        7.8        7.3
Note: 1999 data are preliminary estimates.
The diamonds show four key indicators in the country (in bold) compared with its income-group average. If data are missing, the diamond will
be incomplete.
- 87 -



China
PRICES and GOVERNMENT FINANCE
Domestic prices                             1979    1989       1998     1999      Inflaton (%)
(% change)                                                                        30
Consumer prices                                                                        .       418.0  -0.8  -1.4    20
Implicit GDP deflator                        3.9      8.8      -2.4      -2.2    10 I-
Govemment finance                                                                  0_-      __       __ __ _
(% of GDP, includes current grants)                                                       94   95   96   97   08    9
Current revenue                               ..    19.3       13.0      14.2    -10
Current budget balance                        ..      2.8       1.4       1.2            -     GDP de8ator   -   CPI
Overall surplus/deficit                     -3.4    -0.9       -1.2      -2.1
TRADE
1979    1989       1998     1999      Exportandimportlevals(USSmill.)
(US$ millions)
Total exports (fob)                       13,658   52,551   183,529  194,931      200.000
Food                                         ..   6,145    10,619    10,459
Fuel                                         ..   4,321      5,181    4,646     150,.000
Manufactures                                 ..  37,460   163,157  175,003
Total imports (cif)                            .  59,140   140,166  165,718       10*
Food                                         ..   4,192      3,793    3,618       ,o.oo
Fuel and energy                              ..   1,650      6,773    8,912
Capital goods                                ..  18,207    56,768   69,469          0
93  94  96  96  97  98 99
Export price index (1995=100)                 25       38        88       81
Importpnceindex(1995=100)                    24       38        89       84                 *Exports      *imports
Terms of trade (1995=100)                    104      100        99        97
3ALANCE of PAYMENTS
1979    1989       1998     1999      Current account balance to GDP (%)
(US$ millions)
Exportsofgoodsandservices                 15,046   57,101   207,586  218,711      4
Imports of goods and services             17,842   60,655   165,899   189,799
Resource balance                          -2,796   -3,554    41,687   28,912
Net income                                  -319      229   -16,645  -17,973
Net current transfers                        626      381     4,278    4,943
Current account balance                    -2,489   -2,944    29,321    15,882
Financing items (net)                      2,489    2,386   -23,073    -7,377        i
Changes in net reserves                        0      558    -6,248    -8,505    -2
Memo:
Reserves including gold (US$ millions)        ..       ..  149,811   158,337
Conversion rate (DEC, locallUS$)             2.3      4.9       8.3       8.2
EXTERNAL DEBT and RESOURCE FLOWS
1979    1989       1998     1999
(US$ millions)                                                                    Composition of 1999 debt (USS mill.)
Total debt outstanding and disbursed       2,183   44,932   154,603  127,639
IBRD                                         0    2,330     9,644    10,639
IDA                                          0    2,296     8,693    8,907                       G: 4 A: 10,639
Total debt service                            61    5,650    18,186    13,204                               B: 8,907
IBRD                                         0     223        941     1,161
IDA                                          0       14        97      118                                   D : 4,275
Composition of net resource flows
Official grants                            -30      143        91      201                                   E: 24.238
Official creditors                         199    2,277     2,288    3,913         F: 79,576
Private creditors                        1,580    3,801     1,642   -2,945
Foreign direct investment                   57    2,613    41,118   38,752
Portfolio equity                             0     -180    -3,927    -9,836
World Bank program                                                                A - IBRE E - Bilateral
Commitments                                  0    1,760     2,636     2,311     B-IDA    D-Other multlateral  F- Pivate
Disbursements                                0    1,111     2,066     1,780     C-IMF                      G-SShort-te"r
Principal repayments                         0       62       434      558
Net flows                                    0    1,049     1,632     1,222
Interest payments                            0      175       604      720
Net transfers                                0      874     1,028      502
Development Economics                                                                                              8/30/00
- 88 -



Additional
Annex No.: 11
Social Assessment
CHINA: WATER CONSERVATION
The Water Conservation Project will support improvements to irrigated agriculture through the
implementation of integrated physical, agronomic and management measures with the objectives to enhance
beneficial use of water resources, agriculture production capacity and farner incomes by: (a) increasing the
value of agriculture production per unit of consumed water through increasing yields and reducing
non-beneficial water losses; and (b) establishing mechanisms for sustainable use and management of water
resources in irrigated areas. The Project will be implemented in selected areas in four provinces and
municipalities in northern China (namely, Beijing and Qingdao municipalities and Hebei and Liaoning
provinces). The proposed methods to achieve the Project's overall objectives include: (a) improved
irrigation technologies such as low-pressure pipe line, canal lining, micro/drip and sprinkler irrigation; (b)
agronomic measures and onfarm irrigation management measures to improve agricultural production and
decrease evapotranspiration; and (c) the introduction and encouragement of institutional reform in local
irrigation management by means of farmer participation. With such comprehensive intentions, it was
considered necessary for the Project to conduct a social assessment study to help properly select the Project
areas and to appropriately identify the Project primary beneficiaries and their needs. The social assessment
was also required in order to ensure that the Project is designed to avoid or minimize any adverse impacts
and social costs the Project could cause to local society.
The Central Project Management Office (CPMO, from the Ministry of Water Resources), together with the
PMOs from the four participating provinces and municipalities, held a Project preparation workshop in
March 1999, in which they learned about the requirements for social assessment preparation from a Bank
Technical Assistance Mission. During the workshop, terms of reference for the social assessment study
were prepared and agreed. Following the workshop an overall Project social assessment and social
assessments for each of the four provinces/municipalities were prepared and are included in the respective
PIPs as Annex 17. The social assessments were prepared considering that they should make contributions
to the Project design in the following aspects: (a) investigating local socio-economic situations so as to
make sure that the Project intervention is suitable for local development; (b) learning farmers' expectations
and attitudes so as to ensure that the Project incentives for change as expressed in different irrigation and
agriculture skills are acceptable and welcome to the target population; (c) adopting the participatory
approach to Project management in order to encourage farmer involvement and assure farmers of their
equitable access to Project activities in consideration of their economic, social, and gender differences; and
(d) diagnosing social costs of the Project to mitigate negative impacts wherever they might appear. In
addition, a common understanding was also achieved during Project preparation that the Project social
assessment should be carried out in close combination with the Project SIDD subcomponent
(Self-Financing Irrigation and Drainage District), a subcomponent regarding the institutional improvement
in local irrigation management by introducing a market-oriented approach to the irrigation sector and
building farmers' commitment and capacity to participate.
All the PMOs assigned social assessment teams to carry out social investigations and analyses of the
Project areas in June 1999, with a focus on the model SIDD sites which were planned (two in each
province/municipality). The CPMO invited domestic professionals and consultants for methodological help.
Firstly, extensive information of the subproject areas was collected from secondary sources and reviewed
by the teams, which helped determine further sample survey and questionnaire requirements. The social
- 89 -



assessment teams of the provinces/municipalities, consisting of technicians from the line agencies, visited
villages and held group meetings and household interviews in the form of two-way communication with
farmers. For each of the samples surveyed, six investigation tables were filled out conveying detailed
information about local physical resource base (soil, water, and land use), farming systems and irrigation
patterns (crop planting and livestock, production costs and yields, and farmers' tactics and skills in local
irrigation systems), as well as about community organizations and farm household livelihoods. In addition,
the teams administrated questionnaire surveys, learning and clarifying farmers' attitudes and wishes
towards different Project components; as well as other Project stakeholders' views and comments (such as
local government officials, technical line agencies, etc.). About 5,800 people were surveyed by the
questionnaire and more than 87% of them fully supported the Project activities. Meanwhile, farmers also
expressed their expectations and enthusiasm for the subprojects from various perspectives, such as
economic benefits, financial analysis, water saving technologies, and the loan repayment (see Table 1).
Table I
Summary of Farmers' Attitudes Toward the Project
Province   People    Existing rriigation Situation  Propose Project   Agree to  Agree to   Agree to
/Munip.   Surveyed  Know    Don't  Know    Don't   Oppose  Implement   Financial  Loan
Know   &         Know             Water        Analysis  Repayment
Support                   Savings                 Obligations
_____ _  ___ ___  _ _____ Tech.
Beijing        362      332     30       290      65        7          297       274          261
Hebei          380      361     19       361      19        0          380       380          380
Qingdao       2240     2122 T   82      1953        18     71         1911      1932         1929
Liaoning      2805     1872    142      2416     301       83         2476      2368         2495
Total         5787_   4687    273       5020     565       161        5064      4954         5065
{ %     |          1    81       5        87      10        3           88        86           88
Based on farmer consultation and the analyses of local social and economic factors, the social assessment
reports point out farmers' priorities in their agricultural production, their needs for development of the
current irrigation systems, and their expectations from the proposed Project. Among the common problems
in local production as determined through the social assessment process, for example is the low efficiency
of the surface irrigation, which is generally lower than 50%, due to the canal leakage, deficient water
delivery, inadequate onfarm irrigation systems, and ineffective irrigation management. Farmers therefore
hope that the Project can help them to improve the old situation with advanced irrigation techniques and
management, such as canal lining and low-pressure pipe for the wheat fields, and micro sprinkler and drip
for orchards and green houses. For achieving these purposes they believe that the Project is worth the cost
and they are willing to bear the loan repayment obligations. The social assessment thus steers and ensures a
bottom-up process in selection and decision of the Project components.
Moreover, the reports also explore ways by which local farmers can participate voluntarily and equitably in
Project activities in order to realize their aspiration. Village committies, as the existing farmers' principal
social organization, will play a regular role in gathering and directing farmers' endeavors in the Project. In
particular, in the irrigation water sector which is the artery of agriculture, the Project has designed the
SIDD approach as the participatory vehicle to involve farmers in the whole Project life cycle (and even
more significantly beyond), including the Project design, preparation, implementation, operation and
maintenance, and monitoring and evaluation. Farmers will organize into Water User Associations (WUAs
as the bottom part of the SIDD dual structure) and will manage local irrigation systems (normally below
the branch canal level or for a well service area), including its design, construction, and operation and
- 90 -



maintenance. In the well irrigation areas, farmers' WUAs will also take the responsibility to monitor the
groundwater table, in close cooperation with the local water administration. In the surface irrigation areas,
the WUAs will on a contract basis buy water from the water supply units which in some cases will be
transformed to be Water Supply Organizations (WSOs) as the top part of the SIDD dual structure. The
present government administration will phase out from local irrigation management. While the whole
irrigation sector thus undergoes transformation for sustainable development, farmers enjoy the ownership
and are empowered with a participatory approach on the basis of the market-oriented economy. The CPMO
and provincial PMOs have detailed plans for the Project SIDD subcomponent (PIP Annex 11).
An objective of the social assessment process and follow-up activities is to ensure that the incentives for
change are acceptable to all the Project target people and also the Project benefits are equitably accessible
for all of them, in consideration of their economic, social and gender differences. In terms of upgrading
marginal land and intensifying irrigated agriculture by adoption of advanced irrigation schemes, women
expressed the same interests and enthusiasm as men in participating in as well as benefiting from the
Project activities; and gender roles were hence fairly considered in the Project preparation. In the Project
areas in the four participating province/municipalities, considerable male population in fact regularly
migrated for remunerative work outside villages (though normally in the short term), women hence take
more responsibilities in agrarian production when males are absent. In view of this kind of situation, closer
attention was paid to women's attitudes towards changes in local irrigation systems, including both the
physical facilities and irrigation management. In particular, to use SIDDs as a participatory vehicle for
farmer involvement, female members in the WUAs' leadership were encouraged as the Project information
campaigns were carried out in Project areas. Moreover, the training program for improvement of
agricultural production, irrigation skills, and water saving was also designed on an equal basis for gender
roles, with an emphasis to elicit women's initiatives and to build their participatory capacity.
The social assessment reports also draw close attention to any risks and adverse impacts which might
potentially occur because of Project activities. After the overall diagnoses, the reports focus their attention
on the possibility of land acquisition to be caused by agricultural or irrigation construction that could
negatively affect people who live on or cultivate the land. At this time it is not anticipated that there will be
any negatively affected people or involuntary resettlement because all of the lands are presently irrigated
and the irrigation canals and drains to be rehabilitated already exist and already have a right of way. In
addition, the PMOs have adopted a policy to design all irrigation and drainage systems with the objective to
avoid land acquisition and resettlement or related adverse impacts to people The social assessments
contain a number of good suggestions for the Project implementation to follow in this regard, that intend to
ensure that all the branches/laterals and structures will be improved or reconstructed only on their old
rights of way, and that all the reconstruction and canal cleaning activities will be conducted only during the
non-irrigation season. However, because the Project will be implemented using the program approach and
detailed designs are not yet available for much of the Project area, a Policy Framework for Resettlement
and Land Acquisition has been developed and is included as an attachment to the social assessment reports
(Annex 17 to the PIPs). This is in order to mitigate the possible negative impact and ensure local people
concerned will be protected from change of land use. The purpose of the Policy Framework is to direct
Project activities by means of setting forward a Resettlement Action Plan wherever and whenever it is
found necessary to acquire land and resettle people for the sake of Project construction during Project
implementation. To assist in the preparation of a Resettlement Action Plan if it is required, a descriptive
Outline for the Resettlement Action Plan is also attached as an appendix to the Policy Framework. The
Policy Framework for Resettlement and Land Acquisition includes: (a) measures to be taken to avoid
involuntary resettlement and land acquisition; (b) resettlement and land acquisition policies, laws and
regulations that must be followed; (c) principals to be followed for resettlement and compensation; (d)
management and organization responsibilities for resettlement and land acquisition; (e) guidelines for
- 91 -



preparing resettlement action plans (including descriptive outline); (f) monitoring and evaluation
procedures; and (g) grievance procedures. Furthermore, in light of the Project's program approach and in
view of their respective local situations, all the provincial PMOs are required to submit an inventory of all
their subproject activities to CPMO on an annual basis, in order for the Project management to supervise
closely the Policy Framework's applicability to each subproject in each Project year.
On the whole, as an integrated method to include participation and social analysis in the Project design and
preparation work, the social assessment study has helped to ensure that the Project objectives are well set
and that the proposed means to achieve them are appropriate. The social assessment process has helped to
ensure the participation of Project beneficiaries. Because the social assessment is an iterative process, its
investigation and analysis need to be continuously and systematically carried out along with Project
implementation. Therefore, in the social assessment reports, the monitoring and evaluating indicators have
been set up especially for the further assessment in the necessary iterative processes.
-92 -



Additional
Annex No.: 12
Environmental Review
CHINA: WATER CONSERVATION
A. Introduction
Project Overview. The proposed Project is intended to complement an existing government-supported
program which is promoting adoption of irrigation water saving technologies in 300 pilot counties spread
across the water short areas of the country (central, westem and northern regions). The government
program focuses mainly on promotion of physical improvements and approximately US$3 billion has been
invested over the last 5 years. Within the framework of the Government's overall water savings program,
the proposed Water Conservation Project (WCP), which will be implemented in 27 counties, is intended to
act as a pilot project to demonstrate an integrated approach to water conservation involving the
application of the three sets of measures; physical works, agronomic techniques and improved
management at both the level of the irrigation scheme and on-farm.
Project investments will be made over an area totaling about 116,800 ha, almost all of which is presently
irrigated. The main economic benefits of the investments will be derived from increased crop yields and
higher returns due to cropping pattern changes to higher value crops, and there will be no significant
changes in land use as a result of the Project.
Environmental Assessment Process. Since the proposed Project concentrates mainly on rehabilitation
and improvement of tertiary and on-farm irrigation and drainage systems in existing irrigated areas,
involves no change in land use, includes no darns or other major hydraulic works, and because the
investment areas are widely dispersed over 27 counties in four provinces/municipalities, the Project was
assigned to environmental screening category B for the purposes of the Bank's Operation Policy 4.01
(Environmental Assessment). Nevertheless, Environmental Assessments (EAs) have been prepared for
each province/municipality in accordance with Chinese regulations and an integrated EA covering the
whole Project was also prepared.
The province/municipality EAs and the integrated Project EA were prepared by the Institute of Water and
Hydropower Research (IWHR), of the Ministry of Water Resources (MWR) which is a Class I institute,
accredited to conduct EAs in China. IWHR has prepared the integrated EA, which covers all four
provinces and  municipalities.   The  integrated  EA  and  the EAs for each  of the four
provinces/municipalities are available in the Project files.
-93 -



The Project will be implemented as a program. Concept level designs are available for the entire program
but detail designs are only available for the first year's investment program, which accounts for only
about 15% of the total number of subprojects likely to be eventually included in the Project. During the
first year of implementation, detailed designs for the second year of investment will be prepared and so on
throughout the Project. None of the subprojects individually are of sufficient significance to justify
preparation of an EA but there was a concern as to the potential for cumulative impacts due to the
combined effects of a large number of subprojects at a regional scale. The focus of the integrated Project
EA was on the potential regional effects of the investment, with particular emphasis on regional water
resources impacts (e.g. drawdown of groundwater levels, pollution of groundwater resources, etc.). The
EA was also used to develop environmental guidelines and criteria for design and implementation of
projects in the sector.
B. Description of Project Activities
The Project will finance the introduction of integrated water conservation technologies within existing
irrigation areas located in 27 counties in the provinces of Hebei and Liaoning, and the municipalities of
Beijing and Qingdao. The Project will enhance beneficial use of water resources, agriculture production
capacity and farmer incomes by: (a) increasing the value of agriculture production per unit of consumed
water through increasing yields and reducing non-beneficial water losses; and (b) establishing mechanisms
for sustainable use and management of water resources in irrigated areas. The Project is designed to focus
on three sets of integrated measures that when taken together will result in both "real" water savings and
increased agricultural yields: (a) physical improvements to irrigation and drainage systems mainly at the
tertiary level and on-farn; (b) agrononiic measures; and (c) management measures. Investments that only
concentrate on improvements to physical irrigation and drainage systems may achieve improvements in
water use efficiency, but may not result in much "real" water savings because return flows from existing
inefficient systems return to the groundwater or surface water systems and become available for other users
(are not lost to the hydrologic system). "Real" water savings results from reductions of non-recoverable
losses such as evapo-transpiration (ET) or losses to non-usable water bodies such as saline aquifers or the
ocean.
Physical improvements which will be financed include some or all of the following (depending on local
circumstances): (a) canal lining; (b) installation of low-pressure pipe for small distribution systems; (c)
development of well fields, groundwater recharge and conjunctive use of groundwater; (d) construction of
drainage systems and reuse of return flows; (e) improved surface irrigation systems on-farm; (f)
installation of sprinkler systems; and (g) installation of micro-irrigation systems. These improvements
taken by themselves will result in significant improvements in water use efficiencies but may not result in
much "real" water savings unless they are combined with the other two sets of measures. Agronomic
measures include land leveling, non-tillage in the dry season, deep plowing in the rainy season, soil
fertility improvements, organic and plastic mulching, seed improvements (including development of
drought resistant varieties), balanced fertilization, improvements to planting and cultivation techniques,
cropping pattern adjustments, etc. Management measures include improvements to both the management
of irrigation and drainage systems (including water measurement, volumetric pricing, development of self
financing irrigation and drainage districts), and to on-farm irrigation management (including soil moisture
management through improved irrigation scheduling).
The total area which will be treated with the water conservation technologies will be approximately
106,800 ha (24,100 ha in 7 counties within Beijing Municipality, 20,900 ha in 6 counties within Qingdao
Municipality, 38,900 ha in 8 counties in Liaoning Province and 22,900 ha in 6 counties in Hebei
Province). The mix of irrigation technologies, agronomic measures and management measures to be
- 94 -



applied will depend on local circumstances. The total areas to which different technologies will be applied
in all participating provinces/municipalities are as follows:
Irrigation and Drainage Works and On-Farms Systems
This component will include canal lining, and replacement of tertiary canals and laterals with a variety of
water saving technologies including low-pressure pipe, sprinklers and micro-irrigation (micro-sprinklers or
drip systems).
Approximately 70% of the treated areas will use groundwater as the water source and the systems in these
areas also include well construction and pumping equipment, where these are not presently available or
adequate.
Irrigation and Drainage System Component
(Area in ha)
Hebei       Liaoning      Beijing     Qingdao        Total
Canal lining               6620          5730          1920        2820         17090
Low-pressure Pipe          12200         3750         18370        13460        47780
Sprinkler                  1200          20140        2000         3460         26800
Micro-irrigation           2880          9280          1810        1160         15130
Total                      22900         38900        24100        20900        106800
Agriculture Support and Services
Agronomic measures include land leveling, non-tillage in the dry season, deep plowing in the rainy season,
soil fertility improvements including incorporation of green manure and stalk, organic and plastic mulching,
cropping pattern adjustments, seeds improvements and development of drought resistant varieties, balanced
fertilization, improvements to planting and cultivation techniques, etc.  The Project will include
improvements to the extension system; development of seed improvement facilities; and procurement of
farm machinery, fertilizer and plastic film.
Forestry and environmental monitoring
This component will involve forestry development for windbreak protection and soil conservation. Tree
nurseries will also be included in the Project. In some cases fruit trees will be used. Environmental
monitoring systems will be established to monitor the Project's environmental impact on soil and water.
Institutional Development
This component will involve support to improvements in water conservation technologies and developments
including training, technical assistance and research. The Project will strongly emphasize training of
agriculture, irrigation and water resources technicians at the township and county levels as well as farmers.
C. Environmental Impact Potentials
Tables I and 2 provide a summary of the issues, existing conditions, potential impacts, mitigation
measures and residual impacts of the WCP. These are further described below.
Key Environmental Issues
All regions involved in the WCP suffer water shortage problems and increasing problems related to
lowering of the groundwater table and degradation of groundwater, surface water and soil quality. The
Project activities may directly or indirectly affect these issues. All subproject areas are located on lands
- 95 -



that are already intensively cultivated and as such there will be no change in land use and no impact on
sensitive ecological habitats. There are no significant atmospheric, solid waste, health, cultural, or
socio-economic issues associated with the Project activities. Thus, the key potential adverse impacts relate
to:
* contribution to overdraft, should the proposed agricultural measures not be carried out properly; and,
* degradation in groundwater, surface water and soil quality, if fertilizer and pesticide use increases and
application is not well managed.
The Project is also to have a number of positive environmental and social benefits including:
* various agricultural measures will result in "real" water savings, through reduced ET, which could
provide direct and quantifiable benefits to the severe groundwater overdrafl problem in many of the
Project areas;
* proposed mitigation measures such as the introduction of management plans for pesticide and fertilizer
use will help minimize environmental impacts of these chemicals on groundwater, soils and surface
water and associated biota and users;
* the Project will lead to increased crop yield, which will provide economic and social benefits to the
villages, counties and provinces/municipalities participating in the Project; and,
* the forest subcomponent will provide additional forest habitat and will provide wind shelters to help
reduce erosion.
Impact Assessment
The potential environmental impacts associated with the main environmental issues described above have
been assessed as follows:
* Impact on groundwater tables - Water balance calculations have been done for all Regions, for
conditions with and without Project implementation. In all cases, it is predicted that there will be
savings in the amount of groundwater used for irrigation, as a result of changes to irrigation systems
and the introduction of agricultural and management measures. These changes are predicted to
eventually lead to stabilization of the groundwater levels if they are carried out on a wide scale;
* Impact offertilizer of groundwater quality - It is expected that the total amount of fertilizer applied in
the Project areas will increase as a result of the WCP. Nitrate is the key contaminant of concem, given
its mobility and potential environmental and health impacts. An analysis of nitrate levels was done
using the nitrate pollution index method proposed by Ramolino. That index ranks the potential for
nitrate pollution based on 22 different variables, including crop conditions, fertilizer type and
application conditions, and groundwater and soil conditions. Based on that assessment, it was
concluded that the projected increase in nitrate use would not adversely affect groundwater quality;
* Impact of pesticides on soil and groundwater quality - The potential irnpact of pesticides which may
be used by farmers in the Project areas was assessed using the Gustafson's GUS index, which
classifies the leaching characteristics, and hence the mobility, of pesticides. This index is based on
characteristics of the pesticide - organic carbon partition coefficient and half-life in soils. Analysis by
these method of two pesticides widely used in China, methamdiphos and rogor, suggest that these
chemicals are not highly mobile in soils, and will therefore not adversely affect groundwater quality.
However, given the uncertainties associated with other pesticides in use in China, it was concluded that
mitigation measure that focus on safe handling and use of pesticides should be integrated into the
WCP;
* Impacts during construction - Activities such as canal lining, pipe laying, road construction and
related civil works may lead to short-termn problems associated with dust, erosion, and noise.
-96 -



D. Environmental Mitigation and Monitoring Plan
Proposed Mitigation Measures - The main mitigation measure is the design of the Project itself which is
designed to promote adoption of sustainable conservation farming techniques for irrigated areas.
Mitigation measures proposed to mitigate potential impacts associated with the Project (mainly effects of
fertilizer and pesticide usage on groundwater, surface water and soil quality) include:
*   Ensure proper application of nitrogenous fertilizers, taking into account minimizing amount required
and optimizing timing; and
*   Follow national standards for pesticide use.
Mitigation measures proposed to mitigate the potential impacts associated with construction activities
include:
*   Remove spoil material and transport to an appropriate location for disposal;
*   Carry out civil works during dry season to minimize erosion;
*   Revegetate canal banks following construction to stabilize the banks and prevent erosion; and
*   Drive construction equipment at safe speeds through villages, and avoid unnecessary traffic through
villages at night.
Proposed Monitoring Program - The proposed environment monitoring program will be part of overall
program for monitoring and evaluation under the Project, and is designed to monitor: (a) changes in
groundwater level and quality; (b) changes in surface water quality, and (c) changes in soil quality,
moisture and fertility. A monitoring network, including selection of the monitoring sites and the testing
laboratories and the responsible agencies has been established in the Project areas of each province and
municipality. In addition, the sufficient associated funds have been arranged under the Project. The baseline
surveys will be completed by the end of 2000 before the beginning of Project implementation. Data will be
collected from each subproject areas and reported to the county PMO and then to the provincial/municipal
PMO before being submitted to the central PMO. Table 3 gives the responsible agencies and associated
costs for each category and Table 4 identifies the main activities and the timeframes.
Groundwater Level and Quality. (a) sampling locations. The sampling locations will be determined in
order to be representative of Project areas. To the extent possible, the existing monitoring network will be
utilized and water sampling will be made where the water level is also monitored. All the monitoring points
(about 260 for the whole Project) will be deternined before the beginning of Project implementation; (b)
monitoring and sampling. Groundwater depths will be measured and water quality sampling will be
carried out twice a year (at periods of high and low water levels) for the supplementary monitoring
locations. For the other existing monitoring locations, observation and sampling will be carried out on the
regular basis with higher frequencies. The groundsurface elevation will also be measured if it's unknown,
in order for the water table depth to be converted to an elevation; (c) water quality analyses. The analyses
will be carried out in accordance with the national standards; (d) data processing and consolidation. The
PMOs at the various levels will be responsible for management of collected data and the data consolidation;
and (e) evaluation. The PMOs at provincial/municipal and county levels will analyze the data and prepare
the evaluation report for submission to the central PMO.
Surface Water Quality. (a) sampling locations. The sampling will be carried out at the main irrigation
intakes from the rivers, canals and reservoirs. All the sampling points including the existing monitoring
points will be deternined before the beginning of Project implementation; (b) monitoring and sampling.
- 97 -



The sampling procedures will follow the National Standards for Water Environment Monitoring
(SL219-98). The samnpling will be carried out once between March and May before the start of the
irrigation season, and again during the height of the irrigation season. Discharge measurements will be
taken at the sarne time that water quality samples are collected; (c) water quality analyses. The analyses
will follow the National Standards for Surface Water Quality (GHZB 1-1999); (d) data processing and
consolidation. The PMOs at various levels will be responsible for management of the collected data and
the data consolidation; and (e) evaluation. The PMOs at provincial/municipal and county levels will
analyze the data and prepare the evaluation report for submission to the central PMO.
Soil Quality, Moisture and Fertility. (a) sampling locations. The sampling locations will be determined in
order to be representative of Project areas. All the monitoring points will be determined before the
beginning of Project implementation; (b) sampling. The sampling will be carried out once a year after
harvest from the surface layer within the thickness of 20 cm; (c) sample analysis. The analysis will be
made based on the methodologies for soil analysis with national standards; (d) data processing and
consolidation. The PMOs at various levels will be responsible for management of the collected data and
the data consolidation; and (e) evaluation. The PMOs at provincial/municipal and county levels will
analyze the data and prepare the evaluation report for submission to the central PMO.
It should be noted that pesticides are not included in the Project and their usage is not considered to be
relevant in regard to the Project's water conservation objectives. Nevertheless ensuring proper usage of
pesticides and monitoring their impact on water and soil quality was determined to be an important
environmental consideration and therefore has been included in the EMMP.
TABLE 1
Summary of issues, mitigation measures and residual impacts: Construction Phase
Category         Existing Conditon    Potential Impact(s)     Mitigation        Residual Impact
I________ _________   j   ___ _____ _____ ____        ____ ____M easure(s)
Physical/Biological Resources
Geography            Agricultural land,   Change in landform  None required        Landforms are
landforms already   from land leveling,                       already disturbed
extensively disturbed   canal construction,                   and changes will not
and road                                 be significant
construction
Air Quality          Not reported         Dust generated       Avoid construction  Civil works located
during civil works  on windy days        away from villages
so dust is not
expected to create a
significant nuisance
-98 -



Surface Water         Severe drought and   Temporary             Avoid construction   No significant
Quantity              frequent floods in   obstruction of        during the rainy     impact expected as
some subproject      channels by road      season               long as mitigation
areas                construction could    Appropriate sizing of   measures are
Over use of surface    result in flooding  drainage system,      followed
waters has resulted                        e.g., ditches and
in decline in surface                      culverts
water flows
Surface Water         Highly variable,     Increase in           Avoid construction    Short-term negative
Quality               ranging from Class I    suspended solids   during the rainy     impacts may result in
to V, but generally  resulting from soil   season                elevated suspended
poor (Classes III to  erosion due to civil  Revegetation of      solids levels
V). Main pollutants    works               banks to prevent soil  following rain
are Chemical                               loss                  events, but this is not
Oxygen Demand                                                    considered
(COD) and                                                        significant
Biological Oxygen
Demand (BOD),
from industrial and
agricultural sources
Soil Quality          Soil fertility is highly   None            None required         Not Significant
variable, ranging
from low to high
Heavy metal levels
generally low
No information on
residual pesticide
levels
Groundwater           Severe drawdown in    None                 None required         Not Significant
Quantity              many areas due to
over use
99 -



TABLE I (Continued)
Summary of issues, mitigation measures and residual impacts: Construction Phase
Category        Existing Condition    Potential Impact(s)     Mitigation         Residual Impact
Measure(s)
Groundwater Quality   Generally Class II to    None            None required        Not Significant
III. Main pollutants
are nitrate and
ammonia, probably
due to agricultural
activities, but
generally poor
(Classes III to V)
Salinization in some
coastal aquifers from
salt water intrusion
Social-Economics
Economics            Subprojects are all  Expenditure into     None required        Positive benefit to
located in rural area,   local community                      local community
with per capita
incomes ranging
from a low of Y
2,227 in Hebei to Y
3,331 in Shenyang
Land Use             Agricultural         None identified, but   None reported      Some long-term
potential loss of                         negative impacts but
some farmland for                         this will be balanced
new canals and roads                      by increased output
resulting from
implementing
Project
Community Attitude    Surveys indicate that   None identified, but   None reported   Short-term negative
people were          potential for conflict                    impact but this will
supportive of the    due to loss of                            be balanced by
Project and thought    farmland from                           increased output
the Project would    construction of new                       resulting from
bring benefits to   roads and canals                           implementing
themselves                                                     Project
Noise/Nuisance       Not reported         Dust and noise       Avoid construction    Civil works located
generated during     on windy days        away from villages
civil works          Avoid driving        so dust and noise is
through villages at  not expected to
night and avoid use    create a significant
of homs              nuisance
- 100 -



TABLE 2
Summary of issues, mitigation measures and residual impacts: Operations Phase
Category         Existing Condition    Potential Impact(s)      Mitigation      f  Residual Impact
_ _ _ _ _               _   _   _   _   _        Measure(s)
PhysicalBiological Resources
Geography             Agricultural land,   None                  None required         None
landforms already
extensively disturbed
Air Quality           Not reported         None                  None required         None
Surface Water         Severe drought and   Improvements in       None, as Project will   Positive impact
Quantity              frequent floods in   water use efficiency    reduce demand
some areas           for irrigation and
Over use of surface    reduction in ET will
waters and           reduce surface water
groundwater has      demand
resulted in decline in
surface water flows
Surface Water         Highly variable,     Not evaluated         None reported, but    Not reported, but
Quality               ranging from Class I    Potential increase in    proper use of   positive impact is
to V, but generally  pesticide and         fertilizers and       expected as fertilizer
poor (Classes III to  nutrient levels      pesticides will       use is projected to
V). Main pollutants   resulting from       minimize impacts      decline and pesticide
are COD and BOD,    changes in farming                           application will be
from municipal,      practices and                               restricted and
industrial and       application rates                          improved by
agricultural sources                                            training. Increased
water efficiency will
also reduce pesticide
and nutrient loss to
surface waters
relative to current
conditions.
Soil Quality          Soil fertility is highly   Not evaluated   None reported, but    Not reported, but
variable, ranging    Potential increase in   proper use of       positive impact is
from low to high     pesticide and         fertilizers and       expected as fertilizer
Heavy metal levels    nutrient levels      pesticides will       use is projected to
generally low        resulting from        minimize impacts      decline and pesticide
No information on    changes in farming                          application will be
residual pesticide   practices and                               restricted and
levels               application rates                          improved by
training.
Groundwater           Severe drawdown in    ET savings will      Allowable             Positive benefit
Quantity              many areas due to    potentially lead to   withdrawals based
over use             water table           on stabilizing water
stabilization in some   table drawdown
areas
-101 



TABLE 2 (Continued)
Summary of issues, mitigation measures and residual impacts: Operations Phase
Category         Existing Condition    Potential Impact(s)     Mitigation         Residual Impact
Measure(s)
Groundwater Quality    Generally Class II to   Increase in pesticide    Proper use of  Positive impact is
III. Main pollutants    and nutrient levels    fertilizers and  expected as fertilizer
are nitrate and      resulting from       pesticides will       use is projected to
ammonia, probably    changes in farming   minimize impacts      decline and pesticide
due to agricultural  practices and                              application will be
activities, but      application rates                          restricted and
generally poor                                                  improved by
(Classes III to V)                                              training. Increased
Salinization in some                                            water efficiency will
coastal aquifers from                                           also reduce pesticide
salt water intrusion                                            and nutrient loss to
surface waters
relative to current
conditions.
Ascension of water
table will help
alleviate salt water
intrusion in coastal
areas.
Social-Economics
Economics            Subprojects are all    Increased crop      Establishment of      Positive economic
located in rural area,   production and    SIDD, WSO and        benefit to local
with per capita      higher value crops    WUA to assist with    community
incomes ranging      will result in       financial aspects of
from a low of Y      increased income to    Project
2,227 in Hebei to Y  fanmers and in local
3,331 in Shenyang    communities
Land Use             Agricultural          Changes to higher    None required         Positive economic
value crops                               benefit
Community Attitude    Surveys indicate that   None identified, but    Establishment of  Positive benefit to
people were          potential for         SIDD, WSO and        local communities is
supportive of the    conflict/concems due   WUA will change     expected
Project and thought    to implementation of   the management
the Project would    new techniques and    mechanism and
bring benefits to    farming practices     improve water
themselves                                resources
management.
Training and
education
Noise/Nuisance       Not reported          None                 None required         None
-102-



TABLE 3
Environment Monitoring Plan
Implementing Agencies and Associated Costs
Monitoring   Soil Quality, Moisture and            Surface Water          Groundwater Level    Monitoring                 Total
Items                 Fertility                    Quality                 and Quality           Equipment             Costs
Beijing         Water Management Station       Hydrological Station /      Hydrological Station I  US$132,800               US$561,200
Municipality   US$90,600                       US$99,300                  US$238,600
Hebei           Agricultural Extension Station    Environment Monitoring  Hydrological Station/    Existing                 US$636,100
Province        US$209,700                     Station/US$56,600          US$369,700               Equipment
Qingdao         Water Management Station /    Water Management Station !  Water Management         US$41,700                US$194,000
Municipality   US$55,300                       US$64,000                   Station / US$33,000
Liaoning        Water Management Station      Water Management Station /  Water Management          Existing                US$324,900
(Shenyang)      US$51,700                      US$71,300                  Station / US$201,900     Equipment
Total Costs     US$407,300                     US$291,200                 US$843,200               US$174,500             US$1,716,200
TABLE 4
Proposed Monitoring Program
Activities and Timeframes
Groundwater Level and Quality                         Surface Water                       Soil Quality, Moisture and Quality
Quality
Activities          Timeframes             Activities           Timeframes              Activities              Timeframes
1. Sampling           Before               1. Sampling           Before                  I. Sampling          Before
location           December 31, 2000        location          December 31, 2000          location          December 31, 2000
2. Baseline Survey    Before                2. Baseline Survey   Before                  2. Baseline Survey   Before
Deceniber 31, 2000                         December 31, 2000                            December 31, 2000
3. Sampling           At low and high       3. Sampling          Between March and       3. Sampling          Within one month after
water level periods                        May and during                              harvest
annually                                   irrigation season
annually
4. Sample             10 days after         4. Sample Analysis    10 days after          4. Sample            10 days after Sampling
Analysis            Sampling                                   Sampling                  Analysis
5. Data               One month after       5. Data              One month after         S. Data              One month after analysis
Processing          analysis                Processing         analysis                  Processing
6. Evaluation         One month before      6. Evaluation        One month before        6. Evaluation        One month before October I
of data             October I each year     of data            October I each year       of data            each year
- 103 -



Additional
Annex No.: 13
Review of Financial Management System
CHINA: WATER CONSERVATION
1. Background
This report is the result of a financial management review and analysis of the Project as conducted by
Junxue Chu, Financial Management Officer, EACCF, and Nancy Chen, Financial Management
Specialist, EASFS, in November 1999, to determine whether the Project has in place an adequate
financial management system as required by the Bank OP/BP 10.02. The review has subsequently
been updated after the appraisal to follow up the action plan. The review was performed in accordance
with the following:
*   Guide for Review and Design of Accounting and Reporting System for World Bank Projects
(Prepared by Central Operational Services Unit, East Asia and Pacific Region, December 1997);
*  Review of Financial Management System as stipulated in Annex II of LACI Implementation
Handbook; and
*  Project Financial Management Manual issued by the Loan Department, February 1999.
The review consequently included procedures as were considered necessary and appropriate to Project's
circumstances, including site visit, discussion and observation. As a result, the task team has discussed
and reviewed with the Provincial/Municipal Finance Bureaus (FBs), Water Resources Bureaus (WRB)
and other implementing agencies about plans, procedures and guidelines for establishing a sound
project financial management system, inter alia, accounting system, staffing and training, internal
controls, project reporting, auditing and budgeting.
II. Organization of Project Financial Management
The Ministry of Water Resources (MWR) will assume an overall responsibility of implementing and
monitoring the Project. A Central Project Management Office (CPMO) has been established under the
MWR to oversee project implementation and provide coordination between the participating provinces
and municipality. The project implementation will be undertaken by: Beijing, Hebei, Liaoning
(Shenyang) and Qingdao. Within the Project Management Office (PMO) at the Provincial/Municipal
and County/Township levels, the Water Resources Bureau would be responsible for overall project
management and would include participation of the Finance Bureau, Agriculture Bureau and the
Environmental Protection Bureau.
Except for Qingdao, the FBs have prior experience with implementing World Bank-financed projects
and have accumulated extensive experience with both the Bank and MOF's requirements in preparation
and processing of withdrawal application and financial management of Bank-fnanced projects.
However, additional training will need to be provided to project staff at all levels. See VI: Staffing and
Training for more detail.
- 104-



III. Loan Disbursement Arrangements
The Project will be disbursing on the traditional disbursement techniques and will not be using
PMR-based disbursements, in accordance with the agreement between the Bank and Ministry of
Finance (MOF).
It has been agreed that four Special Accounts (SA) will be set up, with each of the Finance Bureau to
manage, monitor and maintain its respective SA. The FBs will reconcile the SA, check and monitor
withdrawal applications and to verify payment requests meet Bank requirements. Applications for
withdrawal of the proceeds of the loan and for replenishment of SAs will be prepared and submitted to
the Bank by the FBs. The Bank funds will flow from the Provincial/Municipal Finance Bureau to
County/Township Finance Bureau, then to County/Township PMO. The County/Township PMO will
verify the accuracy and validity of expenses submitted, progress reported and prepare requests for
payment. The application will be further reviewed and approved by the County/Township FB before
submitting to a higher PMO for approval. Eventually the requests for payment will be submitted by
FBs to the Bank.
Original invoices and backup documents will be retained at point of initiation. FBs will retain copies
of withdrawal applications and copies of supporting documents.
IV. Financial and Accounting System
In line with other Bank-financed projects in the People's Republic of China, the Project will follow the
Construction Accounting Standards issued by MOF as a basis for bookkeeping and preparation of
financial statements and project reports. These standards dictate the format of financial statements,
Chart of Accounts and related instructions which would therefore affect project accounting and
reporting requirements. Accrual accounting and double entry basis will be adopted.
Except for Beijing, project accounts will be maintained by the County PMOs, consolidated by the
provinciallmunicipal PMOs and further consolidated and submitted by CPMO on a semi-annual basis
to the Bank, by September 30 and March 31, covering the first and second half of the year,
respectively. For Beijing, the project accounts will be maintained at the township level, consolidated by
the County PMO for submission to the PPMO.
V. Internal Controls
A well designed internal control system is one of the key elements critical to the success of a project. A
draft Financial Management Manual (the Manual) has been prepared by the CPMO and reviewed by
the Bank. It was agreed that each of the four province/city will prepare, based on the Manual
developed by the CPMO, its own manual documenting detailed financial management procedures that
are tailored to the specific circumstances of the province/municipality. The objective of the Manual
developed at the Central level by the CPMO is to document the operational procedures and guidelines
for project financial management, encompassing all levels of project management. The scope of the
Manual encompasses the following key elements:
- 105 -



* Project financial management structure and staffing;
* Identification of the accounting standards to be used by the Project and all the participating
agencies (e.g. tailored Chart of Accounts to project specifics and sample accounting treatments);
* Key internal control features such as a system of authorization, verification, reconciliation and
project reporting to provide adequate control over project costs, cash and asset management and
segregation of incompatible duties;
* Reporting formats tailored to project specifics;
* Procedures for procurement, disbursement and counterpart fund management;
* Key aspects of on-lending arrangement such as foreign exchange risk and repayment of project
indirect costs;
* Budgetary procedures; and
* Auditing arrangements.
To strengthen project management and provide guidance in financial information preparation and
reporting, the task team recommended that well-defmed roles, job description and detailed operational
procedures in the aforementioned aspects be documented in the Manuals.
In addition, as about one third of the counterpart funds will be contribution-in-kind by farmers, the task
team emphasized the importance of developing a standard for the calculation of labor costs. CPMO
agreed to provide guidance in standard setting, which will be further modified by each
province/municipality so that the unit cost would reflect local standard. The details have been
documented in the Manual.
The draft Manuals prepared by each province/municipality have been sent to the Bank for review
during project appraisal.
VI. Staffimg and Training
The PMOs at the Provincial/Municipal level have been established and are fully staffed. In order to
have a sound financial management of the project, each PMO (at both provincial/municipal and
county/township levels) is staffed with at least one project accountant who has overall responsibility for
maintaining the project accounts and preparing financial statements, and one cashier who processes
cash receipts and expenditures.  During the appraisal the Bank has received the CVs for the
accountants and cashiers at all PMO levels and found them satisfactory.
The task team recommended that a well designed and focused training be provided by the CPMO
during the Project Launch Workshop to ensure that staff understand financial management
requirements.  The Bank plans to readdress in details the major aspects of project financial
management and reporting requirements during the Project Launch Workshop. It is suggested that this
training should include such features as:
* Bank procedures and the project financial management requirements on the withdrawal of Bank
funds;
* Overview of the project financial statement formats;
* Review of project Financial Management Systems Manual;
* Procurement procedures;
* Project audit requirements; and
* Accounting software and its applications.
-106-



During the Pre-appraisal the Task Team has requested CPMO to develop a comprehensive training
plan outlining the timing and content as well as identifying participants for Bank review by appraisal.
This is to ensure that the training will cover all aspects of financial management requirements and
include relevant staff at all levels. The Bank has reviewed the training plan during the appraisal and
found it satisfactory.
VII. Project Reporting Requirements
The format and content of the following project financial statements represent the standard project
reporting package agreed to between the Bank and MOF, and have been discussed and agreed with all
parties concerned. The project financial statements will be submitted to the Bank on a semi-annual
basis and include the following 4 statements:
* Balance Sheet;
* Summary of Sources and Uses of Funds by Project Component;
* Statement of Implementation of Loan Agreement; and
* Statement of Special Account.
VIII. Audit Arrangements
The Bank requires the Project financial statements audited in accordance with standards acceptable to
the Bank. In line with other Bank financed projects in China, the Project will be audited in accordance
with Governnent Auditing Standards of the People's Republic of China (1997 edition). The Beijing,
Hebei, Liaoning (Shenyang) and Qingdao Audit Bureaus have been identified as the auditors for the
Project. The audit including opinions on financial statements, Special Account, Statement of
Expenditures and Internal Control Memorandum will be scheduled for submission to the Bank within 6
months after the end of the calendar year.
IX. Budgeting
Project budget will be prepared annually by the CPMO based on submissions prepared by the
Provincial/Municipal PMOs. The budget prepared at each PMO level will be submitted to the Finance
Bureau for approval at the same level. CPMO will consolidate budgets approved and submit for the
Bank review and approval by September 30 of each year. To centralize the management of counterpart
funds, it has been proposed that the funds will be channeled to the County PMOs through local Finance
Bureaus. Details of budget preparation and approval are expected to be detailed in the Manual and
serve as a guide for all parties involved.
X. Conclusion
The task team has deternined that the Project satisfies the Bank's financial management requirements
as stipulated in OP/BP 10.02. In the team's opinion, the Project will have in place an adequate project
financial management system that can provide, with reasonable assurance, accurate and timely
information on the status of the Project in the reporting format agreed with the project management
office and as required by the Bank.
- 107 -



Attachment I
PROPOSED ACTION PLAN
Description                          Responsibility            Target Date
A. Project Financial Management Manual
1. Manual prepared by CPMO finalized                    CPMO, Bank                 Appraisal
(Received and
reviewed)
2. Draft Manuals prepared by the provinces/cities       PMOs, Bank                 Appraisal
reviewed by Bank                                                                 (Received and
reviewed)
B. Staffing and Training
1. CVs of accountants and cashiers of PMOs at all       PMOs, Bank                 Appraisal
levels provided for Bank review.                                              (Received; Staff are in
place)
2. Training plan/program developed by CPMO for          CPMO, Bank                 Appraisal
Bank review.                                                                     (Received and
reviewed)
3. Project Launch Workshop                           CPMO, PMOs, Bank          Before Effectiveness
C. Special Account
1. Obtain domestic clearances for opening of SA.       Finance Bureau            Effectiveness
2. Authorized signatures sent to MOF and Bank.      Finance Bureau, Bank          Effectiveness
3. First withdrawal application sent to the Bank for   Finance Bureau          After Effectiveness
initial deposit.
D. Finalize the on-lending terms and conditions      CPMO, PMOs, Bank              Appraisal
- 108 -



0
CD






IBRD 30948
RUSSIAN ,      -,        ,                                       CHINA
FEDERATION,;,
_>i J/    ,*-7J                                 WATER CONSERVATION PROJECT
MONGOLIA 8  '-,.;  .oAX4^   .BEIJING MUNICIPALITY
_,   MONGOLIA ,-   tILIN ^, -eL ~, ,G' . NATIONAL IRRIGATED AGRICULTURE WATER
'.  ?   ,/3 < PZAON;NG=D PR OFP   SAVINGS PROGRAM PILOT COUNTIES AND  _   RIVERS
XINJIANG    ,*_      _      -C,,2;g       R        ^<. ,,  / KObREA  WATER CONSERVATION PROJECT COUNTIES
JAPAN                                            'lrU-,s GREAT WALL
<X&~?S,>  H~BE EU S REP. OF  AIP  WATER CONSERVATION PROJECT COUNTIES   MAIN ROADS
Q!OINGRAI   n      t                           \EA , ................................................... , SUB-PROJECT AREAS  RAILROADS
i'n.    ' _ -r > S=eNHi f F f 8 8 ~COUNTY IXIAN) HEADQUARTERS            -  COUNTY (XIAN) BOUNDARIES
XZANG                       E SCHUAN to   c           NATIONAL CAPITAL                 -, - PROVINCE BOUNDARIES
ffNallono C.piFlp < f  H 4 $  'UW["<<                         , 
----IYUNNAN  GUA      I
M~~~~~~~~ ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ 0D   10   20   30 Kilometers0 
Group an  ud gren ooss sh lea)ttso  nertr,o  o
drea  o acceptanc oT su  ndraU
HEBEI                                                                                            2000
< ~~~~~~~~MIYUN.
| $ 4 ~~~~~YANQIING t7)$- |
.u ECvCOUNT
l?~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
!.~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~n 'R,,                                                         r _,'  ,
TheboUdurlescolorsdenomiotlonsmdanyoherinfLmofio   \  \ u! irou
shownon tfs mbp c norimpS on he pa Df he W d Bnk   JLl aD C     _Re
Grupantinugmefo h a hu foyiiyooyf        
Renoservnsoir cencofscbodre. 
L'~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~R
SHUNYI~~~~~~~OEME 20






IBRD 30949
RUSSIAN             .
FEDERATIOY..                                                                                CHINA
--r;  HEILQNGJLANG; t                         WATER CONSERVATION PROJECT
I    I  MONGOLIA        ,      <w    ,4- -ct;o8oHEBEI PROVINCE
XtN'1ANG                              0
WATER CONSERVATION PROJECT COUNTIES
KO                                 >>! ~e>X@> Q2NGHAI < ie e ;ASUB-PROJECT AREAS
QNGHM    ~           ~rer         rS                                                 COUNTY (XIAN) HEADQUARTERS
1414NSUy ANAP1                 tHt                                             PREFECTURE HEADQUARTERS
XIZANG                                                            ~.   1HA  UE ,.h$.RIVERS
.:-   -   NATIONAL HIGHWAYS
s Notional Cpmltal  r'  4,       ~.I ; '-4---.- RAILROADS
B-d.. nc              GUANG-  ,           PhihQs 'U                                            COUNTY (XIAN) BOUNDARIES
B-nldrn.,.v            4                                                                       PREFECTURE BOUNDARIES
- PINGSHAN               ciS-HENZE
SHIJIAZHUANG   i'fia9NJ                                                                                          ft
SH                               Z$U
'1%,                  _6-INGgINGg<Q_<,                        XINJI
UANGEN
SHANXI            y ^                   t               ,,    G~~~~WJI 6SH,ENZ|
' fl eBAIXI wG , /AlXl
38~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~L
_370        X       t'          X~~~~~~~              ~       ~~~INGTAI  Xg      J X-           H         tXo  
37'
Th/ map ma producd by                                                                                   HE 
color,, denomnations and  -N0SHANDONG
any otherinformtionshAN oIw
Thoh mop do pnotip-dy an  f                           l                                                                  __- -  ___. -  _ L   '.  _ _ i
WoUJn.th.busoe M.  .ip U:i f T.I  WEIX/  
colrs,denminfhos ad    -     E    A     ILI< NZ HA3 9
anyeDhermformshensHENAN                                                                                        0   t~ o         10    20    30    AO    50
the part of Th. Woiad Beak
Group, arfy jdBment an hke                        A                                                  - r      -                  KILOMETERS
lefal status  of any terrirtsoy                                                                             \/,  -  f 
or rny endorsement or
aooceptaaoe of tookssf                                           115     ,                                '             116
k t.adai es.                                                     , 
NOVEMBER 2000






IBRD 30947
RUSSIAN                              .
FEDERATION i_
MONGOLIA                1 4vc- 
-    ~ ~ ~ Otoauipo~~~evr
SICIIUAUOINP~R asf
YUNNAN
* NotonCpATOl    LGI  G QZhOLE AG LTURE WATER
-~~~~~~                                    __ .,                                                                 33p2
SAVINGS PROGRAM PILOT COUNTIES AND                          Foku
WATER CONSERVATION PROJECT COUNTIES
.,    WATER CONSERVATION PROJECT COUNTIES                                               FAKU
M        SUB-PROJECT AREAS                                                            COUNTY
    COUNTY (XIAN) HEADQUARTERS
) PREFECTURE HEADQUARTERS                                                                       AX-
'------~ RiVERS
-    NATIONAL HIGHWAYS
t--t'  RAILROADS
- - - - COUNTY IXIAN) BOUNDARIES
PREFECTURE BOUNDARIES         -10
th                  XINMIN D  t o
{ -     X    5 /~~~~inminshW> t                                          )Xnhtg               j
any other ir8ornn    5rDISTRICT,
\- --  /X    )1L                     UHONGOV3'uw 4
the port of Tha World               v Sk
eol stto    of ony torritor'f.
or an enoseno or                           't          j         /i
G J 2 W  ar~~ZHOG 
Thiesonce wos  snuchdb                                                                          HN
fhe Mon/orionUno. e
I 0  20  30  40~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~OVMER20
wl,scnThis ..p  , puonnsbond              j                           W    TE    CONSER             ATO          PR JC
_)y oserinf.-tion Ahwn-  
trh. pvo oPf Th. nWomId 8-ank                                SHENYANG   MUNICIPALITY, LIAONING   PROVINCE
Gnou cn judgment o K                            C
-yundories       r
f -~~h






IBRD 30946
CHINA                                                                     NATIONAL IRRIGATED AGRICULTURE WATER
SAVINGS PROGRAM PILOT COUNTIES AND
WATER CONSERVATION PROJECT                                                                         WATER CONSERVATION PROJECT COUNTIES
WATER CONSERVATION PROJECT COUNTIES
QINGDAO MUNICIPALITY, SHANDONG PROVINCE                                                                     SUBWPROJECT AREAS
    COUNTY (XIAN) HEADQUARTERS
/         0    ~~~~PREFECTURE HEADQUARTERS
~-~ RIVERS
-0-    NATIONAL HIGHWAYS
xi   ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~~--~-RAILROADS
COUNTY (XIAN) BOUNDARIES
PREFECTURE BOUNDARIES
:~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
$ TY                          g  ~~4QSAQ,, ,     
7 / , y >t W E ~~~N  T YAN  :-.. ,
\  / 1 5 - -~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~O                             GOLI tA  O /       Vs   JWA
~~~~~~~~~~) ~ ~ ~ ~ ~  ~ ~ o
JIAOZH Ut. . ..                                                                   .     ...
v e I . 5 , ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~.                                                ?  ro o        
~~                             - BoHNGYANGuN~    AND
..... ?:< .................... <-Z-t....                     FEDERATIO N  t   4
NOVEMBER 2000



