Report No. PID7252
Project Name                     China-Water Conservation Project (@+)
Region                           East Asia and Pacific
Sector                           Agriculture, Irrigation
Project ID                       CNPE56516
Implementing Agencie             Ministry of Water Resources;
Provinces of Liaoning, Hebei;
Municipalities of Beijing, Qingdao
Updated PID Date                 August 4, 2000
Appraisal Date                   May 1, 2000
Tentative Board Date             September 14, 2000
1.      BACKGROUND. Water Scarcity especially in Northern China is becoming an
increasingly serious problem. In many areas, ever increasing demand for water
for use in agriculture, industry and municipalities can no longer be met by
increasing water supply through construction of hydraulic infrastructure such
as storage reservoirs. In large areas of the North China Plain and in other
northern areas, groundwater overexploitation is a continuing and increasing
problem that is inherently unsustainable. Compounding the water scarcity
problem are serious and increasing water pollution problems resulting from
heavy industrialization and urban population growth. Demand for municipal and
industrial (M&I) water is increasing steadily, putting water supply for
irrigated agriculture under mounting pressure. China's total annual water use
is currently estimated to be 520 billion m3, with agricultural use
constituting about 70% of this amount.   To enable further growth in
agricultural production and to satisfy the anticipated growth in M&I demand,
it is estimated that China's available water supply would need to increase to
670 billion m3 by 2010 if existing water use requirements are maintained. It
is estimated that only about one half of this incremental demand can be met
through additional development of water resources; the remainder will need to
be met through water savings, demand management, and/ or "deficit
irrigation". In recognition of these problems, the Chinese Government
concluded that major water savings in agriculture is one of the important
strategies to deal with water scarcity and to counteract growing water demands
in the North China Plain. MWR took the initiative in the mid-1990s through
the National Irrigated Agriculture Water-saving Program. Under that program,
300 pilot water saving counties were selected in 1996 and used to test
different water savings technologies, such as canal lining, buried pipeline,
sprinkler and drip irrigation.
2.      Rehabilitation of irrigation systems and application of improved
irrigation technologies (engineering measures) to increase agriculture
production are priority objectives of the National Irrigated Agriculture
Water-Saving Program. With 22% of the world's population, China has only 7% of
the arable land, about 50% of which is irrigated and produces about 75% of
national agriculture output. In addition, encroachment of urban and
industrial areas continually reduces the land available for agricultural
production. These circumstances require increasingly intensive use of
irrigated agriculture. It is essential to increase output from irrigated land
where yield potentials are highest. However, most of the irrigation systems



in China were built in the 1960s, in many cases with substandard designs and
quality, many were left incomplete due to lack of resources.    Furthermore, the
traditional flood irrigation with very low field efficiencies is still
practiced at the field level in most irrigated areas.    In the North China
Plain, the current overall irrigation water use efficiency is only around 35-
50% for surface systems (water conveyance efficiency 50-60% and field
efficiency 70-80%), and for well systems about 70%.    Most of these irrigation
systems are in need of rehabilitation and upgrading including improvements of
water conveyance and field efficiencies and of traditional irrigation
technologies. In this regard, the National Irrigated Agriculture Water-saving
Program has played an important role during the past five years. To further
improve the program under the proposed Project, MWR reached agreement with the
Bank that use of only engineering measures cannot fully reach the objective of
increasing production while reducing water consumed, and decided to take this
Project as a pilot project for the National Program in order to enhance the
program in accordance with the government's strategy of agriculture water
savings in the North China Plain. In some areas, flood control, drainage and
salinity mitigation are also essential for raising agricultural productivity.
Drainage works are essential to allow cultivation of low-lying areas subject
to waterlogging and salinization. Since the 1960s, government programs in
drainage works have helped control waterlogging on 19 million hectares and
have reclaimed 4.8 million hectares of saline land.
3.      Irrigation Institutional Reform has been also identified by MWR as an
important goal for sustainable irrigation in China. A major problem faced by
almost all irrigation and drainage systems in China is inadequate O&M which is
due primarily to insufficient government budget and low water charges. It is
also due to lack of direct farmer participation and feeling of "ownership" in
project design, implementation and management. This has resulted in a vicious
cycle of implementation, deterioration and rehabilitation of irrigation and
drainage systems. Low water charges and the lack of accurate water
measurement and volumetric water charging have resulted in inefficient use of
water resources. Key issues for the irrigation subsector are how to pay for
irrigation investments and make them sustainable, how to increase local
participation and "ownership" in irrigation, how to implement irrigation
investments to consistently higher technical and institutional standards as
needed for agricultural intensification, and how to promote water savings and
efficient water usage through water measurement and volumetric water charging.
There is a strong need for institutional reform incorporating: (a) the user
pays principle; (b) decentralization of services delivery; (c) market oriented
development; (d) treatment of water as a valuable economic resource; (e) water
measurement and volumetric water charging; and (f) participation of water
users. Institutions responsible for operation and maintenance of irrigation
and drainage systems need to be: (a) organized along hydraulic boundaries, (b)
established with and organized to have legal personality to be able to enter
into contractual relationships with other entities; (c) managed to be self-
financing; and (d) designed to pay for bulk water deliveries on a volumetric
basis.
4.      PROJECT OBJECTIVES. The Government's primary objectives for the water
resources sector are to encourage efficient use and comprehensive and
integrated management of water resources at the river basin or aquifer level;
promote financial self-sufficiency and cost recovery; reduce water pollution;
improve flood warning and protection; and undertake priority water resource
development projects. Key steps to be taken for the achievement of these
- 2-



objectives are policy and institutional reforms to improve water resource
management.
5.      The project's objectives are to enhance beneficial use of water
resources, agriculture production capacity and farmer incomes by: (a)
increasing the value of agriculture production per unit of consumed water
through increasing yields and reducing non-beneficial water losses; and (b)
establishing mechanisms for sustainable use and management of water resources
in irrigated areas.
6.      PROJECT DESCRIPTION.   The Project would support integrated improvements
to irrigated agriculture in the Chinese provinces of Hebei and Liaoning, and
in the municipalities of Beijing and Qingdao.    Twenty seven counties from the
provinces and municipalities have been identified and all of the subprojects
have been prepared at the feasibility level.
7.      "Real" Water Savings.   Experience has shown in China and in other
parts of the world that projects that only concentrate on improvements to
physical irrigation and drainage systems may achieve improvements in water use
efficiency, but may not result in much "real" water savings because return
flows from existing inefficient systems return to the groundwater or surface
water systems and become available for other users (are not lost to the
hydrologic system). "Real" water savings results from reductions of non-
recoverable losses such as evapo-transpiration (ET) or losses to non-usable
water bodies such as saline aquifers or the ocean. This Project is designed
to focus on three sets of integrated measures that when taken together will
result in both "real" water savings and increased agricultural yields. The
three sets of measures are: (a) physical improvements to irrigation and
drainage systems mainly at the tertiary level and onfarm; (b) agronomic
measures; and (c) management measures.
8.      Physical improvements.    The physical improvements included in the
Project are: (a) canal lining; (b) placing small distribution systems in low-
pressure pipe; (c) construction of well fields, groundwater recharge and
conjunctive use of groundwater; (d) drainage systems and reuse of return
flows; (e) improved surface irrigation systems onfarm; (f) sprinkler systems;
and (g) micro-irrigation systems. These improvements taken by themselves will
result in significant improvements in water use efficiencies but may not
result in much "real" water savings unless they are combined with the other
two sets of measures.
9.      Agronomic measures.   Agronomic measures include land leveling, non-
tillage in the dry season, deep plowing in the rainy season, soil fertility
improvements, organic and plastic mulching, seeds improvements and development
of drought resistant varieties, balanced fertilization, improvements to
planting and cultivation techniques, etc. Experiments and practice have shown
in China and elsewhere that significant improvements in the amount of
agricultural yield per unit of evapo-transpiration can be achieved through
these types of measures. This is "real" water savings.
10.     Management measures.   Management measures can be broken down into to
parts; (a) irrigation and drainage system management improvements; and (b)
onfarm irrigation management improvements. Project system management
improvements include: (a) measurement and volumetric pricing; and (b) SIDD.
Onfarm irrigation management improvements include soil moisture management
- 3 -



through irrigation scheduling. Experiments and practice have shown in China
and elsewhere that significant improvements in the amount of agricultural
yield per unit of evapo-transpiration can be achieved by soil moisture
management through irrigation scheduling. This is "real" water savings.
11.     It is important to point out that the physical improvements and system
management improvements may improve water use efficiencies, but may not result
in much "real" water savings in and of themselves. However, if designed and
implemented properly, the physical improvements and system management
improvements may significantly facilitate and improve the opportunity for
"real" water savings from agronomic measures and soil moisture management
through irrigation scheduling. For example, it may be much easier to apply a
calculated uniform amount of water at a specified time (irrigation scheduling)
with sprinkler and drip systems and with improved surface irrigation systems
than it is without these improvements.
12.     The design and implementation of an integrated Water Conservation
Project that results in "real" water savings and increased yields is much more
complicated than just designing and implementing physical improvements. The
Project will be implemented using the program approach which means that only
the first year's Project is prepared in detail prior to initiation of Project
implementation. Subsequent year's Project would be prepared in detail during
the year preceding its implementation. China has an existing large water
savings program that has concentrated on physical improvements, but has also
included some agronomic and management measures. Approximately US$3 billion
have already been invested in this program during the last 5 years. The Water
Conservation Project has the added purpose of acting as a demonstration
program to improve the integrated application of the three sets of measures.
The Project includes an important monitoring and evaluation program that when
coupled with a program approach should result in a continuously improved set
of measures and an improved Project, and that also can be replicated
throughout China and through the ongoing water savings program.
13.       The proposed project would contain the following components:
(a)     Irrigation and Drainage Works and Onfarm Systems.   This component
involves improvements in irrigation and drainage systems which are
broken down into the following types of areas: (a) canal lining areas,
17,100 ha, which will involve lining of tertiary canals and laterals and
onfarm surface irrigation and drainage system improvements; (b) low-
pressure pipe areas, 47,800 ha, which will involve replacing tertiary
canals and laterals with buried low-pressure pipes and onfarm surface
irrigation and drainage system improvements; (c) installation and
rehabilitation of wells, small headworks, small reservoirs and drains;
(d) sprinkler irrigation areas 26,800 ha, which will involve replacing
tertiary canals and laterals with buried pressure pipe and sprinkler
irrigation systems mostly using semi-fixed technologies; and (e) micro-
irrigation areas, 15,100 ha, which will involve replacing tertiary
canals and laterals with buried pressure pipe and micro irrigation
systems such as micro-sprinklers or drip systems with corollary
filtration systems.  Approximately 70t of the area will use groundwater
as the water source and the systems in these areas also include well
construction and pumping equipment, where these are not presently
available or adequate. The improvements will be carried out in areas
that are already irrigated, will be dedicated mainly to tertiary and
- 4 -



onfarm systems. The improvements will also include gates and other
structures, and measuring devices at key diversion points. The
measuring devices are designed such that each operational unit (lateral)
will have a measuring device at its head. Individual farm turnouts will
not have measuring devices but will have water deliveries determined
through gate calibrations and farmers best practices. Water pricing will
be based on the volume of water delivered as measured with the measuring
devices. The component will also include: (a) implementation of
groundwater recharge schemes in areas where groundwater overdraft is a
significant problem; (b) rural roads where necessary for irrigation
system operation and maintenance; and c) small transmission lines and
transformers where necessary for electrification of pumps.
(b)     Agriculture Support and Services.   Agronomic measures include land
leveling, non-tillage in the dry season, deep plowing in the rainy
season, soil fertility improvements including incorporation of green
manure and stalk, organic and plastic mulching, cropping pattern
adjustments, seeds improvements and development of drought resistant
varieties, balanced fertilization, improvements to planting and
cultivation techniques, etc. The Project will include improvements to
the extension system; development of seed improvement facilities; and
procurement of farm machinery, fertilizer and plastic film. Land
leveling will cover an area of about 70,900 ha; deep plowing about
47,700 ha; stalk shredding and incorporation, about 36,500 ha; and
plastic mulching, about 12,900 ha. About 9300 tons of balanced
fertilizer will be purchased and utilized. About 4600 ha of land will
be developed for fine variety seed development and breeding. About 628
tractors, 215 stalk shredders, 735 fertilizers/tillers, 1021 seeders,198
harvesters and 23 accessories will be purchased.
(c)     Forestry and Environmental Monitoring.   This component will
involve forestry development for windbreak protection and soil
conservation. Tree nurseries will also be included in the Project. In
some cases trees for economic production of fruits, nuts and wood will
be used. A total of about 1730 ha of land will be developed as
windbreaks and an additional about 1000 ha will be developed for
economic production of fruit, nuts and wood. Environmental monitoring
systems will be established to monitor the Project's environmental
impact on soil and water.
(d)     Institutional Development.   This component will involve support to
improvements in water conservation technologies and developments
including training, technical assistance and research. The component
will also include support to the establishment and strengthening of
operation and maintenance entities made up mostly of water users,
principally through the established Chinese mechanism of self-financing
irrigation and drainage districts, or variations thereof.
14.     The Project will emphasize training of agriculture, irrigation and water
resources technicians at the township and county levels. The Project will also
include a strong component of training of farmers. The training will be
provided in integrated irrigation technology, agronomic and management
measures to ensure an integrated approach to Project implementation.
Demonstration households in each subproject area will be selected for
intensive training and to be used as examples for the other farmers in the
- 5 -



subproject area.
Scientific Irrigation. Scientific irrigation will apply the following two
water-savings oriented irrigation programs rather than the traditional
inefficient irrigation program: (a) program for irrigation scheduling, which
will be widely applied in all Project areas. Under this program, the soil
moisture will be managed such that it will average the minimum level necessary
to achieve full yields; investigations have shown that the lower limit of soil
moisture for irrigation could be decreased on average by about 10. of field
capacity without negatively impacting the normal crop photosynthesis such that
the highest yields could be achieved; (b) program for deficit irrigation,
which will be applied in a few subproject areas where groundwater
overexploitation due to agriculture water use is most serious and a water
balance cannot be reached even after applying irrigation scheduling. Under
this program, less than optimum amounts of water for irrigation will be
applied and only at critical demand periods such that maximum yields per unit
of water are achieved, but yields are less than the highest possible.
15.     Mobile Specialist Team. The Mobile Specialist Team (MST) will be
established at the provincial/municipal level to assist the PMO in technical
aspects during Project implementation. The MST will play a critical role in
effective application of improved agronomic and scientific irrigation
technologies and improvement of irrigation management at the grass roots
level. The MSTs, employed at the provincial/municipal level, will have three
primary functions: (a) providing specialized technical assistance and
training to lower levels (county and township Water Resources Bureaus, Water
Management Stations and Agro-technology and Service Centers and Stations,
County Drought Fighting Centers, etc.); (b) providing technical assistance
and training as necessary to WSOs, WUAs, and farmers, including assistance in
setting up local demonstration and monitoring activities; and (c) carrying out
appraisal of subprojects to be financed under the loan. The MST members will
be employed as individual consultants selected based on the Bank guidelines,
and each MST should be equipped with the necessary vehicles and
equipment/tools in order to take field trips to provide hands-on training at
the county, township and village levels.
16.     SIDD.  The Project is designed to incorporate institutional measures to
ensure improved operational efficiencies in water use, and sustainability and
self-financing of irrigated agriculture, improve irrigation system
performance, and enable effective decentralization of irrigation services,
cost recovery and farmer participation in line with Chinese and Bank water
resources policy. An important component in the new institutional structure
for improved water resources management is the implementation of institutional
measures to address these operation and maintenance aspects. The Project
incorporates the implementation of self-financed irrigation and drainage
districts (SIDDs) or similar institutional measures in all subproject areas.
Under the complete model, each SIDD comprises: (a) a Water Supply Organization
(WSO) that will be formed to operate and maintain the main and branch canals
and drains; and (b) Water User Associations (WUAs) that will be formed and
managed by farmers to operate and maintain the lower-level irrigation and
drainage systems and will purchase water from the WSO. In the Project, WUAs
or similar organizations will be established in each subproject area. Each
province/municipality will also pilot at least one complete SIDD including a
WSO. Water deliveries to WSOs and WUAs and other bulk water users will be
measured. Measuring devices will be included in the physical infrastructure
- 6 -



where necessary. Water charges will be increased to cover the full cost of
system operation, maintenance and replacement and will also partially cover
investment costs. Higher water charge rates will be encouraged and promoted
with farmers in order to provide incentives for improving water use
efficiencies. Adaptations of the standard SIDD model will also be included for
other types of irrigation investment under the Project. WUAs will be
established by farmers to own, operate and maintain well, pipeline, sprinkler,
and drip systems. In addition, the WSO will be adapted to become a "Water
Services Organization" to provide assistance to WUAs in operating and
maintaining their irrigation systems through provision of spare parts, repair
services, rental of spare pumps for wells, technical guidance, training, etc.
17.     Groundwater Management Plans.   The Project will also include the
development and implementation of groundwater management plans in one pilot
county in each province/municipality. These plans will be implemented in
counties with groundwater overdraft problems and will have the objective of
achieving zero drawdown after a period of years as defined in the plan. The
plans will include water licensing and use control, strict limits on new
groundwater development, and integrated measures to achieve "real" water
savings and thereby reduce consumption while at the same time maintaining or
even increasing agricultural yields.
18.     PROJECT COSTS AND FINANCING. The total cost of the Project is estimated
at Y 1455 million (US$173 million equivalent), including physical and price
contingencies of about Y 164.2 million. The direct and indirect foreign
exchange component is estimated at about US$73 million equivalent, or about 42
percent of total costs. The base cost totals Y 1290 million (US$155 million
equivalent), of which Y 980 million (US$118 million; 76 percent of the total
base costs) is for the Irrigation and Drainage Works and Onfarm Systems
component; Y 164.3 million (US$20 million; 13 percent) is for the Agriculture
Support and Services component; Y 36 million (US$4.3 million; 3 percent) is
for the Forestry and Environmental Monitoring component; and Y 109 million
(US$13 million; 8 percent) is for the Institutional Development component.
The interest during construction is estimated at about Y 98.6 million (about
US$12 million). The front-end fee is Y 6.1 million (about US$0.74 million).
This will result to a total financing required of about Y 1559.7 million
(US$185.7 million equivalent). The project would be financed by a proposed
IBRD loan of $74 million and local counterpart funding equivalent to $111.7
million (60w).
19.     PROJECT MANAGEMENT STRUCTURE.   Project management would be based on the
successful implementation structure developed under earlier Bank projects.
Leading Groups at the Central, Provincial/Municipal and County levels would
establish the general policies and procedures and review work programs. The
Central PMO and PMOs in each participating Province/Municipality and County
would be responsible for overseeing project design, execution and supervision.
The Central PMO would be located within MWR. Within the PMOs at the
Provincial/Municipal and County levels, the Water Resources Bureau would be
responsible for overall project management and would include participation of
the Finance Bureau, the Agriculture Bureau and the Environmental Protection
Bureau.
20.     RATIONALE FOR BANK INVOLVEMENT. The Bank can help the Chinese Government
to better orient the national water savings program on a sound economic and
technical basis, specifically in the areas of "real" water savings, irrigation
-7 -



technology selection, agricultural practices improvement, institutional reform
and on-farm irrigation management. The Project can serve as a vehicle for
undertaking sound economic and technical selection, design and implementation
of integrated subprojects that will maximize the agriculture yields per unit
of water (ET) consumed, be financially viable, have water user "ownership" and
be sustainable. The Bank can also help introduce new technologies and
improved designs in areas such as laser land leveling, improved surface
irrigation methods, and better selection and design of sprinkler and drip
systems, as well as improved agricultural practices. Operation and
maintenance institutional development and volumetric water measurement and
charging are relatively new to China. Bank support in these areas can bring
both know-how and impetus for reform, which should result in improved
operation and maintenance, and effective farmer "ownership" and participation
in the management of water delivery systems. In addition, the Bank can help
promote the sustainable use of groundwater resources, and protection of
groundwater from overexploitation and pollution through Project design with
strict water balance analysis; monitoring and control of salinity, pesticides
and chemical fertilizers; and preparation and implementation of the County
Groundwater Management Plans prepared under the Project.
21.     LESSONS LEARNED. The Bank has assisted in financing 17 water resources
and irrigation projects in China over the last 15 years, serving more than 5
million hectares of irrigated area. Generally, these projects have been
implemented efficiently, and time and cost overruns have not been excessive
despite periods of sharp price escalation. Likewise, rates of return have
equaled or exceeded appraisal estimates. A notable feature of these projects
in recent years has been the increasing level of local community involvement
in planning, design, and implementation. The projects in which the Water
Resources Bureau at all administrative levels has been fully responsible and
accountable for project design, planning, and implementation of water
conservancy components have generally performed well.
22.     The Operations Evaluation Department of the Bank has identified O&M,
water charges, financial autonomy and irrigators' ownership as key issues in
irrigation system design and sustainability. The Bank's Rural Development
Department, in its recent irrigation subsector portfolio quality assurance
review, identified (inter alia) strong government commitment and ownership and
beneficiary participation as important requirements for good performance of
irrigation projects. On-going Bank-supported sector studies (Rural China:
Transition and Development, and Water Strategy) have identified improved
management of scarce water resources for irrigation and other uses as a key
area requiring continued focus. Other key lessons from previous Bank-financed
water resources projects in China are that: (a) detailed organizational and
staff arrangements should be formulated and agreed before implementation; (b)
counterpart funding should be committed before implementation, including the
direct participation of the provincial Planning commissions and finance
Bureaus; (c) project design should support the "user pays" principle, and user
(farmer) participation should be explicitly built into project planning,
implementation and operation and supported under the Project; (d) irrigation,
drainage and flood protection investments should include cost recovery from
beneficiaries; (e) irrigation and water conservancy projects should include
provisions for unified irrigation system management based on hydraulic units
and not on political or administrative boundaries; (f) projects should include
institutional development support for the strengthening of provincial and
local Water Resources Bureaus; and (g) agricultural support services should be
- 8 -



included in irrigation and drainage projects to ensure realization of
benefits.
23.     The 1993 World Bank Policy Paper on Water Resources Management and
Chinese Government policy are compatible and emphasize the following
principles: (a) water resources should be managed and developed in a
comprehensive integrated manner and consider cross-sectoral issues with the
goal of ensuring the sustainability of the water environment for multiple uses
as an integral part of the country's economic development process; (b) water
resources planning and management should be carried out considering the
interrelationships between water, land and human resources with the objective
of enhancing economic growth and development in an environmentally sustainable
manner; (c) water is an economic resource and therefore should be managed in
an economically efficient manner; (d) the river basin should be the basic unit
for planning and managing water resources; (e) water users should participate
directly in water resources management and development; and (f) water use
should be efficient and environmentally sustainable.
24.     ENVIRONMENTAL AND SOCIAL ASPECTS. The project would have no major
environmental issues. Minor issues include: (a) monitoring and control of
water quality and groundwater as related to irrigated agricultural
improvements; and (b) adequate drainage to control water table levels and
secondary soil salinity in certain areas. The environmental review at the end
of this PID presents a review of the environmental aspects of the Project.
25.     During Project preparation, care was taken to ensure that the needs and
aspirations of the Project beneficiaries and impacted peoples were taken into
account in consideration of their economic, social and gender differences.
This included: (a) investigating local socio-economic situations so as to make
sure that the Project intervention is suitable for local development; (b)
learning farmers' expectations and attitudes so as to ensure that the Project
incentives for change as expressed in different irrigation and agriculture
skills are acceptable and welcome to the target population; (c) adopting the
participatory approach to Project management in order to encourage farmer
involvement and assure farmers of their equitable access to Project activities
in consideration of their economic, social, and gender differences; and (d)
diagnosing social costs of the Project to mitigate negative impacts wherever
they might appear. The project SIDD component (Self-Financing Irrigation and
Drainage Districts) is designed to ensure direct participation of
beneficiaries in aspects of the Project that directly affect them.
26.     PROJECT BENEFITS. The Project would generate substantial benefits by:
(a) implementation of water-saving facilities and technologies for irrigation
and distribution system at the tertiary and on-farm level to enhance effective
water supply and improve on-farm irrigation efficiency through reducing
diversions and groundwater pumped (overdraft reduced), excess deep
percolation, crop evapo-transpiration, and evaporative losses from canal
system within the water scarcity areas of the four provinces and
municipalities located in Northern China; (b) increasing water and
agricultural productivity, and improving quality and production of a wide
range of crops, mainly for cash crops of cotton, nuts, vegetables and fruits
through enhancing the extension of irrigated agronomy, improving irrigation
management, and replacing water-intensive crops (such as rice and wheat) with
high-value cash crops that use less water (such as cotton, nuts, vegetables
and fruits) to improve productivity per unit of water; (c) increasing per
capita income and rural employment for about 2 million farm labors, and a
-9-



smaller general increase in per capita incomes for other households which
would indirectly benefit from increased agricultural production; (d)
protecting and enhancing the ecological-environmental system of the Project
area through forestation, protection of groundwater from overexploitation
through County Groundwater Management Plans; protection of groundwater quality
from salinization, chemical fertilizers and pesticides, and rational use of
land and water resources; (e) developing and implementing a program approach
for irrigated agriculture investment and development which will support
sustainable use, development and management of water and land resources; and
(f) developing and establishing SIDDs (WSOs and WUAs) which will contribute to
a better link between the irrigation service, agricultural extension service
and farmers participation, and help enable higher yields, farmer incomes, and
farmer satisfaction through better irrigation management, more efficient water
use, and reduced farm labor and energy requirements for management and
maintenance of irrigation systems, and also contribute to better collection
of water charges and lower fiscal burdens for irrigation O&M on local
governments.
27.     PROJECT SUSTAINABILITY. Project sustainability hinges first on the
effectiveness of Project management arrangements to produce high quality,
innovative designs for subprojects including integrated physical, agronomic
and management measures, and to assure high quality of
construction/implementation. Second, sustainability would be determined by how
effective the introduction of institutional arrangements are in establishing
effective and successful operation and maintenance institutions. Third,
sustainability would be further ensured through the program approach to
Project implementation which incorporates continuous improvement in design and
implementation during the Project implementation period. Fourth,
sustainability of Project physical works will be addressed through the
development and implementation of operation and maintenance plans during
Project implementation. And finally, the Project design based on the strict
groundwater balance analysis, and County Groundwater Management Plans prepared
under the Project would ensure the sustainable use of groundwater resources,
which is the main source of water supply for irrigation within the Project
areas.
Contact Point:           The InfoShop
The World Bank
1818 H St. NW,
Washington DC 20433, USA
Tel. 1-202-458-5454;
Fax: 1-202-522-1500
Environmental Review
CHINA: WATER CONSERVATION
A. Introduction
Project Overview. The proposed Project is intended to complement an existing
government-supported program which is promoting adoption of irrigation water
saving technologies in 300 pilot counties spread across the water short areas
of the country (central, western and northern regions). The government
- 10 -



program focuses mainly on promotion of physical improvements and approximately
US$3 billion has been invested over the last 5 years. Within the framework of
the Government's overall water savings program, the proposed Water
Conservation Project, which will be implemented in 27 counties, is intended to
act as a pilot project to demonstrate an integrated approach to water
conservation involving the application of the three sets of measures; physical
works, agronomic techniques and improved management at both the level of the
irrigation scheme and on-farm.
Project investments will be made over an area totaling about 115,000 ha,
almost all of which is presently irrigated. The main economic benefits of the
investments will be derived from increased cropping percentages and there will
be no significant changes in land use as a result of the Project.
Environmental Assessment Process. Since the proposed Project concentrates
mainly on rehabilitation and improvement of tertiary and on-farm irrigation
and drainage systems in existing irrigated areas, involves no change in land
use, includes no dams or other major hydraulic works, and because the
investment areas are widely dispersed over 27 counties in four
Provinces/Municipalities, the Project was assigned to environmental screening
category B for the purposes of the Bank's Operation Policy 4.01 (Environmental
Assessment). Nevertheless, Environmental Impact Assessments (EIAs) have been
prepared for each province/ municipality in accordance with Chinese
regulations and an integrated EIA covering the whole Project was also
prepared.
The Province/municipality EIAs and the integrated Project EIA were prepared by
the Institute of Water and Hydropower Research (IWHR), of the Ministry of
Water Resources (MWR) which is a Class 1 institute, accredited to conduct EIAs
in China. IWHR has prepared the integrated EIA, which covers all four
provinces and municipalities. The integrated EIA and the EIAs for each of the
four provinces/municipalities are available in the Project files.
The Project will be implemented as a program. Concept level designs are
available for the entire program but detail designs are only available for the
first year's investment program, which accounts for only about 15t of the
total number of sub-projects likely to be eventually included in the Project.
During the first year of implementation, detailed designs for the second year
of investment will be prepared and so on throughout the Project. None of the
sub-projects individually are of sufficient significance to justify
preparation of an EIA but there was a concern as to the potential for
cumulative impacts due to the combined effects of a large number of sub-
projects at a regional scale. The focus of the integrated Project EIA was on
the potential regional effects of the investment, with particular emphasis on
regional water resources impacts (e.g. drawdown of groundwater levels,
pollution of groundwater resources, etc.). The EIA was also used to develop
environmental guidelines and criteria for design and implementation of
projects in the sector.
B. Description of Project Activities
The Project will finance the introduction of integrated water conservation
technologies within existing irrigation areas located in 27 counties in the
Provinces of Hebei and Liaoning, and the municipalities of Beijing and
Qingdao. The Project objectives are to improve water use efficiencies and
- 11 -



promote sustainable use, development and management of water and land
resources in irrigated areas. The Project is designed to focus on three sets
of integrated measures that when taken together will result in both "real"
water savings and increased agricultural yields: (a) physical improvements to
irrigation and drainage systems mainly at the tertiary level and on-farm; (b)
agronomic measures; and (c) management measures. Investments that only
concentrate on improvements to physical irrigation and drainage systems may
achieve improvements in water use efficiency, but may not result in much
"real" water savings because return flows from existing inefficient systems
return to the groundwater or surface water systems and become available for
other users (are not lost to the hydrologic system). "Real" water savings
results from reductions of non-recoverable losses such as evapo-transpiration
(ET) or losses to non-usable water bodies such as saline aquifers or the
ocean.
Physical improvements which will be financed include some or all of the
following (depending on local circumstances): (a) canal lining; (b)
installation of low-pressure pipe for small distribution systems; (c)
development of well fields, groundwater recharge and conjunctive use of
groundwater; (d) construction of drainage systems and reuse of return flows;
(e) improved surface irrigation systems on-farm; (f) installation of sprinkler
systems; and (g) installation of micro-irrigation systems. These improvements
taken by themselves will result in significant improvements in water use
efficiencies but may not result in much "real" water savings unless they are
combined with the other two sets of measures. Agronomic measures include land
leveling, non-tillage in the dry season, deep plowing in the rainy season,
soil fertility improvements, organic and plastic mulching, seed improvements
(including development of drought resistant varieties), balanced
fertilization, improvements to planting and cultivation techniques, etc.
Management measures include improvements to both the management of irrigation
and drainage systems (including water measurement, volumetric pricing,
development of self financing irrigation and drainage districts), and to on-
farm irrigation management (including soil moisture management through
improved irrigation scheduling).
The total area which will be treated with the water conservation technologies
will be approximately 115,000 ha. (24,800 ha. in 7 counties within Beijing
Municipality, 19,000 ha. in 6 counties within Qingdao Municipality, 39,000 ha.
in 8 counties in Liaoning Province and 29,000 ha. 8 counties in Hebei
Province). The mix of irrigation technologies, agronomic measures and
management measures to be applied will depend on local circumstances. The
total areas to which different technologies will be applied in all
participating Provinces/ Municipalities are as follows:
Irrigation and Drainage Works and On-Farms Systems
This component will include canal lining, and replacement of tertiary canals
and laterals with a variety of water saving technologies including low-
pressure pipe, sprinklers and micro-irrigation (micro-sprinklers or drip
systems).
Approximately 70t of the treated areas would use groundwater as the water
source and the systems in these areas also include well construction and
pumping equipment, where these are not presently available or adequate.
Irrigation and Drainage System Component
- 12 -



(Area in ha)
Agriculture Support and Services and Forest Development.
Agronomic measures include land leveling, non-tillage in the dry season, deep
plowing in the rainy season, soil fertility improvements including
incorporation of green manure and stalk, organic and plastic mulching,
cropping pattern adjustments, seeds improvements and development of drought
resistant varieties, balanced fertilization, improvements to planting and
cultivation techniques, etc. The forest development component will support
tree planting for windbreak protection and soil conservation. Tree nurseries
will also be included in the Project. In some cases fruit trees will be used.
The quantities are shown in the table.
Institutional Development.
This component will involve support to improvements in water conservation
technologies and developments including training, technical assistance and
research. The Project will strongly emphasize training of agriculture,
irrigation and water resources technicians at the township and county levels
as well as farmers.
C. Environmental Impact Potentials
Tables 1 and 2 provide a summary of the issues, existing conditions, potential
impacts, mitigation measures and residual impacts of the WCP.     These are
further described below.
Key Environmental Issues.
All regions involved in the WCP suffer water shortage problems and increasing
problems related to lowering of the groundwater table and degradation of
groundwater, surface water and soil quality. The Project activities may
directly or indirectly affect these issues. All sub-project areas are located
on lands that are already intensively cultivated and as such there will be no
change in land use and no impact on sensitive ecological habitats. There are
no significant atmospheric, solid waste, health, cultural, or socio-economic
issues associated with the Project activities. Thus, the key potential
adverse impacts relate to:
- contribution to overdraft, should the proposed agricultural measures not be
carried out properly; and,
- degradation in groundwater, surface water and soil quality, if fertilizer
and pesticide use increases and application is not well managed.
The Project is also to have a number of positive environmental and social
benefits including:
- various agricultural measures will result in "real" water savings,
through reduced ET, which could provide direct and quantifiable benefits to
the severe groundwater overdraft problem in many of the Project areas;
- proposed mitigation measures such as the introduction of management plans
- 13 -



for pesticide and fertilizer use will help minimize environmental impacts
of these chemicals on groundwater, soils and surface water and associated
biota and users;
- the Project will lead to increased crop yield, which will provide economic
and social benefits to the villages, counties and Provinces/Municipalities
participating in the Project; and,
- the forest component will provide additional forest habitat and will
provide wind shelters to help reduce erosion.
Impact Assessment
The potential environmental impacts associated with the main environmental
issues described above have been assessed as follows:
- Impact on groundwater tables - Water balance calculations have been done
for all Regions, for conditions with and without Project implementation.
In all cases, it is predicted that there will be savings in the amount of
groundwater used for irrigation, as a result of changes to irrigation
systems and the introduction of agricultural and management measures.
These changes are predicted to eventually lead to stabilization of the
groundwater levels if they are carried out on a wide scale;
- Impact of fertilizer of groundwater quality : It is expected that the total
amount of fertilizer applied in the project areas will increase as a result
of the WCP. Nitrate is the key contaminant of concern, given its mobility
and potential environmental and health impacts. An analysis of nitrate
levels was done using the nitrate pollution index method proposed by
Ramolino. That index ranks the potential for nitrate pollution based on 22
different variables, including crop conditions, fertilizer type and
application conditions, and groundwater and soil conditions. Based on that
assessment, it was concluded that the projected increase in nitrate use
would not adversely affect groundwater quality;
- Impact of pesticides on soil and groundwater quality : The potential impact
of pesticides which may be used by farmers in the project areas was
assessed using the Gustafson's GUS index, which classifies the leaching
characteristics, and hence the mobility, of pesticides. This index is
based on characteristics of the pesticide - organic carbon partition
coefficient and half-life in soils.    Analysis by these method of two
pesticides widely used in China, methamdiphos and rogor, suggest that these
chemicals are not highly mobile in soils, and will therefore not adversely
affect groundwater quality. However, given the uncertainties associated
with other pesticides in use in China, it was concluded that mitigation
measure that focus on safe handling and use of pesticides should be
integrated into the WCP;
- Impacts during construction : Activities such as canal lining, pipe laying,
road construction and related civil works may lead to short-term problems
associated with dust, erosion, and noise.
D. Environmental Mitigation and Monitoring Plan
Proposed Mitigation Measures : The main mitigation measure is the design of
the Project itself which is designed to promote adoption of sustainable
conservation farming techniques for irrigated areas. Mitigation measures
proposed to mitigate potential impacts associated with the Project (mainly
effects of fertilizer and pesticide usage on groundwater, surface water and
soil quality) include:
- 14 -



- Ensure proper application of nitrogenous fertilizers, taking into account
minimizing amount required and optimizing timing; and
- Follow national standards for pesticide use
Mitigation measures proposed to mitigate the potential impacts associated with
construction activities include:
- Remove spoil material and transport to an appropriate location for
disposal;
- Carry out civil works during dry season to minimize erosion;
- Revegetate canal banks following construction to stabilize the banks and
prevent erosion; and
- Drive construction equipment at safe speeds through villages, and avoid
unnecessary traffic through villages at night.
Monitoring Program : The monitoring program is designed to monitor (1) change
in groundwater levels, and (2) changes in groundwater, surface water and soil
quality. A monitoring network will be established in each
Province/Municipality. Data will be collected from each subproject area and
reported to the county province office and then to the Provincial Project
management office before being submitted to the central PMO.
NOTE: This document contains tables that cannot be converted into text files.
However, if you have MS Word or Word Viewer on your computer, you
should be able to download the complete original version by going to:
http://www.worldbank.org/pics/pid/cn56516.doc
Processed by the InfoShop week ending August 11, 2000.
- 15 -



Annex
Because this is a Category B project, it may be required that the
borrower prepare a separate EA report. If a separate EA report
is required, once it is prepared and submitted to the Bank, in
accordance with OP 4.01, Environmental Assessment, it will be
filed as an annex to the Public Information Document (PID) .
If no separate EA report is required, the PID will not contain an
EA annex; the findings and recommendations of the EA will be
reflected in the body of the PID.
- 16 -



