Page  1
CONFORMED COPY
LOAN NUMBER 4589 CHA
Loan Agreement
(Water Conservation Project)
between
PEOPLE’S REPUBLIC OF CHINA
and
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION
AND DEVELOPMENT
Dated February 9, 2001
LOAN NUMBER 4589 CHA
LOAN AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT, dated February 9, 2001, between PEOPLE’S REPUBLIC OF CHINA (the 
Borrower) and INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT (the Bank).
WHEREAS (A) the Borrower, having satisfied itself as to the feasibility and 
priority of the project described in Schedule 2 to this Agreement (the Project), has 
requested the Bank to assist in the financing of the Project;
(B)
the Project will be carried out by the Borrower’s Municipality of 
Beijing, Provinces of Hebei and Liaoning and Municipality of Qingdao (the Project 
Entities) with the Borrower’s assistance and, as part of such assistance, the Borrower 
will make the proceeds of the loan provided for in Article II of this Agreement (the 
Loan) available to the Project Entities, as set forth in this Agreement;
WHEREAS the Bank has agreed, on the basis, inter alia, of the foregoing, to 
extend the Loan to the Borrower upon the terms and conditions set forth in this 
Agreement and in the agreement of even date herewith between the Bank and the Project 
Entities (the Project Agreement);
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows: 
ARTICLE I
Page  2
General Conditions; Definitions
Section 1.01. The “General Conditions Applicable to Loan and Guarantee 
Agreements for Single Currency Loans” of the Bank, dated May 30, 1995 (as amended 
through October 6, 1999) (the General Conditions) constitute an integral part of this 
Agreement.
Section 1.02. Unless the context otherwise requires, the several terms defined 
in the General Conditions and in the Preamble to this Agreement have the respective 
meanings therein set forth and the following additional terms have the following 
meanings wherever used herein:
(a)
“Allocated Amount” means, in respect of: (i) Beijing, the amount of the 
Loan allocated from time to time to Category (1); (ii) Hebei, the amount of the Loan 
allocated from time to time to Category (2); (iii) Liaoning, the amount of the Loan 
allocated from time to time to Category (3); and (iv) Qingdao, the amount of the Loan 
allocated from time to time to Category (4); and in each case to be utilized by said 
Project Entity for purposes of carrying out its Respective Part of the Project.
(b)
“Beijing” means the Borrower’s Municipality of Beijing, and any successor 
thereto.
(c)
“Beijing Special Account” means the account referred to in Section 
2.02(b)(i) of this Agreement.
(d)
“Category” means a category of items set forth in the table in paragraph 
1 of Schedule 1 to this Agreement.
(e)
“CPCG” means the central Project coordination group to be maintained by 
the Borrower in accordance with the provisions of Part A.1(a) of Schedule 4 to this 
Agreement.
(f)
“CPMO” means the central Project management office to be maintained by 
the Borrower in accordance with the provisions of Part A.1(b) of Schedule 4 to this 
Agreement.
(g)
“Environmental Mitigation and Monitoring Plan” means the mitigation and 
monitoring measures established with respect to the Project, acceptable to the Bank, 
integrating the environmental mitigation and monitoring measures prepared by each 
Project Entity with respect to its Respective Part of the Project.
(h)
“Hebei” means the Borrower’s Province of Hebei, and any successor 
thereto.
(i)
“Hebei Special Account” means the account referred to in Section 
2.02(b)(ii) of this Agreement.
(j)
“Liaoning” means the Borrower’s Province of Liaoning, and any successor 
thereto.
(k)
“Liaoning Special Account” means the account referred to in Section 
2.02(b)(iii) of this Agreement.
(l)
“Local PMOs” means, in respect of each Project Entity, the Project 
management offices to be maintained at the city and county levels within said Project 
Entity.
(m)
“MWR” means the Borrower’s Ministry of Water Resources, and any successor 
Page  3
thereto.
(n)
“PPMO” means, in respect of each Project Entity, the Project Management 
Office to be maintained by said Project Entity within its Water Resources Bureau, in 
accordance with the provisions of Part A1.(b) of Schedule 2 to the Project Agreement.
(o)
“Project Agreement” means the agreement between the Bank and the Project 
Entities of even date herewith, as the same may be amended from time to time; and such 
term includes all schedules and agreements supplemental to the Project Agreement.
(p)
“Project Areas” means, in respect of each Project Entity, the areas 
within said Project Entity, selected by agreement between the Bank and said Project 
Entity, in which the Project is to be carried out; and “Project Area” means any of the 
Project Areas.
(q)
“Project Entities” means Beijing, Hebei, Liaoning and Qingdao; and 
“Project Entity” means any of the Project Entities.
(r)
“Qingdao” means the Municipality of Qingdao, in the Borrower’s Province 
of Shandong, and any successor thereto.
(s)
“Qingdao Special Account” means the account referred to in Section 
2.02(b)(iv) of this Agreement.
(t)
“Resettlement Policy Framework” means the Policy Framework for 
Resettlement and Land Acquisition, dated March 2000, prepared by the CPMO, setting 
forth the policies, planning principles and institutional arrangements designed to 
improve the living standards and productive capacity of persons affected by the 
Project, as said Policy Framework may be amended from time to time with the agreement 
of the Bank.
(u)
“Respective Part of the Project” means, in respect of each Project 
Entity, all the Subprojects to be carried out in said Project Entity under Part A of 
the Project and the activities to be carried out by it under Part B of the Project.
(v)
“SIDD” means a self-financing irrigation and drainage district to be 
established under Part B of the Project.
(w)
“Special Accounts” means, collectively, the Beijing Special Account, the 
Hebei Special Account, the Liaoning Special Account and the Qingdao Special Account, 
and “Special Account” means any of the Special Accounts.
(x)
“Subproject” means a specific investment project to be carried out in a 
Project Entity under Part A of the Project and to be financed out of the proceeds of 
the Loan.
(y)
“WSOs” means water supply organizations established within SIDDs under 
Part B(1) of the Project; and “WSO” means any of the WSOs.
(z)
“WUAs” means water user associations established under Part B(1) of the 
Project; and “WUA” means any of the WUAs.
Section 1.03. Each reference in the General Conditions to the Project 
implementation entity shall be deemed as a reference to the Project Entities.
ARTICLE II
The Loan
Page  4
Section 2.01. The Bank agrees to lend to the Borrower, on the terms and 
conditions set forth or referred to in the Loan Agreement, an amount equal to seventy 
four million Dollars ($74,000,000).
Section 2.02. (a) The amount of the Loan may be withdrawn from the Loan Account 
in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1 to this Agreement for expenditures 
made (or, if the Bank shall so agree, to be made) in respect of the reasonable cost of 
goods and services required for the Project and to be financed out of the proceeds of 
the Loan and in respect of the fee referred to in Section 2.04 of this Agreement.
(b)
The Borrower may, for the purposes of the Project, open and maintain in 
Dollars, four special deposit accounts, each in a commercial bank on terms and 
conditions satisfactory to the Bank, including appropriate protection against set-off, 
seizure and attachment: (i) an account for Beijing’s Respective Part of the Project 
(the Beijing Special Account); (ii) an account for Hebei’s Respective Part of the 
Project (the Hebei Special Account); (iii) an account for Liaoning’s Respective Part 
of the Project (the Liaoning Special Account); and (iv) an account for Qingdao’s 
Respective Part of the Project (the Qingdao Special Account).  Deposits into, and 
payments out of, each Special Account shall be made in accordance with the provisions 
of Schedule 5 to this Agreement.
Section 2.03. The Closing Date shall be June 30, 2006 or such later date as the 
Bank shall establish. The Bank shall promptly notify the Borrower of such later date.
Section 2.04. The Borrower shall pay to the Bank a fee in an amount equal to one 
percent (1%) of the amount of the Loan. On or promptly after the Effective Date, the 
Bank shall, on behalf of the Borrower, withdraw from the Loan Account and pay to 
itself the amount of said fee.
Section 2.05. The Borrower shall pay to the Bank a commitment charge at the rate 
of three-fourths of one percent (3/4 of 1%) per annum on the principal amount of the 
Loan not withdrawn from time to time.
Section 2.06. (a) The Borrower shall pay interest on the principal amount of the 
Loan withdrawn and outstanding from time to time, at a rate for each Interest Period 
equal to LIBOR Base Rate plus LIBOR Total Spread.
(b)
For the purposes of this Section:
(i)
“Interest Period” means the initial period from and including the 
date of this Agreement to, but excluding, 
the first Interest Payment 
Date occurring thereafter, and after the initial period, each period from and 
including an Interest Payment Date to, but excluding the next following 
Interest Payment Date.
(ii)
“Interest Payment Date” means any date specified in Section 2.07 
of this Agreement.
(iii)
“LIBOR Base Rate” means, for each Interest Period, the London 
interbank offered rate for six-month deposits 
in Dollars for value the 
first day of such Interest Period (or, in the case of the initial Interest Period, 
for value the Interest Payment Date occurring on or next preceding 
the first day of such Interest Period), 
as reasonably determined 
by the Bank and expressed as a percentage per annum.
(iv)
“LIBOR Total Spread” means, for each Interest Period: (A) 
three-fourths of one percent (3/4 of 1%); (B) 
minus (or plus) the 
weighted average margin, for such Interest Period, below (or above) the London 
interbank offered rates, or other reference rates, for six-month 
deposits, in respect of the Bank’s 
outstanding borrowings or 
portions thereof allocated by the Bank to fund single currency loans or portions 
thereof made by it that include the Loan; as reasonably determined 
Page  5
by the Bank and expressed as a 
percentage per annum.
(c)
The Bank shall notify the Borrower of LIBOR Base Rate and LIBOR Total 
Spread for each Interest Period, promptly upon the determination thereof.
(d)
Whenever, in light of changes in market practice affecting the 
determination of the interest rates referred to in this Section 2.06, the Bank 
determines that it is in the interest of its borrowers as a whole and of the Bank to 
apply a basis for determining the interest rates applicable to the Loan other than as 
provided in said Section, the Bank may modify the basis for determining the interest 
rates applicable to the Loan upon not less than six (6) months’ notice to the Borrower 
of the new basis. The new basis shall become effective on the expiry of the notice 
period unless the Borrower notifies the Bank during said period of its objection 
thereto, in which case said modification shall not apply to the Loan.
Section 2.07. Interest and other charges shall be payable semiannually in 
arrears on March 15 and September 15 in each year.
Section 2.08. The Borrower shall repay the principal amount of the Loan in 
accordance with the amortization schedule set forth in Schedule 3 to this Agreement.
ARTICLE III
Execution of the Project
Section 3.01. (a) The Borrower declares its commitment to the objectives of the 
Project, and, to this end, without any limitation or restriction upon any of its other 
obligations under the Loan Agreement, shall cause the Project Entities to perform in 
accordance with the provisions of the Project Agreement all the obligations of the 
Project Entities therein set forth, shall take or cause to be taken all action, 
including the provision of funds, facilities, services and other resources, necessary 
or appropriate to enable the Project Entities to perform such obligations, and shall 
not take or permit to be taken any action which would prevent or interfere with such 
performance.
(b)
Without any limitation upon the provisions of Section 3.01(a) of this 
Agreement, and except as the Borrower and the Bank shall otherwise agree, the Borrower 
shall carry out the actions specified in the Implementation Program set forth in 
Schedule 4 to this Agreement.
(c)
For the purposes of carrying out each Project Entity’s Respective Part of 
the Project, the Borrower shall make available to said Project Entity part of the 
proceeds of the Loan on the following principal terms:
(i)
the principal amount so made available to said Project Entity 
shall be the equivalent in terms of Dollars 
(determined as of the 
date, or respective dates of withdrawal from the Loan Account or payment out of the 
respective Special Account, as the case may be) of the value of 
the currency or currencies so withdrawn or 
paid out on account of the 
cost of items required for its Respective Part of the Project and to be financed 
out of the proceeds of the Loan, and shall be recovered by the 
Borrower in Dollars (the Loan Amount);
(ii)
the Borrower shall recover the Loan Amount from said Project 
Entity in semi-annual installments over a 
period not exceeding 20 
years, inclusive of a grace period not exceeding 5 years;
(iii)
the Borrower shall charge interest on the Loan Amount withdrawn 
and outstanding from time to time, at a 
rate which shall not 
exceed the rate payable by the Borrower from time to time pursuant to Section 2.06 of 
Page  6
this Agreement; and
(iv)
the Borrower shall charge:  (A) a commitment fee on the principal 
amount of the Loan so made available and 
not withdrawn from time to 
time at a rate which shall not exceed three-fourths of one percent (0.75%) per 
annum; and (B) an additional fee in an amount equal to 1% of the Loan 
Amount.
Section 3.02. Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree, procurement of the 
goods, works and consultants’ services required for the Project and to be financed out 
of the proceeds of the Loan shall be governed by the provisions of Schedule 1 to the 
Project Agreement.
Section 3.03. The Borrower and the Bank hereby agree that the obligations set 
forth in Sections 9.04, 9.05, 9.06, 9.07, 9.08 and 9.09 of the General Conditions 
(relating to insurance, use of goods and services, plans and schedules, records and 
reports, maintenance and land acquisition, respectively) shall be carried out by each 
Project Entity in respect of its Respective Part of the Project, pursuant to Section 
2.03 of the Project Agreement.
ARTICLE IV
Financial Covenants
Section 4.01. (a) For all expenditures with respect to which withdrawals from 
the Loan Account were made on the basis of statements of expenditure, the Borrower 
shall:
(i)
maintain or cause to be maintained in accordance with sound 
accounting practices, records and separate 
accounts reflecting such 
expenditures;
(ii)
ensure that all records (contracts, orders, invoices, bills, 
receipts and other documents) evidencing such 
expenditures are retained 
until at least one year after the Bank has received the audit report for the 
fiscal year in which the last withdrawal from the Loan Account was made; 
and
(iii)
enable the Bank's representatives to examine such records.
(b)
The Borrower shall:
(i)
have the records and accounts referred to in paragraph (a) (i) of 
this Section and those for the Special 
Accounts for each fiscal year 
audited, in accordance with appropriate auditing principles consistently 
applied, by independent auditors acceptable to the Bank;
(ii)
furnish to the Bank as soon as available, but in any case not 
later than six months after the end of each 
such year the report of 
such audit by said auditors, of such scope and in such detail as the Bank shall 
have reasonably requested, including a separate opinion by said 
auditors as to whether the statements of 
expenditure submitted 
during such fiscal year, together with the procedures and internal controls involved 
in their preparation, can be relied upon to support the related 
withdrawals; and
(iii)
furnish to the Bank such other information concerning said records 
and accounts and the audit thereof as 
the Bank shall from time to time 
reasonably request.
ARTICLE V
Page  7
Remedies of the Bank
Section 5.01. Pursuant to Section 6.02(p) of the General Conditions, the 
following additional events are specified:
(a)
Any of the Project Entities shall have failed to perform any of its 
obligations under the Project Agreement.
(b)
As a result of events which have occurred after the date of the Loan 
Agreement, an extraordinary situation shall have arisen which shall make it improbable 
that any Project Entity will be able to perform its obligations under the Project 
Agreement.
Section 5.02. Pursuant to Section 7.01(k) of the General Conditions, the 
following additional event is specified, namely, that any event specified in Section 
5.01(a) of this Agreement shall occur and shall continue for a period of 60 days after 
notice thereof shall have been given by the Bank to the Borrower.
ARTICLE VI
Effective Date; Termination
Section 6.01. The following is specified as an additional matter, within the 
meaning of Section 12.02(c) of the General Conditions, to be included in the opinion 
or opinions to be furnished to the Bank, namely, that the Project Agreement has been 
duly authorized or ratified by each of the Project Entities, and is legally binding 
upon the Project Entities in accordance with its terms.
Section 6.02. The date ninety (90) days after the date of this Agreement is 
hereby specified for the purposes of Section 12.04 of the General Conditions.
ARTICLE VII
Representative of the Borrower; Addresses
Section 7.01. The Minister of Finance of the Borrower is designated as 
representative of the Borrower for the purposes of Section 11.03 of the General 
Conditions.
Section 7.02. The following addresses are specified for the purposes of Section 
11.01 of the General Conditions:
For the Borrower:
Ministry of Finance
Sanlihe
Beijing 100820
People’s Republic of China
Cable address: 
Telex:
Facsimile:
FINANMIN
22486 MFPRCCN
8610-6855-1125
Beijing
For the Bank:
International Bank for
    Reconstruction and Development
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Page  8
Cable address:
Telex:
Facsimile:
INTBAFRAD
248423 (MCI) or
(202) 477-6391
Washington, D.C.
 64145 (MCI)
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their duly authorized 
representatives, have caused this Agreement to be signed in their respective names in 
Beijing, People's Republic of China, as of the day and year first above written.
PEOPLE’S REPUBLIC OF CHINA
By /s/ Zhu Guangyao
Authorized Representative
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR
  RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
By /s/ Yukon Huang
Authorized Representative
SCHEDULE 1
Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the Loan
1.
The table below sets forth the Categories of items to be financed out of the 
proceeds of the Loan, the allocation of the amounts of the Loan to each Category and 
the percentage of expenditures for items so to be financed in each Category:
Amount of the
Loan Allocated
   % of
(Expressed in
Expenditures
Category
Dollars)
to be Financed
(1)
Beijing
 
(a)
Works
(i) under Parts A(1)(f), (2)
and (3)(a) 
   480,000 
20%
of the Project
(ii) under Part A(1) other
than A(1)(f) 
 7,140,000 
33%
of the Project
(b)
Goods
 5,330,000
100% of foreign
expenditures,
100% of local
expenditures
(ex-factory cost)
and 75% of local
expenditures for
other items procured
locally
(c)
Consultants’
 3,880,000
100%
services and training
Page  9
(2)
Hebei
(a)
Works 
(i) under Parts A(1)(f), (2) and
(3)(a) of the Project 
   430,000
20%
(ii) under Part A(1) other
than A(1)(f) of the Project
 5,210,000
33%
(b)
Goods
 1,700,000
100% of foreign
expenditures,
100% of local
expenditures
(ex-factory cost)
and 75% of local
expenditures for
other items procured
locally
(c)
Consultants’
 2,560,000
 
100%
services and
training
(3)
Liaoning
 
(a)
Works 
(i) under Parts (A)(1)(f), 
(2) and (3)(a) 
 1,640,000
20%
of the Project
(ii) under Part (A)1 other
than A(1)(f) 
15,720,000
33%
of the Project
(b)
Goods
16,160,000
100% of foreign
expenditures,
100% of local
expenditures
(ex-factory cost)
and 75% of local
expenditures for
other items procured
locally
(c)
Consultants’
  3,110,000
100%
services and
training
(4)
Qingdao
(a)
Works 
(i) under Parts (A)(1)(f), (2)
and (3)(a) of the Project
    260,000
20%
(ii) under Part A(1) other
than A(1)(f) of the Project
  4,780,000
33%
(b)
Goods
  3,000,000
100% of foreign
expenditures,
100% of local
expenditures
(ex-factory cost)
and 75% of local
Page  10
expenditures for
other items procured
locally
(c)
Consultants’
   1,860,000
100%
services and
training
(5)
Fee
     740,000
Amount due under
Section 2.04 of this
Agreement
TOTAL
  74,000,000
2.
For the purposes of this Schedule:
(a)
the term “foreign expenditures” means expenditures in the currency of any 
country other than that of the Borrower for goods or services supplied from the 
territory of any country other than that of the Borrower; provided, however, that 
expenditures in the currency of the Hong Kong Special Administrative Region of the 
Borrower for goods or services supplied from said region and expenditures in the 
currency of the Macau Special Administrative Region of the Recipient for goods or 
services supplied from said region shall be deemed "foreign expenditures"; and
(b)
the term “local expenditures” means any expenditures that are not foreign 
expenditures.
3.
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 above, no withdrawals shall be 
made in respect of payments made for expenditures prior to the date of this Agreement, 
except that withdrawals, in an aggregate amount not exceeding $6,200,000, may be made 
before that date but after December 1, 1999.
4.
The Bank may require withdrawals from the Loan Account to be made on the basis 
of statements of expenditure for expenditures for: (a) works under contracts not 
exceeding $500,000 equivalent each, (b) goods under contracts not exceeding $250,000 
equivalent each; (c) consultants’ services provided by firms under contracts not 
exceeding $100,000 equivalent each; (d) consultants’ services provided by individuals 
under contracts not exceeding $50,000 equivalent each; and (e) training and study 
tours, regardless of the cost thereof; in each case under such terms and conditions as 
the Bank shall specify by notice to the Borrower.
SCHEDULE 2
Description of the Project
The objective of the Project is to assist the Borrower in enhancing beneficial 
use of water resources, agriculture production capacity and farmer incomes in the 
Project Entities through: (a) increasing the value of agriculture production per unit 
of water consumed by increasing yields and reducing non-beneficial water losses; and 
(b) establishing mechanisms for sustainable use and management of water resources in 
irrigated areas, all in the Project Entities.
The Project consists of the following parts, subject to such modifications 
thereof as the Borrower and the Bank may agree upon from time to time to achieve such 
objectives:
Part A:
Investments
Carrying out in the Project Entities of specific investment projects in the 
Page  11
following areas:
(1)
Irrigation and Drainage
Improvement of irrigation and drainage systems, through such 
activities as: (a) lining of selected canals 
and laterals; (b) replacing 
selected canals and laterals with buried low-pressure pipes, buried pressure pipe and 
sprinkler irrigation systems or buried pressure pipe and micro-irrigation 
systems; (c) installing and 
rehabilitating wells, small 
headworks, small reservoirs and drains; (d) installing gates, ancillary structures and 
measuring devices at key diversion points; (e) implementation of 
groundwater recharge schemes; (f) construction of 
rural roads required for 
irrigation system operation and maintenance; and (g) installation of power 
transmission 
lines and transformers where necessary for electrification of 
pumps.
(2)
Agriculture Support and Services
Increasing agricultural production through such activities as: (a) 
land leveling and deep plowing; (b) 
incorporation of green manure and stalk 
for improved soil fertility and introduction of organic and plastic 
mulching, cropping pattern adjustments and seed improvements and development of 
drought resistant varieties; (c) 
development of seed farms; and (d) provision 
of farm machinery, fertilizer, chemicals and plastic film.
(3)
Forestry and Environmental Monitoring
(a)
Increase in vegetative cover through: (i) establishment of tree 
nurseries; (ii) planting of on-farm windbreaks and trees for economic production; and 
(iii) provision of machinery and equipment for tree planting and maintenance.
(b)
Establishment of systems and provision of equipment to monitor 
environmental impact of the Project on soil and water.
Part B:
Institutional Development
(1)
Carrying out of programs for the development of self-financing irrigation and 
drainage districts in selected locations in each Project Area, comprising, inter alia, 
water supply organizations and water user associations, in order to ensure the 
sustainability and self-financing of irrigated agriculture, and improve irrigation 
system performance and effective decentralized irrigation services, cost recovery and 
farmer participation.
(2)
Development of groundwater management plans in each Project Area and 
implementation of said plans in selected locations in the Project Areas, including 
water licensing and use controls, limits on new groundwater development and integrated 
measures to achieve water savings.
(3)
Development and implementation in each Project Area of a program for the 
provision of advisory services and training to farmers and technicians in integrated 
irrigation technology, agriculture and management, through deployment of mobile 
specialist teams and other support services.
(4)
Carrying out of a program to strengthen the capabilities of the CPMO, PPMOs and 
Local PMOs to monitor and evaluate Project implementation, including development and 
operation of a management information system.
* * *
Page  12
The Project is expected to be completed by December 31, 2005.
SCHEDULE 3
Amortization Schedule
Payment of Principal
Date Payment Due
(Expressed in 
Dollars)*
September 15, 2006
1,400,000
March 15, 2007
1,450,000
September 15, 2007
1,505,000
March 15, 2008
1,560,000
September 15, 2008
1,615,000
March 15, 2009
1,675,000
September 15, 2009
1,735,000
March 15, 2010
1,800,000
September 15, 2010
1,865,000
March 15, 2011
1,930,000
September 15, 2011
2,005,000
March 15, 2012
2,075,000
September 15, 2012
2,150,000
March 15, 2013
2,230,000
September 15, 2013
2,310,000
March 15, 2014
2,395,000
September 15, 2014
2,480,000
March 15, 2015
2,570,000
September 15, 2015
2,665,000
March 15, 2016
2,765,000
September 15, 2016
2,865,000
March 15, 2017
2,970,000
September 15, 2017
3,075,000
March 15, 2018
3,190,000
September 15, 2018
3,305,000
March 15, 2019
3,425,000
September 15, 2019
3,550,000
March 15, 2020
3,680,000
September 15, 2020
3,810,000
March 15, 2021
3,950,000
_____________________________
*
The figures in this column represent the amount in Dollars to be repaid, except 
as provided in Section 4.04 (d) of the 
General Conditions.
SCHEDULE 4
Implementation Program
The provisions of this Schedule shall apply for the purposes of Section 3.01(b) 
of this Agreement.
A.
Project Oversight
1.
The Borrower shall maintain, or cause to be maintained, throughout the period of 
Project implementation:
(a)
the CPCG, within MWR, with composition and responsibilities acceptable to 
Page  13
the Bank, to be responsible for the general oversight of Project implementation; and
(b)
the CPMO, within MWR, with terms of reference, staffing and other 
resources acceptable to the Bank, to be responsible for the overall coordination and 
management of Project implementation, financial management of the Project, review of 
proposed Subprojects, supervision of Subprojects under implementation and provision of 
technical and policy assistance to the Project Entities in the carrying out of their 
Respective Parts of the Project.
2.
The Borrower shall, through the CPMO, prepare and furnish to the Bank not later 
than January 31, 2001, for the Bank’s review and comment, a plan for staffing, 
capacity building and budgeting for the CPMO and, thereafter, carry out said plan 
taking into account the Bank’s comments thereon.
B.
Subprojects
1.
In order to ensure the proper implementation of Part A of the Project, the 
Borrower shall, through the CPMO, in accordance with guidelines satisfactory to the 
Bank:
(a)
establish, not later than January 31, 2001, an expert advisory group 
responsible for providing technical advice to the CPMO and assisting the CPMO in 
undertaking annual reviews of Subprojects, under terms of reference and with 
composition satisfactory to the Bank;
(b)
review the report on each investment project proposed to be included in 
the Project as a Subproject which is furnished to it pursuant to Part B.1 of Schedule 
2 to the Project Agreement, and prepare and furnish to the Bank a report summarizing 
the results of said review, together with its recommendations regarding said 
Subproject;
(c)
thereafter, take or cause to be taken all measures necessary to implement 
such recommendations regarding said proposed Subproject as shall have been agreed 
between the Borrower and the Bank; and
(d)
monitor the implementation of each Subproject and provide technical and 
policy guidance to the respective Project Entities in respect of said implementation.
C.
Annual Implementation and Training Plans
1.
The Borrower shall:
(a)
review promptly: (i) the annual implementation plans furnished to it by 
the Project Entities each year pursuant to Part A.3(a) of Schedule 2 to the Project 
Agreement; and (ii) the annual training, study tour and research plans furnished to it 
by the Project Entities each year pursuant to Part A.4(b) of Schedule 2 to the Project 
Agreement;
(b)
on the basis of said review, prepare, in accordance with guidelines 
acceptable to the Bank, and furnish to the Bank no later than September 30 in said 
year, a summary of said plans for the Bank’s review and comment; and
(c)
thereafter, take all measures necessary to ensure prompt implementation 
of said plans, taking into account the views of the Bank thereon.
2.
The Borrower shall:
(a)
review promptly the detailed terms of reference and participant lists for 
each overseas study tour proposed to be carried out under the Project and upon 
completion of said review furnish to the Bank for the Bank’s review and comment a 
Page  14
summary thereof; 
(b) 
thereafter, take all measures necessary to ensure prompt implementation 
of said study tours, taking into account the views of the Bank thereon; and
(c)
promptly upon completion of any overseas study tour carried out under the 
Project, furnish to the Bank a report on said study tour, including a summary of 
lessons learned and the applicability of said lessons to the implementation of the 
Project.
D.
Management Information System
1.
The Borrower shall develop and install within the CPMO a comprehensive 
management information system not later than January 31, 2001.
E.
Monitoring and Evaluation
1.
The Borrower shall:
(a)
maintain policies and procedures adequate to enable it to monitor and 
evaluate on an ongoing basis, in accordance with indicators acceptable to the Bank, 
the carrying out of the Project, and the achievement of the objectives thereof;
(b)
prepare, under terms of reference satisfactory to the Bank, and furnish 
to the Bank: (i) semi-annual reports, not later than March 31 and September 30 in each 
year, summarizing the monitoring and evaluation activities carried out by it pursuant 
to subparagraph (a) of this paragraph in respect of the preceding calendar semester 
and setting forth the physical and financial progress in the implementation of the 
Project, both cumulatively, and in respect of the preceding calendar semester, 
consolidating the semi-annual reports furnished to it by the Project Entities pursuant 
to Part E.1(b)(i) of Schedule 2 to the Project Agreement, and setting out the measures 
recommended to ensure the efficient carrying out of the Project and to further the 
objectives thereof during the then current calendar semester; (ii) annual reports, not 
later than March 31 in each year, summarizing the results of the monitoring and 
evaluation activities carried out by it pursuant to subparagraph (a) of this paragraph 
in respect of the preceding calendar year, consolidating the annual reports furnished 
by the Project Entities pursuant to Part E.1(b)(ii) of Schedule 2 to the Project 
Agreement, including the mobile specialist team reports for each Project Entity, and 
setting out the measures recommended to ensure the efficient carrying out of the 
Project and to further the objectives thereof during the then current calendar year; 
and (iii) a mid-term report, not later than December 31, 2003, summarizing the results 
of the monitoring and evaluation activities carried out by it pursuant to subparagraph 
(a) of this paragraph from the inception of the Project, consolidating the mid-term 
reports furnished to it by the Project Entities pursuant to Part E.1(b)(iii) of 
Schedule 2 to the Project Agreement and setting out the measures recommended to ensure 
the efficient completion of the Project and to further the objectives thereof; and
(c)
after furnishing to the Bank each report referred to in subparagraph (b) 
of this paragraph, review such reports with the Bank and, thereafter, promptly take 
all measures required to ensure the efficient completion of the Project and to ensure 
the achievement of the objectives thereof as shall have been agreed between the 
Borrower and the Bank.
SCHEDULE 5
Special Accounts
1.
For the purposes of this Schedule:
(a)
the term “eligible Categories” means:  (i) in respect of the Beijing 
Special Account, Category (1); (ii) in respect of the Hebei Special Account, Category 
Page  15
(2); (iii) in respect of the Liaoning Special Account, Category (3); and (iv) in 
respect of the Qingdao Special Account, Category (4).
(b)
the term “eligible expenditures” means expenditures in respect of the 
reasonable cost of goods and services required for the Project and to be financed out 
of the proceeds of the Loan allocated from time to time to the eligible Categories in 
accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1 to this Agreement; and
(c)
the term “Authorized Allocation” means:  
(i)
in respect of the Beijing Special Account, an amount equivalent to 
$1,200,000 to be withdrawn from the Loan 
Account and deposited into 
said Special Account pursuant to paragraph 3(a) of this Schedule; provided, 
however, that unless the Bank shall otherwise agree, the Authorized 
Allocation for said Special Account 
shall be limited to an amount 
equivalent to $720,000 until the aggregate amount of withdrawals from the 
Loan Account allocated to the respective eligible Categories for said 
Special Account, plus the total 
amount of all outstanding special 
commitments entered into by the Bank in respect of Beijing’s Respective 
Part of the Project, pursuant to Section 5.02 of the General Conditions shall be 
equal to or exceed the 
equivalent of $5,500,000;
(ii)
in respect of Hebei’s Special Account, an amount equivalent to 
$700,000 to be withdrawn from the Loan 
Account and deposited into 
said Special Account pursuant to paragraph 3(a) of this Schedule; provided, 
however, that unless the Bank shall otherwise agree, the Authorized 
Allocation for said Special Account 
shall be limited to an amount 
equivalent to $420,000 until the aggregate amount of withdrawals from the 
Loan Account allocated to the respective eligible Categories for said 
Special Account, plus the total 
amount of all outstanding special 
commitments entered into by the Bank in respect of Hebei’s Respective 
Part of the Project, pursuant to Section 5.02 of the General Conditions shall be 
equal to or exceed the 
equivalent of $3,000,000;
(iii)
in respect of Liaoning’s Special Account, an amount equivalent to 
$2,500,000 to be withdrawn from the Loan 
Account and deposited into 
said Special Account pursuant to paragraph 3(a) of this Schedule; provided, 
however, that unless the Bank shall otherwise agree, the Authorized 
Allocation for said Special Account 
shall be limited to an amount 
equivalent to $1,500,000 until the aggregate amount of withdrawals from the 
Loan Account allocated to the respective eligible Categories for said 
Special Account, plus the total 
amount of all outstanding special 
commitments entered into by the Bank in respect of Liaoning’s Respective 
Part of the Project, pursuant to Section 5.02 of the General Conditions shall be 
equal to or exceed the 
equivalent of $12,000,000; and
(iv)
in respect of Qingdao’s Special Account, an amount equivalent to 
$700,000 to be withdrawn from the Loan 
Account and deposited into said 
Special Account pursuant to paragraph 3(a) of this Schedule; provided, 
however, that unless the Bank shall otherwise agree, the Authorized Allocation 
for said Special Account 
shall be limited to an amount equivalent to 
$420,000 until the aggregate amount of withdrawals from the 
Loan 
Account allocated to the respective eligible Categories for said Special Account, plus 
the total 
amount of all outstanding special commitments entered 
into by the Bank in respect of Qingdao’s Respective 
Part of the Project, 
pursuant to Section 5.02 of the General Conditions shall be equal to or exceed the 
equivalent of $3,000,000;
2.
Payments out of the Special Accounts shall be made exclusively for eligible 
expenditures in accordance with the provisions of this Schedule.
3.
After the Bank has received evidence satisfactory to it that a Special Account 
has been duly opened, withdrawals of the Authorized Allocation and subsequent 
Page  16
withdrawals to replenish said Special Account shall be made as follows:
(a)
For withdrawals of the Authorized Allocation for a Special Account, the 
Borrower shall furnish to the Bank a request or requests for deposit into said Special 
Account of an amount or amounts which do not exceed the aggregate amount of the 
Authorized Allocation. On the basis of such request or requests, the Bank shall, on 
behalf of the Borrower, withdraw from the Loan Account and deposit into said Special 
Account such amount or amounts as the Borrower shall have requested.
(b)
(i)
For replenishment of a Special Account, the Borrower shall furnish 
to the Bank requests for deposits into 
said Special Account at such 
intervals as the Bank shall specify.
(ii)
Prior to or at the time of each such request, the Borrower shall 
furnish to the Bank the documents and 
other evidence required pursuant 
to paragraph 4 of this Schedule for the payment or payments in respect of 
which replenishment is requested. On the basis of each such request, the 
Bank shall, on behalf of the 
Borrower, withdraw from the Loan 
Account and deposit into said Special Account such amount as the Borrower 
shall have requested and as shall have been shown by said documents and 
other evidence to have been paid 
out of said Special Account for eligible 
expenditures. All such deposits shall be withdrawn by the Bank 
from 
the Loan Account under the respective eligible Categories, and in the respective 
equivalent amounts, 
as shall have been justified by said documents 
and other evidence.
4.
For each payment made by the Borrower out of a Special Account, the Borrower 
shall, at such time as the Bank shall reasonably request, furnish to the Bank such 
documents and other evidence showing that such payment was made exclusively for 
eligible expenditures.
5.
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 3 of this Schedule, the Bank shall 
not be required to make further deposits into any Special Account:
(a)
if, at any time, the Bank shall have determined that all further 
withdrawals should be made by the Borrower directly from the Loan Account in 
accordance with the provisions of Article V of the General Conditions and paragraph 
(a) of Section 2.02 of this Agreement;
(b)
if the Borrower shall have failed to furnish to the Bank, within the 
period of time specified in Section 4.01(b)(ii) of this Agreement, any of the audit 
reports required to be furnished to the Bank pursuant to said Section in respect of 
the audit of the records and accounts for said Special Account;
(c)
if, at any time, the Bank shall have notified the Borrower of its 
intention to suspend in whole or in part the right of the Borrower to make withdrawals 
from the Loan Account pursuant to the provisions of Section 6.02 of the General 
Conditions; or
(d)
once the total unwithdrawn amount of the Loan allocated to the eligible 
Categories for said Special Account, minus the total amount of all outstanding special 
commitments entered into by the Bank pursuant to Section 5.02 of the General 
Conditions in respect of the Parts of the Project for which said Special Account is 
established, shall equal the equivalent of twice the amount of the Authorized 
Allocation.
Thereafter, withdrawal from the Loan Account of the remaining unwithdrawn amount of 
the Loan allocated to the eligible Categories shall follow such procedures as the Bank 
shall specify by notice to the Borrower.  Such further withdrawals shall be made only 
after and to the extent that the Bank shall have been satisfied that all such amounts 
remaining on deposit in said Special Account as of the date of such notice will be 
Page  17
utilized in making payments for eligible expenditures.
6.
(a)
If the Bank shall have determined at any time that any payment out of any 
Special Account: (i) was made for an expenditure or in an amount not eligible pursuant 
to paragraph 2 of this Schedule; or (ii) was not justified by the evidence furnished 
to the Bank, the Borrower shall, promptly upon notice from the Bank: (A) provide such 
additional evidence as the Bank may request; or (B) deposit into said Special Account 
(or, if the Bank shall so request, refund to the Bank) an amount equal to the amount 
of such payment or the portion thereof not so eligible or justified. Unless the Bank 
shall otherwise agree, no further deposit by the Bank into said Special Account shall 
be made until the Borrower has provided such evidence or made such deposit or refund, 
as the case may be.
(b)
If the Bank shall have determined at any time that any amount outstanding 
in any Special Account will not be required to cover further payments for eligible 
expenditures, the Borrower shall, promptly upon notice from the Bank, refund to the 
Bank such outstanding amount.
(c)
The Borrower may, upon notice to the Bank, refund to the Bank all or any 
portion of the funds on deposit in any Special Account.
(d)
Refunds to the Bank made pursuant to paragraphs 6 (a), (b) and (c) of 
this Schedule shall be credited to the Loan Account for subsequent withdrawal or for 
cancellation in accordance with the relevant provisions of this Agreement, including 
the General Conditions.
