Page  1
CONFORMED COPY
LOAN NUMBER 4589 CHA
Project Agreement
(Water Conservation Project)
between
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
and
BEIJING MUNICIPALITY, HEBEI PROVINCE, LIAONING PROVINCE AND QINGDAO MUNICIPALITY 
Dated February 9, 2001
LOAN NUMBER 4589 CHA
PROJECT AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT, dated February 9, 2001, between INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION 
AND DEVELOPMENT (the Bank), BEIJING MUNICIPALITY, HEBEI PROVINCE, LIAONING PROVINCE 
and QINGDAO MUNICIPALITY (the Project Entities).
WHEREAS:  by the Loan Agreement of even date herewith between the Borrower and 
the Bank, the Bank has agreed to make available to the Borrower an amount equal to 
seventy four million Dollars ($74,000,000), on the terms and conditions set forth in 
the Loan Agreement, but only on condition that the Project Entities agree to undertake 
such obligations toward the Bank as are set forth in this Agreement; and 
WHEREAS the Project Entities, in consideration of the Bank’s entering into the 
Loan Agreement with the Borrower, have agreed to undertake the obligations set forth 
in this Agreement;
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
ARTICLE I
Definitions
Section 1.01. Unless the context otherwise requires, the several terms defined 
in the Loan Agreement and in the General Conditions (as so defined in the Loan 
Agreement) have the respective meanings therein set forth.
ARTICLE II
Page  2
Execution of the Project
Section 2.01. (a) Each of the Project Entities declares its commitment to the 
objectives of the Project as set forth in Schedule 2 to the Loan Agreement and, to 
this end, shall carry out its Respective Part of the Project with due diligence and 
efficiency and in conformity with appropriate administrative, financial, engineering, 
environmental and agricultural practices, and shall provide, or cause to be provided, 
promptly as needed, the funds, facilities, services and other resources required 
therefor.
(b)
Without limitation upon the provisions of paragraph (a) of this Section 
and except as the Bank shall otherwise agree, each Project Entity shall carry out its 
Respective Part of the Project in accordance with the Implementation Program set forth 
in Schedule 2 to this Agreement.
Section 2.02. Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree, procurement of the 
goods, works and consultants’ services required for the Project and to be financed out 
of the proceeds of the Loan shall be governed by the provisions of Schedule 1 to this 
Agreement.
Section 2.03. (a) Each of the Project Entities shall carry out the obligations 
set forth in Sections 9.03, 9.04, 9.05, 9.06, 9.07 and 9.08 of the General Conditions 
referred to in Section 1.01 of the Loan Agreement and in Sections 9.04, 9.05, 9.06, 
9.07, 9.08 and 9.09 of the General Conditions referred to in Section 1.01 of the Loan 
Agreement (relating to insurance, use of goods and services, plans and schedules, 
records and reports, maintenance and land acquisition, respectively) in respect of its 
Respective Part of the Project.
(b)
For the purposes of Section 9.08 of the General Conditions referred to in 
Section 1.01 of the Loan Agreement and without limitation thereto, each of the Project 
Entities shall:
(i)
prepare, on the basis of guidelines acceptable to the Bank and 
furnish to the Bank not later than six (6) 
months after the Closing 
Date or such later date as may be agreed for this purpose between the Bank and 
such Project Entity, a plan for the future operation of its Respective 
Part of the Project; and
(ii)
afford the Bank a reasonable opportunity to exchange views with 
such Project Entity on said plan.
Section 2.04.  (a) Each of the Project Entities shall, at the request of the 
Bank, exchange views with the Bank with regard to the progress of its Respective Part 
of the Project, the performance of its obligations under this Agreement, and other 
matters relating to the purposes of the Loan.
(b)
Each of the Project Entities shall promptly inform the Bank of any 
condition which interferes or threatens to interfere with the progress of its 
Respective Part of the Project, the accomplishment of the purposes of the Loan, or the 
performance of its respective obligations under this Agreement.
ARTICLE III
Financial Covenants
Section 3.01. (a) Each of the Project Entities shall maintain records and 
accounts adequate to reflect in accordance with sound accounting practices the 
operations, resources and expenditures related to the carrying out of its Respective 
Part of the Project.
(b) 
Each of the Project Entities shall:
(i)
have the records and accounts referred to in paragraph (a) of this 
Section for each fiscal year audited, in 
accordance with 
appropriate auditing principles consistently applied, by independent auditors 
acceptable to 
the Bank;
Page  3
(ii)
furnish to the Bank as soon as available, but in any case not 
later than six (6) months after the end of 
each such year, 
(A)
certified copies of its financial statements for such year 
as so audited, and 
(B)
the report of such audit by said auditors, of such scope and 
in such detail as the Bank shall have 
reasonably requested; and
(iii)
furnish to the Bank such other information concerning said records 
and  accounts and the audit thereof as 
the Bank may from time to time 
reasonably request.
ARTICLE IV
Effective Date; Termination;
Cancellation and Suspension
Section 4.01. This Agreement shall come into force and effect on the date upon 
which the Loan Agreement becomes effective.
Section 4.02. This Agreement and all obligations of the Bank and of the Project 
Entities thereunder shall terminate on which the Loan Agreement shall terminate in 
accordance with its terms and the Bank shall promptly notify the Project Entities 
thereof.
Section 4.03. All the provisions of this Agreement shall continue in full force 
and effect notwithstanding any cancellation or suspension under the General Conditions 
referred to in Section 1.01 of the Loan Agreement.
ARTICLE V
Miscellaneous Provisions
Section 5.01. Any notice or request required or permitted to be given or made 
under this Agreement and any agreement between the parties contemplated by this 
Agreement shall be in writing.  Such notice or request shall be deemed to have been 
duly given or made when it shall be delivered by hand or by mail, telegram, cable, 
telex or facsimile to the party to which it is required or permitted to be given or 
made at such party’s address hereinafter specified or at such other address as such 
party shall have designated by notice to the party giving such notice or making such 
request.  The addresses so specified are:
For the Bank
International Bank for Reconstruction
   and Development
1818 H Street, N. W.
Washington, D.C., 20433
United States of America
Cable address:
Telex:
Facsimile:
INTBAFRAD
248423 (MCI) or
202-477-6391
Washington, D.C.
 64145  (MCI)
For Beijing:
Beijing Municipality Finance Bureau
No. 15 Fucheng Road, Haidian District
Beijing 100037
People's Republic of China
Facsimile:
86-10-68414204 
Page  4
For Hebei:
Hebei Provincial Bureau of Finance
No. 14 Hua An Street
Shijiazhuang 050051
Hebei
People's Republic of China
Facsimile:
86-311-7031129
For Liaoning:
Liaoning Provincial Bureau of Finance
No. 103 North Nanjing Street, Heping District
Shenyang 110002
Liaoning
People's Republic of China
Facsimile:
86-24-22834167
For Qingdao:
Qingdao Municipality Finance Bureau
No. 16 Guanhai One Road, Shinan District
Qingdao 266001
Shandong
People's Republic of China
Facsimile:
86-532-2966162
Section 5.02. Any action required or permitted to be taken, and any document 
required or permitted to be executed, under this Agreement on behalf of (a) Beijing, 
may be taken or executed by any Vice Mayor of Beijing; (b) Hebei, may be taken or 
executed by any Vice Governor of Hebei; (c) Liaoning, may be taken or executed by any 
Vice Governor of Liaoning; or (d) Qingdao, may be taken or executed by any Vice Mayor 
of Qingdao, or such other person or persons as such Vice Governor or Vice Mayor shall 
designate in writing, and the Project Entities shall furnish to the Bank sufficient 
evidence of the authority and the authenticated specimen signature of each such 
person.
Section 5.03. This Agreement may be executed in several counterparts, each of 
which shall be an original, and all collectively but one instrument.
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their duly authorized 
representatives, have caused this Agreement to be signed in their respective names in 
Beijing, People's Republic of China, as of the day and year first above written.
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION
   AND DEVELOPMENT
By /s/ Yukon Huang
Authorized Representative 
Page  5
BEIJING MUNICIPALITY 
HEBEI PROVINCE
LIAONING PROVINCE
QINGDAO MUNICIPALITY
By /s/ Zhu Guangyao
Authorized Representative
SCHEDULE 1
Procurement
Section I.  Procurement of Goods and Works
Part A:
General
Goods and works shall be procured in accordance with the provisions of Section I 
of the “Guidelines for Procurement under IBRD Loans and IDA Credits” published by the 
Bank in January 1995 and revised in January and August 1996, September 1997 and 
January 1999 (the Guidelines) and the following provisions of this  Section I.
Part B:
International Competitive Bidding
1.
Except as otherwise provided in Part C of this Section, goods and works shall be 
procured under contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions of Section II of 
the Guidelines and paragraph 5 of Appendix 1 thereto.
2.
The following provisions shall apply to goods to be procured under contracts 
awarded in accordance with the provisions of paragraph 1 of this Part B.
(a)
Grouping of Contracts
To the extent practicable, contracts for goods shall be grouped in bid packages 
estimated to cost $250,000 equivalent or more each.
(b)
Preference for Domestically Manufactured Goods
The provisions of paragraphs 2.54 and 2.55 of the Guidelines and Appendix 2 
thereto shall apply to goods manufactured in the territory of the Borrower (other than 
goods manufactured in the Hong Kong Special Administrative Region or the Macau Special 
Administrative Region of the Borrower).
(c)
Notification and Advertising
The invitation to prequalify or bid for each contract estimated to cost 
$10,000,000 equivalent or more shall be advertised in accordance with the procedures 
applicable to large contracts under paragraph 2.8 of the Guidelines.
Part C:
Other Procurement Procedures
1.
Works
(a)
National Competitive Bidding
Works estimated to cost less than $5,000,000 equivalent per contract, up to an 
aggregate amount not to exceed $91,000,000 equivalent, may be procured under contracts 
awarded in accordance with the provisions of paragraphs 3.3 and 3.4 of the Guidelines.
(b)
Procurement of Small Works
Works for minor undertakings under Parts A(1) and A(2) of the Project, including 
Page  6
canal lining and structures, water intake structures, water wells, drains, small 
reservoirs, power supply lines, deep plowing, renovation of warehouses and seed 
stations and installation of pipelines, estimated to cost less than $200,000 
equivalent per contract, up to an aggregate amount not to exceed $23,500,000 
equivalent, may be procured under lump-sum, fixed-price contracts awarded on the basis 
of quotations obtained from at least three qualified contractors in response to a 
written invitation.  The invitation shall include a detailed description of the works, 
including basic specifications, the required completion date, a basic form of 
agreement acceptable to the Bank, and relevant drawings, where applicable.  The award 
shall be made to the contractor who offers the lowest price quotation for the required 
work, and who has the experience and resources to complete the contract successfully.
(c)
Force Account and Community Participation
Works under Parts A(1)(f), A(2)(a) and (b) and A(3)(a) of the Project for access 
road construction, development of improved seed fields, land leveling, return and 
reuse of straws and plantation of tree nurseries, shelter-belt forest and trees for 
economic production, estimated to cost less than $100,000 per assignment and which 
meet the requirements of paragraph 3.8 of the Guidelines, and costing $14,100,000 
equivalent or less in the aggregate, may, with the Bank’s prior agreement, be carried 
out by force account in accordance with the provisions of said paragraph of the 
Guidelines, or by the use of Project Entity community members hired in accordance with 
procedures acceptable to the Bank.
2.
Goods
(a)
National Competitive Bidding
Goods estimated to cost less than $250,000 equivalent per contract, up to an 
aggregate amount not to exceed $10,000,000 equivalent, may be procured under contracts 
awarded in accordance with the provisions of paragraphs 3.3 and 3.4 of the Guidelines.
(b)
International or National Shopping
Goods, estimated to cost less than $100,000 equivalent per contract, up to an 
aggregate amount not to exceed $7,800,000 equivalent, may be procured under contracts 
awarded on the basis of international or national shopping procedures in accordance 
with the provisions of paragraphs 3.5 and 3.6 of the Guidelines.
Part D:
Review by the Bank of Procurement Decisions
1.
Procurement Planning
Prior to the issuance of any invitations to prequalify for bidding or to bid for 
contracts, the proposed procurement plan for the Project shall be furnished to the 
Bank for its review and approval, in accordance with the provisions of paragraph 1 of 
Appendix 1 to the Guidelines. Procurement of all goods and works shall be undertaken 
in accordance with such procurement plan as shall have been approved by the Bank, and 
with the provisions of said paragraph 1.
2.
Prior Review
With respect to: (i) each contract for works estimated to cost the equivalent of 
$500,000 or more; (ii) for each Project Entity, the first contract for works awarded 
under paragraph 1(a) of Part C of Section I of this Schedule estimated to cost less 
than $500,000 equivalent and the first contract for works awarded under paragraph 1(b) 
of Part C of Section I of this Schedule, in each of the first two years of Project 
implementation; (iii) each contract for goods estimated to cost the equivalent of 
$250,000 or more; and (iv) for each Project Entity, the first contract for goods 
awarded under paragraph 2(a) of Part C of Section I of this Schedule and the first 
contract for goods awarded under paragraph 2(b) of Part C of Section I of this 
Schedule, in each of the first two years of Project implementation, the procedures set 
forth in paragraphs 2 and 3 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines shall apply.
Page  7
3.
Post Review
With respect to each contract not governed by paragraph 2 of this Part, the 
procedures set forth in paragraph 4 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines shall apply.
Section II.
Employment of Consultants
Part A:
General
Consultants’ services shall be procured in accordance with the provisions of the 
Introduction and Section IV of the “Guidelines:  Selection and Employment of 
Consultants by World Bank Borrowers” published by the Bank in January 1997 and revised 
in September 1997 and January 1999 (the Consultant Guidelines); and the following 
provisions Section II of this Schedule.
Part B:
Quality- and Cost-based Selection
Except as otherwise provided in Part C of this Section, consultants’ services 
shall be procured under contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions of Section 
II of the Consultant Guidelines, paragraph 3 of Appendix 1 thereto, Appendix 2 
thereto, and the provisions of paragraphs 3.13 through 3.18 thereof applicable to 
quality- and cost-based selection of consultants.
Part C:
Other Procedures for the Selection of Consultants
1.
Selection Based on Consultants’ Qualifications
Services estimated to cost less than $100,000 equivalent per contract, up to an 
aggregate amount not to exceed $3,500,000 equivalent, may be procured under contracts 
awarded in accordance with the provisions of paragraphs 3.1 and 3.7 of the Consultant 
Guidelines.
2.
Individual Consultants
Services for tasks that meet the requirements set forth in paragraph 5.01 of the 
Consultant Guidelines, estimated to cost up to an aggregate amount not to exceed 
$2,600,000 equivalent, shall be procured under contracts awarded to individual 
consultants in accordance with the provisions of paragraphs 5.1 through 5.3 of the 
Consultant Guidelines.  
Part D:
Review by the Bank of the Selection of Consultants
1.
Selection Planning
Prior to the issuance to consultants of any requests for proposals, the proposed 
plan for the selection of consultants under the Project shall be furnished to the Bank 
for its review and approval, in accordance with the provisions of paragraph 1 of 
Appendix 1 to the Consultant Guidelines.  Selection of all consultants’ services shall 
be undertaken in accordance with such selection plan as shall have been approved by 
the Bank, and with the provisions of said paragraph 1.
2.
Prior Review
(a)
With respect to each contract for the employment of consulting firms 
estimated to cost the equivalent of $100,000 or more, the procedures set forth in 
paragraphs 1, 2 and (other than the third subparagraph of paragraph 2(a)) and 5 of 
Appendix 1 to the Consultant Guidelines shall apply.
(b)
With respect to each contract for the employment of individual 
consultants estimated to cost the equivalent of $50,000 or more, the qualifications, 
experience, terms of reference and terms of employment of the consultants shall be 
furnished to the Bank for its prior review and approval.  The contract shall be 
awarded only after the said approval shall have been given.
3.
Post Review
Page  8
With respect to each contract not governed by paragraph 2 of this Part, the 
procedures set forth in paragraph 4 of Appendix 1 to the Consultant Guidelines shall 
apply.
SCHEDULE 2
Implementation Program
The provisions of this Schedule shall apply for the purposes of Section 2.01 (b) 
of this Agreement.
Part A:
Project Management
 
1.  
Each Project Entity shall establish, no later than January 31, 2001, and 
maintain or cause to be maintained, throughout the period of Project implementation:
(a)
a project leading group at each of the provincial or municipal level, as 
the case may be, and at the county level included in its Respective Part of the 
Project, with composition and responsibilities acceptable to the Bank, to formulate 
Project-related policies, coordinate among relevant agencies and provide overall 
guidance on implementation of its Respective Part of the Project; and
(b)
a project management office at each of the provincial or municipal level, 
as the case may be, and at the county level included in its Respective Part of the 
Project, with functions and responsibilities acceptable to the Bank, with competent 
staff in adequate numbers, to organize, coordinate and implement Project activities. 
2.
Each Project Entity shall establish, no later than January 31, 2001, and 
maintain throughout the period of Project implementation, a mobile specialist team 
responsible for providing technical advice to the PPMO, under terms of reference and 
composition satisfactory to the Bank, and shall cause said mobile specialist team to 
undertake annual reviews of the Subprojects implemented or being implemented under its 
Respective Part of the Project.
3.
Without limitation to the provisions of Section 9.06 of the General Conditions, 
each Project Entity shall: 
(a)
prepare, through its respective PPMO, by August 31 in each year, and 
furnish to the CPMO for forwarding to the Bank by September 30 of each year in 
accordance with Part C.1(b) of Schedule 4 to the Loan Agreement, a work plan and 
annual budget for implementation of its Respective Part of the Project during the 
following calendar year;  and
(b)
thereafter, ensure the implementation during the following calendar year 
of such work plan in accordance with the work plan and program approved by the Bank 
pursuant to Part C.1(c) of Schedule 4 to the Loan Agreement.
4.
Each Project Entity shall:
(a) 
carry out the training, study tours and research under its Respective 
Part of the Project in accordance with a training, study tour and research program 
acceptable to the Bank;
(b)
to that end: (i) furnish to the Borrower by August 31 in each year for 
its prior approval and for forwarding to the Bank by September 30 of each year in 
accordance with Part C.1(b) of Schedule 4 to the Loan Agreement, an annual 
implementation plan for training, study tours and research for the next calendar year, 
which program shall be designed to ensure that, on average, at least 20% of the 
persons participating in said training, including study tours, shall be women; and 
(ii) furnish to the Borrower for its prior approval and for forwarding to the Bank in 
accordance with Part C.2(a) of Schedule 4 to the Loan Agreement, the detailed terms of 
reference and participant lists for each overseas study tour proposed to be carried 
out under the Project; and
(c)
thereafter, implement such plan as shall have been approved by the 
Borrower and, promptly after completion of any overseas study tour carried out under 
Page  9
the Project, furnish to the Borrower a report on said study tour, including a summary 
of lessons learned and the applicability of said lessons to the implementation of the 
Project.
5.
Each Project Entity shall:
(a) not later than January 31, 2001, prepare and furnish to the Bank for its 
review and comment, a general plan for on-lending to and recovery from prefectures and 
counties included in its Respective Part of the Project, of a part of its Allocated 
Amount, on substantially the same terms and conditions as the Loan, which plan shall 
include a commitment by said Project Entity to repay to the Borrower that portion of 
its Allocated Amount withdrawn in respect of expenditures for environmental monitoring 
under Part A of the Project and institutional development activities under Part B of 
the Project;
(b)
not later than August 31 in each year, prepare and furnish to the 
Borrower together with said Project Entity’s annual work plan prepared in accordance 
with Part A.3(a) of this Schedule, for forwarding to the Bank by September 30 in each 
year together with said work plan, a detailed annual plan for on-lending to and 
recovery from prefectures and counties included in its Respective Part of the Project, 
of a part of its Allocated Amount; and
(c) thereafter, carry out said plans, taking into account the Bank’s comments 
thereon.
Part B:
Programmatic Approach to Subproject Preparation and Implementation
1.
Preparation
Each Project Entity shall, in accordance with project implementation guidelines 
acceptable to the Bank prepare each investment project under Part A of the Project 
proposed to be included in its Respective Part of the Project as a Subproject and 
prepare and furnish to the Borrower a report, including an environmental management 
plan and, if applicable, a resettlement plan, in respect of said proposed Subproject, 
for the Borrower’s review pursuant to Part B.1(b) of Schedule 4 to the Loan Agreement.
2.
Eligibility
Each investment project proposed for inclusion in a Project Entity’s Respective 
Part of the Project shall qualify as a Subproject eligible for financing out of the 
proceeds of the Loan only if said Project Entity has determined on the basis of an 
appraisal carried out in accordance with project implementation guidelines acceptable 
to the Bank that:  
(a)
the proposed Subproject includes: (i) selection of site-specific 
irrigation technology, agronomic and forestry measures and irrigation and agriculture 
management measures; (ii) water balance studies; (iii) detailed engineering designs; 
(iv) a Subproject implementation plan; (v) an SIDD development plan; (vi) a financing 
and repayment plan; and (vii) a monitoring and evaluation plan;
(b)
the proposed Subproject is technically and economically feasible;
(c)
the proposed Subproject is in compliance with environmental standards 
acceptable to the Bank, and with all applicable laws and regulations of the Borrower 
and the Project Entity relating to health, safety and environmental protection; and
(d)
if the Subproject would involve the resettlement of persons affected by 
said Subproject, it includes a plan for resettlement and compensation for all said 
persons which: (A) has been prepared on the basis of the Resettlement Policy 
Framework; and (B) in the case of a Subproject involving 200 or more such persons, has 
been furnished to, and approved by, the Bank.
Part C:
Environmental Management; Resettlement
Page  10
1.  
Each Project Entity shall: (a) ensure that all activities under its Respective 
Part of the Project shall conform to environmental standards and guidelines 
satisfactory to the Bank, including the environmental regulations and guidelines 
issued by the Borrower’s National Environmental Protection Agency and said Project 
Entity’s Environmental Protection Bureau; and
(b)
to that end, implement the part of the Environmental Mitigation and 
Monitoring Plan applicable to its Respective Part of the Project, in a manner 
satisfactory to the Bank.
2.
Each Project Entity shall: (a) not later than January 31, 2001, prepare and 
furnish to the Bank a report identifying groundwater, surface water and soil quality 
monitoring frequency and monitoring parameters for the monitoring of the environmental 
impact of its Respective Part of the Project, and providing preliminary information 
concerning monitoring sites, including specific identification of groundwater, surface 
water and soil quality monitoring sites for the first year of implementation of its 
Respective Part of the Project; and
(b)
not later than August 31 in each year, prepare and furnish to the 
Borrower together with said Project Entity’s annual work plan prepared in accordance 
with Part A.3(a) of this Schedule for forwarding to the Bank by September 30 of each 
year in accordance with Part C.1(b) of Schedule 4 to the Loan Agreement, a report 
specifically identifying groundwater, surface water and soil quality monitoring sites 
for the next calendar year.
3.
Each Project Entity shall: (a) ensure that all works to be carried out under its 
Respective Part of the Project shall be planned in accordance with the objective of 
avoiding, where feasible, any change in land or water use that would result in the 
involuntary loss by persons of shelter, of productive assets or access to productive 
assets, or of income or means of livelihood; (b) to this end, ensure that its PPMO 
gives due attention to said objective in the preparation of annual works plans for its 
Respective Part of the Project pursuant to paragraph A.3(a) of this Schedule; and (c) 
if, during the preparation of any such plans, said PPMO determines that such change in 
land or water use would nevertheless be unavoidable, ensure that said PPMO takes the 
following actions, and shall confirm to the Bank that said actions have been taken, 
prior to the commencement of any such works:
(i)
prepare a resettlement action plan on the basis of policies, 
planning principles, institutional 
arrangements and design 
criteria acceptable to the Bank and set forth in the Resettlement Policy Framework, 
so as to improve the living standards and production levels of 
said persons, and furnish said action plan 
to the Project Entity and, 
if more than 200 persons are involved, to the Bank, for approval; and  
(ii)
carry out such resettlement action plan as shall have been 
approved by the relevant Project Entity (and the 
Bank, if more than 
200 persons are affected).
Part D:
Institutional Development
1.
In carrying out Part B(4) of the Project, each Project Entity shall:
(a)
install, not later than January 31, 2001, the comprehensive management 
information system developed and operated by the CPMO under Part D of Schedule 4 to 
the Loan Agreement, in its PPMO and each Local PMO within the Project Entity; and
(b)
operate said management information system in accordance with guidelines 
acceptable to the Bank.
2.
In carrying out Part B(2) of the Project, each Project Entity shall:
(a)
develop a groundwater management plan, including water licensing and use 
controls, limits on new groundwater development and integrated measures to achieve 
water savings;
Page  11
(b)
take all steps necessary, not later than January 31, 2002, to obtain all 
necessary approvals for the implementation on a trial basis of said plan in at least 
one county within the Project Entity; and
(c)
take all steps necessary, not later than January 31, 2003, to obtain all 
necessary technical approvals for the implementation of groundwater management plans 
in all counties within the Project Area.  
3.
SIDD Development 
(a)
Under Part B(1) of the Project, each Project Entity shall carry out a 
pilot program, acceptable to the Bank, for the establishment and operation in its 
territory of SIDDs in accordance with the arrangements set forth in paragraphs (b) 
through (e) of this Section.
(b)
Each SIDD established within a Project Entity pursuant to subparagraph 
(a) of this paragraph shall include:  (i) not later than December 31, 2001, at least 
(A) one WSO to be responsible for operating and maintaining a defined water supply 
system within said Project Entity’s territory, which WSO includes representatives of 
users of water supplied through said system in water management decision making, and 
(B) one WUA to be responsible for operating and maintaining tertiary canals served by 
the system within said WSO’s responsibility and for operating and maintaining on-farm 
water supply systems which serve its members, and whose members shall comprise all 
users of water supplied through said on-farm systems; and (ii) additional WUAs 
established in counties within the Project Areas in accordance with a schedule 
acceptable to the Bank, selected in accordance with guidelines acceptable to the Bank, 
each to be responsible for operating and maintaining the tertiary canals and on-farm 
water supply systems which serve its members, and whose members shall comprise all 
users of water supplied through said systems.
(c)
The rights and obligations of each WSO established within a Project 
Entity shall be defined and set forth in a water system operation and maintenance 
arrangement, prepared in accordance with guidelines acceptable to the Bank, to be 
entered into between said Project Entity, through its local administration, and said 
WSO upon the establishment of said WSO, said arrangement to: (i) define the facilities 
which said WSO shall be responsible to operate and maintain; (ii) set forth the 
respective responsibilities of said Project Entity and said WSO, and the sources and 
levels of funds, staffing and other resources to be provided to said WSO to enable it 
to carry out said responsibilities; and (iii) authorize and empower said WSO to 
collect the water charges referred to in paragraph 4 of Part D of this Schedule from 
the WUAs and other users which use water delivered through said facilities in 
accordance with the terms of water users contracts to be entered into between said WSO 
and said users.
(d)
The rights and obligations of each WUA established within a Project 
Entity shall be defined and set forth in a water users contract prepared in accordance 
with guidelines acceptable to the Bank, to be entered into between said WUA and the 
WSO or other agency responsible for operating and maintaining the facilities through 
which water used by said WUA is delivered, upon the establishment of said WUA, said 
contract to: (i) define the facilities which said WUA shall be responsible to operate 
and maintain; (ii) set forth the respective responsibilities of said WSO or agency (as 
the case may be) and WUA, and the sources and levels of funds to be provided to said 
WUA to enable it to carry out said responsibilities; and (iii) authorize and empower 
said WUA to collect the water charges referred to in paragraph 4 of Part D of this 
Schedule from its members who use water delivered through said facilities.
(e)
Each Project Entity shall provide technical assistance to each WUA, and 
technical and, as appropriate, financial assistance to each WSO, established in a SIDD 
operating within its territory, under guidelines and in accordance with a schedule 
acceptable to the Bank, such assistance to be designed to enable said WSOs and WUAs 
properly to carry out their respective responsibilities.
(f)
Each Project Entity shall form water user groups in all other parts of 
the Project Areas with a view to conversion of said water user groups to WUAs when 
feasible.
Page  12
4.
Water Charges
(a)
In furtherance of the policy to recover the recurrent costs of operation 
and maintenance and a portion of the capital costs of the irrigation facilities, 
drainage systems and water supply facilities in its territory from users of the water 
delivered through said facilities, each Project Entity shall establish and ensure 
collection of volumetric water charges from users of water, which charges shall be 
increased progressively during the period of Project implementation in order to fully 
cover, by December 31, 2005: (i) the operation and maintenance costs of said 
facilities as they are incurred; and (ii) a portion of the capital costs of said 
facilities.
(b)
Each Project Entity shall maintain a separate accounting for funds 
collected within its jurisdiction pursuant to the provisions of paragraph (a) of this 
paragraph 4 and cause all said funds to be used exclusively for the purposes of 
operations and maintenance of the facilities referred to in said paragraph (a) and 
debt repayment and debt service obligations incurred by said Project Entity in respect 
of said facilities.
5.
Operation and Maintenance of Irrigation Systems
With respect to each Subproject under its Respective Part of the Project 
involving an irrigation and drainage systems, each Project Entity shall, in order to 
ensure the proper operation and maintenance of such systems, prior to the completion 
of each such system, prepare and furnish to the Bank for review and comment a proposed 
operation and maintenance plan for such system and, thereafter, ensure the prompt 
implementation of each such plan, taking into account the views of the Bank thereon.
Part E:
Monitoring and Evaluation
1.
Each Project Entity shall:
(a)
maintain policies and procedures adequate to enable it to monitor and 
evaluate on an ongoing basis, in accordance with indicators satisfactory to the Bank, 
the carrying out of its Respective Part of the Project and the achievement of the 
objectives thereof, including detailed monitoring and evaluation of three hydraulic 
areas within said Project Entity;
(b)
prepare, under terms of reference acceptable to the Bank and furnish to 
the Borrower for consolidation and forwarding to the Bank pursuant to Part E of 
Schedule 4 to the Loan Agreement:
(i)
semi-annual reports, not later than February 28 and August 31 in 
each year, beginning February 28, 2001, 
summarizing the monitoring 
and evaluation activities carried out by it pursuant to subparagraph (a) of this 
paragraph in respect of the preceding calendar semester, and 
setting forth the physical and financial 
progress in the 
implementation of its Respective Part of the Project, both cumulatively, and in 
respect of 
the said preceding calendar semester;
(ii)
an annual report, not later than February 28 in each year, 
summarizing the monitoring and evaluation 
activities carried 
out by it pursuant to subparagraph (a) of this paragraph, in respect of the preceding 
calendar year, and setting forth proposed measures, indicated by 
said monitoring and evaluation activities, 
to ensure the continued 
implementation of said Project Entity’s Respective Part of the Project and 
including the report of its mobile specialist team under Part A.2 
of this Schedule; and
(iii)
a mid-term report, not later than November 30, 2003, integrating 
the results of the monitoring and 
evaluation activities 
performed pursuant to paragraph (a) of this Section E.1, on the progress achieved in 
the carrying out of its Respective Part of the Project during the 
period preceding the date of said report 
and setting out the 
measures recommended to ensure the efficient carrying out of its Respective Part of 
the 
Project and the achievement of the objectives thereof during the 
Page  13
period following such date; and
(c)
promptly review with the Borrower and the Bank the reports referred to in 
paragraph (b) of this Section, and, thereafter, take all measures required to ensure 
the efficient completion of its Respective Part of the Project and the achievement of 
the objectives thereof, based on the conclusions and recommendations of the said 
reports and the Borrower’s and Bank’s views on the matter.
