Document of
The World Bank FLE COpy
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
T         0     40               Report No. P-2109-BD
RE PCTS
REPORT AN
OF THE
PRESIDENT OF THE
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
TO THE
EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS
ON A
PROPOSED CREDIT
TO THE
PEOPLE'S REPUBLIC OF BANGLADESH
FOR AN
EXTENSION AND RESEARCH PROJECT
June 16, 19 77
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only In the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
The Bangladesh Taka is officially valued at 26.70 to the
Pound Sterling . The Pound floats relative to the US Dollar
and consequently, the Taka, US Dollar rate is subject to
change. The rate below has been used throughout this report,
except where stated to the contrary.
US$1                          Tk 15.0
Tk I                          US$0.067
Tk I million                  US$67,000
MEASURES
1 acre (ac)                   0.405 hectares (ha)
I mile (ml)                   1.609 kilometers (km)
1 square mile.                640 ac (259 ha)
(sq mi)



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
PRINCIPAL ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS USED
ADB       - Asian Development Bank
ARTP      - Agricultural and Rural Training Project
ATEO      m Assistant Thana Extension Officer
BADC      = Bangladesh Agricultural Development Corporation
BARC      = Bangladesh Agricultural Research Council
BARI      - Bangladesh Agricultural Research Institute
BRRI      M Bangladesh Rice Research Institute
CF        m Contact Farmer
CORR      a Christian Organization for Relief and Rehabilitation
CPS       v Crop Production Specialist
DCA       a Development Credit Agreement
DEM       = Directorate of Extension and Management
(Ministry of Agriculture)
FPE       q Farm Production Economist
GOB       = Government of Bangladesh
HYV          High Yielding Varieties
iJCS         Intensive Jute Cultivation Scheme
ILO       a International Labor Organization
IRDP      w Integrated Rural Development Program
JEA       e Jute Extension Assistant
NW        v Northwest (region)
PIU       = Project Implementation Unit
SDEO      X Sub-divisional Extension Officer
SFI       a Soil Fertility Institute
T & V     D Training and Visit (extension system)
TAO       m Thana Agricultural Officer
TCCA      w Thana Central Cooperative Association
TEO       - Thana Extension Officer
TSO       s Thapa Statistical Officer
TTDC      v Thana Training and Development Center
TU           Training Unit
UAA          Union Agricultural Assistant
UNDP      e United Nations Development Program
USA       m Union Statistical Assistant
USAID        United States Agency for International Development
VEA       w Village Extension Agent
WDB       R Water Development Board






GLOSSARY
Aman      = Rice planted before or during the monsoon
Aus       = Rice planted during March and April and
harvested during July and August
Boro      = Rice planted in winter and harvested during
April to June
Thana     = Administrative Unit below District (average
180,000 population)
Union     = Administrative Unit below the Thana (average
18,000 - 20,000 population); includes about
15 villages






BANGLADESH
EXTENSION AND RESEARCH PROJECT
Development Credit and Project Summary
Borrower:              People's Republic of Bangladesh.
Amount:                US$10 million equivalent.
Terms:                 Standard.
Purpose:               The project supports the strengthening of the exten-
sion service under the Ministry of Agriculture in the
Northwest region (Rajshahi Division); the project
also supports efforts to make adaptive research more
relevant to agricultural development and to establish
closer links between research and extension. The proj-
ect includes: (a) construction of housing, training
and research facilities, and provision of transport and
equipment for extension and research staff; (b) pro-
vision of salary support for incremental extension,
research and statistical staff; and (c) provision
of technical assistance, consultant services and
fellowships in the areas of extension and research
(through the Bangladesh Agricultural Research Insti-
tute and the Bangladesh Agricultural Research Council).
The project also includes a pilot scheme aiming at
increasing the areas irrigated by about 1,500 deep
tubewells (to be implemented by the Bangladesh Agri-
cultural Development Corporation).



Estimated Costs:                                                  % of
Foreign
Ex-
Local  Foreign     Total        change
(Thousand US Dollars)
Extension and Training          7,434   2,359-    9,793            24
Agricultural Statistics           240     -         240             -
Agricultural Research           1,091     450      1,541           29
Command Area Development          486     187       674            28
Monitoring and Evaluation         127      -         127            -
Base Cost Estimate              9,378   2,996    12,374            24
Physical Contingencies          1,135     382     1,517            25
Total with Physical
Contingencies                10,513   3,378    13,891            24
Price Contingencies             1,821     575     2,396            24
Total Project Cost             12,334   3,953    16,287            24
Financing:             The proposed IDA Credit of US$10 million would finance
about 75% of total project costs (net of taxes and
duties), representing the foreign exchange costs of
US$3.9 million and US$6.1 million of the local currency
costs.
Technical Assistance:
A. Fellowships:
DEM:                   36 man-months abroad in farm economics for Farm
Production Economists.
36 man-months abroad for training in various
crops and on management of Training Units (TUs) for
Crop Production Specialists.
BARI:                  6 man-months abroad for study tours in Asia on
research organization.
24 man-months in Bangladesh for training in re-
search on rice, wheat and other crops.



B. Consultant Services:
DEM:                   18 man-months in extension and training.
BARI:                  12 man-months in adaptive research.
BARC:                  Contracts with research organizations on problems
of immediate relevance to farmers' needs, such as
demonstration and introduction of simple inexpen-
sive farm implements.
PIU:                   Contract with an engineering firm for preparing
and supervising construction.
Contract with a consulting firm on project
evaluation.
Contracts with engineering firms for preparing
and undertaking the construction of the command
areas of about 1,500 deep tubewells.
Economic Rate
of Return:          over 50%.
Estimated
Disbursements:                           US$ Million
FY78    FY79    FY80      FY81
0.3     3.9     4.8       1.0
Appraisal Report:      Bangladesh-Appraisal of an Extension and Research
Project.  June 14, 1977. Report No. 1553a-BD.






INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION OF THE PRESIDENT
TO THE EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS ON A PROPOSED CREDIT
TO THE PEOPLE'S REPUBLIC OF BANGLADESH FOR AN
EXTENSION AND RESEARCH PROJECT
1.        I submit the following report and recommendation on a proposed
credit to the People's Republic of Bangladesh for the equivalent of US$10
million, on standard IDA terms, to help finance an extension and research
project.
PART I - THE ECONOMY 1/
2.        An Economic Mission was in the field in November 1976 and its report
entitled "Bangladesh: Current Economic Performance and Development Policy
Issues" (Report No. 1469-BD, dated May 19, 1977) was distributed on May 25,
1977.
Introduction
3.        The Basic Economic Report described the obstacles to development
in Bangladesh and outlined a course of action to maximize the development
of the country's resources. The high ratio of population to natural re-
sources, the slow development of the productive and infrastructural base
and the weaknesses of the administrative and institutional framework led the
Report to project a growth rate of GDP of between 2% and 3.5% per year in
real terms over the five years 1973-78, the variations within that range
depending on the appropriateness of the policy framework and on levels of
aid.
4.        Encouraging progress was made in the period immediately following
Bangladesh's independence as an enthusiastic Government, supported by mas-
sive external assistance, strove to overcome the devastation of the cyclone
of 1970 and the struggle for independence in 1971. Large amounts of food
aid were distributed, refugees were resettled, and vital port, road and rail
facilities were brought back into operation. A new constitution was adopted,
and the first national elections, held in March 1973, brought Sheik Mujibur
Rahman's Awami League party into power with an overwhelming parliamentary
majority.
5.        Overall economic progress since independence, however, has been
inadequate. Agricultural output remains insufficient for a population
growing at close to 3% a year. Industrial output, heavily dependent on
imports, has been affected badly by scarcity of foreign exchange. State
1/   Parts I and II, and Annex II of this report are substantially the same as
Parts I and II, and Annex II of the President's Report for the Muhuri
Irrigation Project (Report No. P 2100-BD), dated June 2, 1977.



- 2 -
enterprises have been hampered by management deficiencies, excessive govern-
ment controls, shortages and price regulation. Exports have been stagnant
and finance less than half of import needs. Bangladesh also has been severely
affected by an adverse shift in its terms of trade since 1973. Trade prob-
lems are compounded by dependence on annual food imports of 1-2 million
tons, even in years of favorable weather, and by heavy reliance on imported
industrial raw materials. Government revenue has been insufficient to meet
current and development expenditure needs. Bangladesh has had to depend
on large flows of external assistance to support its development effort.
6.        The present Government, in power since November, 1975, rules by
martial law. General Zia Rahman, the Army Chief of Staff, serves both as
President and Chief Martial Law Administrator. The two chiefs of the other
defense services serve as Deputy Chief Martial Law Administrators. The three
service heads and eleven civilians form a President's Advisory Council. Each
of the members has responsibility for one or more ministries. General Zia
Rahman's political program was endorsed by an overwhelming majority in a
referendum held in May 1977. This program calls for national elections in
December 1978 and local elections, at municipal and district levels, later
this year (Union Councils were elected in January 1977). The current Govern-
ment has introduced economic reforms such as a reduction of producer and con-
sumer subsidies, agricultural taxation and import liberalization and has in-
dicated that it intends further reforms in these areas. It has also pursued
prudent monetary and fiscal policies. However, the fundamental problems of
the country, namely overpopulation, weak administration, inadequate infra-
structure, insufficient foodgrain output and inadequate resources for devel-
opment continue to confront Bangladesh.
The Current Economic Situation
7.        On July 1, 1975, Bangladesh initiated a stabilization program in
conjunction with a standby arrangement with the IMF. Its principal elements
consisted of a credit restraint program and elimination of deficit financing,
combined with some import liberalization.    This was preceded by a devaluation
of 58% in May 1975, which subsequently, as a result of a link with the Pound
Sterling, has led to a cumulative de facto depreciation of 90%. The record
so far is that the credit restraint program has been a success: after an
estimated rate of inflation of about 80% in 1974, prices declined by 10% in
1975, and price stability continued throughout 1976. The Government not only
avoided deficit financing; it retired some of its debts to the banking system
in 1975. The import licensing program was relaxed during 1975/76; besides
increasing allocations to an average of 95% of entitlements, licenses were
renewed on expiry and there is greater fungibility in the use of exchange
allocations for selected categories of imports. Improvements in this area
continued in 1976/77: import requirements of all public corporations and high
priority private sector industries were fully met, the role of the Trading
Corporation of Bangladesh was further reduced, and the list of items permitted
under the Wage Earner's Scheme for imports by the private sector was enlarged.
8.        At the beginning of 1975/76 the credit restrictions may have been
too pervasive and insufficiently selective; jute purchases by trading cor-
porations were hampered, production credit was scarce, and import allocations



- 3 -
could not be utilized. Measures were taken to rectify this situation. Over-
all, however, the credit restraint program has been salutary because of its
favorable impact on the rate of inflation. It has been reinforced by other
factors:
(a)   The output of rice in 1975/76 is estimated to have been
about 12.8 million tons, representing an increase of about
14% over 1974/75. This record harvest is not expected to be
equalled in 1976/77; output may decline (3%) to 12.4
million tons, as a result of less favorable weather.
Rice prices which remained stable for most of 1976/77
have begun to rise in the last quarter.
(b)   The private sector has a greater role in the retail and
distributive trades, but stringent measures have been
implemented to curtail hoarding and smuggling. The
distribution controls over some consumer goods have
also been liberalized.
(c)   The supply position for raw materials has improved.
Moreover, consumers have benefitted in real terms by
substantial declines in the prices of key imports.
9.        The devaluation in May 1975 made possible a reduction in the
price of raw jute exports from the unrealistic level of E 200 per ton
(late 1974 and early 1975) to b 150 per ton (from July 15, 1975), f.o.b.
Chittagong. The reduction in price led to a significant increase in
sales of raw jute but export volume in 1976/77 has been constrained by an
inadequate crop. The volume of exports of jute manufactures also improved
as a result of improved price competitiveness as well as a recovery in world
markets. However their value showed no commensurate improvement because of a
large fall in average price. Bangladesh's non-traditional exports have derived
benefits from the devaluation and a wide array of export incentives; as a
result, their value is projected to increase by 36% in 1976/77.
10.       The agricultural sector did quite well in 1975/76 with overall pro-
duction increasing more than 10%. Favorable weather was essentially responsi-
ble for the good harvests, since the basic problems affecting the sector remain
unresolved.   The small-scale irrigation program (comprising low-lift pumps,
and shallow and deep tubewells) has again fallen short of its target. Pro-
cedures for the allocation of fertilizer, though much improved, continue to
be in need of improvement. Credit is insufficient and inadequately distri-
buted, though the Government in recognition of this need mounted a large
credit program in 1976/77. Because of the steep fall in the free market
price, government procurement of rice increased dramatically - in 1975/76
rose to an estimated 415 thousand tons. Nonetheless, the support price
was not maintained throughout the country because of limited purchasing
facilities, stringent moisture content requirements, and unfamiliar payment
procedures. This led farmers to sell their paddy at prices below the procure-
ment price.  In 1976/77 the Government is likely to procure about 100,000



-4-
tons less than in the previous year, but is relying more heavily on the pri-
vate trade as an instrument for supporting farmgate prices. To achieve this
it has relaxed its regulations governing stock accumulation and has expanded
credit facilities. Efforts are under way to rehabilitate approximately
200,000 tons of derelict storage capacity and a study of further storage
requirements is progress.
11.       In the industrial sector capacity utilization has improved in a
number of industries, and the supply of raw materials and spares has improved.
Measures have recently been taken to reorganize those public enterprises,
which account for a major share of industrial output in order to improve
management and labor productivity through, among other measures, providing
them with operational autonomy in matters such as staffing.
Balance of Payments
12.       The impact of the extremely good foodgrain harvests and the policies
and measures instituted in 1975/76, were reflected in Bangladesh's 1976/77
balance of payments. The restrictive monetary and fiscal policies of 1975/76
were continued in 1976/77 and they continued to restrain demand. This, plus
reduced requirements for food imports and lower import prices reduced the
value of total imports by 27%. Export earnings showed an increase of 5%.
Exports benefited from a favorable climate for non-traditional exports, which,
in addition, were stimulated by a package of incentives. New items were added
to the list of export products eligible for export performance licenses, the
income tax rebate on earnings derived from non-traditional exports was doubled,
exporters were qualified for preferential credit and interest rates, and
priority was accorded them in the issuance of import licenses for the purchase
of raw material and machinery. These incentives are expected to contribute
substantially to a projected large expansion (36%) in the value of non-jute
exports. Consequently the trade deficit is expected to decline from $909
million in 1975/76 to US$537 million. The current account deficit in the
balance of payments is, therefore, expected to total US$512 million. However,
since external aid disbursements in 1976/77 are expected to total US$572 mil-
lion, inclusive of a cash grant of US$50 million, Bangladesh's international
reserves are expected to rise by US$72 million to $285 million at the end of
June 1977. This would be equivalent in value to about three months antici-
pated imports in 1977/78.



- 5 -
BALANCE OF PAYMENTS ESTIMATES
(million US$)
1974/75       1975/76      1976/77
(Actual)      (Actual)    Estimate
Merchandise Imports (c.i.f.)         -1,402        -1,290 /b     -937
Merchandise Exports (f.o.b.)            358           381         400
Trade Balance                   -1,044          -909       -537
Other Current Account                     7             1          25
Current Account Balance         -1,037          -908       -512
Other Receipts and Payments (net)       272 /a         122         46
Amortization:  Long-term debt           -25           -78         -21 /c
Short term capital movements
(net) (including IMF)                  62                      -13 /d
Changes in Reserves (-=increase)       -196            50         -72
External Capital Disbursements          924           814         572
of which:
Food                               379           307        128
Commodity                          386           378        220
Project                            145           129        174
Cash                                 4            -          50
/a   Includes US$260 million of outstanding letters of credit.
lb   Includes an estimated settlement of US$24 million of outstanding
letters of credit carried over from 1974/55.
/c   Including repayment of US$6 million on USSR Wheat Account.
/d   Including refund of a deposit of US$21 million made by the Kuwait
Central Bank.
Source:   Bangladesh Planning Commission and Bank estimates.
The Medium Term Development Focus
13.        In its memorandum for the May 1976 Bangladesh Aid Group Meeting the
Government spelled out the focus of its development strategy for the medium-
term. Agriculture continues to be the cornerstone of its program. Within
agriculture the emphasis will be on an intensified Rural Development Strategy
which seeks "growth with equity" in the distribution of benefits. Strong efforts
are to be made to expand the acreage of high yielding varieties of seed (HYV),
to intensify "Food for Work" programs, to step up agricultural input programs
and to improve the efficiency and capability of agricultural support institu-
tions. It is too early to say to what extent the Government's intentions will
be translated into realistic programs of action, but they represent an essen-
tial first step.
14.       A determined effort is to be made to improve the efficiency of the
industrial sector and its contribution to economic growth. One element of
the new industrial strategy consists of measures to improve the climate for
private investment, such as raising the ceilings for such investment, the
payment of compensation for nationalized property, the encouragement of



- 6 -
foreign private investment collaboration in selected fields, the provision
of increased opportunities for private participation in domestic and foreign
trade, and steps to activate the capital market. The second element in
the strategy consists of a drive to improve the performance of public enter-
prises, through such measures as the grant of autonomy in matters of staff
management, pricing policies and inventory control, and creation of dis-
tribution networks. Programs for improvement in the performance and effici-
ency of the critical jute and cotton textiles industries, deriving from IDA's
Fourth and Fifth Imports Program Credit, have commenced. The focus in in-
dustry is on improvements in the quality of management, capacity utilization,
marketing, and profitability.
15.       The weak administrative framework, the frequent overlapping of
functions, and insufficient decentralization of authority have been impor-
tant reasons for delays in the execution of projects. The Government has
indicated its intention to remedy these defects and has taken positive steps
to reduce administrative bottlenecks impeding project execution. Discussions
are underway with the Government concerning provision of technical assistance
(with IDA funding) to the Planning Commission in the fields of overall plan-
ning and project preparation. Project preparation and implementation cells
are being set up in Ministries and Public Sector organizations, to identify,
develop, and monitor projects. A study to determine what needs to be done to
strengthen the capabilities of the Ministry of Agriculture and the Bangladesh
Agricultural Development Corporation is underway, with assistance from IDA
(paragraph 41).
16.       Despite a substantial revenue effort in recent years, Bangladesh
depends on foreign assistance, which finances about 80% of its development
expenditures. The Government has indicated its intention to reduce this
dependence and to improve its efforts to mobilize domestic resources. In
1976/77 total revenue is expected to increase by 11%, about twice the pro-
jected rate of growth of GDP. Some new taxes and reductions in subsidies have
been introduced: (a) a tax on urban non-agricultural land has been introduced
and a tax on agricultural land holdings in excess of 8.4 acres imposed; (b) a
water charge has been levied at 3% of the gross increased benefit accruing to
beneficiaries of the Ganges-Kobadak, North Bengal Deep Tubewell, and Dacca-
Narayanganj-Demra Projects, and (c) the price of fertilizer has been increased
by 20%.
17.       Population planning is being given high priority and is an integral
part of the Government's economic growth strategy. The Government, with the
assistance of IDA and bilateral donors, has developed a program which em-
phasizes a multi-sectoral approach including motivation, communication,
and education. This involves a major effort in training medical and para-
medical personnel, in co-ordinating several agencies and in devising pro-
grams for research and evaluation.
18.       The policies and measures initiated by the Government represent a
good start. Yet they are no more than a beginning in tackling the major
problems of expanding the output of foodgrains, increasing domestic resource
mobilization, promoting exports and improving administration. Successful



implementation of the measures already initiated and formulation of additional
measures are necessary in 1977/78.
PART II - BANK GROUP OPERATIONS IN BANGLADESH
19.        Bangladesh became a member of the Bank and IDA in August 1972.
Initially, Bank Group operations in Bangladesh concentrated on reactivation of
IDA credits for uncompleted projects financed under credits to Pakistan before
the independence of Bangladesh. Eleven such credits in an aggregate amount of
US$148.55 million (including US$44.1 million for the repayment of amounts that
had been disbursed under the corresponding previous credits to Pakistan, and
net of cancellations) were made to Bangladesh. In addition, as of April 30,
1977, 17 new credits, excluding the consolidation credit of US$31 million
referred to in paragraph 23, had been made totalling US$522.7 million. Of
these, US$325.0 million have been for five program credits. The project
credits have emphasized agricultural development, but also included amounts
for population, telecommunications, transport and industry. On June 18, 1976
Bangladesh became the 105th member of the IFC. At the time of writing this
report, credits for the Muhuri Irrigation Project and the Shallow Tubewells
Project were expected to be considered by the Executive Director on June 16,
1977. A credit for an Inland Water Project is expected to be presented to
the Executive Directors in the near future.
20.       The debt service ratio in 1974/75 was 9.8%.   For 1975/76, the ratio
was estimated at 22.8%; it is expected to decline to about 11.8% in 1976/77.
The large increase in debt service was due to the repayment of about US$50
million of short-term loans for foodgrain purchases made in the wake of the
floods of 1974. Agreement has been reached between the Government of Bang-
ladesh and most of the bilateral and multilateral donors concerning the
assumption by Bangladesh of portions of the debt contracted by Pakistan be-
fore Bangladesh become independent. This will lead to some increase in debt
service from the levels prevailing through 1974/75. While the debt service
ratio is not expected to exceed 20% over the next several years, it may do so
by the mid 1980's unless careful debt management policies are pursued and aid
provided on appropriately concessional terms. With respect to the Bank Group,
Bangladesh has agreed to accept liability for certain debt for projects vis-
ibly located in Bangladesh and completed before independence. A consolidation
loan of about US$54.9 million and a consolidation credit of about US$31.0
million were signed on February 14, 1975. The Bank Group's share of Bangla-
desh's outstanding external debt is not expected to rise significantly over
the next few years from the present level of about 22%.
21.       Annex II contains a summary statement of IDA credits and the Bank
loan made to Bangladesh as of April 30, 1977 and notes on the execution of
ongoing projects. Present disbursement performance under the program credits
is good, slightly ahead of estimates made during appraisal. In contrast, dis-
bursements under project credits have lagged far behind expectations. Reasons
for this include problems associated with release of local funds, clearance of
contracts, employment of consultants and appointment of needed staff. The



- 8 -
Government of Bangladesh has taken steps aimed at eliminating the most press-
ing of the present bottlenecks, and it is hoped that this will lead to accel-
erated project implementation. The release of local funds for projects to
semi-autonomous government agencies now requires one application per year in-
stead of the previous requirement for quarterly applications. The approval of
the President is no longer required for contracts; the ceiling for contracts
which can be approved directly by the project implementing agencies has been
raised from Taka 700,000 to Taka 10 million. Similarly the requirement that
the President approve all consultants' contracts has been waived. The respon-
sibility now devolves upon the ministries responsible for the project agencies
to approve the appointment of consulting firms for projects with National
Economic Council approval, or for project preparation activities. Finally,
the authorization of the appointment of staff is being made automatic in the
case of approved projects.
22.        The IDA project lending program increasingly has concentrated on
the rural sector, and specifically on food production. The Ashuganj Fertilizer,
Barisal Irrigation, Karnafuli Irrigation, Rural Development, Agricultural
and Rural Training, Muhuri Irrigation, and Shallow Tubewells Projects, as well
as the proposed project, all fit into this strategy. Other priority projects
are at an advanced stage of preparation - many of them in taie rural sector.
These include a jute development project. While development of the rural
sector must have top priority, the growth of other sectors cannot be neglected.
Particular emphasis should be placed upon projects which provide infrastructure
for the rural sector, or which process or provide outlets for its products, or
which reduce the strain on Bangladesh's foreign exchange resources. Finally
emphasis must be placed upon improving Bangladesh's project preparation and
impiementation capability. Given its low per capita income, Bangladesh is
heavily dependent on foreign assistance to help finance its investment require-
ments. In view of Bangladesh's difficult foreign exchange position, IDA
credits should cover all foreign exchange costs.     Taking into account the
level of financing expected to be available from other external lenders, and
in order to direct IDA lending to those sectors (such as agricultural and rural
development) where the percentage of foreign exchange costs is relatively low,
the financing of local currency expenditures is also justified.
PART III - THE AGRICULTURAL SECTOR
23.       Bangladesh is predominantly agricultural.   The agriculture sector
accounts for as much as 60% of GDP, 75% of all employment and over 90% of
all exports. It has, however, been unable either to feed adequately the
country's rapidly increasing population or to provide gainful employment
to its largely unskilled and illiterate labor force. The major objectives
of the Bangladesh Government's (GOB) agricultural development efforts are to
achieve food self-sufficiency, create employment for the rural poor, and to
increase export earnings. The GOB's strategy for development of the sector
emphasizes strengthening of rural institutions, improvement of farm input
supplies, better utilization of existing irrigation facilities and further
expansion of irrigation facilities through low cost, short gestation, minor
irrigation schemes.



-9-
Land Use and Production
24.       Bangladesh has a gross area of 35 million ac of which about 22.5
million ac are under cultivation. According to official statistics for the
five year period, 1970/71 - 1974/75, the annual cropped area averaged 30.3
million ac giving a cropping intensity of about 135%. Rice -- by far the
most important crop -- accounted for 80% of the cropped area; jute for 6%
and a variety of other crops such as pulses, oilseeds, wheat, sugarcane and
vegetables for the remaining 14%. During the 1960s, agricultural production
grew at an annual rate of about 2.5% and foodgrain production at a rate of
2.4%. However, both lagged behind the population growth rate of close to 3%
and, as a result, foodgrain imports increased from less than 0.6 million tons
in 1960/61 to over 1.5 million tons in 1969/70. A severe drought combined
with the disruptions caused by the 1971 civil strife sharply reduced produc-
tion in 1972/73 -- some 15% below the 1969/70 level -- necessitating food
imports of 2.8 million tons. Despite a substantial recovery, production in
1973/74 and 1974/75 remained below the 1969/70 level. In 1975/ 76, due to
favorable weather conditions, improved availability of fertilizers and un-
usually high foodgrain prices in 1974/75, foodgrain production reached a new
record, at about 13 million tons, which exceeded the 1969/70 level by some
10%. Nonetheless, Bangladesh still had to import about 1.5 million tons of
foodgrains in 1975/76. Despite major emphasis by the GOB on achieving food
self-sufficiency, substantial food imports are likely to continue for the
foreseeable future.
Constraints and Potential
25.       Agricultural development in Bangladesh is constrained by small
holdings coupled with the scarcity of uncultivated land, climatic hazards,
lack of irrigation facilities, and deficient transportation for moving farm
inputs and produce. On the positive side, Bangladesh has large areas of
highly fertile deltaic soils, a climate suitable for year-round cropping
(subject to availability of irrigation), and abundant groundwater resources.
Also, in recent years, the development of high yielding varieties (HYVs) of
rice and wheat, suitable for cultivation in large areas of Bangladesh, has
opened up the prospects of substantial increases in production that can be
brought about quickly and inexpensively. Much of the potential, however, has
remained undeveloped so far.
26.       The reasons for development lagging behind the potential are pri-
marily sociological and institutional. There are some seven million farm
households in Bangladesh, 90% of which cultivate five acres or less. The
typical holding is about two acres fragmented into two plots. Even "large"
farmers in Bangladesh are small by international standards. Hence, to have
any significant impact on production, developmental programs must necessarily
involve the participation of millions of small farmers. Generally, farmers
in Bangladesh are hard working and receptive to proven innovations. However,
their efforts have not been complemented by relevant technical advice, ade-
quate and timely supplies of farm inputs, and suitable marketing, processing
and storage facilities.



- 10 -
27.       The price structure of foodgrain and agricultural inputs has often
worked as a disincentive for the farmers. While agricultural inputs (seeds,
fertilizers, pesticides, irrigation) are subsidized, prices of foodgrain
have been allowed to fluctuate widely. The ratio of foodgrain prices to the
price of inputs is often too low to be attractive; in any case, it is always
volatile, making it difficult for the farmers to decide, on the basis of
prices, which crops to grow and how much of the various inputs to use.
Agricultural Extension
28.       Of the many organizations concerned with agricultural extension in
Bangladesh, the Directorate of Agriculture (Extension and Management) - DEM -
of the Ministry of Agriculture is the most important. The basic extension
workers of the DEM are the Union Agricultural Assistants (UAA); there is one
post of UAA in each of the 4,333 unions of the country. Above the UAAs there
are five levels of officer positions: at the national level, a Director of
Agriculture (Extension and Management); at the Regional (Division) level, the
Regional Directors of Agriculture; at the District level, nine District Agri-
cultural Officers; at the Subdivision level, 74 Subdivisional Agricultural
Officers; and at the Thana level, 517 Thana Agricultural Officers (TAOs).
29.       The activities of DEM are supported by the Agricultural Information
Service (AIS), a separate unit within the Ministry of Agriculture. AIS
organizes a daily broadcast program for farmers and also operates mobile
units and prepares exhibits and pamphlets. Its efficiency has been hampered
by lack of staff, equipment and funds.
30.       Besides the DEM, a multiplicity of agencies deal with agricultural
extension. A separate cadre of specialized Jute Extension Assistants (JEAs)
has been developed since 1971. This extension service, involving about 2,500
JEAs, advises farmers on agricultural practices; it is also concerned with
credit and input supply, farmers' organizations and jute marketing. The
numerous Development Boards (Water, Horticulture, Cotton, Tobacco), the Sugar
Mills Development Corporation, the Tea Board, the Plant Protection Directorate,
and the Ministry of Forestry, Fishery and Livestock, also employ extension
staff. The technical advice given by extension workers is often not based
on up to date, practical research findings. The staff is poorly trained and
handicapped by a lack of transportation facilities, housing and training
materials. Extension workers are often used by other agencies for adminis-
trative work, such as the census, and statistical reporting.
31.       In May 1976, GOB decided to introduce the Training and Visit (T & V)
extension system in the whole territory of Bangladesh. This system has been
implemented successfully in several other countries. It relies on a regular
system of visits to farmers by the field extension agents, close supervision
and control at all levels and regular in-service training. Under the T & V
system, the extension workers provide training at the field level to selected
"Contact Farmers" (CFs), members of a group (a "block") of farmers (typically,
a block represents a contiguous area comprising about 100 CFs and about 900
regular farmers). The CFs in turn disseminate the information received from
the extension workers to neighboring farmers. Unfortunately, the implementation



- 11 -
of the T & V system has so far been constrained by staff shortages, lack of
vehicles and incentives for extension staff and the absence of established
links with research organizations.
32.       In recognition of the deficiencies in the extension system, a number
of organizational changes have recently been introduced by GOB; the proposed
project supports many of these changes. GOB has started to modify the staff-
ing pattern of the DEM. The posts of Sub-divisional Agricultural Officers are
being phased out while new posts have been created at district, thana and
union levels. District Extension Officers are being posted in the districts;
they are better qualified than the District Agricultural Officers who they
will in fact now supervise. Similarly, agricultural graduates are now being
recruited as Thana Extension Officers (TEOs) to supervise the TAOs (to be
renamed Assistant Thana Extension Officer - ATEO). Finally, the Union Agri-
cultural Assistants (UAAs) are being replaced by better qualified Village
Extension Agents (VEAs). Only a few DEO, TEO and VEA posts have been created
and filled so far, but GOB intends to establish these eventually in all the
districts, thanas and unions of the country. GOB has also decided to con-
solidate the extension service to the extent feasible and to have extension
agents in actual fact concentrate on extension work.
33.       Apart from the proposed project, assistance from Japan and UNDP is
helping Bangladesh improve its facilities and programs for extension staff.
Furthermore, the IDA Credit for the Agricultural and Rural Training Project
(ARTP, Credit No. 621-BD) is financing the construction of new or expanded
Agricultural Training Institutes to train VEAs, in-service training for
extension staff, field trials for testing extension approaches at thana and
union level, technical assistance and fellowships. The ARTP aims at strength-
ening the Bangladesh Agricultural University's role in extension. The Credit
also finances, through the National Committee on Rural Training (under the
Planning Commission), a study, based in part on the field trials, to develop
proposals for improving the overall extension system. In seven thanas (four
in the Northwest region), an IDA-assisted Rural Development Project (Credit
No. 631-BD) includes support to the extension service with housing, equipment
and vehicles.
Agricultural Research
34.       GOB has undertaken a program for making adaptive research more re-
levant to the needs of Bangladesh and for establishing better links between
extension and research; the proposed project supports this program. The
Bangladesh Rice Research Institute (BRRI) is responsible for research on
various aspects of rice improvement and production, and for training extension
staff in rice production technology. The Bangladesh Agricultural Research
Institute (BARI) deals with development of crops such as wheat, pulses and
oilseeds; it also carries out field trials on all crops, including rice
varieties. The Soil Fertility Institute (SFI) is a division of BARI mostly
concerned with fertility trials. Separate organizations exist for research on
jute, cotton, tobacco and sugarcane; the Bangladesh Agricultural University



- 12 -
also is involved in agricultural research. Research coordination is the
responsibility of the newly established Bangladesh Agricultural Research
Council (BARC).
35.       Both BRRI and BARI have concentrated on establishing their new
central stations at Joydebpur. Adaptive research in substations has been
rather neglected. Research on the economics of crop production has also not
been sufficiently emphasized. As a result, the recommendations given by the
institutes are not specific to the various agro-ecological zones; they may
not even be financially optimal for the farmers.
Inputs Supply
36.       The Bangladesh Agricultural Development Corporation (BADC) is
responsible for procurement of virtually all agricultural inputs and equip-
ment, for distribution of seeds (mainly rice and wheat), fertilizers, diesel
and some pesticides. BADC deploys, operates and maintains low-lift pumps
and deep tubewells, sinks and maintains shallow tubewells, and deploys and
maintains tractors and power tillers.
Agricultural Credit
37.       The inadequacy of agricultural credit compounds the problem of in-
creasing agricultural productivity. About 85% of agricultural credit is from
non-institutional sources. The principal institutional sources of credit (the
Bangladesh Krishi Bank and the Bangladesh Jatiya Samabaya Bank) have weak
financial structures, little capital, few deposits, and are heavily dependent
on advances at concessional rates from GOB and the Bangladesh Bank. Their
equity has been greatly impaired by borrowers' defaults. Significant improve-
ment in these agricultural credit institutions is, however, a long-term task.
In the interim, GOB is pushing for greater involvement in agricultural credit
by the commercial banks.
Rural Development
38.       To promote rural development, GOB is trying to expand the Integrated
Rural Development Program (IRDP). The objective of the program is to use local
cooperatives, in turn grouped at the thana level (Thana Central Cooperative
Associations - TCCAs), as a mechanism for coordinating and integrating
services to farmers, including credit, input marketing, rural works activities
and training at the Thana Training Development Centers (TTDCs). GOB is
preparing a comprehensive plan for its rural development activities and has
requested IDA to help organize a group of donors interested in supporting
rural development in Bangladesh so as to achieve a better coordinated program
of investments in this field.
Irrigation
39.       The development of water resources in Bangladesh presents many
difficulties. The need to maintain minimum flows in the rivers during the
dry season (in order to prevent saline intrusion from the Bay of Bengal and



- 13 -
adverse effects on navigation and fisheries) limits the potential for surface
water irrigation. The flat terrain precludes the development of large re-
servoirs for either flood control or water storage for irrigation in the dry
season. Poor transportation facilities cause problems in moving equipment
and materials '1 coLIstruction sites.  Finally, the small size of holdings and
high degree of7 fragmentation necessitate the organization of, and cooperation
among, a large number of farmers for full utilization of even minor irriga-
tion facilities.
40.       Groundwater resources are being rapidly developed through the
on-going programs of BADC. The IDA-supported Northwest Region Tubewells
Project (Credit No. 341-BD) provides for the sinking of about 3,000 deep
tubewels in the Northwest (NW) region, where the proposed project would be
located, and the new IDA supported Shallow Tubewells Project is to provide
additional 10,000 wells in the same NW region. There is also a nationwide
drive to spread the use of hand pumps; USAID, UNICEF and IDA (e.g. under
Credit No. 631-BD) are providing financing for this program.
Recent Developments
41.       Lately, GOB has shown increasing awareness of the problems facing
the agricultural sector and has taken a number of steps to overcome them. As
a follow-up to a comprehensive Crop Sector Review by IDA, GOB has initiated a
program for improving the effectiveness of the agricultural extension services;
this program would be supported under the proposed project (paragraph 42).
Among the recent steps taken by GOB are efforts to improve project preparation
and implementation through increased decentralization in project approval and
in procurement and contracting, and simplification of procedures for release
of budgetary funds. To overcome the lack of trained field staff, Bangladesh
is implementing several training projects -- the important ones being the
IDA-supported Agricultural and Rural Training Project and the UNDP/FAO-assisted
training programs for extension staff and for workshop maintenance personnel.
GOB is also considering to improve the distribution of agricultural inputs
through placing greater reliance on the private sector. Also underway, with
IDA assistance, is a study to identify particular areas where technical assist-
ance to improve the performance of the Ministry of Agriculture and BADC, two
agencies deeply involved in the agricultural sector, might be appropriate. A
review of the agricultural credit system is about to get underway with assist-
ance from IDA and ADB. In March 1977, an IDA mission reviewed GOB food policy
and, in particular, GOB's food procurement, distribution and price stabiliza-
tion systems.  The mission's report and recommendations are expected later
this year. A Government Pay and Services Commission is currently reviewing
the salary and personnel structure of the Public Sector, including the Ministry
of Agriculture, and its recommendations are expected shortly.



- 14 -
PART IV - THE PROJECT
42.       In June/July 1975, an IDA mission visited Bangladesh to undertake
a Crop Sector Review. The mission's main conclusion was that significant
increases in agricultural production could be achieved by reorganizing and
strengthening the extension service and agricultural research. The mission's
findings were reviewed with GOB which accepted the mission's main recommenda-
tions. In particular, GOB decided to introduce the Training and Visit (T & V)
extension system approach to extension to the whole country. Subsequently,
the FAO/IBRD Cooperative Program assisted GOB in preparing the proposed
project to strengthen extension and research in the Northwest (NW) region
(the Rajshahi Division). Jute, which was covered by the Crop Sector Review
mission, is the subject a separate project which was recently appraised and
which aims at supporting the Intensive Jute Cultivation Scheme (IJCS) on a
nation-wide basis. The proposed project was appraised in November/December
1976. Negotiations for the proposed Credit took place in Washington in May
1977. GOB was represented by a team led by Mr. 0. Khan, Secretary, Ministry
of Agriculture. The appraisal report (No. 1553a-BD, dated June 14, 1977) on
the project is being distributed separately. Attached as Annex III is a
Supplementary Project Data Sheet. Also attached is a project map.
Project Description
43.       The project supports the introduction of the T & V extension system
in the Directorate of Agriculture (Extension and Management) - DEM - of the
Ministry of Agriculture. Complementary to this effort, the project would
support efforts to make adaptive research more relevant to the needs of
Bangladesh, and would help establish links between research and extension.
The project includes provision of salary support for incremental extension and
research staff, construction of housing facilities and provision of transport
and equipment for extension and research staff, and construction of a number
of extension training facilities. There is a small component of assistance,
with salary support for incremental field staff, to the Bureau of Statistics.
Provision of technical assistance, consultant services and fellowships in the
areas of extension and research are included in the project. The project also
includes a pilot scheme aiming at increasing the area irrigated by about
1,500 existing wells. The proposed project is a follow-up to the Agricultural
and Rural Training Project (ARTP, paragraph 33) and would support the field
work of the extension workers trained under the ARTP.
Project Coverage
44.       Constraints of staff availability have precluded the implementation
of a nation-wide project and thus the project coverage is limited to the NW
region, which comprises about one-quarter of the country's population (1.9
million farmers in 113 thanas) and of the cultivable land. This is expected
to be the first phase of a country-wide involvement by IDA in agricultural
extension and research.



- 15 -
45.       The selected NW region has a high potential for increasing produc-
tion both under rainfed conditions and through groundwater irrigation. While
considerable efforts have been made, achievements remain disappointing; in
particular, the area irrigated by most of the existing wells is well below
potential. A more efficient extension service could greatly increase the
farmers' ability to use water, even when the water distribution systems remain
deficient. Farmers lack the technical expertise required to prepare a proper
channel layout and are reluctant to purchase cement and other inputs necessary
for its construction. The project aims at overcoming these deficiencies.
Agricultural Extension
46.       Additional Staff and Training.   The project would strengthen DEM to
enable it fully to implement the T & V system in the NW region and provide a
framework for the amalgamation on a national scale of key agricultural ex-
tension services with DEM. Under the T & V system, the field level workers -
the Union Agricultural Assistants (UAAs) and the Village Extension Agents
(VEAs) - would carry out a fortnightly cycle of visits to eight groups of
Contact Farmers (CFs) and receive one day of training, imparted by Crop Pro-
duction Specialists (CPSs), every two weeks in one of the 14 Training Units
(TUs) to be constructed as part of the project. These extension workers would
obtain regular guidance and supervision from the thana officers, who, in turn,
would be supported by the district officers. The efforts of the field and
supervisory staff would be supported by the regional staff and the Agricul-
tural Information Service. In addition to their role in training UAA/VEAs
and ensuring their technical supervision, the CPSs would participate in field
research and would transmit to the extension workers the findings of the re-
search stations and convey to the researchers the problems confronting farmers
and extension staff. Assurances have been obtained at negotiations that DEM
would organize and implement its annual work plan in the NW region in accord-
ance with procedures acceptable to IDA (Section 3.23 of the Development Credit
Agreement - DCA).
47.       The project would support the increase of UAA/VEAs in the NW region
from about 1,000 to about 1,420. Additional VEAs would come from the staff of
the Plant Protection Directorate, presently being amalgamated with DER, other
extension services to be merged with the DEM (paragraph 51) and the Agricul-
tural Training Institutes (paragraph 33). TEOs would be appointed in all the
thanas (80 additional TEOs would be required); and the TUs would be staffed
with two or three CPSs (each TU would be supervised by a newly appointed
Sub-divisional Extension Officer-SDEO). Five District Training Officers and
four District Extension Officers would be appointed. Assurances have been
obtained that the CPSs and SDEOs would have qualifications and experience
satisfactory to IDA (Section 3.11 of DCA). In addition, 36 man-months of
short-term fellowships for training abroad would be provided for the CPSs.
The location and geographical coverage of TUs would be acceptable to IDA
(Section 3.10-of DCA). At the regional level, new posts for supporting staff
would be created: four senior CPSs, five Farm Production Economists (FPEs),
and two broadcast officers (for the farmers' radio programs of the AIS) would
be appointed. Eighteen months of technical assistance would be provided for



- 16 -
an extension consultant to help the Regional Director implement the extension
and training program. Thirty-six months of fellowships abroad in farm eco-
nomics would also be provided for the training of the FPEs.
48.       Transportation.  The project also would include vehicles, training
equipment, and accommodation for extension staff at all levels, to help the
staff in their work, as well as to provide them with incentives to perform
their functions better. GOB would make available bicycles to UAA/VEAs and
motorcycles to TEOs, ATEOs, TU officers, FPEs and senior CPs under arrangements
satisfactory to IDA (Section 3.13 of DCA); the finalization of these arrange-
ments would be a condition of credit effectiveness (Section 5.01(c) of DCA).
District and Regional Staff would be provided with four-wheel vehicles.
Budgetary provisions for travel and daily allowances have been insufficient in
the past, and their payment was discontinued when the budget allocation was
exhausted. Assurances have been obtained from GOB that sufficient budget
provision for travel and daily allowances would be made during the project
period (Section of 4.04 of DCA).
49.       Equipment.  Staff in the districts, TUs, thanas, and unions would
be provided with audio-visual and teaching equipment by AIS. One mobile
unit per district would be used to supplement the efforts LM field extension
agents. Along with other teaching equipment and demonstration materials,
thana and union staff would be provided with a small transistor radio so
they would be able to supplement their in-service training with the AIS daily
farm broadcast. The effectiveness of this broadcast as a supplement to the
T & V system would be further tested in four thanas where all the Contact
Farmers (about 6,000) would also be provided with a transistor radio.
50.       Housing.  The project would ensure that accommodation is provided
for all UAA/VEAs, TEOs, ATEOs, and TU Officers. Some 740 unused union seed
stores would be rehabilitated for UAA/VEAs and some 600 new houses would be
built (in addition, the ARTP provides housing for about 90 UAA/VEAs in the
NW region). Assurances have been obtained from GOB that the UAA/VEA houses
would be built in accordance with construction standards acceptable to IDA
(Section 3.19(b) of DCA). At thana headquarters (in the TTDC complex), the
project would include the completion of unfinished, or the construction of
new, staff quarters so that each thana in the NW region would eventually
have three apartment buildings. Assurances have been obtained from GOB that
thana officers concerned with agricultural development would be accommodated
in a number of TTDC apartments in the NW region at least equal to the number
of TTDC apartments included in the project (Section 3.12 of DCA). In each
TU, in addition to teaching and administrative facilities, housing for two
officers would be provided. The unfinished TTDC apartments would be completed
by July 1, 1979 (Section 3.18 of DCA).
51.       Integration of Extension Services.   Under the T & V system it is
desirable to have a single extension cadre concerned with as many crops as
possible. GOB has thus agreed to consolidate at the beginning of the imple-
mentation of the project all its extension services, with the exception of
some special cases, such as those of jute, forestry, fishery and livestock,
sugar, and tea. The extension services of the Plant Protection Directorate,



- 17 -
and the Cotton, Horticulture and Tobacco Development Boards are expected to
be fully integrated with the DEM by November 1, 1977 (Section 4.03(b) of DCA),
and those of the Water Development Board by July 1, 1978 (Section 4.03(a))
of DCA). A study to ascertain the desirability of merging the jute, forestry,
fishery and livestock, Sugar Mills Corporation and Tea Board extension ser-
vices with the DEM has been provided for under the IDA-supported ARTP.
Agricultural Statistics
52.       Another of the requirements of the T & V system is that field level
extension workers devote all their attention to extension activities; thus,
assurances have been obtained from GOB that, in the NW region, UAAs and VEAs
will work full-time on agricultural extension, with the exception of relief
work or family planning activities (Section 3.09 of DCA). In particular, to
help GOB achieve this, and in order to free field workers from their tradi-
tional duty of collecting agricultural statistics, the number of Thana Sta-
tistical Officers (TSOs), under the Ministry of Planning's Bureau of Statistics,
in the NW region would be increased to one per thana, each with two Union
Statistical Assistants (USA). Altogether, some 25 additional TSOs and 226
USAs would be required and supported under the project (paragraph 67).
Agricultural Research
53.       To develop applied research in the various ecological zones of the
NW region, a network of five research substations would be supported under
the project. The locations of four of these substations (at Rangpur, Bogra,
Thakurgaon and Rajshahi) have been selected by GOB; a fifth is to be estab-
lished in the Barind Tract (GOB would provide 20 acres of land for this sub-
station--Section 3.08 (b) of DCA). The project would include the provision
of research and housing facilities, field and research equipment, vehicles
and adequate research staff. Two of the substations (at Rangpur and Bogra)
are expected to receive vehicles, equipment and technical assistance under an
on-going UNDP project; a draft work plan for these two substations is being
prepared in consultation with IDA. Assurances have been obtained that a work
plan would be submitted to IDA for review by October 1, 1977 (Section 3.15
(a) of DCA). The five substations would coordinate their work with two other
substations (at Ishurdi and Ragbari)to be supported with external assistance
(USAID and CORR-CARITAS). A condition of disbursement for the agricultural
research component would be the transfer of 20 acres of land of the BADC farms
at Thakurgaon and Rangpur to BARI (Section 3.08(b) and Schedule 1, 4 of DCA).
54.       The Soil Fertility Institute (SFI), also under BARI, would be
strengthened under the project by providing it with additional staff and ve-
hicles. The project would provide 12 man-months of consultant services to
assist in preparing research programs for the seven substations and the SFI
in the NW region and for establishing a link with the extension service. The
project would also include 30 man-months of training in Bangladesh and abroad
for BARI staff. The annual research programs of the seven substations and the
SFI in the NW region would be submitted to IDA for review (Section 3.15 (b) of
DCA). Lastly, the project would assist the Bangladesh Agricultural Research
Council (BARC) by supporting research contracts with existing organizations, on



- 18 -
problems of immediate relevance to farmers' needs, such as demonstration and
introduction of simple, inexpensive farm implements. BARC's three-year research
program (for the NW region) would be sent to IDA for approval not later than
October 1, 1977 and the experts and research institutions hired to undertake
this program would have qualifications, and terms and conditions of employment
acceptable to IDA (Section 3.16 of DCA).
Command Area Development
55.       The project would provide, on a pilot basis, for the development of
the command areas of about 1,500 deep tubewells installed under the IDA sup-
ported Northwest Region Tubewells Project; BADC would select these tubewells
from among those having the most deficient distribution systems. If successful,
this approach to command area development could provide a model for improving
the utilization of pumps and tubewells throughout the country. Engineering
firms would be appointed by BADC for preparing the topographical maps and
channel layouts of the command areas and providing guidance and supervision
to the farmers for the construction of the channels when the layouts have been
completed (Section 3.05(b) of DCA). These firms would also construct them-
selves, or have local contractors undertake, the construction of drop struc-
tures and junction boxes under their supervision. Since BADC may be in a
position to undertake some of the work itself it would, by October 1, 1977,
submit to IDA for approval its proposals for undertaking the implementation of
the command area development component (Section 3.04 of DCA). Assurances have
been obtained that a plan for the recovery of the operating and maintenance
costs, and as much as possible of the capital costs, of all the irrigation
facilities implemented by BADC, including the command area development pro-
posed under the project, would be provided to IDA for comment by December 31,
1978 (Section 4.05 of DCA).
Evaluation
56.       Project evaluation would be undertaken by a firm of consultants for
the Ministry of Agriculture. By November 1, 1977, GOB would hire the firm and
submit to IDA for approval a plan for project evaluation (Section 3.22 of DCA).
Cost Estimates
57.       The proposed three year project would have a total cost of US$16.3
million, including physical and price contingencies (which would be about
US$1.5 million and US$2.4 million respectively) and import taxes and duties
(about US$3.0 million). Foreign exchange costs would represent US$3.9 million.
Excluding physical and price contingencies, the costs of the various components
would be as follows: Extension and Training, US$9.8 million; Agricultural
Statistics, US$0.2 million; Agricultural Research, US$1.5 million; Command
Area Development, US$0.7 million; and Monitoring and Evaluation, US$0.1 mil-
lion.   Physical contingencies have been applied on works for command area
development (25%), buildings (17%), equipment (10%) and operating costs other
than salaries and allowances (5%).   They average 12.0% of basic project cost
(i.e. total cost - US$12.4 million   - net of contingencies).  Price contin-
gencies have been applied at 9% per year on civil works, 6% on salaries and



- 19 -
allowances and 7.5% on all other cost components. The capital costs of the
project, excluding all operating costs, amount to US$7.60 per farm family.
Incremental costs to be met annually from GOB budget sources, following proj-
ect completion, would be about US$0.42 per farm family. In the aggregate,
they amount to US$0.8 million per annum, which GOB should be able to meet
without difficulty. The recurrent costs of implementing this project on a
nationwide scale would be about US$3.2 million per annum, which compares with
a total GOB recurrent budget of about US$511 million for 1976/77.
Financing
58.       The proposed IDA Credit of US$10 million would finance about 75%
of total project costs (net of taxes and duties), representing the foreign
exchange costs of US$3.9 million and US$6.1 million equivalent of the local
currency costs (for justification of local currency financing, see paragraph
22 above). GOB is expected to recover through BADC the cost of the civil
works for command area development from the benefitting farmers (about US$1.0
million including contingencies).
Procurement
59.       The main items to be financed would be civil works, vehicles, equip-
ment, incremental salaries and technical assistance. Because the civil works
would be small and scattered throughout the region, contracts for undertaking
civil works would be let on the basis of local competitive bidding following
procedures satisfactory to IDA. Assurances have been obtained that the de-
signs and floor plans for all new project buildings, except the UAA/VEA houses,
and the sites for TUs and research substation buildings would be acceptable
to IDA (Section 3.19 of DCA). Construction materials (with the exception of
bricks and sand which would be procured locally) would be procured after in-
ternational competitive bidding in accordance with IDA guidelines. Vehicles
(about 13 four-wheel drive vehicles, 16 pick-ups, 1 microbus, 5 mobile units,
308 motorcycles and 1,535 bicycles) would be purchased over a three-year
period and would be widely dispersed in rural areas. They would be procured
on the basis of local competitive bidding following procedures acceptable to
IDA; there are in Bangladesh enough local firms and representatives of foreign
firms to ensure a sufficient degree of competition and to provide adequate
services for maintenance and spares. Training and research equipment would
be procured after international competitive bidding in accordance with IDA
guidelines. Off-the-shelf items costing less than US$10,000 each would be
purchased through normal Government procurement procedures, which are satis-
factory to IDA. Such purchases, would, however, be limited to US$300,000 in
total.
60.       Consultant services would be engaged on the basis of qualifications,
experience and terms and conditions of employment satisfactory to IDA (Section
3.05 of DCA). The services of two expatriate consultants would be required
(18 man-months of an extension specialist and 12 man-months of an applied



- 20 -
research specialist); local consulting firms, including personnel involved
in supervision of construction, execution of command area development, and
collection of data for evaluation, (involving in total about US$0.65 million)
would ensure the preparation and supervision of building construction, command
area development, and the evaluation of the project. The cost of foreign con-
sultants would be about US$5,000 per man-month. The balance of project com-
ponents would consist of training in Bangladesh and abroad, research contracts,
land acquisition, incremental salaries and allowances and other operating costs;
none of these involve procurement. The fellowship programs, as well as the
qualifications of the fellowship candidates, would be sent to IDA for approval
(Section 3.17 of DCA).
Disbursements
61.       Disbursements from the credit account would be made for:   (a) equip-
ment, vehicles and spares: 100% of foreign expenditures for goods imported
directly, or 100% of local expenditures ex-factory for goods produced locally,
or 70% of other local expenditures; (b) construction materials and civil works:
100% of foreign expenditures, or 70% of local expenditures; and (c) technical
assistance, research contracts, training and project evaluation: 100% of
foreign expenditures and 70% of local expenditures.
62.       No disbursements would be made for the completion of, and materials
for, unfinished TTDC apartment buildings, since the contractors for these
buildings have already been hired. However, the designs used by GOB for these
buildings are satisfactory to IDA. No disbursements would be made against
incremental staff salaries.
Project Organization
63.       The project would be implemented through existing GOB departments
and agencies. The following entities would ensure coordination at all levels.
64.       Project Implementation Unit.   Under the IDA-supported Agricultural
and Rural Training Project (ARTP), a Project Implementation Unit (PIU) has
been established in the Ministry of Agriculture. The PIU is headed by a
full-time director of Joint Secretary rank. Because of the relevance of the
ARTP to the proposed project, and to ensure close coordination between the two
projects, the PIU for the ARTP would be reorganized in the following fashion.
Two sub-units would be established, one for the ARTP (with the same staff as
the previous PIU, but with a new deputy director) and another for the proposed
project, also under a deputy director both would report to the PIU director.
The sub-unit for the proposed project would have functions acceptable to IDA
(Section 3.02 (a) of DCA) and would comprise a deputy director, a procurement
officer, an accountant, an engineer/architect and an evaluation officer, all
full time; the appointment of the deputy director would be made after consult-
ation with IDA (Section 3.02 (d) of DCA). GOB would decide on the qualifica-
tions and experience required for the other PIU positions after consultation
with IDA (Section 3.02(b) of DCA). The PIU would be responsible for budgeting,
procurement, disbursements, monitoring and submission of progress reports. The
PIU would have the power to make direct procurement of goods and services for



- 21 -
the project (Schedule 4,2 of DCA). Formats for monitoring the various project
components would be prepared by the PIU evaluation officer and sent to IDA for
approval before January 1, 1978 (Section 3.21 of DCA). The PIU would hire, by
October 1, 1977, engineering/architectural consultants to prepare and supervise
the building component (Section 3.05(c) of DCA). The appointment of the deputy
director and the evaluation officer would be a condition of credit effective-
ness (Section 5.01(d) of DCA). Appointment of the rest of the PIU sub-unit
staff would be made by December 1, 1977 (Section 3.02 (c) of DCA).
65.       In order to expedite local currency payments for local goods and
services, and training by the PIU, GOB would establish a revolving fund for
the project and would replenish it every month to a level of Tk 500,000 plus
an amount sufficient to cover expected expenditures for the following three
months (Section 3.02 (e) of DCA). The establishment of this fund with an
initial deposit of Tk 1.0 million is a condition of credit effectiveness
(Section 5.01 (a) of DCA).
66.       Coordinating Committees.  In addition to the PIU, a Regional Coor-
dinating Committee would be set up at the Rajshahi regional GOB headquarters
to coordinate the work of the various departments and agencies responsible
for project execution: it would consist of the Divisionai Commissioner, the
Regional Director of Agriculture, the five District Extension Officers, the
Regional Officers of BADC and BARI, and the Regional Director of the Ministry
of Local Government, Rural Development and Cooperatives. It would define
general policy and approve the works program for both extension and research
and would report to the PIU Director on the progress of the project. Similar
District Coordinating Committees would be established in each of the five
districts with membership from the same organizations as the Regional Com-
mittees described above. The establishment of the Regional and District
Committee with composition and functions acceptable to IDA, would be a
condition of credit effectiveness (Section 5.01(e) of DCA).
Schedule for Project Implementation
67.       The schedule for executing the various project components, including
hiring the incremental staff included in the project, would be acceptable
to IDA (Section 3.01 of DCA). In particular, the additional Thana Statistical
Officers and Union Statistical Officers would be appointed by July 1, 1978
(Section 3.14 of DCA) and the BARI Officer in charge of the research component
by December 1, 1977 (Section 3.20 of DCA).
Benefits and Risks
68.       The messages that field extension workers would convey to farmers
would initially concentrate on simple, nearly costless agricultural practices.
They would thus be suitable for all farmers irrespective of their financial
capacity. It is conservatively estimated that, by following the recommended
practices, farmers would increase their net income by at least 30%. The im-
provement of the distribution systems for wells would increase the area under
irrigation; the financial rate of return on this investment for the farmers
benefitting would be around 41%.



- 22 -
69.       Attributing a precise level of benefits to the extension and re-
search component (which represents about 94% of total project costs) is diffi-
cult since the expected benefits of improved agricultural practices, which
also require additional inputs, cannot be attributed solely to extension and
research. However, there is no doubt that the substantial improvement in the
efficiency of utilization of resources which would be brought about by the
project, would generate a high rate of return. It would be reasonable to
expect that, by the seventh year, yields of foodgrain region-wide would in-
crease by at least 20 lb/ac, or by about 2%, over the "without-project" situa-
tion, such an increase would yield an economic rate of return of 50%. It is
fairly certain that project induced yields would be increased by an average of
at least 20 lb/ac, since the best farmers in the region already obtain yields
at least 50% above the current average and, at research substations, substan-
tially higher yield levels than these are being achieved. The irrigation
component (which represents about 5% of total project costs) would also be
economically very profitable; because of the "sunk cost" of the existing wells,
the development of their command areas would have a high economic rate of
return, estimated at 75%.
70.       The most significant risk lies in the fact that the effectiveness
of the extension approach supported in this project depends on an efficient
organization and management of extension and research services as well as
on farmers' response. The project is designed to provide a highly disciplined
extension organization to disseminate agricultural practices which are both
economic and relevant, to the farmers. Experience with this extension approach
in other countries, under comparable conditions, has demonstrated that the
approach can work efficiently in the formulation and delivery of messages and
in motivating farmers. Another risk would be linked to the need of ensuring
that other supporting services (including the delivery of inputs) must back-
up these improved agricultural practices; these broader agricultural require-
ments are being addressed by GOB with support from IDA and other donors
(paragraph 41).
PART V - LEGAL INSTRUMENTS AND AUTHORITY
71.       The draft Development Credit Agreement between the People's Republic
of Bangladesh and IDA, the Recommendation of the Committee provided for in
Article V, Section 1 (d) of the Articles of Agreement, and the text of a draft
resolution approving the proposed Credit are being distributed to the Executive
Directors seprately.
72.       Features of the draft Development Credit Agreement which are of
special interest are referred to in Annex III of this report. The establish-
ment of a project revolving fund with an initial deposit of Tk 1.0 million,
the approval of the Project Proformas (a PP is a GOB document necessary for
the allocation of funds and creation of staff positions for development
projects) for the project by GOB, the appointment of the deputy director and
the evaluation officer for the PIU sub-unit, the finalization of arrangements
satisfactory to IDA for making available the project vehicles to DEM extension



- 23 -
staff, and the establishment of the Project Regional and District Committees,
are additional conditions of effectiveness of the Credit (Section 5.01 of
DCA). A condition of disbursement for the research component would be the
transfer of 20 acres of suitable land from the BADC farms at Thakurgaon and
Rangpur to BARI (paragraph 53).
73.       I am satisfied that the proposed Credit would comply with the Articles
of Agreement of IDA.
PART VI - RECOMMENDATIONS
74.       I recommend that the Executive Directors approve this proposed
Credit.
Robert S. McNamara
President
May 16, 1977






.Z  a                                                                                                                    O
0  0*                                ~-I-MI                                                 -~i--~I  -~t  -I    -I  -I
-  a  Se  0  0  flsO.*V-t  .00  r.-.-i%,  0.0  AiC  oca  . .  ..C   eeC   tO     CC  0  OS-    to  0  C  C   COCOS~~~~~~~~~1
a              tO   tta-N    IO   '    AtV C-    %       o        00..0                  0  0  I       0  V   U     t    o  0    .-  O
0  5                                                                                                           S~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
-   OS                                                                                                              S~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~-Z
0  SN       -                                0      5-.                         000 00 a  I.  a -                                -,  S
5)                                   C                          W?~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ CS
-  SW  S                                   dl                                     CI       ul~~:  W  2 I  I 
250~~~~~~~I 9                                4JSJ7---II



Z
E t
v     S 4
J I.
:1.- A
a     g
O'
R I     I
t 7
Is
12
41                     I I 9           !.5 -x  9
15                                                                      8     g
15                                                                                                                                                      Ity
z zg
t t
2 9 I
I t 4
v t
IZ



ANNEX I
page 3 of 4 pages
-Actwal                   Es     gd1960-                           1965-      1973-         A976v.       4/       97/
Av.197.6       1972/73   19 74175-      1975/76     1976177              1965        1970        1977         1976     19/519/7
NATIONAL ACCOUNTSIn Constant                     92    1973 Pr.icea & Fxchang     Raton        Average Annua,l Growth Ratem           As Percent of GDY
Gross Domestic Product               6,012     5,833      61,9514          7295       7561                  4.7         33         67           9.       0.       U.
Gains from Terms of Trade (+)           89          -      -117              145        -148                                                     1.5     -1.8      -2.0
Gross Domestic Income                6-7TbT                                71150~!     7,413                5.6         2.5         6.2        Thb      ~          0.
Import (incl. NF8)                     879        747       703              646         boo               20.6         6.8       -7.4          14.4     11.0       6.7
Exportas       (import capacity)       598        369       197              200         210               12.3      -14.6       -12.6           9.8      3.1       2-!
Resource Gap                           281       T7                        -4'4-6        2904.                                                             79
Consumption Expenditures             5,668     5,817      6,403            7,062      7,230                 5.7         3.6         5.6         92.9    100.1      97.6
Investment     "(incl. stocks)         714       394        499              '34         473               13.3         8.8         6.7         12.9       7.8      7.4
Domestic Savings                       433         16        -6               88         183                4.3        10.0        81.0          6.8     -0.1       2.4
National Savings                       416         32        10              110         200                8.7        20.5        57.0          7. 1     0.2       2.6
MERHANDISE TRADE                                Annual Data at Current Prices                                                                  As Percent of Total
IMports
Capital goods                         ..        100       135              213         268                  ...                  25.7           ..      16.8     28.6
Tntermsdiate goods (s,.3fuels)        ..       176        386              386         250                  ...                  12.8           ..     30.4      26.7
Fuels and related materials
of wbdch:    Petroleum              .         23        155              126        144                   ..                   49.8           .      10.0      15.4
Cons    tion goods                ~                         ~541                       275                  ...                  -6.6        ....       44       2S..--
To     brc. iorts (clf)            547        727     1,402            1,266         937                                         8.6                 100.0     100.0
Exports
Primary products (mml. futels)        ..        145       119              156         168                  .           .         2.9                  40.9     42.0
Fuels and related materials
of which: Petrolewn
Kanufactured goods                    _9L        239              225         242                  .                     5.4                  59.1      58.0
Totl  erh.Exorta (fob)          481        340       358               381        40                                          3.8         -      100.0     100.0
Tourism and Border, Traole
Merchandise Trade Indices                         Average 1972-73- 100
Export Price Index                    61       100        133-             109        ill...                                      2.4
Import Price Index                    52       100        215              195        189                   ...                  16.3
Terms of Trade Index                 118       100         62               56          59                  ...                 -11.7
Exports Volume Index                 148       100         80              106         123                  ..                     3.9
VALUJE ADDED BY SECTOR                Annual Data at 1972- 73Prices and Exchanzge Rates                  Average Annual Growth Rates            As Percent of Total
Agriculture                        3,542     3,403     3,712             4.078      4.140                  4. 8.54.89                                             57
Industry and Mining                  420       412       466               527        567                  7..                     .                     7         8
Service                           2 050      1.848     Z,146            2.333       2.504                                         78.           34      34       3
Total                             t6,12i     5,663     6,324             6,938      7,211                                         6.1         I 07     100     1f 0 0
PUBLIC FINANCE                                                                                                                                    As Percent of GDP
(Central Government)
Current Receipts                     317       280       469               775         877                 ...                    42          5.3      7.2     11.2
Curn  xeditures              365       364        419              600         686                                        34.2         6.1     6.4       8.7
~~sdgetary Savings  ~~~-4-8          --84       -50               1775       1916.                                                  -0.8     0.8       2.5
Other Public Sector                   .          .         .                 .          .                   ..
Public Sector Investment            421        239       248               295         350                 .103                               7.0     3.8       4.9'
tJM $ million-!
CURRENT EXPENDITURE DETILS                       Actual                     Estimated               DETAIL ON                                At Av.     .1972/73 P and ER
As % Total Current Expend.)           9670      92/3     1974175      1975176    1976/77          PUBLIC SECTOR                          First Plan       %  fTotal
Education                               ..       14.8      15.5         13.6       13.3           INVESTMENT PROGRAM                      (17/4        -197/ 78)
Other Social services                   *.        4.0       4.2          4.4        4.2           Social Sectors                                758         15.3
Agriculture    and                                                                                Agriculture                                1,302           26.4
Other Economic Services               .        11.2        7.2         6.8        6.7            Industry and Mining                       1,024           20.7
Administration and Defense              ..       67.4      68.1         68.8       68.9            Power                                        529          10.7
Other                                             2.7       5.0          6.4        6.9           Transport and communications                 802          16.3
Total Current Expenditures                     -10.       TO5.         -1W-          -6           Other                                        524          10. 6
___________________________________________________________________________ TotToalEExpenditures44,940                               100.
SELECTED INDICATORS                                     1960-        1965-        1973-              FINqANCING
(Calculated from 3-year averaged data)                  1965,       j72          1976                   Domestic Borrowing                       784          15.9
Average ICOR                                              .          3.74         0.89                  Public Sector Savings                  2,022          40.9
Import Elasticity                                        .          1.29         1.11                   Program aid counterpart                1,009          20.4
Marginal Domestic Savings Nate                           .           0.22        0.05                   Foreign Project Aid                    1.125          22.8
Marginal National Savings Rate                                      'O .3 Ss     0.05                   Total Financing                        4,940         100.0
LABOR FORCE AND                                     Total Labor Force                                      Value Added Per Workier    1 72r- 73    Prices & 92xc. Rates)
OUTPUT PER WORKER                    In Millions             of Total            1961 - 73           In U.S.Dollars        Pecn      fAege              19 70 - 73
1960/61      1972/73 1960/61      1972/73   Grovth Rate           1969/70     19 72/ 73    1997        1972/ 73   Growth Rate
Agriculture                          16.1         20.5        85        78          2.0                 .          166          ..76                        -
Industr-y                              1.0         1.8         5         7         5.0                 Z. 29                    ..        105
Serv-ice                              1.8          3.9       10       -15          6.7                 .           ADA          .222
Total                                1- 8-.9      26. 2     1700       1700        -2.8               248          217         100        100           -4.9
not applicable                -nil or negligible
not available                --less than half the smallest unit shown
Note:   Figures are on fisca'l year basis (July 1-june 30).         Data prior tn 1972/73 pertain to erstwhile East Pakistan
/I      These are original plan targets.



1.~ ~    ,, 2  .  .  .
p ~        ..
Ae
3~~~~, @
Ia  t  
| vo  | ,  o | ^ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ 28



ANNEX II
Page 1 of 10
BANGLADESH
STATUS OF BANK GROUP OPERATIONS
As of April 30, 1977
A.   IDA Credits to Bangladesh
US$ Million net of
Credit                                                       Exchange Adjustment
Number   Year              Purpose                           Amount   Undisbursed
(net of
cancellations)
Five Credits Fully Disbursed                                 206.4          -
339      1972    Cyclone Area Reconstruction
(replaces Credit No. 228-PAK of 1971)     25.0          9.4
340      1972    Chandpur Irrigation II (replaces
Credit No. 184 of 1970)                    13.0         5.8
341      1972    Tubewells (replaces Credit No. 208-PAK
of 1970)                                  14.0          3.0
343      1972    Telecommunications (replaces part
of Credit No. 145-PAK of 1969)              7.3         1.8
353      1973    Small-Scale Industry (replaces
Credit No. 192-PAK of 1970)                3.0          0.3
367      1973    Chittagong Water Supply (replaces
Credit No. 42-PAK of 1963)                  7.0         1.1
368      1973    Dacca Water Supply and Sewage (replaces
Credit No. 41-PAK of 1963)                 13.2         1.2
381      1973    Foodgrain Storage (replaces Credit
No. 83-PAK of 1966)                        19.7         0.3
407      1973    Education (replaces Credit Nos. 49-PAK
and 87-PAK of 1964 and 1966)              21.0          8.2
408      1973    Highways (replaces Credit No. 53-PAK
of 1964)                                  25.0         14.2
409      1973    Technical Assistance                          4.0         2.2
410      1973    Cereal Seeds                                  7.5         6.5
424      1973    Inland Water Transport Rehabilitation         8.7         2.8
487      1974     Second Telecommunications                   20.0         19.2
527      1975    Ashuganj Fertilizer                          33.0        26.9
533      1975    Population                                   15.0        13.8
542      1975    Barisal Irrigation                           27.0        26.3
591      1975     Imports Program IV                         100.0         6.4
605      1976    Karnafuli Irrigation                         22.0        19.0



ANNEX II
Page 2 of 10
BANGLADESH
STATUS OF BANK GROUP OPERATIONS
As of April 30, 1977
A.   IDA Credits to Bangladesh (CONT'D)
US$ Million Net of
Credit                                                      Exchange Adjustment
Number   Year              Purpose                          Amount    Undisbursed
621      1976   Agricultural and Rural Training               12.0        11.9
622      1976   Technical Assistance II                        7.5         7.4
631      1976   Rural Development                             16.0        16.0
632      1976   Bangladesh Shilpa Bank                       25.0         25.0
676      1977   Imports Program V                            50.0         49.5
SUBTOTAL                           702.3       278.2
Principal Repayment                                 0.4
Effective Credits held by Association             701.9
B.   IBRD Loans to Bangladesh
1087     1975    Consolidation Loan                          54.9          0
TOTAL                              756.8       278.7



ANNEX II
Page 3 of 10
C.   PROJECTS IN EXECUTION-'
Cr. No. 339    Cyclone Area Reconstruction Project:   US$25.0 Million Credit
of October 18. 1972; Effective Date: January 17, 1973;
Closing Date: June 30, 1978
Project performance has improved and although the project is still
2-1/2 years behind schedule, it is no longer falling further behind. After
a pause while the shelter design was reevaluated, construction of cyclone
shelters is moving ahead. Arrangements for supervision of shelter construc-
tion still need to be strengthened. Four of the five primary roads are now
finished with the fifth road scheduled for completion in 1978. The IDA fi-
nanced portion of the feeder road program is nearing completion. Construc-
tion of towers for the telecommunications subproject is behind schedule but
this subproject should be completed by December 1977. The fisheries sub-
project, including distribution of boats to groups of local fishermen, has
been completed. All work on the repair or new construction of inland water
transport terminals is expected to be completed within a few months.
Cr. No. 340    Chandpur Irrigation II Project:   US$13.0 Million Credit of
October 18, 1972; Effective Date: January 17, 1973;
Closing Date: December 31, 1977
The project is about 30 months behind schedule due to major flooding,
work stoppages caused by 100% increase in construction labor costs, shortages
of cement and fuel, inoperable construction equipment, ineffective management,
delays in provision of local funds and general inflation. While problems re-
main, substantial progress has been made recently both in physical construction
and agricultural extension. One regulator is now operational with the second
scheduled to be operating by the end of June. Utilization of the irrigation
works will be delayed due to land acquisition problems (now resolved) which
interfered with work on irrigation channels. Preparation of proposals from
the Government for recovery of irrigation water charges is seriously behind
schedule.
1/   These notes are designed to inform the Executive Directors regarding
the progress of projects in execution, and in particular to report any
problems which are being encountered, and the action being taken to
remedy them. They should be read in this sense, and with the under-
standing that they not purport to present a balanced evaluation of
strengths and weaknesses in project execution.



ANNEX II
Page 4 of 10
Cr. No. 341    Tubewells Project; US$14.0 Million Credit of November 6, 1972;
Effective Date: January 13, 1973; Closing Date: June 30,
1977
Because of a slow start, project implementation is about 18 months
behind schedule. Completion of the project is expected within a year. About
90% of the wells under contract have now been drilled, but some of these (about
17%) did not meet standards of verticality. Contractors have accepted liabil-
ity and are rectifying the situation. Meanwhile, BADC has decided to recon-
tract for 285 wells not yet drilled. Pumphouse construction and engine/pump
installation is now proceeding satisfactorily. The agricultural development
component of the project, also behind schedule, is incorporated in the proposed
Extension and Research Project to avoid duplication or conflict between the
two projects.
Cr. No. 343    Telecommunications Project;   US$7.3 Million Credit of November
15, 1972; Effective Date: January 17, 1973; Closing Date:
June 30, 1978
The project was originally financed as part of Credit No. 145-PAK
of 1970, and goods valued at US$2.2 million had been received prior to sus-
pension of disbursements. Three of the four microwave systems are expected
to be commissioned by June 1977, two years behind schedule. The contract for
the fourth microwave system (which substitutes the coaxial cable system in the
original project) has been awarded together with a contract for similar systems
under Credit 487-BD. This system is expected to be commissioned by June
1978. The Closing Date has been extended from December 31, 1975 to June 30,
1978.
Cr. No. 353    Small-Scale Industry Project; US$3.0 Million Credit of
January 19, 1973: Effective Date: May 14, 1973;
Closing Date: December 31, 1977
The project is administered by the Bangladesh Small and Cottage
Industries Corporation (BSCIC) and a consortium of commercial banks. Dis-
bursements up to April 25, 1977 amount to approximately US$2.7 million.
While the credit was fully committed by the end of 1974, agreements by
suppliers to provide equipment were cancelled in a few cases and new sup-
pliers had to be found. In early 1976, IDA therefore agreed to extend the
Closing Date by nine months to allow for disbursements under outstanding
letters of credit. To permit all credit funds to be disbursed, a further
extension of the Closing Date, from March 31, 1977 to December 31, 1977 has
just been made. An IDA mission visited Bangladesh in March 1977 to explore
with the Government ways and means for improving BSCIC activities and to
form a basis for a further operation involving BSCIC and commercial banks.



ANNEX II
Page 5 of 10
Cr. No. 367    Chittagong Water Supply Project; US$7.0 Million Credit of
April 9, 1973; Effective Date: June 7, 1973
Closing Date: June 30, 1977
The project was originally financed under IDA Credit No. 42-PAK of
1963. By December 1971, when disbursements were suspended, US$3.3 million
had been disbursed. After two years of organizational and procurement dif-
ficulties, progress in 1976 and 1977 to date has been satisfactory. The
project is now expected to reach completion by September 1977, over 2 years
behind the schedule established in 1973. Despite substantial rate increases
and improvements in billings and collections, WASA's financial problems are
still acute because of high operating costs and the large quantity of non-
revenue water. Satisfactory progress has been made in most areas of an
agreed action program to improve the financial situation, but no decision has
yet been taken on how to deal with the Government agencies' and municipali-
ties' arrears to Chittagong WASA or for payment for water supplied through
public hydrants. Revenue requirements are expected to increase in FY78
because the project will be completed and the Authority must begin repaying the
Government loans for the project. Therefore, a further increase in tariffs is
expected to be required. IDA agreed in June 1976 to a second extension of the
Closing Date to June 30, 1977 but informed the Government that consideration of
a further extension beyond June 30, 1977 would be dependent upon further
actions taken to make the Authority financially viable.
Cr. No. 368    Dacca Water and Sewerage Project; US$13.2 Million Credit of
April 9, 1973; Effective Date: June 7, 1973, Closing Date:
June 30, 1977
The project was originally financed by IDA Credit No. 41-PAK of
1963. By December 1971, when disbursements were suspended, US$6.0 million
had been disbursed. The work progressed slowly for two years due to orga-
nizational and procurement difficulties but has been satisfactory in 1976
and 1977. The project is expected to be completed by December 1977, about
2-1/2 years behind the schedule established in 1973. However, the financial
condition of the WASA remains very weak despite substantial rate increases and
improvements in billings and collection. The situation is similar to that
described for Chittagong under Credit 367-BD and IDA has informed the Govern-
ment that consideration of a further extension of the Closing Date beyond June
30, 1977 would be dependent upon further actions taken to make the Authority
financially viable.
Cr. No. 381    Foodgrain Storage Project; US$19.7 Million Credit of May 18,
1973; Effective Date: July 17, 1973; Closing Date:
September 30, 1977
The project is also financed by credits from the Kingdom of Sweden
totalling 30.0 million Kroner. The project was originally financed by US$19.2
million IDA Credit No. 83 of 1966 and a 25 million Kroner credit from the King-
dom of Sweden. The project was almost completed at the time of Bangladesh's



ANNEX II
Page 6 of 10
independence, and 95% of the reactivated IDA and Swedish credits was used for
repaying the previous credits. Substantial delays occurred in hiring consul-
tants and in design and construction of ancilliary civil works. In addition,
there was serious deterioration in the silos' mechanical equipment due to
inadequate maintenance and management, under-staffing in the Directorate
of Silos and delays in ordering spare parts. Since January 1976 however
significant progress has been made in accordance with an action program agreed
with IDA/SIDA, particularly in constructing ancillary civil works and staffing
the project agency; one silo has been put back into operation, consulting
services for a silo maintenance improvement program have been obtained and
jetty rehabilitation started in February 1977. Therefore, the Association
agreed to a third extension of the Closing Date to September 30, 1977, by
which time the project is expected to be completed.
Cr. No. 407    Education Project; US$21.0 Million Credit of June 29, 1973;
Effective Date: September 27, 1973; Closing Date: June 30,
1978
This project was originally financed by Credits 49-PAK and 98-PAK
and by December 1971, when disbursements were suspended, US$7.7 million had
been disbursed. Progress on the Agricultural University portion of the proj-
ect is about two years behind schedule due to initial difficulties in reaching
agreement with the consultant architects on a revised contract, shortages
of building materials, and delays in the preparation of equipment lists and
furniture designs. However, significant progress has been made beginning in
late 1976. The academic buildings now under construction are expected to
be completed by August 1977 and the remaining works by July 1979. The Uni-
versity has taken steps to improve the relevance of its agricultural training
and research programs to Bangladesh's practical problems in agricultural and
rural development, but further progress in this direction is needed. The
technical education portion of the project is about 18 months behind schedule,
due to past delays, but is expected to be completed by December 1977. The
graduates are facing problems of unemployment and a committee has been estab-
lished to revise the curriculum needs revision to make it more relevant to
job requirements.
Cr. No. 408    Highways Project; US$25.0 Million of June 29, 1973;
Effective Date: September 27, 1973; Closing Date:
December 31, 1977
The project was originally financed by IDA Credit No. 53-PAK. By
December 1971, when disbursements were suspended, US$3.62 million had been
disbursed. Shortage of spare parts, administrative delays and deficiencies
in some contractors' performance have delayed certain elements of the project.
Progress on construction of the Sitalakhya Bridge is improving and it is ex-
pected to be completed in early 1978. The paving of the Feni bypass road is
not likely to start before January 1978 due to delays on the part of two (out
of three) contractors in completing the earth works. Disbursements, which
in the pas-t have been slow, show signs of improvements.



ANNEX II
Page 7 of 10
Cr. No. 409    Technical Assistance Project; US$4.0 Million Credit of
June 29, 1973; Effective Date: August 20, 1973; Closing
Date: December 31, 1977
Contracts have been signed with consultants for thirteen sub-
projects with an allocation from this Credit of about US$3.6 million. Approval
is expected shortly for a contract negotiated with consultants for one addi-
tional subproject of about US$0.3 million. Completed studies have played a key
role in the preparation of projects for IDA financing, including the Ashuganj
Fertilizer Project and the Rural Development Project. Due to delays in initial
commitment of credit funds, disbursements are two to three years behind initial
estimates. The Closing Date for this Credit was extended by two years, to
December 31, 1977.
Cr. No. 410    Cereal Seeds Project; US$7.5 Million Credit of June 29, 1973;
Effective Date: January 30, 1974; Closing Date: December 31,
1977
Although the project is about 20 months behind schedule, implemen-
tation has improved considerably in recent months. Because of severe price
escalation, the percentage of IDA financing of local construction costs has
been reduced. Orders for farm machinery and laboratory equipment have recently
been placed, but contract negotiations with the lowest bidder for the seed
processing plants have broken down and a proposal for simplification of plant
design is currently under consideration. After substantial initial delays,
work is now proceeding well on improvements at the seed multiplication farms,
and production of seed, especially wheat, is increasing as a result.
Cr. No. 424    Inland Water Transport Rehabilitation Project; US$8.7 Million
Credit of August 10, 1973, as amended by Amending Agreement
of October 17, 1975; Original Credit Effective Date:
September 27. 1973; Supplementary Credit Effective Date:
March 19, 1976; Closing Date: June 30, 1978
The Amending Agreement of October 17, 1975 increased the amount
of the Credit from US$4.1 million to US$8.7 million to finance the new oil
transfer system at Chittagong. Procurement of spare parts and equipment was
slow initially but almost all funds for these purposes have now been committed.
Regarding the repair of the Chittagong off-shore oil terminal, detailed inves-
tigations indicated that the damage was more severe than previously believed.
Consultants were appointed late in 1973 to study alternative technical solu-
tions. An Amending Agreement modifying the project description in line with
the consultants' recommendations, and providing a supplementary Credit of
US$4.6 million, was approved by the Executive Directors on September 16, 1975
and signed on October 17, 1975. Two used tankers have been procured and re-
paired, and are being equipped for lighterage service at Chittagong. They are
expected to be put into operation during July 1977.



ANNEX II
Page 8 of 10
Cr. No. 487    Second Telecommunications Project; US$20.0 Million Credit of
June 26, 1974; Effective Date: July 23, 1974; Closing Date:
June 30, 1979
The project is 18 months behind schedule due to delays in procurement
and civil works. Thirty percent of the original target for the first two years
has been achieved on the local telephone network. Work on the long-distance
telephone network has yet to commence. A Telegraph and Telephone Board has
been established, a year behind schedule. Consultants financed under the
Credit are assisting the T&T Board in establishing a commercial accounting
system and valuation of assets.
Cr. No. 527    Ashugani Fertilizer Project; US$33 Million Credit of
February 11, 1975; Effective Date: December 19, 1975;
Closing Date: December 31, 1982
The project is being cofinanced by the Asian Development Bank, KfW,
and the Governments of Iran, Switzerland, UK and US, providing a total of
US$109 million equivalent in addition to the IDA Credit. Site preparation
work, including the necessary dredging and filling, was completed on schedule.
However, based on the soils analyses undertaken by two specialist consulting
firms, further preparation of the site will be carried out to protect the plant
against earthquake risks. Currently the project is about 18 months behind
schedule due primarily to the additional site preparation and initial slow
progress in (a) placing orders for time-critical items and (b) planning for
construction. Revised cost estimates are being finalized allowing for the
additional site work and the delays.
Cr. No. 533    Population Project:   UJS$15 Million Credit of February 11,
1975; Effective Date: September 25, 1975; Closing Date:
December 31, 1982
The project is being cofinanced by six co-lenders providing a total
of about US$25 million equivalent in addition to the IDA credit. Notwithstand-
ing the delay in declaring the Credit effective, the Government has made sub-
stantial progress in project implementation. The organizational structure of
the Population Control and Family Planning Division (body responsible for the
population program) has been defined and its headquarters staff has been placed
in position; field staff is being recruited with special incentive payments
offered for some crucial personnel. The Population Program Officers, who are
responsible for the population programs of five non-health ministries, have
been trained abroad and have initiated schemes in their respective ministries.
The Building, Planning and Design Unit of the Ministry of Health, with the
assistance of consultants, has completed a master plan for the project's con-
struction program and building designs have been finalized; contracts for
construction are being awarded. The Government is proceeding with the selec-
tion of required consultants and advisors for other parts of the project.
However, because of institutional and coordination problems, the implementa-
tion of a few project components is some months behind schedule.



ANNEX II
Page 9 of 10
Cr. No. 542    Barisal Irrigation Project; US$27 Million of April 29, 1975;
Effective Date: February 24, 1976; Closing Date: Decem-
ber 31, 1980
The project is behind schedule due to delays in hiring project
consultants and in assignment of Water Development staff members to the
project, and delays in land acquisition. The staffing position improved in
March 1976 and field survey and design activities are now progressing. Prin-
cipal field activities have been survey work, procurement of materials and
housing and office construction. Two pilot areas have been developed which
have been useful in testing the project concept and in identifying potential
problems. Construction of irrigation channels has been delayed by problems
of land acquisition.
Cr. No. 591    Fourth Imports Program; US$100 Million of November 25, 1975;
Effective Date: December 29. 1975; Closing Date:
September 30, 1977
Disbursements amounted to US$93.6 million as of April 30, 1977,
and, in addition, letters of credit guaranteed by IDA amount to US$4.0 million.
The remaining US$2.5 million represents letters of credit below US$20,000 for
which IDA guarantee has not been requested. All orders are expected to be
received by the Closing Date. The requirements under the action programs for
the jute and textiles industries have been met.
Cr. No. 605    Karnafuli Irrigation Project; US$22 Million of January 28, 1976;
Effective Date: February 24, 1976; Closing Date: December 31,
1980
The project is behind schedule due to initial delays in hiring proj-
ect consultants. The consultants for the irrigation portion of the project
began work in September 1976, but their effectiveness is limited by delays in
procurement of vehicles and equipment. Work is now underway to prepare con-
struction contract documents and to facilitate equipment procurement. The
fisheries component of the project made virtually no progress until recently.
Key staff have now been appointed and a contract with a fisheries consulting
firm has been negotiated, and is awaiting Government approval.
Cr. No. 621    Agricultural and Rural Training Project; US$12.0 Million
of March 25, 1976; Effective Date: June 30, 1976; Closing
Date: June 30, 1981
Progress on preparation for construction is about five months ahead
of schedule. Most sites, with the exception of only three thana substations,
have been selected and acquired. Progress has also been achieved in the
preparation of sketch plans for project buildings and the Government has been
working on revised, more economical plans for the Bogra Rural Development
Academy. The in-service training program supported under project has been
delayed due to delays in allocation of local funds. Delays are being exper-
ienced in hiring consultants and experts for the project; this is primarily



ANNEX II
Page 10 of 10
due to the fact that the National Committee for Rural Training, which is
responsible for the implementation of the project's technical assistance
component needs strengthening. The Government is attempting to overcome
this problem.
Cr. No. 622    Second Technical Assistance Proiect; US$7.5 Million of
April 8, 1976; Effective Date: April 14, 1976; Closing
Date: June 30, 1980
Consultants are working on the first subproject authorized under
this credit, a water development study of the Southwest region. The
Bangladesh Bank has invited consultant proposals for a second subproject,
an agricultural credit study. Initial work is underway on a third project
involving feasibility of using jute fiber as a cotton substitute.
Cr. No. 631    Rural Development Project; US$16.0 million of May 20, 1976;
Effective Date: August 3, 1976; Closing Date: December 31,
1981
The reorganization of pump groups into cooperatives under the
Integrated Rural Development Program is being completed, and adequate progress
has been achieved in rescheduling loans. As part of a nationwide effort to
revitalize the extension system, modifications are being introduced to the
project's agricultural extension system. Procurement under various project
components, benchmark and fish pond surveys, land and draft animal registration
are in progress. After some initial delays, the construction of feeder roads
and thana buildings is proceeding on schedule.
Cr. No. 632    Bangladesh Shilpa Bank Project; US$25.0 million of May 20,
1976; Effective Date: November 8, 1976; Closing Date:
June 30, 1981
As of April 30, 1977, IDA had authorized withdrawals from the
Credit totalling US$0.8 million. It is anticipated that the Credit will be
fully committed by December 1978, the final authorization date, and that
disbursements will be completed by the Closing Date.
Cr. No. 676    Fifth Imports Program; US$50 million of January 25, 1977
Effective Date: February 24, 1977; Closing Date:
December 31, 1978
As of April 30, 1977, disbursements were US$0.5 million. In addi-
tion about US$33 million of letters of credit have been issued.



ANNEX III
Page 1
SUPPLEMENTARY DATA PROJECT SHEET
Section I:     Timetable of Key Events
(a) Time taken to prepare project:
IDA Crop Sector Review mission: June-July 1975
Crop Sector Review mission's findings discussed
with GOB: March 1976
FAO/IBRD Cooperative Program mission: June-July 1976
FAO/IBRD CP report: September 30, 1976
(b) Agency which prepared the project:
Ministry of Agriculture, FAO/IBRD CP and IDA
(c) Project first presented to IDA:
during Crop Sector Review mission
(d) Departure of Appraisal mission:
November 1976
(e) Completion of Negotiations:
May 1977
(f) Planned Date of Effectiveness:
September 1977
Section II:    Special IDA Implementation Actions
The following were agreed to during negotiations:
(a)  the locations of the Project's Training Units;
(b)  the procedures for implementing DEM's annual work
programs for extension; and
(c)  the draft Project Proforma for the project, as
prepared by the Ministry of Agriculture.



ANNEX III
Page 2
Section III:   Special Conditions of the IDA Credit
(1) Special conditions of credit effectiveness (paragraph 72) are:
(i) establishment of project revolving fund with an initial
deposit satisfactory to IDA;
(ii) GOB approval of the Project Proformas for the project;
(iii) appointment of deputy director and evaluation officer
to the PIU sub-unit;
(iv) finalization of arrangements satisfactory to IDA for
making available the Project vehicles to extension
staff; and
(v) establishment of the Project Regional and District Committees.
(2)  a condition of disbursement for the research component would be
the transfer of 20 acres of suitable land from the BADC farms at
Thakurgaon and Rangpur to the Bangladesh Agricultural and Research
Institute (BARI) (paragraph 72);
(3)  DEM would organize and implement its annual work program in
the NW region in accordance with procedures acceptable to IDA
(para 46);
(4)  the location and geographical coverage of Training Units (TUs)
would be acceptable to IDA (paragraph 47);
(5)  sufficient budget provision for daily and travel allowances
would be made for DEM extension staff in the NW region
(paragraph 48);
(6) (i) the houses for Union Agricultural Assistants (UAAs) and Village
Extension Agents (VEAs) would be built according to standards
acceptable to IDA (paragraph 50); (ii) the designs and floor plans
of other project buildings would be acceptable to IDA; and (iii) the
sites of TUs and sub-station buildings would be acceptable to IDA
(paragraph 59);
(7)  the extension services of the Plant Protection Directorate, and
the Cotton, Horticulture and Tobacco Development Boards would be
integrated with DEM by November 1, 1977, and the extension
service of the Water Development Board would be integrated with
DEM by July 1, 1.978 (paragraph 51);
(8)  UAA/VEAs in the NW region would work full-time on agricultural
extension, except in cases of relief work and family planning
(paragraph 52);



ANNEX III
Page 3
(9) (i) GOB would provide 20 acres of land to the Barind Tract
sub-station; (ii) the work plans for the UNDP-supported
Rangpur and Bogra sub-stations would be submitted to IDA
for review by October 1, 1977; (iii) the annual research
program of the seven sub-stations and the Soil Fertility
Institute in the NW region would be submitted to IDA for
review; and (iv) Bangladesh Agricultural Research Council's
three-year research program would be sent to IDA for ap-
proval not later than October 1, 1977 (paragraphs 53 and 54);
(10) a plan for cost recovery (of operation and maintenance costs
and, as much as possible, capital costs) of all irrigation
facilities operated by BADC would be submitted to IDA for
comment by December 31, 1978 (paragraph 55);
(11) the functions and staffing of the PIU sub-unit would be
acceptable to IDA; (ii) the appointment of the deputy
director of the sub-unit would be made after consultation
with IDA; (iii) GOB would decide on the qualifications and
experience for the other positions in the sub-unit after
consultation with IDA; and (iv) appointment of all the
sub-unit officers (with the exception of the deputy
director and evaluation officer) would be made by
December 1, 1977 (paragraph 64); and
(12) a project revolving fund would be maintained at levels suffi-
cient to cover local expenditures for the next quarter (para-
graph 66).






IBRD 12851
8180                                                   660                                                                   APRIL 1977I
BANGLADESH
EXTENSION AND RESEARCH PROJECT
>4>^^^  9   ))  %  <                                   I  *   ~~~~~~~~~~~~~RESEARCH STATIONS
A "   .                                ~~~~~~~~~~~~CROPPING PATTERN I          IT
.  t/2  \$\  Eys            _~~~~(Minl COP8NG lcast EA.ma. Fallow)  PABNA DISTRtICT HEADQUARTERS
CROPPING PATTERN It       -     MAJOR ROADS
(Mainly Trspl-nt A.   Fall-w) I____MAJOR ROADS UNDER CONSTRUCTION
(ainly Transplant Amn A")       RAILWAYS
,.j jOTHERS                          THANA BOUNDARIES   -
DISTRICT BOUNDARIES
LA                            -. -~~~~~~~~~ ~INTERNATIONAL BOUNDARIES
-260                                                                                                                                       60
PI~~~~~  d tern or  Ce by the ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~  ~    ~     ~    ~    ~    ~    ~    ~   ~    odr
-250                                                                                                                       25,~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~88  0
1s                                            s                                                                        ' ,.~~~~~NJMAPU
itpl             -,?pp by th 



