Report No. 1553a-BD
Bangladesh: Appraisal of an
Extension and Research Project
June 14, 1977
South Asia Projects Department
Agriculture Division A
FOR OrFICIAL USE ONLY
Document of the World Bank
I his document has a restricted distribution and may he usecl by recipients
only in the performance of their official duties. Its conltenlLs may not
otherwise be disclosed -without World Bank aCUthorization.



CURRENCY EOUIVALENTS
The Bangladesh Taka is officially valued at 26.70 to the Pound
Sterling. The Pound now floats relative to the US Dollar and consequently
the Taka, US Dollar rate is subject to change. The rate below has been
used throughout this report except where otherwise stated.
US$1          =     Tk 15.0
Tk 1          =     US$0.067
Tk 1 million  =     US$67,000
WEIGHTS AND MEASURES
1 acre (ac)         =         0.405 hectare (ha)
1 bigha                 -     0.33 ac
1 mile (mi)             -     1.509 kilometers (km)
1 square mile (sq mi)   =     640 ac (259 ha)
1 foot (ft)             =     30.5 centimeters (cm)
1 maund (m.d)           =     82.27 lbs (37.3 kg)
1 metric ton (ton)      =     26.8 md
1 bale (jute)           =     4.86 md
1 cubic foot per
second (cusec)        =     0.0283 cu meters per second
M                       =     million
ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
ACPP      -    Accelerated Cereal Production Program
AIC       -    Agricultural Informaticn Center
AIS       -    Agricultural Information ServicSŽ
ARPP      -    Accelerated Rice Production Program
ARTP      -    Agricultural and Rural Training Project (IDA - Credit 621)
ASS       -    Additional SupDort Scheme (Ministry of Agriculture)
ATI       -    Agricultural Training Institute
ATIO      -    Agricultural Technical Information Office
BADC      -    Bangladesh Agricultural Development Corporation
BARC      -    Bangladesh Agricultural Research Council
BARI      -    Bangladesh Agricultural Research Institute
BAU       -    Bangladesh Agricultural University (Mymensingh)
BBS       -    Bangladesh Bureau of Statistics
BJSC      -    Bangladeshi Jatiya Samabaya Bank (Bangladesh Cooperative Bank)
BKB       -    Bangladesh Krishi Baink (Agricultural Development Bank)
BRRI      -    Bangladesh Rice Research Institute
BSMC      -    Bangladesh Sugar Mills Corporation
CORR      -    Christian Organization for Relief and Rehabilitation
DEM       -    Directorate of Agriculture (Extension and Management)
EARP      -    Extension and Research Project
GOB       -    Government of Bankladesh
HYV       -    High Yielding Varieties



FME OMFCIAL USE ONLY
-2-
IJCS      -    Intensive Jute Cultivation Scheme
IRDP      -    Integrated Rural Development Program
IRRI      -    International Rice Research Institute (Philippines)
LIV       -    Locally Improved Varieties
KSS       -    Krishi Samabaya Samities (Village Cooperative Societies)
MkA       -    Ministry of Agriculture
MLGRDC    -    Ministry of Land Administration, Local Government, Rural
Development and Cooperatives
PP        -    Project Proforma
PIU       -    Project Implementation Unit
PPD       -    Plant Protection Directorate
SFI       -    Soil Fertility Institute
TCCA      -    Thana Central Cooperative Association
TTDC      -    Thana Training and Development Center
TU        -    Training Unit
T&V       -    Training and Visit
UNDP      -    United Nations Development Program
WDB       -    Water Development Board
FREQUENTLY USED ABBREVIATIONS FOR OFFICERS
ATEO      -    Assistant Thana Extension Officer
BADC/TIO  -    Thana Irrigation Officer
CPS       -    Crop Production Specialist
DAO       -    District Agricultural Officer
DEO       -    District Extension Officer
DTO       -    District Training Officer
FPE       -    Farm Production Economist
IRDP/DTPO -    Deputy Thana Project Officer
IRDP/TPO  -    Thana Project Officer
JEA       -    Jute Extension Agent
RDA       -    Regional Director of Agriculture
SDAO      -    Sub-Divisional Agricultural Officer
SDEO      -    Sub-Divisional Extension Officer
SO        -    Scientific Officer (Research Sub-station)
TAO       -    Thana Agricultural Officer
TCO       -    Thana Coope,ctive Officer
TEO       -    Thana Extension Officer
TSO       -    Thana Statistical Officer
UAA       -    Union Agricultural Assistant
USA       -    Union Statistical Assistant
VEA       -    Village Extension Agent
GLOSSARY
Agricultural Terms
Aman      -    Rice planted before or during the monsoon (which begins in
June) and harvested in November or December (B. aman is
broadcast, T. aman is transplanted).
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipints only in the performane of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World BankfIFC authoriztion.



-3-
Aus       -    Rice planted during March and April and harvested during
July and August (B. aus is broadcast, T. aus is trans-
planted).
Boro      -    Rice planted in winter and harvested during April to June.
Char      -    Low-lying sandy land.
Katcha    -    Temporary or lower grade (usually applied to structures or
roads).
Kharif    -    Summer season.
Paddy     -    Unhulled rice.
Pucca     -    Permanent (usually applied to structures or roads).
Rabi      -    Dry season.
Taccavi   -    A relief loan to victims of natural catastrophies.
Administrative Units
Number Ratios of Administrative Levels and Farm Families
Divisions              4 1 division        4 districts    :2.25 M farm families
Districts             19 1 district     : 3 sub-divisions:500,000 farm families
Sub-Divisions         64 1 sub-division:   7 thanas       :150,000 farm families
Thanas               415 1 thana        : 10 unions       : 22,000 farm families
Unions (approx)    4,300 1 union        : 15 villages     : 2,200 farm families
Villages (approx) 65,000 1 village      :150 farm families:
Note:  Central government units usually end at the Thana Level.
FISCAL YEAR
July 1 to June 30



BANGLADESH
EXTENSION AND RESEARCH PROJECT
TABLE OF CONTENTS
Page No.
SUMMARY AND CONCLUSIONS................................... i iv
I.   INTRODUCTION      ................................1.....
II.   BACKGROUND       ...................1....................
A.  General   ........................................
B.  Government Agricultural Program 2      ...............   2
C.  Extension Services      .............................    3
D.  Agricultural Research ................................5
E.  Inputs Supply       ................................. 5
F.  Agricultural Credit      ...........................     6
III.   THE PROJECT AREA (NORTH-WEST REGION) .................       7
A.  General      ........................................    7
B.  Climate      ........................................    7
C.  Topography, Soils and Land Types                         7
D.  Water Resources      ...............................    8
E.  Transportation       .................................   9
F.  Farm Sizes and Land Tenure .         ..............      9
G.  Present Agricultural Situation and Potential             9
IV.   THE PROJECT      ...................................... .10
A.  Project Rationale and Description ..............     O10
B.  Detailed Features      ..............................   11
C.  Cost Estimate and Phasing      ......................   15
D.  Project Financing      ..............................17
E.  Procurement .......................                     18
F.  Disbursement and Audit ................................19
This report is based on the findings of an appraisal mission consisting
of Messrs. J. Loup, M. Wilson and G. Henderson (IDA), D. Beal (FAO/CP),
F. Haworth and S. Shaikh (Consultants) which visited Bangladesh in November/
December 1976 and on information supplied by the FAO/IBRD Cooperative
Program in its Report No. 38/76BAN5 of September 30, 1976.



Table of Contents (cont'd)
Page No.
V.   ORGANIZATION AND MANAGEMENT     ........................ 20
A.  Project Implementation Unit ........................... 20
B.  Project Coordinating Committees    ................  21
C.  ExLension and In-Service Training ..............     22
D.  Research     ..................................... . 23
E.  Command Area Development     ....................... 23
F. Monitoring and Evaluation      ......................23
VI.   FARM IMPACT, PRODUCTION AND MARKETING .....................  24
VII.   BENEFITS AND JUSTIFICATION     ......................... 25
A.   Budgetary Impact     ..............................  25
B.   Economic Justification     ........................ 25
C.   Social Benefits    ..............................   26
VIII.   AGREEMENTS REACHED AND RECOMMENDATIONS    ............. 26
ANNEXES
1.   Extension and Training:  Present Situation
2.   Agricultural Research
3.   The North West Region:  Agricultural Background
4.   Extension and Training:  Project Proposals
50   Construction Program for  Extension Service
6.   Agricultural Statistics
7.   Assistance in Command Area Development
8.   Project Cost
9.   Implementation Schedule
10.   Disbursement Schedule
11.   Monitoring and Evaluation
12.   Extension Packages and their Farm Level Impact
13.   Economic Analysis of the Extension and Research Component
MAP - 12851



BANGLADESH
EXTENSION AND RESEARCH PROJECT
SUMMARY AND CONCLUSIONS
i.        Agriculture dominates the economy of Bangladesh, accounting for 60%
of its Gross Domestic Product and 75% of all employment. During the 1960s and
1970s, agricultural production, in general, and foodgrain production in parti-
cular, lagged behind the increase in population. After surveying the agricul-
tural sector in 1975, an IDA Crop Sector Review concluded that significant
increases in agricultural production could be achieved by reorganizing and
strengthening the extension service and agricultural research.
ii.       Accepting this conclusion, the Government of Bangladesh (GOB) intro-
duced the Training and Visit (T and V) system 1/ in the Directorate of Agri-
culture (Extension and Management) - DEM - of the Ministry of Agriculture
and initiated the preparation of a project to support extension and applied
research. Constraints on staff availability, however, precluded tile implemen-
tation of a nationwide project and it was thus decided to liJmit the first
phase to one regior.. The North-West Region (Rajshahi Division), comprising
one-quarter, both of the country's population of 81 M and of the cultivated
land, was selected for its high agricultural potential.
iii.      DEM is the most important service concerned with agricultural exten-
sion. Several other extension services exist, however, often causing dupli-
cation, competition for funds and qualified staff and overlapping - or, at
times, contradictory - advice to farmers. DEM's activities have also been
hampered by staff shortages, lack of vehicles and the absence of established
links with research organizations.
iv.       Several institutions are involved in agricultural research, the
Bangladesh Rice Research Institute (BRRI) and the Bangladesh Agricultural
Research Institute (BARI) being the most important. BRRI is responsible
for research on rice varieties; BARI covers most other crops but also carries
out field trials of BRRI rice varieties. Both organizations have somewhat
neglected adaptive research and the economics of farm production.
v.        The selected North-West Region has a high potential for irrigation,
especially groundwater. While the exploitation of this potential is well
underway, the achievements remain disappointing; the area irrigated by most
1/   This approach to agricultural extension has been introduced successfully
in a number of Bank Group projects, notably in India e.g. Rajasthan Canal
Command Area Development, Rajasthan Chambal Command Area Development,
Madhya Pradesh Chambal Command Area Development, Andhra Pradesh Command
Area Development, West Bengal Extension and Research, Orissa Agricul-
tural Development, Rajasthan Extension and Research, Madhya Pradesh
Extension and Research, and Assam Extension and Research.



of the existing low-lift pumps and wells is well below potential. A more
efficient extension service could greatly increase the farmers' ability to
manage water but a basic deficiency remains in the inappropriate distribution
systems. Farmers lack the technical expertise required to prepare a proper
channel layout and are reluctant to purchase cement and other inputs neces-
sary for its construction.
vi.       The project would initiate the consolidation with DEM of some of
the key existing extension services and strengthen DEM to enable it fully
to implement the T and V system. Under this system, the field level
workers 1/ - the Union Agricultural Assistants (UAAs) and Village Extension
Agents (VEAs) - would carry out a fortnightly cycle of visits to eight groups
of contact farmers (CFs) and receive one day of training every two weeks in
one of the 14 Training Units to be created under the project. They would
obtain regular guidance and supervision from the thana officers, who, in turn,
would be supported by sub-divisional officers. The efforts of the field and
supervisory staff would be supported by the DEM district and regional staff
and the Agricultural Information Service.
vii.      The project would increase the strength of extension staff at all
levels. The number of VEAs would be increased to about 1,425 or 40 to 50%
above the present level; the additional field workers would come from other
extension services (Water, Horticulture, Tobacco and Cotton Development
Boards) which would be amalgated with DEM and from the output of the Agri-
cultural Training Institutes (ATIs). A second thana officer would be as-
signed in all thanas and district officers would be provided with deputies
and assistants to permit effective supervision. In additior, new posts for
supporting staff would be created in the Training Units and at the regional
(divisional) level. Except for limited, specified exceptions, VEAs would
devote all their time to extension duties; to free them from their traditional
duty of collecting agricultural statistics, the field staff of the newly-
established Bureau of Statistics under the Ministry of Planning would be
increased in the region. The project would provide vehicles and training
equipment to extension staff at all levels; it would also ensure that accom-
modation was provided for all VEAs and their direct supervisors.
viii.     Five research sub-stations representing the main agro-ecological
zones of the region would be developed and adequately staffed; two others
already benefiting from external assistance would also be used. The Soil
Fertility Institute (to be renamed Field Trials Division), a division of
BARI responsible for trials in farmers' fields, would receive additional
vehicles, equipment, building facilities and staff. Funds would also be
provided for the Bangladesh Agricultural Research Council (BARC) to finance
research contracts directly.
ix.       The Bangladesh Agricultural Development Corporation (BADC), 'the
main organization involved in development of irrigation in the North-West
Region, would be responsible for the command area development of 1,500 deep
1/   For convenience, UAAs and VEAs would hereafter be called VEAs since
their roles are identical.



tubewells in the region. BADC would plan and perform the physical works for
up to half of the tubewells concerned. In other cases it would appoint and
supervise engineering firms which would be responsible for preparing topo-
graphical maps and channel layouts, providing technical supervision to the
farmers for channel digging, and building themselves or contracting to local
entrepreneurs the construction of the concrete stzuctures required for these
distribution systems. The cost of these concrete structures would be financed
by BADC and later on recovered from the benefiting farmers.
x.        The three-year project would have a total cost of US$16.3 M, includ-
ing physical and price contingencies. The proposed IDA Credit of US$10 M
would finance the foreign exchange cost of US$4.0 M and about 50% of local
costs; the rest of project cost would be financed by GOB (US$6.3 M).
xi.       The main items to be financed would be civil works, vehicles and
equipment and technical assistance and services. Because they are small and
scattered throughout the region, civil works (US$8.4 M), none exceedir,g
US$100,000 in value, would not be suitable for international competitiv'e
bidding. They would be executed by domestic contractors following local
bidding procedures which are satisfactory to IDA. Vehicles (US$0.8 M) would
be purchased over the three-year period and dispersed in rural areas. To en-
sure adequate maintenance and spares, they would be purchased after local
competitive bidding among local firms and representatives of foreign sup-
pliers. Equipment (US$0.7 M) would be procured after international compe-
titive bidding. Off-the-shelf imported items costing less than US$10,000
each could be purchased through normal trade channels (up to a US$300,000
ceiling). Technical assistance and services (US$0.8 M) would be recruited
in Bangladesh and abroad. The remainder of the project cost (excluding
contingencies) would consist of training, research contracts, land acquisi-
tion, salaries and allowances and other operating costs (total US$1.7 M)
and would not involve procurement.
xii.      Responsibility for project implementation would rest with existing
departments or agencies: DEM for extension, Bureau of Statistics for data
collection, BARI for research, BADC for command area development and Ministry
of Land Administration, Local Government, r,.ral Development and Cooperatives
(NLGRDC) for building construction at thana headquarters. A Project Imple-
mentation Unit (PIU) in the Ministry of Agriculture would be responsible for
coordinating project execution. The PIU of the IDA financed Agricultural and
Rural Training Project (Cr. 621) would be strengthened to enable it to carry
out this additional function. Project Coordinating Committees would be
created at the regional and district levels. The PIU would be responsible
for monitoring the project and supervising its evaluation.
xiii.     The messages that field extension workers would convey to farmers
would initially concentrate on simple, nearly costless cultivation practices.
They would thus be particularly suitable for small farmers. It is conserva-
tively estimated that, by following the recommended practices, farmers' net
income would increase by at least 30%. The improvement of the distribution
systems for wells would increase the area under irrigation; the financial rate
of return on this investment for the farmers benefiting would be around 20%.



- iv -
xiv.      The capital cost of the project, excluding all operating costs,
amounts to about US$1.3 per capita. Annual operating costs, following project
completion, would be about US$0.42 per farm family per annum, compared to COB
present annual budget expenditures on agricultural development alone of about
TJS$20 per farm family.
xv.       Attributing a precise level of benefits to the extension and re-
search component is difficult since the expected benefits of improved agri-
cultural, practices, which also require additional inputs, cannot be attributed
solely to extension and research. However, there is no doubt that the sub-
stantial improvement in the efficiency of utilization of resources which would
be brought about by the project would generate a high rate of return. It
would be reasonable to expect that, by Year Seven, yields of foodgrain region-
wide would increase by at least 20 lb/ac, or by about 2%, over the "without-
project" situation, giving an economic rate of return of 50%. There is little
risk that project induced yields would not increase by an average of at least
20 lb/ac since the best farmers in the region already obtained yields at least
50% above the current average and, on research sub-stations, substantially
higher yield levels than these are achieved. The irrigation component would
also be economically very profitable; because of the "sunk cost" of the exist-
ing wells, the development of their command areas would have a high economic
rate of return, estimated at 50%.
xvi.      The project is suitable for an IDA credit of US$10 M.   The Borrower
would be the People's Republic of Bangladesh.



BANGLADESH
EXTENSION AND RESEARCH PROJECT
I. INTRODUCTION
1.01      Agriculture dominates the economy of Bangladesh, accounting for 60%
of its Gross Domestic Product, 75% of all employment and, directly or indirect-
ly, over 90% of the export earnings. The importance of the agricultural sector
in shaping the course of the Bangladesh economy extends even further, however,
because of the strong linkages between agriculture and the rest of the economy.
1.02      In June/July 1975, an IDA mission visited Bangladesh to prepare a
Crop Sector Review. The main conclusion was that projects could be designed,
capable of producing significant and rapid increases in output, by using only
existing technology and institutions. A project was identified whose main aim
was to induce farmers to adopt better cultural practices and increase their
use of modern inputs. This was to be achieved by reorganizing and strengthen-
ing the extension service and adaptive research.
1.03      The recommendations of the Crop Sector Review were accepted by the
Government of Bangladesh (GOB). Following a visit early in 1976 of an IDA
consultant on agriculture extension, GOB decided to introduce the now -familiar
system of Training and Visit (T&V) to the whole country. At the request of
the Government, a FAO/World Bank Cooperative Program (CP) mission visited
Bangladesh in June/July 1976 to assist in preparing a project; due to the
perceived shortage of adequate staff, the project was however limited to
the North-West Region -- the Raishahi Division. This report is based on the
findings of an IDA appraisal mission, comprising Messrs. J. Loup, M. Wilson
and G. Henderson (IDA) D. Beal (CP), F. Haworth and S. Shaikh (Consultants),
which visited Bangladesh in November/December 1976.
II. BACKGROUND
A. General
2.01      With a total area of 55,000 sq mi and a population estin:ated at
81 M, Bangladesh has a population density among the world's highest, about
1,470 per sq mi. Ninety-five percent of the population lives in rural areas
and pressure on land is increasing. Some 22.5 M ac are under cultivation but
irrigation is available on only 2.7 M ac. Over the last five years, the
area cropped annually averaged 30.3 M ac, giving a cropping intensity of about
135%. Rice, by far the most important crop, accounts for 80% of the cropped
area; jute for 6% and a variety of other crops such as pulses, oilseed, wheat,
sugarcane and vegetables for the remsining 14%.



-2-
2.02      Production trends.  During the 1960s, agricultural production grew
at an annual rate of about 2.5% and foodgrain production at a rate of 2.4%.
liowever, both lagged behind the growth in population which averaged 2.8%.
During the first half of the 1970s, for a variety of reasons, production
remained below the 11.8 M ton peak of 1969/70. In 1975/76, however, ex-
ceptionally favorable weather, improved availability of fertilizers and
unusually high foodgrain prices in the previous year, resulted in a record
foodgrain production of 13 M tons. Foodgrain imports have risen steadily from
about 700,000 tons in 1960/61 to an annual average of about 2 M tons in the
1970s. Substantial food imports are likely to continue for the foreseeable
future.
B. Government Agricultural Program
2.03      A "Hard Core Program" prepared with IDA assistance in 1972 has
helped GOB in defining its strategy for the agricultural sector. This Pro-
gram singles out the widening food gap and the worsening rural underemploy-
ment as the two main problems and proposes to address them through a series
of quick-yielding, labor intensive projects. It aims in particular at
strengthening the agricultural institutions, developing groundwater resources
and improving input supply. Recent IDA projects support these objectives.
2.04      The strengthening of agricultural institutions is being helped by
preliminary technical assistance, financed under an IDA Technical Assistance
Credit (Cr. 409), for the preparation of further studies. The IDA supported
Agricultural and Rural Training Project (Cr. 621), assisted by the UNDP/FAO
Agricultural Extension Project, will provide training programs for extension
and rural develOpment staff. The IDA-supported Rural Development Project
(Cr. 631) also provides for strengthening of the rural institutions and serv-
ices in seven thanas. A Jute Project is now being processed by IDA; it would
strengthen the Intensive Jute Cultivation Scheme (IJCS) by providing additional
staff, vehicles and housing for the extension service and credit and storage
facilities for the farmers.
2.05      Groundwatei resources are being rapidly developed through the
on-going programs of the Bangladesh Agricultural Development Corporation
(BADC). The IDA-supported Northwest Region Tubewells Project (Cr. 341)
provides for the sinking of about 3,000 deep tubewells in the North-West
Region, where this present project would also be located and a new IDA-
supported Shallow Tubewells Project, proposing an additional 10,000 wells
also in the North-West Region, is now being processed; other programs are
being financed by the Asian Development Bank, Japan and Germany. There is
also a nationwide drive to spread the use of hand pumps; about 570,000 of
these will be financed by USAID and UNICEF.
2.06      To improve the input supply system, the IDA-supported Cereal Seeds
Project (Cr. 410) will establish a rice and wheat seeds industry. Storage,
marketing and distribution of fertilizer are now being reviewed under an IDA-
financed study. Additional storage capacity for fertilizer will be constructed
with USAID assistance and a similar project is contemplated for IDA financing.



-3-
2.07      The price structure of foodgrain and agricultural inputs has often
worked as a disincentive for the farmers. While agricultural inputs (seeds,
fertilizers, pesticides, irrigation) are subsidized, prices of foodgrain
have been allowed to fluctuate widely. The ratio of foodgrain prices to the
price of inputs is often too low to be attractive; in any case, it is always
volatile, making it difficult for the farmers to decide, on the basis of
prices, which crops to grow and what level of inputs to use. In March 1977,
an IDA mission reviewed GOB food policy procurement, distribution and price
stabilization system. The mission's report and recommendations are expected
later this year.
C. Extension Services (Annex 1)
2.08      The Directorate of Agriculture (Extension and Management) (DEM) of
the Ministry of Agriculture provides basic extens-ion service throughout the
ccuntry.  It is organized on six levels, corresponding to the administrative
units of the country:
No. of
Level           Posts             Agricultural Officer in Charge
National           1               Director o.E Agriculture (Extension
and Manag,ement) (DEM)
Regional           4               Regional Director of Agriculture
(RDA)
District          20               District ExI:ension Officer (DEO)
9               District Agricultural Officer (DAO)
Sub-Division      74               Sub-Divisioiaal Agricultural Officer
(SDAO)
Thana            158               Thana Extensio-a Officer (TEO)
517               Thana Agricult:ural Officer (TAO)
Union          4,333               Union Agricu.Ltural Assistant (UAA)/
Village Fxtension Agents (VEA)
2.09      The posts of DEO, TEO and VEA have only re,cently been introduced, in
an attempt to improve staff qualification and streng,tWh at tht. district, thana
and union levels. DEOs, TEOs and VEAs are more qual; fied than. respectively,
DAOs, TAOs and UAAs, but they basically carry out the same funcLions5. 1/ So
far, only a few of these new posts have been created but GOB intends eventually
to establish them throuighout l:he country.
1/   For convenience, UAAs and VEAs would hereafter be called simply 1,EAs
since their roles are identical.



-4-
2.10      Until 1976, the VEA could be described as a multi-purpose worker.
Although formally he reported to the TAO, he was often called upon to assist
other thana level officers, particularly the Circle Officer (Development),
in such duties as relief programs, family planning, collection of statistics
and even levies and debt collection. His extension duties were vague and
most VEAs confined their agricultural operations to selected farmers and
irrigation blocks.
2.11      In May 1976, GOB decided to introduce the Training and Visit (T and
V) system throughout the country. This system is based on regular visits of
the VEAs on a given day to selacted groups of farmers, regular training of
the VEAs in weekly or fortnighi:ly sessions and close supervision at all
levels of the extension senrice (para 4.07).   The implementation of the T&V
system has been constrained by staff shortages, lack of vehicles and incen-
tives for extension staff and the absence of established links with research
organizations. Because of staff shortages, the number of farmers effectively
covered by the T&V system has so far bee]a limited. Most of the VEAs, TAOs and
TEOs, do not have any cransport and make their visits by bus or on foot.
Salaries and living conditions are poor, making for low staff morale.   Travel
and daily allowances are irregularly paid.   Living allowances for VEAs are
non-existent; for officers they are insufficient to cover the actual rent of a
house; accommodation for rent is scarce, both in villages and in thana head-
quarters. As a result, most VEAs live without their family, and have to
accept accommodation from a local landlord, to whom they become obligated to
provide various services. '!inally, there is no institutionalized link between
extension and research; extension workers are often ignorant of research
findings and, conversely, research workers do not always address the technical
problems faced by the farmers.   As a result, extension messages are often out
of date and fail to stre:ss the most efficient practices.
2.12      The activ7ities of DSA are supported by the Agricultural Information
Service (AIS), a separate unit within the Ministry of Agriculture. AIS orga-
nizes a daily brrjadcast program for farmers and also operates mobile units and
prepares exhibits and pamphlets. Its efficiency has likewise been hampered by
lack of staff, equipment e.nd funds.
2.13      Because of ti2e weakness of DEM, the practice has developed for other
agencies involved in agricultural development to create their own extension
services.  Within the Ministry of Agriculture, jute has its own extension ser-
vice, under DEM.  This eitf-sion service, involving about 2,500 Jute Extension
Agents (JEAs), advises fZLrXlers on cultural practices; it is also concerned
with credit and input. sup)pLy, farmers' organizations and jute marketing.  The
numerous Developme.nt Boards (Water, Horticulture, Cotton, Tobacco) and some
nineteen voluntar'zy organ:L2;ations all have their own extension wings. These
various extension schemes cover the same areas as DEM staff, often causing
unnecessary diAplication and, at times, providing contradictory advice to the
farmers.
2.14      'The Integrated. Rural Development Program (IRDP) under the Ministry
of Land A,dministratio.i., Local Government, Rural Development and Cooperatives,
aims to extend some of the rural development conicepts developed at the Comilla



-5-
Academy on a nationwide scale. The objective of the program is to use local
cooperatives (Krishi Samabaya Samities - KSSs - grouped into Thana Central
Cooperative Associations - TCCAs) as a mechanism for coordinating and inte-
grating services to farmers, including farmer training, credit, inputs,
marketing and rural works activities. In addition, IRDP, in collaboration
with DEM, provides training in Thana Training and Development Centers (TTDCs)
to managers of TCCAs and KSSs and to Model Farmers elected by the local
cooperatives.
D. Agricultural Research (Annex 2)
2.15      The Bangladesh Rice Research Institute (BRRI) is responsible for
research on various aspects of rice improvement and production, and for
training extension staff in rice production technology. The Bangladesh
Agricultural Research Institute (BARI) deals with development of crops such
as wheat, pulses and oilseeds; it also carries out field trials on all crops,
including rice varieties. A separate department of BARI is concerned with
fertilizer trials in farmers' fields. Separate organizations exist for
research on jute, cotton, tobacco and sugarcane; the Bangladesh Agricultural
University (Mymensingh) also is involved in agricultural research. Research
coordination is the responsibility of the newly established Bangladesh Agri-
cultural Research Council (BARC).     -
2.16      Both BRRI and BARI have concentrated on establishing their new
central stations at Joydebpur. Adaptive research in sub-stations has been
rather neglected. Research on the economics of crop production has also
not been sufficiently emphasized. As a result, the recommendations given
by the institutes are not specific to the various agro-ecological zones;
they may not even be financially optimal for the farmers.
E. Inputs Supply
2.17      The Bangladesh Agricultural Development Corporation (BADC), an
autonomous body under the Ministry of Agriculture, is broadly responsible
for the procurement of virtually all agricultural inputs, machinery and
equipment, and for the distribution of seeds (mainly rice and wheat) and
fertilizer. It also manages seed multiplication farms, deploys, operates
and maintains low-lift pumps and deep tubewells; sinks and maintains shallow
tubewells; and deploys and maintains tractors and power tillers.
2.18      Fertilizer.   Fertilizer demand has tripled over the last decade
from 45,000 tons in 1964/65 to 135,000 tons in 1974/75. Fertilizer use,
however, remains largely confined to improved varieties, and, even in this
case, the applications are much below the recommendations of extension and
research. (These recommendations are so high as to be presumably uneconomical
for the farmers). Nitrogen and phosphate are the most commonly used while
potash is hardly utilized. BADC procures fertilizers, locally manufactured
or imported, and distributes them to thana depots. Private traders purchase



-6-
them from these BADC depots and sell them to farmers at government-fixed
prices. BADC's own storage capacity has lagged behind the rising demand and
an increasing number of hired godowns are being used. A recent USAID project
will finance the construction of an additional 100,000 tons of storage capa-
city. Fertilizer distribution in the past has been hampered because of cum-
bersome procedures for fertilizer allocation and the inefLiciency of the
distribution system. An IDA-financed study is now reviewing storage, market-
ing and distribution of fertilizer. Its recommendations are expected to be
used by GOB to prepare a fertilizer marketing project for IDA consideration.
In the meantime, availability of fertilizer to the farmer is now satisfactory
and is not expected to be a problem in the next few years.
2.19      Plant Protection.   BADC is responsible for procurement of pesticide
and equipment for its application. The Plant Protection Directorate (PPD) in
the Ministry of Agriculture was until 1976, in charge of storage and distri-
bution to farmers. It was also responsible for training farmers in plant
protection. The sprayed acreage has rapidly increased from 4.3 M ac in 1964/65
to 12 M ac in 1973/74. Training of the farmers, however, has been less effec-
tive. PPD staff were often insufficiently qualified and, because of the com-
mercial operation of fertilizer distribution, did not have enough time for
extension in plant protection. To remedy the situation, GOB has decided to
merge PPD with DEM (the decision is not yet fully eLfective) and is studying
the possibility of handing over to the private sector the commercial operation
of pesticides and equipment distribution. A UNDP-supported project, will pro-
vide training in plant protection to the extension staff. Farmers' training
in plant protection will now be the responsibility of the general extension
service of DEM.
2.20      Seeds.  BADC is also in charge of procurement, multiplication and
distribution of HYV seeds. Seed multiplication is done on BADC farms and
also on approved private seed farms. Generally, BADC seed has been deficient
in quantity and quality and irregular in supply.    The ongoing IDA Cereal Seed
Project (Cr. 410) is improving the situation by providing; farm machinery
and processing facilities and by setting up a quality control organization.
F. Agricultural Credit
2.21      About 85% of agricultural credit comes from non-institutional
sources (money-lenders, traders, friends and relatives). The main sources
of institutional agricultural credit are the Bangladesh Krishi Bank (BKB),
the Bangladesh Jatiya Samabaya Bank (BJSB) and the commercial banks through
IRDP cooperative societies (IRDP-TCCA/KSSs). Both BKB and BJSB have an
unsatisfactory record; loans are often misused, the repayment record is
poor and the beneficiaries are mostly larger farmers. Commercial banks'
(mostly the Sonali Bank) involvement in agricultural credit started only
in 1973. Although Sonali Bank's performance through IRDP has been good,
the success of such an involvement is constrained by the limited coverage
of the IRDP-KSS system. Because the farmers cannot themselves finance the
necessary inputs and because credit is not available, the recommendations



-7-
of the extension service, advocating the use of fertilizer and other cash
inputs, are often not followed. More applicable recommendations would have
to take this financial constraint into account and rely more on labor and
non-cash inputs.
2.22      The agricultural credit situation was the subject of an IDA Review
Mission in 1974. In accordance with the recommendations of this review, a
detailed survey has recently been started by consultants financed under the
Second Technical Assistance Credit (Cr-622); they would be working in coor-
dination with the Asian Development Bank which is also providing assistance to
the sector through an operation with BKB. This survey, to be completed by the
end of 1978, would make recommendations for reorganizing and strengthening
the agricultural credit system and, it is hoped, would lead to the preparation
of a project to be submitted to IDA for financing.
III. THE PROJECT AREA (NORTH-WEST REGION) (Annex 3)
A. General
3.01      The project area (North-West Region or Rajshahi Division) lies north
of the Ganges and west of the Brahmaputra River and covers 13,300 sq mi, about
one-fourth of the country. It is one of the four administrative regions of
Bangladesh, and comprises five districts: Pabna, Rajshahi, Bogra, Rangpur and
Dinajpur. The population is estimated at 18 M, of which less than 6% is urban.
B. Climate
3.02      The climate is dominated by a single wet season with heavy rains
followed by a dry, cool winter period of about four to five months. The mean
annual rainfall varies locally from 50 to 90 inches; about 90% of the rainfall
occurs between May and October.   Mean monthly temperatures (0F) vary from
the low sixties to the mid-nineties. Mean relative humidity is high through-
out the year, ranging from about 60% to 90%. The climate is suitable for
year-round cropping, subject to availability of irrigation during the dry
season.
C. Topography, Soils and Land Types
3.03      The topography is characterized by a very gentle slope to the
southeast, with elevations up to 300 feet in the far northwest and down to
25 feet in the southeast. In the middle is a prominent table land known as
the Barind Tract. The Tista River crosses the northeast corner of the region,
and a number of small rivers cross the region from north to south. The major



-8-
rivers are bordered by broad flood plains with gently undulating ridges and
depressions. Higher ridges and the Barind Tract are only shallowly flooded
or stand above normal flood levels.
3.04      Soils are all alluvial with the young alluvium of the Tista, Brah-
maputra and Ganges floodplains surrounding the block of older material of
the Barind Tract. Soils at higher elevations on ridges are mainly permeable
loams, with some sandy patches, wlhile in valleys and basins clays predominate.
Barind Tract soils mainly have an impermeable puddled top soil. The region
has been classified into five Land, Development Units (LDUs) based largely on
soil and land capability data. This classification provides a basis for a
rational agricultural development strategy to be determined for each unit
(Annex 3, para 10).
D. Water Resources
3.05      The scope for surface water irrigation in the North-West Region
is limited. It is estimated that currently available supplies are sufficient
to irrigate about 150,000 ac or about 2% of the total cultivated area. With
some 5,000 low-lift pumps installed currently, this potential is already close
to full exploitation. The scope for groundwater irrigation is much more pro-
mising. The alluvial deposits underlying the region are excellent aquifer
materials, and are highly suitable for development of irrigation wells. Con-
servatively, it is estimated that at least one-third of the total cultivated
area (about 2.5 NM ac) is potentially irrigable with groundwater.   The develop-
ment so far includes about 4,000 deep tubewells (including 3,000 under the
IDA-supported Northwest Region Tubewells Projects) and about 6,000 shallow
tuDbewells under various schemes undertaken by BADC and BKB.   The total irri-
gation potential from this development will amount to about 0.2 M ac by June
1977 or less than 10% of the estimated potential.   A new project for 10,000
shallow tubew7ells in the North-West Region is now being processed for IDA
fi 8nancing.
3.06      In general, the existing irrigated area is about 50-60% of potential
because of socio-economic, organizational and technical constraints. Farmers
form irrigation groups, a prerequisite to obtaining a well; but after instal-
lation they are usually left to develop the command area on their own.    They
do not carry out any topographical survey to lelp in designing the channel
layout, nor do they receive any technical guidance during the construction of
the channels. Since farmers are unable or unwilling to finance the cement
required, most of the channels are not lined and without any drop structures
or junction boxes. As a result, water losses are high, irrigation efficiency
iLs low and the area irrigated per pump is small. The economic profitability
of the wells and low-lift pumps is therefore less than optimal.    The project
would attempt, on a pilot scale, to improve the existing situation (para 4.19).



-9-
E. Transportation
3.07      Most major towns and urban centers in the North-West Region are
accessible by a 500 mi network of all-weather paved roads. The region is
also well served by 616 route mi of railroads. However, the region is
poorly served by water transport and transportation to and from the region
is limited by the difficulties of crossing the Ganges and Brahmaputra rivers.
Moreover, facilities for local transportation are primitive and limited: for
most villages, the usual link to markets and other transportation arteries
is through katcha (dirt) tracks. In spite of its existing deficiencies,
however, the transportation network is sufficient to permit hauling of
agricultural inputs and produce and does not constitute a constraint on
agricultural development.
F. Farm Sizes and Land Tenure
3.08      According to the 1960 Census of Agriculture, the North-West Region
had about 1.5 M farms with an average size of 4.5 ac (as against 3.5 for the
whole country).   Very few farms were purely tenant farms:   about one-half of
them were cultivated solely by their owners and most of the remainder were
cultivated in part by their owners. No reliable and comprehensive information
is available on changes in farm size distribution or the tenurial situation
since 1960 but average farm size in the North-West is believed to have de-
creased to about 3.5 ac while the distribution of farm sizes as well as the
tenurial situation have also worsened.
3.09      The 1960 census also found that farms were heavily fragmented;
over one-third of the farms had ten plots or more. However, not all frag-
mentation is involuntary. Given the unpredictability of rainfall and flood-
ing patterns in Bangladesh, cultivation of plots at different elevations is
often an attempt to reduce the risk of total crop failure and to gain some
flexibility in cropping patterns and calendars.
G. Present Agricultural Situation and Potential
3.10      Rice is grown throughout the region.   Transplanted aman is the
major crop throughout the North and West (covering about 2.6 M ac): it is
grown on land shallowly flooded in the monsoon season. On land flooded too
deeply for transplanted aman, broadcast deepwater aman is the major crop
(about 0.8 M ac). Aus (about 2.4 M ac) is often the only rice crop grown
on well-drained highland soils, but part of these soils also produce a dry-
land rice crop (aman) after the aus. Jute is grown on a small part of the
land in place of aus and aman. Boro occupies only a small proportion of the
area in deep basin sites along the flood plains.



- 10 -
3.11      The North-West Region has a higher potential for rapid agricul-
tural development than any other region. This is mainly because of the great
extent of highland and shallowly flooded land suitable for conversion to HYV
aman varieties without irrigation. Much of this land, except in the Barind
Tract, could also produce a broadcast HYV aus crop without irrigation, to
replace the local aus varieties. One-third of the total national potential
for HYV aus and HYV aman is in the region with more than one-half of this
potential occurring in Dinajpur and Rangpur Districts. On the soils with a
good moisture holding capacity, HYVs also offer the possibility of double
cropping by having a quick-maturing aus variety followed by aman.
IV. THE PROJECT
A. Project Rationale and Description
4.01      Many studies have emphasized the potential for increasing agricul-
tural production in Bangladesh. Although the means for doing so are available
- suitable HYVs, fertilizers, tubewells and low-lift pumps, flood control
structures - the opportunities created by this modern technology have been
inadequately exploited by farmers. This lack of success appears to result
from a mis-match between the financial capacity of the farmers, most of whom
are on very small holdings, and the advice they receive from extension serv-
ices. Being typically on the edge of subsistence, farmers are reluctant to
accept the risks inherent in high input recommendations of extension staff.
4.02      The IDA Crop Sector Review of 1975, in agreement with the Government,
concluded that improving extension, training and adaptive research would be
the most effective way of increasing the economic profitability of the large
ongoing and planned Government investments in irrigation, flood control and
input distribution. To be successful, such a program would have to address
the major constraints of the existing system: lack of staff, vehicles and
incentives in DEN, absence of any adequate link between extension and research
and misdirected research programs. It snould also have as a basic aim the
consolidation of the major extension services.
4.03      Desirable as it is, this program could not be started immediately
for the whole country. Shortage of extension staff - especially VEAs - would
prove a major obstacle for such a large undertaking; the feasibility of build-
ing the large amount of housing required throughout the country is also doubt-
ful. A phased development of a countrywide program, with a first phase limited
to one region, thus appears advisable.
4.04      The North-West Region is sufficiently large to present most of the
problems to be confronted at the national level. Numerous development proj-
ects are in progress or planned, particularly in irrigation and water control.
It has also the largest potential for paddy development under rainfed condi-
tions (especially HYVs) and large possibilities for crop diversification. It
is relatively flood-free, has considerable untapped groundwater resources and
is thus well suited for rapid development.



4.05      The project would initiate the consolidation of some of the major
extension services with DEM; it would also support the reorganization of DEM
in the North-West Region. The number of VEAs and officers at the thana,
district and regional level would be increased; additional VEAs would be
obtained from other extension services to be amalgated with DEN and from the
output of the Agricultural Training Institutes (ATIs) over the next three
years. Fourteen Training Units (TUs) would be set up for training VEAs and
establishing a link between extension and research. Thana officers, TU
officers and VEAs would be provided with vehicles, equipment and housing;
incremental staff at the regional and district level would also be provided
with vehicles and equipment. To allow the VEAs to devote their full time to
extension duties, the field staff of the Bureau of Statistics of the Ministry
of Planning would be strengthen'ed. BADC would, in conjunction with local
engineering firms, carry out the development of the command areas of some
1,500 deep tubewells.
4.06      A network of five adaptive research stations would be developed
throughout the region, supported by provision of staff, building, vehicles
and equipment. Adaptive research would also be supported by strengthening
the Field Trial Division of BARI and channelling funds through the Bangladesh
Agricultural Research Council for research contracts.
B. Detailed Features
Agricultural Extension (Annex 4)
4.07      The Directorate of Agriculture (Extension and Management) would be
strengthened to make full use of the Training and Visit (T and V) method 1/.
This method is based on regular fortnightly visits by field extension workers
(VEAs) on given days to selected groups of farmers. Each VEA would receive
training and instruction on one day per fortnight in a Training Unit. He
would be given simple and timely messages to communicate, would find out
what his farmers' problems are and seek solutions. Assurances were obtained
that DEM would organize its extension and training in the NW Region according
to procedures acceptable to IDA.
4.08      Each group of farmers or block, would comprise on the average
about 1,000 active farm families. This number, however, could vary markedly:
while extension services would be available to all the farmers, areas with
better potential would receive more intensive coverage. Each block would be
divided into eight sub-blocks of 60 to 150 familiLs, and each subblock would
have ten to 15 contact farmers who would be the principal channel for convey-
ing extension messages to the other farmers of the sub-block. The messages
would focus on the most important local crops and on practices of immediate
relevance; they would be related to farm size and farmer ability to invest and
take risk. The VEAs would also carry out demonstrations and undertake field
trials. They would make no formal reports, but would keep a daily diary to
1/   A general presentation of this method will be found in the Bank docu-
ment "Agricultural Extension: the Training and Visit System" (June 1977).



- 12 -
record farm visits, major recommendations and problems to be discussed with
supervisors. Assurances were obtained during negotiations that, apart from
limited and specified exceptions, the VEAs in the North-West Region would
devote all their time to agricultural extension.
4.09      The number of VEAs for the North-West Region would be increased to
about 1,425, or 40% to 50% above the present strength. Additional VEAs would
come from the staff of the Plant Protection Directorate, presently amalga-
mated with DEM, and other extension services (Water Development, Horticulture,
Cotton and Tobacco Development Boards) to be amalgamated with DEM during
the project period.   Others would be recruited from Agricultural Training
Institutes (ATIs). Following present GOB policy, TEOs would be appointed in
all the thanas of the region (80 additional TEOs would be required); the
TAOs would become de facto their assistants (ATEO). Each TEO or ATEO would
then have about seven VEAs under his supervision. TEOS and ATEOS would
operate under the supervision of Sub-Divisional Extension Officers (SDEO),
who would in turn be supervised by District Extension Officers (DEO).
4.10      For the fortnightly training and the technical guidance and super-
vision of VEAs, 14 Training Units (TUs) would be established, suitably located
throughout the region and staffed with two or three subject matter specialists
designated as Crop Production Specialists (CPSs). Where possible, these TUs
would be located close to research stations or Agricultural Training Insti-
tutes (ATIs). The posts of CPSs would be filled by experienced agricultural
graduates after a period of training at BRRI and BARI or other research insti-
tutes in Bangladesh. One CPS would specialize in cereal crops, the second in
plant protection and the third, where applicable, in the most common non-
cereal crop in the area. In addition, 36 man-months of short-term fellowships
for training abroad would be provided. The CPSs would participate in field
research and be responsible for the bi-weekly training of the VEAs; they would
transmit to the extension workers the up-to-date findings of the research
stations and convey to the researchers the problems confronting farmers and
extension staff. The package of practices explained every fortnight to VEAs
would be prepared with the assistance of District Training Officers and con-
firmed by monthly meetings of thana and district officers. Assurances have
b-en obtained that the location and geographical coverage of the 14 Training
Units would be acceptable to IDA; assurances have also been obtained that the
Crop Production Specialists and Sub-Divisional Extension Officers in the NW
Region would have qualifications acceptable to IDA.
4.11      At the regional level, new posts for supporting staff would be
created. In addition to four senior CPSs, five Farm Production Economists
(FPEs) and two broadcast officers for the farmers' radio program of the AIS
would be appointed. Eighteen months of technical assistance would be pro-
vided for an extension consultant to help the Regional Director in implement-
ing the extension and training program. Thirty-six months of fellowship
abroad in farm economics would also be provided for the training of the FPEs.
4.12      Under the T and V system, extension staff at all levels would be
required to work more efLiciently and productively.   To support them in this,



- 13 -
improved facilities would be provided in the form of housing, vehicles and
radios for use as teaching eqdipment. The project would ensure that accom-
modation is provided for all VEAs, TEOs, ATEOs anr TU officers (Annex 5).   All
VEAs in the region would be provided with free housing: some 743 unused union
seed stores 1/ would be rehabilitated and transformed into houses and some 592
new houses would be built for the other VEAs 2/. At thana headquarters, the
project would also provide for the completion of 85 unfinished staff quarters
and the construction of 126 new four-apartment units so that each thana in the
region would eventually have three apartment buildings (known as "twin
quarters"). 3/ The buildings constructed or completed under the project would
provide accommodation in priority for TEOs, ATEOs and one or two Crop Prcduc-
tion Specialists of the Training Units; they would also accommodate by prior-
ity other thana officers of departments or agencies concerned with agricul-
tural development. Assurances have been obtained that these officers would be
housed in a number of apartments in "twin quarters'" at least equal to the
number of apartments included in the project. In each Training Unit, teaching
and administrative facilities and housing for two officers would be provided.
4.13      The project would provide bicycles for VEAs, motorcycles for TEOs,
ATEOs, SDEOs and TU officers, and four-wheeled vehicles for District and
Regional staff. Assurances have been obtained that the bicycles and motor-
cycles provided under the project will be made available to DEM's extension
agents under arrangements satisfactory to IDA. Provision of such arrangements
would be a condition of credit effectiveness. Budgetary provisions for travel
and daily allowances have ofteui been insufficient in the past, with the result
that their payment was discontinued when the budget allocation was exhausted.
Assurances have been obtained that sufficient budget provision for the North-
West Region would be made during the project period.
4.14      Staff in the districts, thanas, Training Units and unions would
le provided with audio visual and teaching equipment by AIS. One mobile
tnit per district would be used to supplement the efforts of field extension
workers. Along with other teaching equipment and demonstration material
thana and union staff would be provided with a small transistor radio so
1/   These seed stores were built in the early sixties in most of the
unions throughout the country. Shortly after, however, the decision
was made to transfer seed distribution to BADC which now sells directly
to the farmers from its thana depots. The union seeds stores, being
in most of the cases too far from the markets, are not suitable for
private traders and have thus been left unused.
2/   Under the IDA-supported Agricultural and Rural Training Project, 90 VEA
houses will be built in six thanas of the Region. They would be excluded
from the scope of the Extension and Research Project.
3/   Under the IDA-supported Rural Development Project, "twin quarters" will
be built or completed in four thanas of the region. They would be
excluded from the scope of the Extension and Research Project.



- 14 -
that they can supplement their periodic in-service training by listening to
the daily farm broadcast of AIS. The effectiveness of this broadcast as a
supplement to the T&V system would be further tested in four thanas where all
the contact farmers (about 6,000) would be also provided with a transistor
radio as an incentive.
Agricultural Statistics (Annex 6)
4.15      Traditionally VEAs have been in charge of collecting agricultural
statistics for the Ministry of Planning. This responsibility was transferred
in January 1976 to the Bureau of Statistics of the Ministry of Plannling. This
Bureau, however, is hampered for lack of field staff and the VEAs often still
carry out their previous statistical duties. To enable the Bureau of Statis-
tics to take over these responsibilities effectively, the project would pro-
vide additional field staff. The number of Thana Statistical Officers (TSOs)
in the region would be increased to one per thana, each with two assistants.
Altogether some 25 additional TSOs and 226 assistants would be required. As-
surances have been obtained that this increase in staff would be implemented
before July 1, 1978.
Applied Research and Field Trials (Annex 2)
4.16      To develop applied research in the various ecological zones of the
region a network of seven research sub-stations would be developed and managed
by BARI staff. The locations have been selected so as to represent the various
agroecological conditions of the region and to make use of ongoing or future
external assistance programs. Two sub-stations (Ishurdi and Ragbari) are to
be fully developed under external financing and no additional facilities are
required under the project. Two others (Rangpur and Bogra) will receive ve-
hicles, equipment and technical assistance under a UNDP-supported project
but additional research and housing facilities and staff would be necessary
for this project. In addition, three sub-stations (Thakurgaon, Rajshahi and
one at a location to be determined in the Barind Tract) would be fully devel-
oped under the project. This would include provision of research and housing
facilities, field and research equipment, vehicles and adequate research
staff.
4.17      The Rangpur and Bogra research sub-stations would be used under the
project for research on water management. Assurances have been obtained from
GOB that the medium term work plan for these sub-stations would be submitted
to IDA for review by October 1, 1977. It would be a condition of disbursement
against expenditures for the research component that 20 ac of suitable land of
the BADC farms of Thakurgaon and Rangpur had been transferred to BARI.
4.18      The department of BARI in charge of fertility trials 1/ would be
strengthened by providing additional staff and vehicles. The project would
1/   This department is now called Soil Fertility Institute; GOB intends to
change this name into Field Trials Division.



- 15 -
provide 12-man-months of consultancy to assist in preparing research programs
for the sub-stations and establishing a closer link with the extension service.
It would also include 30 man-months of training in Bangladesh and abroad. The
Bangladesh Agricultural Research Council (BARC) would finance research con-
tracts with existing organizations on various problems of immediate relevance
to farmers needs, such as demonstration and introduction of simple, inexpen-
sive farm implements. Assurances have been obtained that the research pro-
grams would be submitted to IDA approval by October 1, 1977, Assurances
were also obtained that the qualifications and experience of organizations
engaged under BARC contracts would be acceptable to the Association.
4.19      With the assistance of the research consultant, a work program
would be prepared for all the sub-stations and the Field Trials Division in
the North-West. The aim of this program would be to generate a package of
improved practices and cropping patterns which would be financially viable
to farmers. While the details of this program would vary depending on the
agro-ecological conditions and cropping patterns prevailing around each
sub-station, a general priority would be to increase cropping intensity;
as a first step the program would study the characteristics required for new
varieties or aew crops to fit into the prevailing cropping pattern.   Other
fields of research would be the refinement of existing packages of cultural
practices, the crop response to relatively low rates of fertilizer and the
impact of leguminous crops on soil fertility.
Assistance in Command Area Development (Annex 7)
4.20      Improvement of the command areas of existing irrigation systems
would be attempted on a pilot scale in the region. About 1,500 of the 3,000
deep tubewells sunk under the IDA-supported Northwest Tubewells Project (Cr
341) would be selected by BADC among those having the most deficient distri-
bution systems. (The area presently irrigated by these 1,500 tubewells would
be around 50,000 ac). BADC would then either devejoD the areas using its own
staff and equipment, or contract the development of their command areas to one
of several local engineering firms. This would include preparation of topo-
graphical maps and channel layouts, provision of technical guidance and super-
vision to the farmers and construction of drop structures and junction boxes.
BADC would finance the development of the command areas and recover the cost
from the farmers. Assurances were obtained that BADC would draw up a proposal
for command area development, and submit it to IDA for approval by October 1,
1977. Assurances were obtained that BADC would submit to IDA for review by
December 31, 1978 a plan to recover from beneficiaries the full operating and
maintenance costs of irrigation facilities, including command area develop-
ment, provided by BADC, and as much as possible of capital costs.
C. Cost Estimate and Phasing
4.21      Detailed cost estimates of the three year project are in Annex 8
and summarized below:



- 16 -
% of
Foreign
Ex-
Local  Foreign    Total   Local  Foreign   Total change
-- (Thousand Takas) --    (Thousand US Dollars)
Extension and Training
Civil Works                80,185  25,625   105,810  5,346   1,708   7,054    24
Land                          416     -         416     28     -         28    -
Equipment and Vehicles     11,327   7,331    18,658    755     489    1,244   39
Training and Consultants    6,053   2,430     8,483    403     162      565   28
Establishment Costs        13,531     -      13,531    902     -       902     -
Sub-total            111,512  35,386  146,898   7,434   2,359   9,793   24
Agricultural Statistics
Salaries and Allowances     3,596      -     3,596     240     -       240    -
Sub-total              3,596      -     3,596     240     -       240    -
Agricultural Research
Civil Works                 7,930   2,785   10,715     528     186     714    26
Land                          400      -        400     27      -       27      -
Equipment and Veh:Lcles     1,306   2,652    3,958      88     176     264     67
Training and Consultants       36   1,020     1,056      2      68      70     96
Establishment Costs         3,682     296    3,978     246      20     266      7
BARC Research Contracts     3,000     -      3,000     200      -      200     -
Sub-total             16,354   6,75,3  23,107   1,091     450   1,541    29
Command Area Development
Civil Works                 6,300   2,700    9,000     420     180     600    30
Engineering firm              998     107    1,105      66       7      73      9
Sub-total              7,298   2,807   10,105     486     187     673    28
Monitoring and Evaluation
Consultants                 1,900     -      1,900     127      -      127     -
Sub-total              1,900     -      1,900     127      -      127     -
BASE COST ESTIMAT:E       140,660  44,946  185,606   9,378   2,996  12,374     24
Physical Contingencies     17,030   5,733   22,763   1,135     382   1,517    25
Total with Physical
Contingencies           157,690  50,679  208,369 10,513    3,378  13,891    24
Price Contingencies        27,311   8,625   35,936   1,821     575   2,396     24
Total Project Cost        185,001  59,304  244,305 12,334    3,953  16,287     24



- 17 -
4.22      Total project costs are estimated at Tk 244.3 M (US$16.3 M) includ-
ing about Tk 45.0 M (US$3.0 M) in import taxes and duties. Cost estimates
are based on findings during appraisal and relate to prices in May 1977.
Physical contingencies have been applied on civil works for command area
development (25%), buildings (17%) and equipment (10%) and operating costs
other than salaries and allowances (5%). They average 12% of basic project
cost. Price contingencies have been applied at 9% per year on civil works,
6% on salaries and allowances and 7.5% on all other cost components.
4.23      The project would have a three year duration (see Implementation
Schedule, Annex 9). Because of limits on availability of new staff, the
build-up of extension and research workers would be phased over the project
period.
D. Project Finanicing
4.24      Finance to cover total project costs of US$16.3 M (Tk 244.3 M)
would be provided by IDA (US$10.0 M) and GOB (US$6.3). The distribution is
summarized below.
IDA       GOB         TOTAL
DEM and AIS                                    2.9       1.9          4.8
BARI /a                                        1.0       0.6          1.6
BADC                                           0.7       0.3          1.0
MLGRDC /b                                      3.6       2.1          5.7
Bureau of Statistics                            -        0.3          0.3
PIU /c                                         0.7       0.3          1.0
Sub-total                                8.9        5.5         14.4
Unallocated                                    1.1       0.8          1.9
TOTAL                                         10.0       6.3         16.3
/a   Includes research contracts financed through BARC and the training
costs of some Crop Production Specialists financed directly to BRRI.
/b   Ministry of Land Administration, Local Governments, Rural Develop-
ment and Cooperatives, resp;tisible for the construction of the thana
"twin quarters".
/c   Project Implementation Unit, for contracts with consulting firms for
project evaluation and for preparation and supervision of building
construction.
The proposed IDA Credit of US$10 M would be to GOB on standard terms and
would finance about 75% of project cost exclusive of import taxes and duties.
This would finance foreign exchange costs of Tk 59.3 M (US$4.0 M) and about
50% of local cost, including taxes and duties, of Tk 185.0 M or US$12.3.



- 18 -
E.   Procurement
4.25      The main items to bLe financed are:  civil works, vehicles, research
and teaching equipment, technical assistance, fellowships and training, in-
cremental salaries and allowances and other operating costs. The Project
Implementation Unit (PIU - para 5.01) would be responsible for procurement
of all items, including procurement contracts.
4.26      Civil works would range in size from rehabilitation of union seed
stores for VEA housing, to relatively large research and training buildings.
Civil .work contracts (including construction materials) would come to US$8.4 M
but they would be small (none exceeding US$100,000 in value) and dispersed,
both geographically and over time and would not be suitable for international
competitive bidding; contracts would be awarded on the basis of competitive
bidding following local advertising. Assurances have been obtained that the
PIU would have the power to procure construction materials, domestic or
imported, directly and supply them to building contractors. Imported con-
struction materials obtained in this way would be procured under interna-
tional competitive bidding in accordance with IDA guidelines. Bricks and
sand, which are locally produced, would be procured under local bidding
procedures.
4.27      About 13 four-wheel drive vehicles, 16 pick ups, one microbus, five
mobile units, 308 motorbicycles and 1,535 bicycles (US$0.8 M) would be re-
quired. They would be purchased over the three-year period and would be widely
dispersed in rural areas. It would therefore be extremely difficult to ensure
adequate maintenance and spares for a small number of a variety of imported
vehicles. They would thus be procured after local competitive bidding in
accordance with IDA guidelines; there are in Bangladesh enough local firms and
representatives of foreign firms to ensure a sufficient degree-of competition.
Training and research equipment (US$0.7 M) would be procured after interna-
tional competitive bidding. A preference limited to 15% of the CIF price of
imported goods or the custom duty, whichever is lower, would be extended to
local manufacturers in the evaluation of bids. Procurement of off-the-shelf
items costing less than US$10,000 each would be through normal Government
procedures satisfactory to IDA. Such purchases would however be limited to
US$300,000 in total.
4.28      Technical assistance specialists and services (US$0.8 M) would be
required; assurances have been obtained that they w,ould be hired on the basis
of qualifications, experience and terms and conditions of employment satis-
factory to IDA. This item would include the services of two expatriate con-
sultants (US$0.15 M) (eighteen months of an extension specialist and twelve
months of an applied research specialist at an average cost of US$5,000 per
man month or US$0.15 M in total); local consulting firms to ensure the pre-
paration and supervision of building construction (US$0.45 M) and command
area development (US$0.07 M), and to carry out the evaluation of the Project
(US$0.13 M).



- 19 -
4.29      The balance of project costs (without contingencies) would consist
of training in Bangladesh and abroad (US$0.1 M), research contracts (US$0.2 M),
incremental salaries and allowances (US$1.3 M), and land acquisition and other
operating costs (US$0.1 M); none of these involve procurement.
4.30      Assurances have been obtained that, for contracts in excess of
US$50,000 draft tender invitations and bid documents would be submitted for
IDA review before issue. Assurances have also been obtained that programs
and staff qualifications for fellowships would be submitted to IDA for
approval.
4.31      In order to ensure that local currency financing would be available
promptly, a condition of effectiveness would be the establishment and funding
of a revolving fund to be operated by the PIU Director. The fund would be
used to cover local currency expenditure for project payments to consultants
and suppliers and to pay for local training during the implementation period.
Assurances have been obtained that the revolving fund would be replenished
monthly to maintain a balance of Tk 500,000 plus an amount corresponding to
PIU's budgetary estimate of its local currency expenditures over the following
three months.
F. Disbursement and Audit
4.32      Disbursement under the credit would extend over three years for:
(a)  100% of foreign expenditures or 100% of local expendi-
tures ex-factory or 70% of other local expenditures
for equipment, vehicles and spares.
(b)  100% of foreign expenditure for construction material
imported directly, 70% of local expenditures for con-
struction materials and 70% of total expenditures for
civil works. 1/
(c)  100% of foreign expenditures and 70% of local expen-
ditures for technical assistance and training, research
contracts, and project evaluation.
Disbursements against (a), (b) and (c) would be fully documented. A disburse-
ment schedule is in Annex 10.
4.33      No disbursement would be made for the completion of unfinished
apartment buildings at thana headquarters. Most of these buildings are
already under construction through contracts with local entrepreneurs even
though works may have been interrupted for lack of funds. It would thus be
1/   No disbursement under (b) would be made against any expenditure for
completion of unfinished buildings at thana headquarters and earthwork
in the c'ommand area of wells executed by the farmers themselves.



- 20 -
difficult for IDA to monitor the procurement procedu-res for these civil works.
The designs of these buildings have been reviewed by IDA and are satisfactory.
Assurances have been obtained that GOB would complete these buildings before
July 1, 1979.
4.34      Assurances have been obtained during negotiations that the PIU and
the implementing departments would maintain a separate account of expenditures
made under the project and that these would be audited annually, together with
the disbursement documents, by an independent auditor in a manner acceptable
to IDA. The project accounts, together with the auditor's comments, would be
sent to IDA within six months of the close of each fiscal year.
V. ORGANIZATION AND 1MANAGEMENT
A.  Project Implementation Unit
5.01      The project would be implemented through existing GOB departments
and agencies; assurances have been obtained that the schedule for hiring incre-
mental staff and executing the various project components would be acceptable
to IDA. To ensure the efficient operation of the project, a Project Imple-
mentation Unit (PIU) in Dacca would be responsible for overall coordination,
recruitment of consultants and procurement, monitoring and evaluation. In
addition, a Regional Coordinating Committee at the North-West Regional head-
quarters and five District Coordinating Committees would be set up.
5.02      Under the IDA-supported Agricultural and Rural Training Project,
a Project Implementation Unit (PIU) has been established in the Ministry of
Agriculture. This PIU, headed by a full time Director of Joint Secretary
rank, includes an architect, an accountant, a procurement officer, an educa-
tion officer and supporting staff, all full time. The project itself provides,
inter alia,for construction of seven Agricultural Training Institutes (ATIs),
in-service training for extension workers and a study of existing extension
services, all of direct relevance to the proposed Extension and Research
Project.
5.03      To ensure a close coordination of the two projects, the PIU of the
Agricultural and Rural Training Project would be expanded to service also
the proposed project.   The common PIU would be headed by a director of Joint
Secretary rank and consist of two sub-units (one for each project), each
headed by a deputy director.   The deputy in charge of the sub-unit for the
new Extension and Research Project would be an Additional Director of DEM,
assigned to work full time on this project. He would be assisted by four
full-time officers:   a procurement officer, an accountant, an engineer/
architect, an evaluation officer and the supporting staff required. The
evaluation officer is expected to come from the Planning Cell of the Ministry
of Agriculture and would be assigned to the project full-time.



- 21 -
5.04      The PIU would be responsible for all project budgeting, procurement,
disbursement, monitoring and submission of periodic progress reports in a form
acceptable to IDA. All the funds for project-related procurement of goods
and services and for training would be channelled through the PIU which would
have power of procurement of all domestic and foreign goods required. Project
funds would be released to the PIU and the implementing departments in accord-
ance with Project Proformas (PPs). It was a condition of Board presentation
that the PPs for the project had been finalized by the Ministry of Agriculture.
It would be a condition of effectiveness that they have been approved by the
Government. The preparation and supervision of the building component of the
project would be contracted by the PIU to a local consulting firm of architects/
engineers which would be responsible for prequalification of bidders, prepara-
tion of tender documents and evaluation of bids, procurement of building mate-
rial if required and supervision of construction works (Annex 5). The cost of
these consultants is assumed at 5% of the construction cost. Assurances have
been obtained that a consulting firm would be appointed before October 1,
1977. Assurances have also been obtained that, with the exception of houses
for VEAs, the designs and floor plans for each type of new building to be
constructed under the project and the sites for the Training Units and
research sub-stations buildings would be submitted to IDA for approval and that
houses for VEAs would be constructed according to standards acceptable to
IDA.
5.05      Assurances have been obtained that the terms of reference for the
Extension and Research sub-unit of the PIU would be acceptable to IDA, and the
qualifications and experience required for its professional staff would be
discussed with the Association. It would be a condition of effectiveness that
the deputy director in charge of the sub-unit and the evaluation officer had
been appointed, the former in consultation with IDA. Assurances have been
obtained that all the other officers of the sub-unit would be appointed before
December 1, 1977.
B.   Project Coordinating Committees
5.06      A Regional Coordinating Committee would be set up at the Rajshahi
regional headquarters to coordinaee the work of the various departments
responsible for project execution. The Committee would consist of the
Divisional Commissioner, the Regional Director of Agriculture, the five
District Extension Officers, the Regional Officers of BADC and BARI, and the
Regional Director of the Ministry of Land Administration, Local Government,
Rural Development and Cooperatives. It would be chaired by the Divisional
Commissioner with th~e Regional Director of Agriculture as Secretary. It
would define the general policy and approve detailed annual and seasonal
work programs for both extenion and research; it would report to the Joint
Secretary in charge of the PIU on the progress of the project.
5.07      Similar Coordinating Committees would be set up in each district of
the region. Chaired by the District Deputy Commissioner with the District
Extension Officer as Secretary, these District Committees would in addition



- 22 -
comprise the Senior Scientific Officers of the district research sub-stations,
the District Officer of IRDP and the District Engineer of BADC; they would
report to the Regional Coordinating Committee. Assurances have been obtained
that the Regional and District Committees would have memberships satisfactory
to IDA. It would be a condition of credit effectiveness that the Regional
Coordinating Committee and the five District Coordinating Committees had been
established.
C.  Extension and In-Service Training
5.08      The Regional Director of Agriculture (Extension and Management)
would be in charge of all aspects of extension and in-service training; he
would be directly responsible for the new posts created at the divisional
level. Officers of the Training Units would be administratively responsible
to the District Extension Officer of their district. Annual programs and
budgets would be prepared by the District Extension Officers, reviewed by the
District Coordinating Committees and forwarded for approval to the Regional
Director of Agriculture and the Regional Coordinating Committee. The Regional
Director of Agriculture would then be responsible for incorporating these
district programs into a regional plan.
5.09      The amalgamation of the Plant Protection Directcorate with DEM,
already initiated (para 2.19), would be completed. Similarly the extension
services of the Water Development Board (WDB) and of the Horticulture,
Tobacco and Cotton Development Boards would be merged with DEM throughout
the country. Assurances have been obtained that DEM's merger with WDB would
take place by July 1, 1978, and the mergers with the other services by
November 1, 1977.
5.10      Under the IDA supported Agricultural and Rural Training Project,
a study had been provided under GOB to survey the field extension services.
Since several of these extension services would be merged with DEM in the
beginning of project implementation, this study would now be focused on the
two extension services of DEM and IJCS. At the end of the second year of the
Jute Project and the Extension and Research project, the study would evaluate
the two existing extension services and examine the desirability of their
amalgamation. If proposed, the study would make recommendations for alterna-
tive methods of handling the non-extension activities presently handled by
IJCS. The Jute Project, now processed for IDA financing would strengthen IJCS
by providing additional staff, housing and vehicles to its extension service
and credit and storage facilities for the farmers. Support for IJCS extension
service would be similar to assistance given to DEM under this project; in
particular staff, housing and vehicles would be provided along the same pat-
tern. If recommended the amalgamation of the two services would thus be
facilitated. The study would also survey the extension services of the
Livestock Department and the Sugar Mill Corporation and ascertain the desir-
ability of merging them with DEM.



- 23 -
D. Research
5.11      Staffing and management of the seven research sub-stations would be
the responsibility of BARI, while its Soil Fertility Institute (SFI) would be
responsible for trials in farmers' fields. A senior research officer, posted
in the regional research station of Ishurdi and assisted by the research con-
sultant, would be responsible for the project. Assurances have been obtained
that this officer would be appointed before December 1, 1977. Under his
guidance, the officers in charge of each substation and of the SFI in the
North-West region would prepare annual research programs. These programs
would be reviewed by the District Coordinating Committee before being submitted
for the approval of the Director of BARI. Assurances have been obtained that
the annual programs would be submitted to IDA by October 1, 1977 for review.
E. Command Area Development
5.12      The overall responsibility for supervising and, when BADC resources
permit, execution of this component would rest with the regional engineer of
BADC in the North West. This engineer, working in liaison with the PIU and
BADC district engineers in the region, would select the wells for improvement
works, and define the s;cope of the works to be executed. In cases where BADC
did not itself carry out the physical works, it would invite and evaluate
proposals from engineering firms for developing the command areas. After
selection of one or several firms by BADC management, he would " - responsible,
with the district and thana engineers for their supervision. The engineering
firms would prepare topographical maps and channel layouts, provide supervision
and guidance to the farmers for the earthworks required on channel construction
and construct themselves or contract out to local entrepreneurs the construc-
tion of the concrete structures needed. As a prerequisite to obtaining of a
well, farmers' associations have already been formed to coordinate the farmers'
actions for the management of the well and the procurement of the necessary
inputs. They would now be used by the engineering firms, with the assistance
of extension and IRDP staff, to enlist the cooperation of the farmers for the
development works.
F. Monitoring and Evaluation (Annex 11)
5.13      The project monitoring system would be an integral part of the quar-
terly progress reports of DEOs, BADC district engineers and Senior Officers
of the research sub-stations; formats for these reports would be prepared
by the evaluation officer of the PIU. These reports would be reviewed by the
District Coordinating Committees and then transmitted to the Regional Director
of Agriculture and the Regional Coordinating Committee, who would recommend



24 -
appropriate actions. The reports would then be forwarded to the PIU where
the evaluation officer would be responsible for compiling them and transmit-
ting to IDA the agregated version. Assurances have been obtained that formats
for all these reports would be prepared and sent to IDA before January 1, 1978.
5.14      Overall project evaluation would be the responsibility of the Plan-
ning Cell of the Ministry of Agriculture which would assign an evaluation
officer to work full-time in the PIU. Since it would require varied expertise,
the project evaluation would be contracted to a local consultLng firm under
the supervision of the evaluation officer. Three separate sample surveys
would be required: a benchmark survey; one after three cropping seasons;
and a final survey after project completion in the third year. Assurances
were obtained that, by November 1, 1977, a program (including time schedule)
for project evaluation had been submitted to IDA for approval and a consulting
firm with qualifications, experience and terms of reference satisfactory to
IDA had been recruited.
VI.  FARM IMPACT, PRODUCTION AND MARKETING (Annex 12)
6.01      The messages of the extension workers would be simple and concen-
trate on factors resulting in most immediate and effective response. These
factors would include: land preparation (improvement of timing and of bund-
ing and levelling of the paddy fields); time of planting; storage, treatment
and selection of seed; seedbeds (using raised seedbeds for transplanted crops
with improved soil preparation and less dense sowings); weeding; HYVs, fertil-
izers and pest control. Depending on the level of husbandry and the financial
capacity of the farmers, different packages of recommendations would be given.
Three such packages have been identified, applicable to both local and im-
proved varieties. The first one, addressed mostly to the poorest farmers
and sharecroppers, would stress improvement in the cultural practices listed
above without any modification in the level of fertilizer used. The two
others would stress the same cultural practices with added doses of fertil-
izers; they would be addressed to farmers with better standards and financial
capacity.
6.02      Under the project, yield increases would result from the applica-
tion of these packages and from the change from local to improved varieties.
To assess the impact of an improved extension services on the farms, three
models have been prepared, corresponding to different farm size (1.5 ac,
4.0 ac and 8.0 ac). The cropping patterns of these three models are repre-
sentative of the North-West region, with the existing differences between
small and bigger farms. (For instance, the big farms would have a greater
variety of crop and a higher proportion of improved varieties of wheat and
paddy). The impact on the farmers of the extension message would also depend
on the size of the farms: small farmers are likely to accept more readily
a package not requiring any increase in cash inputs and to be slow in changing
from local to improved varieties. Taking these factors into account, the
models show that, in all three cases, total yields and farmers' incomes should
increase by about 30%. Irrespective of the sizes of the farms, the extension
message would thus make a substantial impact on the farmers' incomes.



D-JD
6.03      With prospects of continuing food shortages for the foreseeable
future, the marketing of the project production should pose no problems on a
country-wide basis. However, the foodgrain balance for the North-West Region
is more favorable than for the rest of the country -- in fact the northern part
of the region is one of the few food surplus areas in Bangladesh. Also, be-
cause of a number of on-going or proposed agricultural projects in the region,
it is likely that food production in the area would increase significantly and
hence.. there may be problems of localized surplus, particularly in remote and
inaccessible areas. GOB rezognizes the importance of the matter and is exam-
ining proposals for improving the effectiveness of its procurement machinery.
Existing godowns will be rehabilitated with British financial assistance and
a project for construction of additional storage capacity in the whole country
is being prepared for IDA consideration. With improvements in regional procure-
ment, there should be no problem in transferring the regional surplus to other
parts of the country.
VII. BENEFITS AND JUSTIFICATION
A. Budgetary Impact
7.01      The capital cost of the project - excluding all operating costs
but including contingencies amounts to US$16.3 M or US$8.4 per farm family
in the region. Annual operating costs (including maintenance of civil works),
to be met annually from GOB sources, would rise from about US$0.3 M in the
first year of the project to about US$0.8 M (US$0.42 per farm family) after
project completion. This additional requirement compares with GOB budgetary
allocation in 1976/77 of US$199.3 M for agricultural development projects and
US$511 M for total current expenditures in 1976/77. GOB's financial contri-
bution would be assisted in part by the recovery of about US$1.0 M, represent-
ing the cost of the civil works for command area development which would be
recovered from the benefitting farmers.
B. Economic Justification
7.02      Attributing a precise level of benefits to the extension and re-
search component is difficult since the expected bea-efits of improved agri-
cultural practices, which also require additional inputs, cannot be attributed
solely to extension and research (Annex 13). However, there is no doubt that
the substantial improvement in the efficiency of utilization of resources which
would be brought about by the project, would generate a high rate of return. It
would be reasonable to expect that, by Year 7, yields of foodgrain region-wide
would increase by at least 20 lb/ac, or by about 2%, over the "without-project"
situation giving an economic rate of return of 50%. In the IDA-financed
Chambal and Rajasthan Command Area Development Projects in India, provisional
figures indicate that, over a three-year period, yields of rice increased by
an average of 60%, wheat by 80% and those of mustard and gram more than dou-
bled as a result of improved extension services of the type this project would



- 26 -
provide. While these are largely irrigated areas, it shows the magnitude
of the possible response. There is little risk that project-induced yields
would not increase by an average of at least 20 lb/ac since the best farmers
in the region already obtained yields at least 50% above the current average
and, on research stations, substantially higher yield levels than these are
achieved. These high rates of return should be treated with caution since,
as improved agricultural practices spread-, further investments in infra-
structure and services become necessary.
7.03      The economic profitability of the irrigation component would also
be very high because of the "sunk" cost of the wells. At present, only 50%
to 60% of the area potentially irrigable is effectively irrigated. It is
estimated that the improved water distribution system would permit saving of
some 10% of t-he water.  This saving should, in turn, allow an increase of the
irrigated area of about 10% or 3 ac per command area, practically without
increase in the operating costs. Under these assumptions the financial rate
of return to the farmers would be 20% while the economic rate of return itself
would be as high as 50% (Annex 7).
C. Social Benefits
7.04      In the past, agricultural development strategy has been aimed at
achieving production increases mainly through investment in irrigation and
through use of "optimal" packages of practices, involving improved varieties
with substantial doses of fertilizer and pesticides. These improvements were
frequently financed by credit, often not available to small and medium sized
farmers; the related recommendations were therefore unsuited to the majority
of farmers. The extension service under the project would focus first on
improved cultural practices and farm management combined with low cost inputs;
this would primarily involve more labor--an asset most small farmers have in
abundance. It thus provides an opportunity for small and marginal farmers
to enjoy the benefits of increased productivity. Aside from generating high
economic benefits at low costs, in general, the project would, therefore, also
have a considerable beneficial impact on the lot of small and marginal farmers.
It is estimated that about two-thirds of the farm families in Bangladesh (and
in the Region) are presently in the category of farmers living below the
poverty line (about Tk 2,000 per person per year). A high proportion of
project beneficiaries would thus belong to this target group.
VIII. AGREEMENTS REACHED AND RECOMMENDATIONS
8.01      A condition of Board presentation was that the necessary Project
Proformas had been finalized by the Ministry of Agriculture (para 5.04).
8.02      During negotiations, assurances were obtained from GOB that:
(a) DEM would organize its extension and training in the
NW Region according to procedures acceptable to IDA
(para 4.07);



- 27 -
(b) apart from limited and specified exceptions, the Union
Agricultural Assistants and Village Extension Agents
in the North-West Region would devote all their time to
agricultural extension (para 4.08);
(c)  the location and geographical coverage of the 14 Training
Units would be acceptable to IDA (para 4.10);
(d) the Crop Production Specialists and Sub-divisional Extension
officers in the NW Region would have qualifications and
experience acceptable to IDA (para 4.10);
(e) Thana Officers of department or agencies concerned with
agricultural development would be housed in a number of
apartments in "Twin Quarters" at least equlal to the number
of apartments included in the project (para 4.12);
(f) arrangements satisfactory to IDA would be used for the
provision of bicycles and motorcycles to extension agents
(para 4.13);
(g) sufficient budget provision would be made for payment of
adequate travel and daily allowances for extension staff
in the NW Region (para 4.13);
(h) field staff for the Bureau of Statistics wouild be provided
before July 1, 1978 (para 4.15);
(i) the medium term work plan for the Rangpur and Bogra research
sub-stations would be submitted to IDA for review before
October 1, 1977 (para 4.17);
(j)  the research program for BARC would be submitted to IDA for
approval by October 1, 1977 (para 4.18);
(k) the qualifications and experience of organizations engaged
under BARC contracts would be acceptable to the Association
(para 4.18);
(1) BADC would draw up a proposal for command area development and
submit it to IDA for approval by October 1, 1977 (para 4.20);
(m)  BADC would submit to IDA for review by December 31, 1978
a plan to recover from beneficiaries the full operating
and maintenance costs, and as much as possible of capital
costs of irrigation facilities, including command area
development provided by BADC (para 4.20);
(n) the Project Implementation Unit would have the power to
procure construction material directly (para 4.26);



- 28 -
(o) technical assistance specialists and services would be
hired on the basis of qualifications, experience and
terms and conditions of employment satisfactory to
IDA (para 4.28);
(p)  for contracts in exceCej of US$50,000 draft tender invitations
and bid documerit would be submitted for IDA review before
issue (para 4.30);
(q) programs and staff qualifications for fellowships would be
submitted to IDA for approval (para 4.30);
(r) a revolving fund for the project to be operated by the PIU
director would be replenished monthly to at least Tk 500,000
(para 4.31);
(s) GOB would complete the unfinished apartment buildings at thana
headquarters ("twin quarters") before July 1, 1979 (para 4.33);
(t) PIU and the implementing departments would maintain separate
accounts of expenditures made under the project to be audited
annually together with the disbursement documents by an in-
dependent auditor in a manner acceptable to the Association and
that the project accounts, together with the auditor's comments,
would be sent to IDA within six months of the close of each
fiscal year (para 4.34);
(u) the schedule for hiring incremental staff and executing the
various project components would be acceptable to IDA
(para 5.01);
(v)  with the exception of houses for VEAs, the designs and floor
plans for each type of new building to be constructed under
the project and the sites for the Training Units and research
sub-stations buildings would be submitted to IDA for approval
(para 5.04);
(w) houses for VEAs would be constructed according to standards
acceptable to IDA (para 5.04);
(x) a consulting firm of engineers/architects would be appointed
before October 1, 1977 for preparation and supervision of the
building programs (para ;.04);
(y) the terms of reference for the Extension and Research sub-unit
of the PIU and for its professional staff would be acceptable to
IDA (para 5.05);
(z) the PIU Deputy Director would be appointed in consultation
with IDA, and the qualifications and experience required for
the other staff appointed to the PIU would be discussed with
IDA (para 5.05);



- 29 -
(aa)  all officers of the project sub-unit of the PIU (except the
PIU Deputy Director and the Evaluation Officer) and the
BARI officer in charge of the research component would be
appointed before December 1, 1977 (paras 5.05 and 5.11);
(bb)  the Regional and District Coordinating Committees would have
memberships satisfactory to IDA (para 507);
(cc)  the extension services of the Plant Protection Directorate,
the Horticulcure with Tobacco and Cotton Development Boards
would be amalgamated with DEM throughout the country before
November 1, 1977 (para 5.09);
(dd)  the extension service of the Water Development Board would
be amalgamated with DEM throughout the country by July 1,
1978 (para 5.09);
(ee)  the annual research programs for the seven sub-stations
and the Field Trial Division of BARI in the North-West
would be submitted to IDA by October 1, 1977 for review
(para 5.11);
(ff)  formats for monitoring of the various project components
would be prepared by the evaluation officer of the PIU
and sent to IDA before January 1, 1978 (para 5.13);
(gg)  a program (including time schedule) for project evaluation
would be submitted to IDA for approval by November 1, 1977
(para 5.14); and
(hh)  consultants with qualifications, experience and terms of
reference satisfactory to the Association would be appointed
to carry out the project evaluation (para 5.14).
8.03      It would be a condition of effectiveness of the credit that:
(a)  arrangements satisfactory to IDA for the provision of
bicycles and motorcycles supplied under the project to DEM's
extension staff have been established (para 4.13).
(b)  a revolving fund for the project has been established and
had received sufficient initial funding (para 4.31);
(c) the Project Proformas (PPs) for the project have been approved
by the Gcvernment (para 5.04);
(d)  a deputy director (additional director of DEM) has been
appointed in charge of the project sub-unit of the PIU and
an evaluation officer had been appointed in the sub-unit
(para 5.05); and
(e) the Regional Coordinating Committee and the five District
Coordinating Committees have been established (para 5.07);



- 30 -
8.04      It would be a condition of disbursement against expenditures for
the research component that 20 acres of suitable land had been transferred
from the BADC farms of Thakurgaon and Rangpur to BARI (para 4.17).
8.05      With the above agreements, the proposed project would be suitable
for an IDA credit of US$10 M under standard IDA terms. The Borrower would
be the People's Republic of Bangladesh.
June 14, 1977



ANNEX 1
Page 1
BANGLADESH
EXTENSION AND RESEARCH PROJECT
Extension and Training: Present Situation
A. Introduction
1.        Agricultural extension is the process of motivating farmers and
reinforcing their knowledge and skills so that they can use their resources
more effectively and profitably. For agricultural extension to be econo-
mically justified, a gap must exist between existing and potential practices
which can be filled in a practicable and profitabla way. A special organiza-
tion and trained staff are required to supply.information tailored to farmers'
needs at the right time and place; it also often requires some form of organi-
zation of the farming community itself in order to benefit fully from the
information provided.
2.        In the Northwest Region of Bangladesh, a gap undoubtedly exists
betwee~n existing and potential practices despite the acknowledged skills and
energy of the average farmer (Annex 3). Unfortunately an effective agricul-
tural research service and organization is only now developing. Partly as a
consequence the technical competence of agricultural service personnel is low
at most levels.  Economic advice on farm production, management and cropping
patterns is almost totally lacking - hence technical advice may be misleading.
The approach has been crop-oriented, not whole farm-oriented. There are
different extension services for each of the main crops and different advice
may be given to the same farmer, depending on the extension service involved.
Also, in the absence of an effective pricing and marketing policy for farm
products, the impact of even the best technical advice can be very small or
even negative.
3.        The farmers are skilled, hard-working and open to economic motiva-
tion, but because of risks, they are chary of incurring much expenditure on
inputs. Despite widespread illiteracy, they respond positively to innovations
but they also react quickly to market fluctuations. Steady prices and good
market information are therefore more than usually important, indicating the
possibilities for an effective farm radio programme.
4.        The fundamental social unit in rural Bangladesh is the extended
household, often consisting of several generations of one family, eating to-
gether from one kitchen. On marriage, sons move into adjacent houses and
eventually a closely related group of households is formed called a "para"
(or hamlet), which varies in size, according to the growth of the family and
31



ANNEX 1
Page 2
the availability of land above flood level.   (In densely populated areas like
the Barind Tract, paras coalesce into consolidated villages, or "gram"). Each
para consists of about 10 to 30 households. The land of one household may be
farmed communally with the most capable brother as the manager, but where this
exceeds the maximum legal size for a farm unit (30 acres), each brother will
farm his own land separately. To be effective the extension service must work
with and influence these farmers at the para, gram, and union level.
B. Authorities Involved in Agricultural Extension
5.        Historically, the Directorate of Agriculture (established in 1906)
was the first recognizable agency to have an extension function. Between 1947
and 1950, the Extension Department was reorganized and renamed the Directorate
of Agriculture (Extension and Management) - (DEN). Emphasis was placed on
farmer training and the Primary Licentiate Assistants (PLAs) of the Jute-
Regulation Department, became the Union Agricultural Assistants (UAAs) and
Thana Agricultural Officers (TAOs) of the Directorate. The formalization of
a special extension service to promote water use for irrigation under the
Water Development Board was the next major step, followed in 1974 by the
formalization. of the Intensive Jute Cultivation Scheme (IJCS). In 1973, an
Additional Support Scheme proposed several improvements, many of which were
incorporated into the Minimum Package Program introduced in May 1976 by
DEM.
6.        In overall terms the Ministry of Agriculture is still the most im-
portant agency. However, its efforts and services are fractionalized between
six different authorities, namely:
(a) The Directorate of Agriculture (Extension and Management);
(b) The Directorate of Plant Production;
(c) The extension service of IJCS;
(d) The extension service of the Cotton Development Board;
(e) The extension service of the Horticulture Development
Board; and
(f) The extension service of the Tobacco Development Board.
7.        Outside the Ministry of Agriculture, five other Ministries have
field extension services:
(a) Ministry of Industries - Sugar and Food Industries Corporation;
(b) Ministry of Flood Control, Water Development and Power- Water
Development Board;
32



ANNEX 1
Page 3
(c) Ministry of Commerce - Tea Board;
(d) Ministry of Land Administration Local Government Rural
Development and Cooperatives - Intensive Rural Development
Program (IRDP); and
(e) Ministry of Forestries, Fisheries and Livestock - Directorate
of Livestock.
8.        Besides many area projects including an extension element, there are
nine extension support projects benefiting from external assistance:
(a) Agricultural and Rural Training Project (IDA Credit 621-BD);
(b) Rural Development Project (IDA Credit 631-BD);
(c) Rural Development Project (ADB);
(d)  Strengthening the Agricultural Extension Service (UNDP/FAO);
(e)  Strengthening the Plant Protection Service (UNDP/FAO);
(f) Development of winter crops in the North West (UNDP/FAO);
(g) Soil Fertility Project (FAO);
(h) FAO/NORAD fertilizer demonstration project; and
(i) Central Extension Resources Development Institute (CERDI)
(Japan).
In addition, some 19 bilateral, international volunteer groups or missionary
organizations have their own extension services.
9.        Lack of an effective operating budget for the DEM in the Ministry
of Agriculture has limited its agents' mobility and the amount of supervision
possible, thus causing the setting up of new services dealing with specialized
crops or functions. Each of these services has differing objectives and
separate bureaucracies, yet most are dealing with the same farmers. The
dispersion of available staff in many different agencies has affected the
efficiency of DEM and caused some confusion.
C. The Directorate of Agriculture (Extension and Management) (DEM)
Staffing
10.       This service employs 44% of all extension and development workers
in Bangladesh today (60% if the Plant Protection Service is included). It is
organized on the same basis as the administration of Bangladesh: 4 Regions
33



ANNEX 1
Page 4
(formerly Divisions), 20 Districts, 74 Sub-divisions, 413 Thanas and 4500
Unions. The Ward is a smaller electoral unit within a Union but there is no
DEM presence there.
11.       The number of line posts currently sanctioned at the various levels
is as follows:
Level                  Denomination                      Number      NW
National       Director of-Agriculture (E&M) (DA)            1        -
Regional        Regional Director of Agriculture (RDA)       4         1
District        District Extension Officer (DEO)            20         5
District        District Agricultural Officer (DAO)          9        4
Sub-Division    Sub-Divisional Agricultural Officer (SDAO) 74        14
Thana           Thana Extension Officer (TEA)              158       40
Thana           Thana Agricultural Officer (TAO)           517      114
Union           Union Agricultural Assistant (UAA)/
Village Extension Assistant (VEA)     4,333     1,103
12.       Actual numbers of DEM staff in post in the NW Region are given in
Table 1 together with the numbers employed by other extension agencies. While
it is expected that the UAA posts currently vacant (13% of total) will be
eventually filled, a cause of concern remains the shortage of well qualified
senior officers with practical experience to direct operations.
13.       The new posts of District Extension Officer (DEO) and Thana Exten-
sion Officer (TEO) have recently been introduced along the lines recommended
by the Additional Support Scheme (ASS); however, not all the districts and
thanas have been provided with an extension officer yet. The ASS has en-
couraged decentralization from the center to the Regions, from the Regions
to the Districts and from the Sub-division to the Thana. Unfortunately,
decentralization has also reduced to a critical point the strength of the
headquarters in Dacca where only the Director and one Additional Director
remain.
14.       OfLicers of TEO level and above are now expected to be graduates.
In the higher posts (District), long experience (ten years or more) with
higher qualifications and even foreign training are being sought. Yet the
cutting edge of the organization remains the Union Agricultural Assistant
whose cadre is being increased and slowly replaced by the Village Extension
Assistant (VEA's). The VEAs are agricultural technicians trained for two
years in Agricultural Training Institutes (see para 44).
15.       The UAA/VEA, 1/ being the only government official at the Union level,
has been frequently called upon to assist Thana level officers other than the
TAO (to whom he officially reports). Consequently, he often devoted half or
more of his time to non-extension duties. Most of the VEAs confined their
agricultural operations to model farmers or irrigation blocks, where responsi-
bilities were specific and distances limited. Thana and district officers
1/   Hereafter referred to simply as VEA.                                34



ANNEX 1
Page 5
are responsible for the supervision of subordinate staff; in addition they
have regulatory duties: payment of staff and financial accounting, prepara-
tion of estimates for crop acreage and input requirements, training of model
farmers, crop protection and control.
The Intensified Extension Program
16.       In May 1976, the Ministry of Agriculture introduced nationwide,
under the Intensified Extension Program, those parts of the "Training and
Visit" (T&V) system which could be implemented within existing limitations
of staff and funds. The main elements of the system introduced were:
(a) The duties of VEAs were restricted to agricultural
extension;
(b) Each VEA's activities were concentrated on weekly
rotation in areas known as the Minimum Package Block.
This block, divided into four sub-blocks, covers on
average about eight villages or 24 paras.
(c) The VEAs were to contact the farmer groups through
"Progressive farmers" known as "Contact Farmers" (CFs) -
one per para - who in turn would disseminate the packages
of practices to neighbors.
(d) Each VEA has required to keep to a regular weekly pro-
gram, visiting two villages each day for four days each
week, then meeting CFs and other farmers (including those
not in the block) on the fifth day for group discussion and
review.
(e) On alternate Saturdays, at the thana level, the VEAs were
to report and receive instructions and limited training
for the next fortnight from their TEO and/or TAO.
17.       This fortnightly training program is planned three months in advance
by the SDAO and TEOs/TAOs and reviewed/modified by the DAO to incorporate re-
search findings and other new relevant practices. The DAO (or DEO) and avail-
able specialists are expected to sift new information becoming available be-
fore introducing it into the program. Tours and closer supervision were also
introduced but were restricted by lack of transport and travel funds. Finally
a proposal to allow Tk 50/month to each VEA to provide a rented Extension
Center-cum-office appears not to have been implemented in DEM (but it has been
in IJCS).
18.       Within the budgetary and logistic constraints this new program has
achieved a noteworthy impact, not least in the stronger sense of purpose and
enthusiasm generated among the DEM field staff in carrying out their pro-
grammed visits and training sessions. Shortcomings, however, show up clearly:
shortage of funds and vehicles, training deficiencies, limited production
packages, lack of specialists and links with research.                      35



ANNEX 1
Page 6
19.       Salaries.  The present salary scales of agriculture staff are given
in Table 2. The barriers between scales are rigid and less well qualified
officers have difficulty in passing into the higher echelons. Although pay
grade scales are similar to those in other Government departments, officials
of the statutory boards and other services tend to be more liberally treated
in the way of allowances and perquisites, causing some resentment. A third
National Pay and Service Commission is now reviewing all salaries and allow-
ances in the Government; it is expected to report early in 1977.
20.       Transport.  Official vehicles are allocated only to officers in
charge of Districts and above. Officers of Grade V and above are entitled
to a loan from Government to pulrchase a suitable vehicle for official duties.
The amount of the loan is limited to twelve times the officer's monthly sal-
ary, which for an officer of Grade V would be about half the cost of a motor-
cycle. Relatively few officers have availed themselves of this facility.
VEAs enjoy no such privilege and very few have any transport.
21.       Allowances Payable to Field Staff.   These allowances vary with the
rank (Appendix 1); they include:
(a) Field allowance, consolidated, covering accommodation, medical
and ration allowarces and additional support.
(b) Travel allowance, payable for journeys in excess of five
miles in own vehicle or public transport. The funds for
these allowances have been restricted, however, and either
official journeys are not paid for, or officers remain
deskbound. The VEAs are particularly disadvantaged by
the five mile rule, since much of their travel is within
this limit and so not reimbursable.
(c) Daily allowance, paid to field staff on tour. Only half
is payable, however, where travel allowance is claimed
for that day.
22.       Housing.  Officers of Grade V and above are entitled to unfurnished
official housing at a rental of 7-1/2% of their gross salary (or an allowance
in lieu); for officers below that level, official housing is not at present
provided (exception was recently made for TAO). The VEAs are therefore forced
either to rent housing at commercial rates (very costly for them), to live
in their own houses (often at a distance from their area of work) or to accept
accommodation from a local landlord for services rendered. Over 30% of the
VEAs find lodging with farmers in their areas. In return for accommodation,
VEAs tend to become their landlord's unpaid foreman, childrens' tutor and/or
marketing agent: they are therefore easily compromised when it comes to the
payment of government relief, subsidies or concessions. Many VEAs live away
from their Unions; others, though living there, spend considerable periods
away from their duties, supervising the family farm or business.
36



ANNEX I
Page 7
23.       The Thana Training and Development Centers (TTDCs) include one or
several apartment buildings (known as "twin-quarters") for the use of the
Thana officers (Irrigation, Cooperative, Family Planning, Education, etc...).
Accommodation in the "twin-quarters" is given according to a priority list
(covering twelve of the twenty-odd Thana officers) on which the TAO is pre-
sently third. (The TEO, a new post, does not figure on this list). Some of
the "twin-quarters" have been left incompleted and the maintenance is always
very poor.
24.       Offices and Meeting Halls.  The completed rural office block of
the TTDC consists of a two-story building with twelve offices. Many office
blocks are still being complated and several have only the ground floor; ac-
cording to the Ministry of Land Administration, Local Government, and Rural
Development they should all be completed by June 1977. In addition, it
contains a meeting room which can accommodate 150 people seated. Since no
funds have been available for maintenance, many office blocks and meeting
halls are in a poor state of repair. The TTDC also has land, some of which
may be used for training and practical demonstration. In addition, six Thanas
in the Region will be provided with Thana Training Units with dormitories for
30 people under the IDA-supported Agricultural and Rural Training Project.
25.       The Agricultural Information Service.  The Directorate of Extension
and Management is supported by the Agricultural Information Service, a separate
unit within the Ministry of Agriculture. Daily radio programs cover national
and regional topics at times convenient to farmers. The potential of this tool
to stimulate farm production merits further development, as does the use of
mobile audio-visual units. The number of these units, however, is inadequate
to permit full exploitation of this method.
26.       Constraints to the Effectiveness of the DEM Extension Service.   A
combination of three main factors has reduced the effectiveness of this ser-
vice. They are:
(a) Lack of transport and other logistical support, resulting
in little field guidance or supervision. Lack of housing
(or housing allowance) for VEAs may be included in
this category.
(b) Lack of unified strong direction, with programmed objectives.
Efforts in this area have been vitiated by the excessive
administrative load, the lack of in-service training or in-
adequate pre-service training, and the budget restrictions
on allowances.
(c) Lack of technical support. Regardless of the limited ap-
plied research and the few production packages developed,
liaison between research and field trials on the one hand,
and extension and farmers on the other, is tenuous at best.
37



ANNEX 1
Page 8
There are at present no posts for field crop or discipline-
oriented specialists in DEM outside headquarters.   Contacts
with research stations are limited - and they, in turn,
have little in the way of outreach programs.
D. Other Extension Services
Plant Protection Directorate - Ministry of Agriculture
27.       The Plant Protection Directorate (PPD) is now being amalgamated with
the general extension service. Emphasis will be more on advisory work with
farmers and surveillance while the supply of inputs and associated services
is expected to be handled by the private sector. Amalgamation will release
415 Plant Protection Assistants (PPAs) in thanas for general union extension
work, together with some 20 Assistant Plant Protection Inspector (PPIs) from
District headquarters.  Graduafe PPIs will be available either for surveil-
lance work or for training extension workers; they themselves would be first
retrained at BRRI.
28.       A UNDP/FAO project to strengthen the service has recently been
signed. Its objectives will be modified to fit more closely those planned
under the Training and Visit system; the Corps of Plant Protection Instructors
currently being trained under its auspices will be used for the training of
farmers and VEAs.
Intensive Jute Cultivation Scheme (IJCS)
29.       This scheme was instituted in 1974.   It now covers some 300,000
acres and is planned to expand to cover one million acres by 1980. The aim
will be to concentrate production in the most suitable areas and release land
to other crops. IJCS covers the whole of the country; by the end of 1977,
it is planned that it will cover about 170,000 acres in the North-West (out
of a country wide total of 500,000 acres). In the North-West, jute is mostly
grown in Dinajpur, Rangpur and Bogra districts.
30.       The functions of the Scheme cover input and credit supply, advice on
improved cultural practices, and assistance with marketing and setting up of
jute farmers' associations. Its staff will be increased to some 2,500 field
agents supervised by 500 extension officers and their 500 administrative
assistants. The Scheme would be supported by a proposed IDA project.
Cotton Development Board
31.       In an attempt to satisfy domestic requirements the Government has
established a Cotton Development Board to promote the growing of cotton
(principally in the North-West Region of the country, but also in the South-
West Region, and Dacca District).
38



ANNEX 1
Page 9
32.       Present staffing includes one Director, two Assistant Directors,
four Assistant Cotton Development Officers (to be increased by two) and
fifteen Cotton Development Assistants (CDAs) (to be increased by another
fifteen). The CDA's work with cooperating groups of farmers (Cotton Growers
Societies) for the provision of inputs and the purchase of seed cotton.
33.       With a targeted area of over 100,000 acres under cotton by 1985,
as many as 500 to 1,000 CDA's may be needed then. However, their agronomic
extension functions could be merged with those of the VEAs of DEM - most
probably to the farmer's benefit. A separate cadre, possibly in the private
sector, could perform the commercial functions of input supply, cotton pur-
chase, and promoting of Cotton Growers Societies.
Horticulture Development Board
34.       This Board was created in 1972 to reorganize the sector by taking
over some 30 existing farms and stations created under other projects, and
promote the production of vegetables and fruits to improve .he national diet,
and exploit export possibilities.
35.       The Board has two wings, Field and Project.    The Field Wing will
reorganize and activate the farms and stations as Horticulture Base stations,
working through the District and Thana Vegetable Development Committees.
These farms will be used as vegetable seed farms and centers for extension.
The Project Wing will develop projects for the commercial production of horti-
cultural crops in selected areas/zones; an Urban Horticultural service is al-
ready operating in Dacca.
36.       The Board plans to increase its staff to some 30 graduates, 70 tech-
nicians, and 220 trained gardeners by 1980/81; about 75% of them are already
in service. In the longer term, an expansion of private sector demand can
be envisaged for skilled gardeners and apprentices. Their training may con-
veniently be given at selected base stations as proposed, while technicians
and graduates could be trained at selected existing training institutions.
There does not seem, however, to be any justification for a separate exten-
sion service under the Horticulture Development Board; these functions would
advantageously be taken over by DEM.
The Tobacco Development Board
37.       The Tobacco Development Board initiated activities in 1973/74; its
objective is to increase the production of Virginia tobacco to the point of
self-sufficiency. Field services are being built in two regions - Rajshahi
(North-West) and Khulna (South-West). Each region has an Assistant Director;
a total of 13 to 20 Graduate Tobacco Development Officers and 200 Field Over-
seers are proposed to staff the service. Some 70 Overseers are already in
position; they are mostly involved in providing agronomic advice, assisting
growers societies, registration of growers, supply of inputs and marketing
39



ANNEX 1
Page 10
of produce. A strong case can be made for VEAs of DEM carrying out agro-
nomic extension work for tobacco, as they already do it for other crops, while
all non-extension activities would remain with the Board or be transferred to
commercial agencies.
The Water Development Board (WDB)
38.       The extension service of WDB was set up in the absence of an ef-
fective general extension service to capitalize on major investments in irri-
gation projects; it was conceived as a service to introduce new irrigated
cropping patterns in recently irrigated areas. When engineering works are
completed and new cropping patterns are established, the exten3ion duties of
WDB should in principle be taken over by DEM. In practice, it has tended to
continue, being superimposed over the general service of DEM and dealing ex-
clusively with irrigated agriculture.
39.       The WDB extension service is organized on the basis of its major
project aras. One Chief Extension Officer for each four of the five project
areas and a total of 46 graduates and 191 field agents currently staff the
service.
40.       Emphasis in Bangladesh has shifted from major irrigation works to
small, quick-yielding types of irrigation, typically low-lift pumps, shallow
and deep tubewells. With this policy shift, responsibility for irrigation
and development is also shifting to BADC under the Ministry of Agriculture.
The rationale for having an independent extension service under the Water
Development Board is therefore clearly weakening. Reinforcing the extension
personnel of DEM in irrigated areas appears a necessary and logical alter-
native.
Tea Board
41.       This is a semi-autonomous body controlled by the Ministry of Com-
merce. Its functions cover inter alia organizing and promoting tea research
and associated extension activities; it operates from the Tea Research Sta-
tion and the Demonstration farm located at Srimangal, near Sylhet. A scheme
is planned to replant 20,000 acres, uproot or abandon 10,000 more, and improve
cultural practices in the remainder. Extension, involving seventeen agents,
is organized through the member estates of the Tea Association (about 140).
The Integrated Rural Development Programme (IRDP).
42.       IRDP plans to create a Thana Training and Development Centre (TTDC)
in each Thana, with offices and housing for Thana level staff, a hall for
training Model Farmers and others in accordance wjth the Comilla principle, and
a tract of land for demonstration farming (para 24). The model farmers,
elected by the village Krishi Samabaya Samities (KSS), were expected to act as
demonstration farmers. They receive fortnightly training by Thana agricultural
staff. This training, however, consists largely of lectures and the classes
are inevitably large (over 100). With these large groups, often out-of-date
extension material and little practical application, the training has not been
40



ANNEX 1
Page I 1
markedly successful. This particular training function of IRDP is expected to
change as model farmers are now replaced by contact farmers trained in their
own fields under the Training and Visit system. The model farmer will here-
after be more concerned with input supply to neighboring farmers than with
propagating improved farming practices.
Bangladesh Sugar and Food Industries Corporation
43.       The Intensive Ca'ae Development Scheme (ICDS) promoted by the Sugar
Corporation aims to alleviate the drain on foreign exchange from regular
imports of white sugar, and improve farmers' incomes. It will intensify cane
production on suitable land near mills, thus improving the economic efficiency
of the mills, and releasing land for other crops. The ICDS - now in its early
stages - will require a build-up of field staff to about 1,500 fieldmen (Cane
Development Assistants) (CDA's) and 100 or more Assistant Cane Development
Officers (ACDO's). Enough candidates with Secondary School Certificates are
now available to enter as CDA's; in time they may be replaced by High School
Certificates candidates. Extension work in the mill areas is, and will remain,
under the control of the Sugar Corporation. Outside those areas, extension
will be carried out by DEM.
E. Agricultural Education and Training
Professional (University Degree) Level
44.       Two institutions operate at this level:    the Bangladesh Agricultural
University (BAU) at Mymensingh and the Bangladesh Agricultural Institute (BAI)
at Tejgaon, Dacca. Although autonomous, BAU depends administratively on the
Ministry of Education: BAI in contrast comes under the Ministry of Agricul-
ture (Directorate of Research and Education). In both institutions BSc and
MSc degrees are awarded, but BAU also offers the possibility of higher study.
BAU can graduate up to 300 BSc. candidates a year but in practice the figure
is around 200; a significant number continue to higher degrees. BAI can pro-
duce about 50 agriculture graduates annually.
Technician (Institute Diploma) Level
45.       The Agricultural Training Institutes (ATI's) are controlled by the
Ministry of Agriculture (DEM); most of their trainees become VEAs in DEM.
Until 1976 students competed for posts in the Ministry before undergoing two
years' training. Now the selected candidates are given an apprenticeship pay
during training, and are bonded to five years' service with DEM, but they are
appointed to public service only after successfully completing the training.
Entry qualifications are at least Secondary School Certificate Second Division;
in fact, many students have higher qualifications.
46.       To cater for foreseen demand, the IDA-supported Agricultural and
Rural Training Project (Cr. 621) aims at increasing total capacity of the
diploma level in seven institutes to a total of 1760 seats, with a potential
output of 880 by 1979-80. In addition, four more identical institutes are now
41



ANNEX 1
Page 12
being considered, which would increase potential output by 500 by 1980-81.
Eight institutes are currently operating (Tejgaon, Tajhat, Natore, Gaibandha,
Daulatpur, Sherpur, Gouripur and Khadimnagar) but several are housed in de-
lapidated buildings and will be closed down. To satisfy the demand for
technicians foreseen in the next few years, GOB is now considering a temporary
reduction of the training to eighteen months, which would increase the output
by one-third.
In-Service Training
47.       This training has been neglected in the past and officials of all
grades need refresher courses to keep up with technological development. The
UNDP/FA0 extension project provides for the in-service training of TAO's and
VEA's in two week courses, especially in rice and jute. Little of this has so
far been completed, due to lack of funds for travel and daily al]owances and
to shortage of accommodation for pre-service training. An in-service training
unit (graduate-level) is being financed under the IDA Agricultural and Rural
Training Project (CR-621) at BAU, Mymensingh, to utilize the experience and
facilities available at that institution.   BRRI and BARI are now providing
training for TEO's and SDAO's. The Japanese-supported Central Extension
Resources Development Institute (CERDI), now being started, is planned to
play an important role in in-service training.
Non-Formal Training
48.       Under the IRDP program Model Farmers are trained at the Thana Train-
ing and Development Center (TTDC) (para 41).   Scope for increasing non-formal
training of farmers certainly exists, at extension sub-centers, or at markets
and fairs but so far very little has been done. The Agricultural Information
Service plays a role in activities at markets and fairs; many other agencies
in rural areas could contribute to this evident need.
June 1977
42



ANNEX 1
Appendix 1
Page 1
BANGLADESH
EXTENSION AND RESEARCH PROJECT
Allowances Payable to Field Extension Staff (DEM)
The present system and level of allowances, described below, is
being reviewed for the whole country by the National Pay and Service Commis-
sion. It is expected that travel allowances, in particular, would be up-
graded to bring them in line with the actual travel costs.
1.   Field Allowance
A consolidated allowance covers accommodation (not for UAAs/VEAs),
health care, food ration and additional support:
UAA/VEA, Field Assistant              90 Tk/month
TAO/TEO/SDAO                        145 Tk/month
DAG /DEO                            180 Tk/month
The officers on unrevised pay scales (Grade IV and above) receive also a
'technical Pay" incorporated in the above.
2.   Travel Allowance
UAA/VEA                             0.60 Tk/mile
TAO (C1.2)                          0.75 Tk/mile
TEO/SDEO (C1.1)                     1.00 Tk/mile
Payment has been limited to journeys in excess of five miles; this distance
limitation will be lifted to encourage mobility of field agents. For motor-
cycles, the present rate is inadequate to cover costs; a more realisv,4c rate
would be 1.60 Tk/mile. All supervisory officers (TAO/TEO/DAO) are required
to spend a minimum of 15 days per month on the road, but lack of travel allow-
ance funds has effectively limited this in most Regions/Districts to six to
eight days.
3.   Daily Allowance
This allowance is paid to field staff on tour at the following
rates:
43



ANNEX 1
Appendix 1
Page 2
Ranging
UAA/VEA       from         9 to 15 Tks     Average 12 Tks
TAO                       15 to 21 Tks         "    18 Tks
TEO    )                  21 to 24 Tks         "    22 Tks
SDEO)
DAO/DEO                   24 to 30 Tks         "    28 Tks
DDA                       30 Tks               "    3 0 Tks
This allowance is reduced by 50% on days for which the travel allowance
(above) is claimed.
June 1977
44



BANGLADESH
UXEENSION AND RESEARCH PROJECT
Total numbers of Extension Staff in N.W. Region (Raishahi) - by inajor employing agency.   Nov. 1976
-------------------------------Ministry of Agriculture---------------------------------
2/    Soil Fertility                                               Water Dev.3/            Sugar &    4/
Equivalent Level           DEM       PPD       IJCS      Inst. (ARI)        Cotton Bd.    Hortic. Bd.   Tobacco Bd.    Board          IRDP    F.I. Corpn.      Totals
Regional                      2       1          3               2               1              1            1               2          1                          1-4
District                     10      11          -               5               -              -             -              5          2           -              33
Sub-Division                 15       -         75               -               2              2             -             13          -           9             116
6/  1/
Thana                       153-/    70          -              64              10             10            40              4         97         105             553
Union                      1002       -        750               -               -             10             -             88          -         505            2355
5/
TOTAL                      1182       82        828             71               13             23           41             112        100         619           3071
1/  Excludes Sprayer Mechanics and Mukaddams Grade IX - An additional 160
2/ Jute staff in 3 Intensive Zones - Not Thanas/Districts etc.
3/  Water Devpt. Bd. staff in the Thakurgaon DTW Project and the Dinajpur, Rangpur and Rajshahi L.L.P. projects
/,  S.M.C. staff in 8 Sugar Mill areas
5/ To this total may be added a) 160 from note 1/
b) 50 BADC Field wing (seeds) personnel
6/ Includes 33 TEO
Sources: FAO/CP and mission estimates
Fr



BANCLADESH
EXTENSION AND RESEARCHl PROJECT
Public S-rice Gr-de-    Sa1ary Scab. and 1Typica1 P.at. En the AgcrSrH1Eura Sa'-rvi-
Grade .       a1Iae      Mch5     Take IT,                          E & N                     Plant P--ten.          IJCLut)              Gtten              Hart I..             r.b.cca              BDRE              Latr    ead            Smu Lar
B      Tk.i5x        Si.         /                                                                              A    N    E     N    T        L    A     H              R     E    H    S
IX      Stk. 160 . 6 Tik. - i96IEDIg 0 lT.,  260//. 10   3 20     P.L,A.                    FieldS S..euta                                                 Gardenc-,.U                              A-n, T,. Driver                            F i.id-e
Spr-yer/Mec:h.
uH.kddan
VTIL       Wk. 220 a H Tk. - 26D1a tO    348/. 12 - 420             VEA/UAA                   P.P. A..,.             J.te A..t...                            F it Idu-                                 M-ren  eh-na       Oncraner Sr H          Can  Deapt  AnnE
FielId Ann.:.E,                                                                                                                   Tr-ntr Driv--      'It S.C)
Anal. Mee.   Eng
VET      Tk. 310 a 55 - 400Dm  1N   544/Ac 21- 670                 TAD                       eAt.. P.P.1.               5                Settee De-t.       O-nracer           HM...Ro-               Unit. OffLiner    Over....r GRA'VEAS      aeelSprie
Finid S.porit.tndoeta                                                 Anat.                                   S.por-iner           Far                SeP-rvtanr
HI      1k, 375 .2S55251. 30       7651 .35-    975               Adein  DEf.               Qurntn                     --Hary Supt.                                                 -T                    S_cte
Senler Honk.              JopceaOL
TED (EEc. TAD)                                                                                                                     Pet    . Mar,.
V       lit. 475 a35 -685In 40 - lOS/. 45 -1275                  110O                      Q-u. Rtnualegi.        Jute Ext.           'AaaL. CLotte       A.nt. if-tic.        Tobacc.              Aen...   iee       Asa..t. E-  Off        Aaat  Gene,
(HAS JeSe)MtM Ar iIltP.C.O.                                                                            Officr- (JEt)        Se.t. off.         Dertic. IDASI)       Dent. Off.           Fa.-  AaaR..et            F. Ng,. 0f6     5e-  Off
(SAS IC..etted)                                       Rea.ar. -hOff.            Cheejet                 (0SDO J.Le)                                                 Dy. Aent.,                               Et, Off       ~       (ACIXO)
Noh.Eel.                P.P.1. 'Siot.)                                                                      Dir-cter (Loan)                        F. Hgt OLf
SniJnlfi    offce                                                                                                                                     Info Loff
IV       (Dev,i.ed) Tk. DUO  4)    1 070110 50- 147011o 55
- 100                                                DaDPPI.htie                                      Aant.. Directer      Aaet. Director     A.et. Director       Aeni   Dirocter       E.... Engineer    D.C  lEt, OfL          Gene leapt
Senior Se.,Officer                                                                                                                 Senior Fare
AllTe tractor.                                                                                                                     ManageR.
(11--ei-ed) Tk. 350 030     650I//  35  8 4011  50)                                                                                               Dnp. Directo         S.H. S.              Distrint. Sand                            Off  (C103)
-925                                                                                                                                                                                    Off i-r
(.DASI)                                                             (C RO0P    P RO0D UC T      ION   S P EGLIA LI       STS)                  DRa.DLOf.                                 Di etr iciMgr.
Elf          (HOLAX)    750 a50 -    I1P0                          DID   ATI Pri.cipeil                             Dep. Dire..                             DIrector             U.plLy               Un-d Manager       Ch. lEt- Off.          Dy. Ch   CDO
D.A.D.A.                                          (JP)                                   (Field Winga)        DirecLor                                Su.  Egiee
Addl. DA
II  Solention Grade Tk. 1600    75    1750                    Dir. Agri..                                      Dir J.P.             e.... Director     teenc. Dir-ctor      Even. Direcor        Director           Director               Chief LCSO
Hog. D.A.                                                                                                                          (Finid Nina.)      L & N .a.
Higher SoInntioe Grade                                    S Ua. Ag.          -      Addi. Sec. (GOD)                                                                                                  Chaien     hirna
Ch... Te- Bd.
nrvadad)aaa         inoaainGaeVad               kgh-
ln. the .   a  cane. -ofcrnrninadditional Tachnical Pay 50            100D/not1h according to Grade, onnaolidatnd in PFi.d All-.an..
S MS.1 -Subordinat Agric. Service I 'Gaa.ettd p-~tnan-once'Lly ATE diplane)
BD.M.5  SuIn- Giana I -             frtut   ree TAD fSr. VITI) to TEO/SDAO (Sr. V)
D.A.S     ln S  I  Dietly r-rata-d grd         a- (Sr. V or Sr. TV)
B. H.A.S. BDangiadnak Higher Ag. Service.  D.E.O.. An.i. Director (Jut), Principal ATI.Gr-do ElI)
Sainctt.e Grade - Grade I and above
/1 ED/ -    fflini.n.y Oar, aftrlr7y.ara and H yearn aervce



^ANGLADESH
AGRICULTURAL EXTENSION AND RESEARCH PROJECT
Organizational Chart of the Directorate of Agriculture
(Extension and Management) - Ministry of Agriculture
DIRECTOR OF AGRICULTURE        ------------------------------------
EXTENSION & MANAGEMENTl
ADMINI N  ADDITIONAL DIRECTOR  |ADDITIONAL DIRECTOR
JUTE
| EDUCATION & TRAINING         l                                  PLANNING & EVALUATIONl
ASSISTANT DIRECTOR            REGIONAL DIRECTORS              AGRICULTURAL ECONOMIST
(1)                     OF AGRICULTURE (4)                        (1)
ATI PRINCIPALS                DISTRICT EXTENSION             DEPUTY ASSISTANT
(8)                       OFFICERS (20) AND              DIRECTOR (PLANNING) (1)
DISTRICT AGRICULTURAL
OFFICERS (9)
ATI INSTRUCTORS               THANA EXTENSION                RESEARCH OFFICERS
(48)                     OFFICERS (158) AND                    (2)
THANA AGRICULTURAL
OFFICERS (517)
UAAs and VEAs
(4,333)
CH"
The Figures in brackets are number of posts.    Sub-divisional Agricultural Officers have not been indicated              H
since they are being phased out.
i4



ANNEX 2
Page 1
BANGLADESH
EXTENSION AND RESEARCH PROJECT
Agricultural Research
A. Background
General
1.        Responsibility for agricultural research in Bangladesh is divided
among several Ministries (Chart 1). In general, there is a lack of coopera-
tion among the various research organizations and, at worst, there is compe-
tition between them for scarce qualified staff, funds and other resources.
This unsatisfactory position is recognized within GOB and efforts are being
made through the Bangladesh Agricultural Research Counc.il (BARC) to bring about
some rationalization and coordination of efforts in this field; progress is,
however, rather slow.
2.        The most important agencies involved in crop production research in
or relevant to the North-West Region are:
(a) the Bangladesh Rice Research Institute (BRRI), working
with paddy alone, mainly on varietal screening, breeding
of new varieties, fertilizer requirements, pest control
and on cropping systems;
(b) the Bangladesh Agricultural Research Institute (BARI),
responsible for crops other than rice;
(c) the Soil Fertility Institute (SFI), an integral part of
BARI, responsible for the testing of all crops including
rice varieties and fertilizer responses in farmers' fields.
It will now be renamed Field Trials Division.
(d) the Jute Research Institute (JRI), working only on jute.
The work of the major agencies is largely uncoordinated despite their common
interest in cropping systems and sequences, in addition to their individual
crop-oriented programs. The widespread field testing of promising rice varie-
ties by BARI could bernefit from a more active paL'ticipation by BRRI in select-
ing varieties for the wide range of ecological conditions found over quite
short distances in various parts of the country.
48



ANNEX 2
Page 2
The Bangladesh Agricultural Research Council (BARC)
3.        This council was established in 1973 and was given very substantial
statutory powers under the founding Ordinance to plan and coordinate agricul-
tural research activities within the Ministry of Agriculture. In practice,
however, the Council was unable to make a large impact because no provision
was made for a full-time executive secretariat to do the necessary work.
This deficiency was corrected by an amending Ordinance in July 1976 which
also broadened the scope of the Council's activities to include livestock,
fisheries and forestry. Even now the Council's mandate does not cover
several important crops (jute, sugarcane and tea) but the Council does
include representatives from the research institutes dealing with these crops.
The composition of the Council and of its Executive Committee and a synopsis
of the Council's terms of reference are given in Appendices 1 and 2.
4.        Despite the small resources available to the Council, significant
progress has been made. There is now broad understanding among the various
research groups in the country as to the purposes of the Council. Most of
the external aid agencies involved in the agricultural research field are
working with or through the Council which is beginning to channel funds
(either from Government or external sources) into priority areas of research.
The universities have been helped to take an active role in applied agricul-
tural research through the provision of grants for research on specific
topics (soya beans and wheat in particular). In addition, the Council has
established an Appropriate Technology Cell to study the various ways in
which agricultural research can assist in increasing productivity and the
types of research most likely to produce the kind of results that can readily
be used by small farmers. One of the functions of this Cell is to study the
availability of animal drawn implements of improved design, to arrange for
the testing of these in Bangladesh and, if found successful, to encourage
their production at a price which the farmers can afford.
5.        As a deliberate policy the Council has not used its statutory
powers but has relied on the development of an understanding of its role to
gain cautious acceptance within the country. To enable the Council to fill
more effectively its defined role, it is receiving substantial assistance
from technical advisors (financed mainly by USAID and the Ford Foundation)
directed towards strengthening its research programming and coordinating
capability. While encouraging progress has been made, the Council still
lacks any real authority (des,ite its statutory powers) since it does not
control a significant part of the budgets of the main research institutions.
The Bangladesh Rice Research Institute (BRRI)
6.        The Institute was established as an autonomous body within the
Ministry of Agriculture (MOA) in June 1973. It has a Board of Governors under
the chairmanship of the Minister or the officer in charge of the MOA. It is
responsible for various aspects of rice improvement and production, the
establishment of regional centers, project areas for demonstration and the
training of extension officers and progressive farmers.
49



ANNEX 2
Page 3
7.        The 165-acre base site at Joydebpur (just outside Dacca) is well
established and the staff housing and hostel facilities are being built with
the financial assistance of the IDA-supported Cereal Seed Project (410-BD).
Other substantial support is being received from principally, USAID and the
Ford Foundation and there are at present four resident advisors from IRRI.
The main station is supplemented by two substations at Comilla and Habiganj;
and the site for a third one for research on salt-resistant varieties is to
be selected. There is, however, no active program at any station in the
important North-West Region which produces about 28% of the country's rice.
A Government order has allocated 28 acres of the BARI station at Rajshahi
to BRRI but no program has yet been started. BRRI does not have any station
in the level part of the Barind tract or in the adjacent Tista flood plain.
This seems to be a serious omission since these large tracts of predominantly
single cropped rice have considerable potential for increased output of rice
but considerably lower potential for other crops even with the help of irri-
gation. The Institute has concentrated its efforts on developing the staff
and facilities at the Joydebpur base. Development of the two substations at
Comilla and Habiganj started only recently with the help of the Cereal Seeds
Project which should also finance the BRRI part of the Rajshahi station and
the salinity research station when a suitable site has been identified.
8.        By agreement with BARI, field testing of BRRI recommended varieties
in farmers' fields is done by the staff of the SFI so that the results of a
considerable number of trials in the North-West Region are available.
9.        The main weakness of the BRRI research program lies in the concen-
tration of most of the research effort on finding ways to maximize yields
under conditions where fluctuating water depth is not frequently a serious
problem. This concentration is to the detriment of other urgent lines of
work needed to increase output from the very large areas of rainfed land on
wnich short strawed HYV's cannot be grown because of uncertain and fluctuat-
ing depth of water. This imbalance is paradoxical since a few varieties
with improved yield potentials under these more difficult conditions have been
produced in Bangladesh and recommended by BRRI, but have not been extended on
any appreciable scale. Thus while there is a very good HYV package available
to farmers, there is very little experimentally derived information on the
effects of improved agronomic practices per se on the yields of improved
local varieties.
The Bangladesh Agricultural Research Institute (BARI)
10.       This Institute, which was previously within the Directorate of
Extension and Education of the MOA, was established as an autonomous body
within MOA in August 1976, thus placing it on the same footing as BRRI.   For
some years, work at the headquarters station at Tejgaon has been curtailed
by the loss of land for building purposes. In addition, the rather indefi-
nite research role left to BARI, consequent upon the setting of research
units or institutes for some major crops as autonomous organizations under
separate boards and in different Ministries, has caused a serious rundown in
efficiency and staff morale.
50



ANNEX 2
Page 4
11.       At. present, BARI consists of 14 separate Divisions together with the
SFI, an integral part of BARI. Some reorganization has been proposed which,
amongst other things, would lead to a renaming of the SFI as the Field Trials
Division. The proposed change in name, to reflect more accurately the func-
tions of the division, would also emphasize the extremely important role of
this division as the main link between research and extension. This reorgani-
zation is part of a major program of redevelopment of BARI which includes
removal of the headquarters to a new site adjoining BRRI at Joydebpur.
12.       This development program is being supported by a large USAID-funded
technical assistance project which includes staff training (the staff of BARI
based in Dacca numbers about 500 of whom 200 hold professional degrees),
buildings and equipment, and technical advisors. The latter includes senior
advisors in research planning, agricultural economics, station development,
and agronomy (cereal grains), with other advisors in agricultural engineering,
crop production (vegetables), and crop production (cereals and pulses) to a
total of 21 man-years. The resources made available to GOB total about US$6.5
million. By far the greater part of this assistance program will be aimed at
the development of a viable headquarters unit at Joydebpur, with a small part
being used for some development of the regional station at Ishurdi in the
North-West Region. The services of the advisors will be available, however,
for BARI activities as a whole. Additional technical assistance is being
given to BARI by bilateral donors and charitable trusts; potatoes (Nether-
lands), mustard (Sweden) and farm management and development at Ragbari
(CORR-Caritas) being the most important currently operating in the North-West
Region.
13.       A UNDP project 1/ to develop two substations (with associated pilot
areas) for intensification of research work on water management (rainfall and
irrigation) and on cropping systems in two main areas of the North-West Region
will become operational in 1977. This project is based on an existing BARI
substation at Bogra and on a new station to be developed on land transferred
from the BADC seed farm at Rangpur. The external component of this project
is estimated at US$0.94 million and provision is made F'.¢r 194 man-months of
expert services, appropriate equipment and vehicles, and some funds for on-
farm development. Advisors will be provided in the fields of agronomy (two),
irrigation (one) and soil fertility (one), together with consultants in other
subjects as the need arises.
14.       BARI has a total of four regional stations and fifteen substations
of which one regional station and seven substations are in the North-West
Region (Appendix 1). Despite all the problems of the Institute, good worlk
has been done on wheat and oilseeds, and is in progress on soya beans and
cotton.
1/   Development of winter crops in Northwest Bangladesh through improved
water use. UNDP project BGD/73/042/B/01/12.
51



ANNEX 2
Page 5
The Soil Fertility Institute (SFI) (to be renamed Field Trials Division)
15.       Although formerly an autonomous institute, this unit is now a divi-
sion of BARI. Established in 1963, SFI has been the main agency in the country
carrying out a large and recurrent program on the responses of different
varieties of the main crops to different rates of fertilizer application. The
staff of 350 cover the fields of soil testing, field experimentation and
statistics; full-time scientific officers are posted at district level to
carry out programs at Thana level, 17 scientific officers (M.Sc.) and 200
fieldmen (diploma in agriculture) being based in 200 Thanas throughout the
country. One scientific officer with 12 fieldmen is responsible for about 100
trials in farmers' fields. Although many thousands of trials have been done,
a large proportion could not be adequately supervised because of lack of
transport and the results must be considered of doubtful validity.   Since 1974,
several hundred trials have been done on T. aman and on wheat and general con-
clusions may be drawn on which to base fertilizer recommendations. At present
fertilizer/crop price ratios, considerable local refinement of rates of appli-
cation are needed to ensure reasonable profitability to the farmer. The pro-
gram is receiving support (for five years starting in 1975) from an FAO/NORAD
project and from the agronomist in the UNDP/FAO Interpretation of Soil Survey
Project.
16.       Although the field trials program is already receiving some technical
support, there is a need for increasing the number of scientific officers and
fieldmen in the North-West Region and providing transport for existing and new
staff to permit adequate supervision of the project's intensive field program.
The Jute Research Institute (JRI) 1/
17.       Research on jute production is the responsibility of this Dacca-based
institute which comes under the Ministry of Jute. A package of practices
recommended by the Institute and used in the Intensive Jute Cultivation Scheme
(IJCS) has been shown to increase yields by more than 50% and to result in rea-
sonable profits to the farmer. At present, however, jute research is at a low
ebb and GOB has negotiated a loan from the Asian Development Bank to develop a
research and seed production program to meet the needs of the industry. In
the meantime, farmers can be assured of good yields by following the IJCS
recommendations.
Present Situation
18.       Basically four levels of research activity should be involved in
supporting extension programs:
1/   The situation of jute research is developed further in the Appraisal
Report of the IDA-supported Jute Project.
52



MNNEX 2
Page 6
(1) national policy and allocation of resources;
(2) research institutions (national and regional);
(3) zonal substations of the research institutions;
(4) trials in farmers' fields.
In the long-term, the function of BARC will be to present consolidated
research proposals to Government to allow decisions to be made at national
policy level; BARC will not have a direct executive role in research but will
channel resources in accordance with agreed policy guidelines. The research
institutions themselves will do most of the research work at headquarters
stations, regional substations and zonal substations while at the farmers'
field level the necessary final testing of research findings will be done
jointly by the research and extension staffs i.e. research staff stationed
at regional or zonal level in conjunction with Crop Specialists and TEO s.
19.       The general effectiveness of past agricultural research has been
constrained by:
(1) conceptual weakness;
(2) lack of funds, facilities and trained manpower in
the field;
(3) ineffective links between research and extension.
GOB has taken steps to overcome the first constraint by setting up BARC and
strengthening, with the help of external assistance, the management of the
main institutes. External assistance will also help overcome the second
constraint at the national and regional level. At present, however, zonal
substations are still handicapped by lack of facilities and staff. In the
North-West for instance, external support has been obtained for the develop-
ment of five substations but more adequately equipped and staffed substations
are required to cover the various agroecological zones. Finally, nothing has
been done to overcome the third constraint; research is carried out without
much awareness of the needs of the farmers and the difficulties faced by the
extension service.
B. Project Support
Introduction
20.       The research component   would comprise the setting up of three sub-
stations, the strengthening of two existing substations, an expansion of the
field trials program of the Field Trials Division of BARI (SFI) and the chan-
nelling of funds through BARC for research contracts. These activities would
53



ANNEX 2
Page 7
be supported by the provision of the necessary physical facilities, incremental
staff, fellowships and short-term consultancies. The sub-stations would all
be under the control of BARI.
21.       The substations to be developed have been selected to cover, in
conjunction with other existing stations, the main agroecological zones in
the region; the results from all the stations would be used in formulating
recommendations for the extension component of the project.   Two of the new
stations to be developed (Rangpur and Bogra) would be largely devoted to
studies on water management (these stations would have expatriate technical
advisors provided under a UGNDP project). The locations of all the stations
and the sources of other technical assistance available to them are as
follows:
Zone                Station      Project support /a    Other support
Himalayan Piedmont Plain     Thakurgaon          Yes               None
Tista Flood Plain            Ragbari             No                CORR-CARITAS
Rangpur             Yes              UNDP
Karatoya Bengali Flood       Bogra               Yes               UNDP
Lower Manhananda Plain
and Ganges Flood Plain       Ishurdi             No               USAID
Rajshahi            Yes              None
Barind tract                 site to be          Yes               None
proposed
SFI Field Trials             Whole region        Yes               UNDP
/a   Research support only.  Does not include support for the Training Units.
Program Goals
22.       The program would be designed to provide farmers, through the exten-
sion service, with sound advice on improved cultural practices for the main
crops grown in the region and on the introduction and management of new
varieties; the advice would be designed to obtain increased output from the
farm as a whole in safe and profitable cropping systems. Links between
research and extensiori would be reinforced to ensure a two-way flow from
research stations through extension farmers. A particular feature of this
project is that it aims to draw on the resources of several other agencies
all of which are already assisting BARI. Each station would be headed by a
senior agronomist and would have three or more supporting graduate (M.Sc.)
54



ANNEX 2
Page 8
staff. The specialities of these staff members would vary from station to
station. Outline programs for the stations and for the SFI trials are given
in Appendix 2.
Program Components 1/
23.       To attain the goals outlined above, the project would provide:
(a) Civil Works: these would include the construction of a
combined office/laboratory/classroom building at Thakur-
gaon, Rangpur, Bogra, Rajshahi and the Barind tract
substations together with godowns, threshing floors and
other essential buildings. Improvements of irrigation
facilities, fencing, farm roads and farm layout would
be financed as necessary. Housing would be provided
at each station, together with some off-station houses
for additional officers of the Field Trials Division; 2/ a
total of 24 houses would be built for research officers with
a further 97 units for supporting staff. A residential
hostel would be built at the Rangpur station to accom-
modate students taking part in training courses in water
management.
(b) Equipment, furniture and vehicles. The equipment to be
provided is essentially that connected directly with
field operations, either on the substations or in the
field (of the Field Trials Division) program; it includes
3 four-wheel drive vehicles, 20 motorcycles and 110 cycles.
Most of the transport provided would be used in the SFI
program. (The UNDP-supported project will supply equipment
and vehicles for the Rangpur and Bogra stations).
(c) Increase in professional and support staff. The demands
for extra M.Sc. level staff have been kept to a minimum.
At full development, professional staff would be increased
by 20 (of which nine in the Field Trials Division) and
supporting staff by 84 (34 in the SFI program). Except
for the Barind tract station, it should be possible to
reach these levels by year 2 without drawing staff from
other equally important parts of BARI.
1/   Details of the various components are given in Tables 1 to 9.
2/   There would be one Scientific Officer (SO) per Training Unit (14 alto-
gethe). Officers now posted at district headquarters (five) have
rented accommodation. In addition, nine houses would be provided
at the nine Training Units at which the incremental staff would be
stationed.
55



ANNEX 2
Page 9
(d) Training and Fellowships. This is a relatively small com-
ponent (30 man-months) since longer-term fellowships and
training are provided for in the USAID, UiNDP and CORR-CARITAS
support for BARI. The project would provide two fellow-
ships each of three months duration for a study tour in
South Asia, Indonesia and the Philippines for the heads of
the Thakurgaon and Rajshahi substations and 24 man-months of
training within Bangladesh, where research officers would
receive in-service training at BRRI, BARI, bymensingh (irri-
gation engineering and agronomy) and JRI as needed.
(e) Short-term Consultancies. Twelve man-months of services of
one consultant based in Dacca (an initial period of six months
and two periods of three months in years 2 and 3) would be
provided to give assistance in organizing the work of the
Thakurgaon and Rajshahi stations and in coordination of the
program between the seven substations. To avoid wasteful
overlapping of effort among stations, clear program guide-
lines would be worked out for each of them. Draft terms of
reference for the consUltant are in Appendix 3.
(f) The Bangladesh Agricultural Research Council. Provision is
made for financing contract research through BARC; this could
include work on farm implements and other proposals to be
prepared by BARC.
C. Organization and Management
24.       Responsibility for the management of the applied research work on
project substations would rest with BARI while its Field Trials Division would
be responsible for the testing of potential extension recommendations in
farmers' fields. Under the project, two new substations would be developed at
Thakurgaon and Rangpur on land now part of the BADC farms; the title to the 20
acres allocated for research on these farms would be transferred to BARI.
Similarly, 20 acres of land suitably located on the Barind tract would be
procured by BARI to develop a substation.
25.       BRRI would have responsibility for the provision of seed of promis-
ing improved varieties of rice for testing in the field program and for
training the research officers of the substations and the crop specialists
of the Training Units in all aspects of rice productio)-    The Jute and Sugar-
cane Research Institutes would provide the project subs;. ::ions with informa-
tion on their crops; they would also participate in the     aining of the
substation officers and crop production specialists of the Training Units.
56



ANNEX 2
Page 10
26.       Management of the whole research component would be vested with a
senior officer of BARI, directly responsible to the Director of the Institute.
This officer would be located in Ishurdi and would travel extensively in the
North-West to visit the project substations. He would maintain close working
relations with the PIU, the Regional and District Coordinating Committees, and
the senior officers of all the substations. With the help of the research
consultant, he would prepare guidances for the work programs of the project
substations.
27.       The BARI substations in the project area would have two concurrent
and complementary work programs. The zonal testing of BARI results or results
from elsewhere would form one program and would be operated as at present from
the various divisions of BARI through the head of the stations. The second
program on the development of extension packages would be a new program in-
volving work on the substations and in farmers' fields. While the first pro-
gram would be generated mainly from BARI headquarters and the Regional station
at Ishurdi, the second would be generated at the local (substation) level under
the guidance of the senior BARI officer in charge of the project and coordi-
nated by the Regional Coordinating Committee at Rajshahi. (When dealing with
research, the Committee may invite advisors from USAID., UNDP, FAO and other
organizations active in the region to participate on a co-opted basis).
The Regional Coordinating Committee would determine policy issues and approve
detailed annual and seasonal work programs for that part of the work program
of the BARI substations dealing with the development of the extension package
and trials in farmers fields. The detailed program at district level would
be reviewed by the District Coordinating Committees.
28.       The research consultant to be appointed under the project would be
stationed in Ishurdi and work in close coordination with the senior BARI officer
responsible for the research component of the project. He would act as advi-
sor to the Regional Coordinating Committee on research matters in addition to
giving guidance to the officers in the project substations.
June 1977
57



ANNEX 2
Appendix 1
BANGLADESH
EXTENSION AND RESEARCH PROJECT
Agricultural Research
BARI Stations in. the Project Area
Name of                                                     Graduate   Support-
Research     Total                                          Research     ing
Station      Area      Purpose     On-going Activities       Staff      Staff
(ac)
Ishurdi      200      General    Crop improvement studies      18        42
(Regional)                       with wheat, pulses, oil-
seeds, fruits, coarse
grains, etc.
Bogra         27      General    Wheat, pulses, oilseeds,       1        10
coarse graIns
Rajshahi      43      General    Wheat, pulses, oilseeds,       5        23
horticulture crops and
coarse grains
Pabna         20      General    Wheat, pulses, oilseeds,       1         9
coarse grains
Rangpur       23      Cotton     Crop improvement studies       3        18
with cotton
Burirhat      72      Tobacco    Crop improvement studies       4        23
with tobacco
Chapai        30      Mango      Crop improvement studies       1         9
Nawabgonj                        with mango
Debigonj     500      Soil con-                                 6        26
servation
Ragbari       20      General    Farm management, crop,         4         8
farm                             rotations, emphasis on
rice
Total                                               43        168
58



ANNEX 2
Appendix 2
Page 1
BANGLADESH
EXTENSION AND RESEARCH PROJECT
Agricultural Research
Outline Work Programs for the Sub-stations and
for the Field Trials Division in the North-West
Introduction
1.        Each of the sub-stations would have two distinct but complementary
research programs; one derived directly from BARI headquarters (not included
here) and concerned with testing specific aspects of crop production, e.g.
control of weeds, pests and diseases at zonal level; the other derived locally
with the assistance of the research consultant, to use the results from the
zonal trials to generate economically viable improved practices and cropping
patterns. The first priority of this latter research program would be to
establish means of increasing the cropping intensity and, as a first step,
to define precisely the attributes needed in a new variety to allow more
flexibility in the traditional cropping patterns (shorter growing seasons
in particular).
2.        Only about 5% of the land in the North-West Region can be irri-
gated from present structures and emphasis must thus be placed on rainfed crop
production systems. A pre-requisite for any substantial increase in food pro-
duction is that progressive farmers who take up the more advanced programs
make a reasonable profit. Detailed research programs should thus take econo-
mic factors into account and be designed to maximize net income under both
favorable and unfavorable economic conditions.
General
3.        All stations should carry out applied research on the overall
agronomy of each of the main crops grown in the region with the following
objectives:
(a) refinement of existing packages of practices for improved
varieties of rice and wheat to fit local conditions and
to delineate areas where present varieties can/cannot be
grown;
(b) development of similar production packages for improved
local varieties to ascertain the attainable margin between
present yields and those obtained under good management;
59



ANNEX 2
Appendix 2
Page 2
(c) definition of the role of newly introduced crops, new varie-
ties of existing crops, and established high value crops in
traditional and modified cropping systems. The result of
work on tobacco, cotton, sugarcane, horticultural crops
and jute carried out nn other stations in the Region
should be taken into account in these studies; and
(d) assessment of the possible role of increased areas of tradi-
tional or new leguminous crops on soil fertility. In these
studies, catch-crop pulses and forage crops should be
examined.
Within this general framework the individual stations would give emphasis to
different topics outlined below.
4.        Thakurgaon.  Two main agricultural situations exist in a complex
distribution in the northern part of the Region. Freely drained soils pre-
vail on slightly elevated topography and moisture retentive (as opposed to
impermeable) soils on the lower depressions. Both groups of soils appear
to be deficient in both P and K and have low cation exchange capacities.
The following tasks should be undertaken:
(a) on the soils where rice is tot grown, ascertaining which
crops could replace it and in what sequence;
(b) assessing what kind of rice crop (aus, aman, boro), if
any, should be grown on the freely drained soils which
are basically unsuitable for rice;
(c) determining the most remunerative way of using the residual
moisture after harvesting T. aman on the moisture retentive
soils; and
(d) assessing the economic justification of irrigation, on the
freely drained soils, on other than high-value crops.
5.        Ragbari.  This sub-station is on a heavy silty loam typical of a
large area of the Tista flood plain. It is subject to variable depth of
accumulated rain water (not flooding from outside) since it is of low permea-
bility. The program at this station is designed to intensify rice production
in the wet season, supplemented if necessary by the use of irrigation. The
staff of the station has already set the major question namely whether these
soils should be used at all for crops other than rice. This station has a
special program on the development of light-weight animal drawn implements;
the results of this program would be of general use in the North-west Region.
6.        Rangpur and Bogra.   The soils on these stations have agricultural
characteristics somewhat similar to those at Thakurgaon and Ragbari respect-
ively. The UNDP project document sets out the outline work program agreed
60



ANNEX 2
Appendix 2
Page 3
with GOB for these stations. It includes water maliagement within existing
and new cropping systems as a major item of importance to the IDA-supported
project as a whole. Investigations would include both the improvement of the
distribution of water from the well-head and the consumptive use of water
by individual crops and crop sequences. They would be carried out under
irrigated and rainfed-only conditions to estimate the benefits derived from
irrigation. Results from the two stations would be applied in two pilot
areas of 100 acres each to study farmer reactions to any proposed improvements
and changes. The UNDP project proposes, in addition, to extend studies to
input supply, post-harvest crop handling and marketing, machinery maintenance
and spares and nutritional implications of changes in cropping patterns.
7.        Raishahi.  This sub-station is also situated on a moderately per-
meable soil representative of the upper part of the Gangetic flood plain.
The experimental program would be similar to that of Thakurgaon with the
addition of sugar cane as a component for consideration in cropping patterns
and sequences. Results for testing in such systems would be drawn from the
Sugar Research Institute at Ishurdi where inter-dropping of newly planted
sugarcane with a range of short duration crops has given promising results.
The range of crops which can be grown successfully in this area is consider-
able, so that there is scope for considerable ingenuity in devising and test-
ing new cropping systems.
8.        Field Trials Division (SFI).  This program is already beinig reshaped
and improved on a national basis. In the North-west Region it would initially
comprise:
(a) refinement of the estimates of fertilizer requirements of
HYV's and locally improved varieties of the maincrops to
identify timing and levels of application giving optimal
returns.
(b) estimation of the fertilizer requirement of newly introduced
crops and the effects of increased cropping intensity on the
fertilizer needs of each of the individual crops in the
sequence; and 1/
(c) testing of sulphur-coated or hard-granule urea on a restricted
number of sites when these materials become available.
The essential feature of the revised program is the emphasis on responses to
relatively low rates of application of fertilizer. Careful attention
1/   In both (a) and (b), the emphasis should be on N x P interactions at low
rates of application (0, 20, 40 kg/ha of N and 0, 10, 20 kg/ha of P) and
on responses to K at t'hese low rates of N and P.
61



ANNEX 2
Appendix 2
Page 4
must be given to site selection, experimental design, supervision and accu-
rate recording at all stages. These experiments should be done under both
good field management conditions and actual field conditions to check the
relevance of the practices to the prevailing situation of the farmers. They
should incorporate the full package of existing recommended practices from
seed bed to harvest. These practices, however, should not be included as
experimental variables in these particular trials.
Junie 1977
62



ANNEX 2
Appendix 3
Page 1
BANGLADESH
EXTENSION AND RESEARCH PROJECT
Agricultural Research
Draft Terms of Reference for the Research Consultant
1.        The consultant will advise the senior BARI officer responsible for
the research component of the project on the implementation of this component.
He will work in close contact with the Regional Coordinating Committee.
His duties will involve:
(a) planning of farm layouts, location of buildings and ancil-
lary works especially at the Thakurgaon and Rajshahi sub-
stations (at the Rangpur and Bogra sub-stations, farm de-
velopment will be the responsibility of the UNDP project);
(b) advice on research program development especially that
part of the program which aims to produce extension recom-
mendations for testing in the of the Field Trials Division
program; this advice would be at District and/or Regional
level as appropriate;
(c) advice on the allocation of time and resources between
the various program options (work on the improvement of
crops grown in traditional systems as opposed to new crops
and new cropping sequences). In this context, he would lay
emphasis on total net return to the farmer rather than on
any one crop;
(d) advice on appropriate experimental designs, layouts and tech-
niques for use on the sub-stations themselves and in simple
trials in farmers' fields;
(e) in cooperation with the extension consultant, advice on the
establishment of a two-way flow of communication between
extension and research;
(f) advice on the possibility of using BARI staff in the training
of the Crop Production Specialists without affecting the re-
search and field trials program.
63



ANNEX 2
Appendix 3
Page 2
2.        A large project to develop BARI is being supported by USAID and
provides for a Senior Research Planner and a Research Farm Development spe-
cialist. In addition to these, there are also technical advisers at Rangpur
and Bogra (UNDP/FAO), Ragbari (CORR-Caritas) and with the Field Trial Division
(UNDP/FAO).  The consultant should establish close professional understanding
with all the groups involved to ensure that each major topic which needs
investigation is receiving attention and that the results from all stations
are made available to the extension service.
3.        Because of the wide range of potential crops and the dominance of
rainfed agriculture in the North-West Region, the consultant should have
broad-based research experience on crop production with emphasis on rain-
fed rice and wheat. Experience of the introduction of high-yielding varie-
ties of rice, wheat, and high-value cash crops into farm systems using supple-
mentary irrigation would be an added asset.
4.        The consultant will be based in Ishurdi but travel extensively in
the North-West Region, dividing his time as required between activities on
the various stations. Of the initial six months in year 1 of the project
he will spend not less than one month each at Thakurgaon and Rajshahi and
one month at or visiting other stations.   In years 2 and 3 he will spend
at least half of his time visiting trials and stations.
5.        Within one month of arriving in Bangladesh, he will submit an out-
line Work Plan to the Government of Bangladesh and IDA and will prepare pro-
gress reports after three and six months, respectively, also to be submitted
to GOB and IDA. In years 2 and 3, he will report Twithin one month of his
arriving in Bangladesh on progress made during his absence and on any exist-
ing issues.
June 1977
64



ANNEX 2
Appendix 4
BANGLADESH
EXTENSION AND RESEARCH PROJECT
Agricultural Research
Organization of the Bangladesh Agricultural Research Institute
Board of Governors -       Minister of Agriculture,               Chairman
Seoretary, Ministry of Agriculture      Vice-Chairman
n  "   It Finance
Executive Vice-Chairman, Agricultural
Research Council
Vice-Chancellor, Bangladesh Agricultural
University, 1lymensingh
Chief, Agriculture Division, Planning
Commission
Chairman, BADC
Director of Agriculture(Extension and
Mvanagement)
is    BRRI
of    Central Extension Resources
Development Institute
Two scientists nominated by Government
Director of the Institute,              Yember-Secretary
Director
Programme               Regional Stations   Associate Director      AFsociate Director
perf ormin i            and substations     (Research Pro,c'rammes)  (r,upport Services)
Divisions
xecutive 2,ng,ineer
Plant Breeding          4 Regional         Wheat                      Campus Development
Soil Science            15 Sub-stations    Pulses                     Farm     of
Horticulture                               Horticulture                I.aintenance
Plar.t Pathologr                           Cropping systems
Agronony                                   Cotton
Agric. S'Jngineering                       Resources assessment
Agric. conomics                             Oil seeds               arm support services
nt omol oe7                                Vegetables                   Rese6rch Farms
M.inor fibres r,nd           Library
tobacco                      Statistics
CerealsPublications
Feed and fodder              Bui ldi ngs and
Exctension and Training      Grounds
Administration
Associate Director (Training, Conmmunication
and special projects)
Divisions   Training and communication
Special Proj ects/Progranres
65



ANNEX 2
Table 1
BANGLADESH
EXTENSION AND RESEARCH PROJECT
Project Cost: Thakurgaon Sub-station
Costs in Takas '000s
Area    Cost     Unit                Year
Civil Works                      sq ft   sq ft    Cost   No      1     2     3      Total
Office/laboratory/classroom      2000     0.15    300    1     100   200     -         300
Godown                           1000     0.10    100    1     50     50     -         100
Threshing floor (covered)        1000     0.08     80    1      40    40     -          80
Repairs; irrigation canals       4000     0.01     40    1     20     10    10          40
Repairs; farm roads              2000     0.01     20    1      10     5     5          20
Staff quarters
Senior Scientific Officer      1000    0.13     130    1'    30    100     -        130
Scientific Off'.cer             800    0.10      80    3"    40    200     -        240
Field Assistants                600    0.10      60    2     20    100     -         120
Grades VIII to X                500    0.10      50    8    100    300     -        400
Labor                           300    0.10      30    6     80    100     -        180
Sub-total                                                     490   1105    15        1610
Physical contingencies 3/                                      49    111     2         162
Total                                            539  1216     17       1772
Equipment and Vehicles
Field trials equipment 4/                                     117    289    12         418
Laboratory/office equipment -                                   62   115    20         197
Vehicles: 4 wheel drive + trailer                 290    1     -     290     -         290
motorcycle                               11    2     -      22     -         22
cycle                                  1.5     4     -      6     -           6
Sub-total                                                     179    722    32        933
Physical contingencies 3/                                      18     40     3          61
Total                                            197   762     35        994
Training and Consultancy Services        Months
Fellowship (overseas)          2/3                 60    1     -      60     -         60
Training expenses (Bangladesh)-             4       6    3     12      6     -         18
Short-term consultants                      3      75    1     75     75    75        225
Total                                             87   141     75        303
Establishment Costs (incremental)
Salaries 5/                                                     85    85    85         255
Operating Costs 4.                                             123   123   123         369
Sub-total                                                     208    208   208        6Z4
Physical Contingencies 3/                                       6      6     6         18
Total                                                         214    214   214 T    - 6:
GRAND TOTAL WITHOUT CONTINGENCIES                             964   2176   330       3470
Physical contingencies                                         73    157    11        241
GRAND TOTAL WITH CONTINGENCIES                               1037  2333    341       3711
1/  Includes one for a scientific officer from Field Trials Division (SFI) program.
2/ Based on TX 50 per day for each officer (3) for four months.
3/ Physical contingencies have been taken at 10% on ci'7il works and equipment, 5%
on operating costs other than salaries and 0% on the rest (vehicles and consulting
services, salaries).
4/ See Table 2.
5/  See Table 3.
66



ANNEX 2.
Table 2
BANGLADESH
EXTENSION AND RESEARCH PROJECT
Thakurgaon Sub-tstatiQxU  Field and laboratory-EXqipment
Costs in Takas '00Os
Unit             Year
Field Trials Equipment                              Cost   No.    1     2    3     Total
Power tiller and accessories (trailer)                70    1      70  -     -       70
Annual drawn implements                              0.4   20       4    4   -        8
Seed cleaner (clipper type)                           42    1      -    42   -       42
Seed storage unit                                     35    1      -   35    -       35
Plot thresher                                        100    1      -  100    -      100
Power sprayer                                          6    1      -     6   -        6
Hand sprayer                                           2    2      4-        -        4
Generator (portable and standby)                      90    1      -    90   -       90
Scale/spring balance  100 kg                           6    1      6   -    -         6
Irrigation water distribution equip.    3.5 per 100 ft     10     15   10   .10      35
Bullocks                                  4 per pair        4 pr  16   -     -       16
Miscellaneous                                               -      2     2    2       6
Sub-total                                                     117  289   12      418
Laboratory/Office Equipment
Microscope (low power)                                10    1      -   10    -       10
Calculator (electronic)                               10    1      -   10   -        10
(manual)                                    5    1      5   -    -        5
Scale to weigh 100 gm                                 13    1     13   -    -        13
Moisture meter                                        10    1     10   -    -        10
Glassware/chemicals                                   13    -      8    5   -        13
Meteorological instruments                            65   1 set   -   65   -        65
Furniture (15% of building cost)                      45    1      -   25   20       45
Typewriter (Bengali)                                  13    1     13   -    -        13
(English)                                  13    1     13   -    -       13
Sub-total                                                      62  115   20     197
Miscellaneous Operating Costs          Annual
Maintenance and running:
farm machlnery/equipment                5                        5    5    5      15
electricity/generator                   9                        9    9    9      27
books, periodicals, postage             5                        5    5    5      15
irrigation canals/equipment             6                        6    6    6      18
buildings/roads                        22                       22   22   22      66
labor                                0.01/day     200/ac        40   40   40     120
feed for extra bullocks                 4/pr        4 prs       16   16   16      48
fertilizer/pesticides/seeds          0.6/ac        20/ac        12   12   12      36
farm supplies/repairs/misc.          0.4/ac        20/ac         8    8    8      24
Sub-total                                                    123 123   123     369
67



ANNEX 2
Table 3
BANGLADESH
EXTENSION AND RESEARCH PROJECT
Thakurgaon: Annual Salaries and Allowances (Incremental)
Costs in Takas 'OOOs
Salary                             l/
Grade                              No. Per/month      Salaries   Allowances-     Total
Senior Scientific Officer              1      1.00         12           5            17
Scientific OfLicer                     2     0.70          17            7           24
Field Assistants                       2      0.45         11            6           17
Other Field Support and Office         4 2/   0.30         14           -            14
Staff                                6 3   0.18          13           -            13
67          18            85
11  Unit rates of allowances are given is A    x 3, Appendix 1.
2/  Tiller driver, accountant, vehicle driver,pu,     driver.
3/ Darwan (3), peon (2).
68



ANNX 2
Table 4
BANGLADESa
EXTENSION AND RESEARCH PROJECT
Project Costs: Rangpur Sub-station:
Costs in Takas 'OOQs
Area     Cost     Unit              Year
Civil Works                            sq ft    sq ft    Cost    No. T1.   2   3    Total
Office/laboratory/classroom                               300     1   300  -   -      300
Godown                                                    100     1   100 -    -      100
Threshing floor, covered                                   80     1    80-     -       80
On farm development: fencing           5000 ft  0.05 ft   250         250  -   -      250
roads            2000 ft  0.01 ft     20     -    20  -   -      20
irrigation canals           1250 ft   0.04 ft    50     -    50  -   -      50
Staff quarters
Senior scientific officer                                       1   130 -    -     130
Scientific officer                                              3/- 240  -   -     240
Field assistants                                                2   120 -    -     120
Grades 8 to 10                                                  8   400 -    -     400
Labor                  4                                        6   180  -   -     180
Training hostel (20 unit)-'            2000   0.15        300     1   300  -   -      300
Sub-total                                                            2170  -   -    2170
Physica4 contingencies7/                                              217 -    -      217
Total  Total                                                         2387            2387
Equipment and Vehicles -
Office furniture/fittings61                                45     1    45             45
Shb-total                                                              45             45
Physical contingencies 7i                                               5               5
Total  Total                                                           50             50
Training and Consultancy Services 2!
Establishment Costs (incremental)
Salaries:l.                                                            85  85  85    255
Operating Costs:>/
Total                                                          85  85  85    255
GRAND 'TOTAL WITHOUT CONTINGENCIES                           2300  85  85   2470
Physical contingencies                                                222  -   -     222
GRAND TOTAL WITH CONTINGENCIES                               2522  85  85   2692
1/ Work to develop this station will begin in January 1977 under UNDP project
hence all Civil Works in Year 1.
2/  Unit costs and sizes as in Tabl.e l except where given.
3/ Includes one for scientific officer.
4/ For courses on water management and irrigation agronomy.
5/ Additional to UNDP project.
6/ 14% of construction cost.
7/ See Table 1, footnote 3/.
8/ As for Thakurgaon, see Table 3.
9/  These would be provided by the UNDP project.                                  69



ANNEX 2
Table 5
BANGLADESH
EXTENSION AND RESEARCH PROJECT
Project Cost: Bogra Sub-station: 1
Costs in Takas '000s
Area    Cost     Unit               Year
Civil Works -              sq.ft.  sq.ft.   Cost   No     1     2       3      Total
Office/laboratory/
classroom                                300    1     300    -      -         300
Godown                                      100    1     100    -       -        100
Threshing floor,
covered                                  80     1      80    -      -          80
On farm development;
fencing                 4000    0.05     200    1     200    -      -         200
drainage                 800      -        25 -1l      25    -      -          25
Staff quarters
Scientific Officer                              2     160    -      -         160
Field assiktants                                2     120    -      -         120
Grades 8 to 10                                  4     200    -      -         200
Labor                                           3      90    -       -         90
Sub-total               5/                              1275    -      -        1275
Physical contingencies -                                 128    -       -        128
Total                                      1403                    1403
Equipment and Vehicles 4!
Training and Consultancy Services -
Establishment Costs (Incremental)
Salaries                                             42    42     42       126
Operating costs 4!
Total                                      42     42     42       126
GRAND TOTAL WITHOUT CONTINGENCIES        1317     42     42      1401
Physical contingencies                              128     -      -        128  A
GRAND TOTAL WITH CONTINGENCIES           1445    42      42      1529
1/ Work to develop this station will start in January 1977 under UNDP project
hence all Civil Works in year 1.
2/ Unit costs and sizes as in Table 1 except where given.
3/ Includes additional essential work outside of farm boundary.
4j This would be provided by the UNDP project.
TI See Table 1, footnote 3.
6/ Two scientific officers and two field assistants. See Unit Costs, Table 3.
70



Table 6
EXTENSION AND RESEARCH PROJECT
ProJect Cost: Rajshahi Sub-station
Costs in Takas '000s
Area      Cost       Unit              Year
1/                   S.ft.     Sq.ft.    Cost   No.     1     2     3     Total
Civil Works-
Office/laboratory/classroom                                  1      L   300     -       300
Godown                                                       1     -    100    -        100
Threshing floor, covered                                     1     80    -      -        80
Threshing floor, open           1000         0.50      50    1     50    -     -         50
On-farm development:
fencing                      8000         0.40/ft 320     -    160   160    -        320
electricity connection                            100    -      -    100    -        100
water connection 2/                                100    -     -    100     -       100
land development 20 ac                    1/ac     20    -      10    10    -         20
irrigation  "     2500 ft                 0.04/ft 100     -     30    40    30       100
Staff quarters:
Senior scientific officer                                 1    130    -     -        130
Scientific officer                                        3 /   80   160    -        240
Field assistants                                          2     -    120    -        120
Grades 8 to 10                                            2     -    100    -        100
Labor                                                     2     -     60    -         60
Sub-total                                                         54O  1250    30      1820
Physical contingencies 5/                                          54   125      3      182
Total                                                             594  1375     33     2002
Equipment and Vehicles (as for Thakurgaon)
Field trials equipment (Appendix 6, Table 2)                      117   289     12      418
laboratory/office equipment (Appendix 6, Table 2)                  62   115     20      197
Vehicles:4 wheel drive + trailer                      290    1     -    290    -        290
motor cycle                                  11     2     -     22    -         22
Cycles                                        1.5  4      -      6    -          6
Sub-total                                                         179   722    32       933
Physical contingencies 5/                                          18    40      3       61
Total                                                             197   762    35       994
Training and Consultancy Services     Months
Fellowship (overseas)          4/        3             60    1     -     60    -         60
Training expenses (Bangladesh)-          4              6    3     12     6    -         18
Sub-total                                                          12    66    -         78
Short-term consultants (per month)                     75    3     75    75    75       225
Total                                                              87   141    75       303
Establishment Costs (incremental)
Salaries 6/                                                        85    85    85      255
Operating Costs 7/                                                123   123   123       369
Sub-total              5,                                         208   208   208      624
Physical Contingencies -                                            6     6     6       18
Total                                                             214   214   214      642
GRAND TOTAL WITHOUT CONTINGENCIES                                1014  2321   345     3680
Physical contingencies                                             78   171    12      261
GRAND TOTAL WITH CONTINGENCIES                                   1092  2492   357     3941
1/ Unit cost and sizes as in Table 1 except where given.
2/ Capacity of existing tubewells to be tested and supplied.
7/  Includas one for scientific officer fromAT eld Trials Division (SFI) program.
T/  Based on TK 50 per day for each of!lcar (3) for 4 months.
/   See Table 1, footnote 3.
6/ As for Thakurgaon (Table 3).
7t As-'or Thakurgaon (Table 2).                                                 71



ANNEX 2
Table 7
RANGLADESH
EXTENSION AND RESEARCH PROJECT
Project Cost: Barind Sub-Station -
(Costs in Takas 'OOs)
Area     Cost    Unit        - - - Year-- - -
Civil Works                    sq.ft.   sq.ft.   Cost   No     1     2     3      Total
Office/laboratory/classroom     2,000    0.15    300     1     -     -    300      300
Godown                          1,000    0.10    100     1     -     -    100      100
Threshing floor (covered)       1,000    0.08     80     1     -     -     80       80
Repairs; irrigation canals      4,000    0.01     40     1     -     -     40       40
Repairs; farm roads             2,000    0.01     20     1     -     -     20       20
Staff quarters:
Senior Scientific Officer    1,000    0.13    130     1     -     -    130      130
Scientific Officer             800    0.10     80     3     -     -    240      240
Field Assistants               600    0.10     60     2     -     -    120      120
Grades VIII to X               500    0.10     50     8     -     -    400      400
Labor                          300    0.10     30     6     -     -    180      180
Shallow tubewells and
distribution                                   25     2     -     -     50       50
Sub-total           2/                                      -     -  1,660    1,660
Physical contingenices -                                       -     -    166      166
TOTAL                                                          -     -  1,826    1,826
Land (in acres)                                20    20:,   -   400.   -       400
Equipment and Vehicles
Field trials equipment      3/                                 -     -    418      418
Laboratory/office equipment -                                  -     -    197      197
Vehicles:
4 wheel drive + trailer                       290     1     -     -    290      290
Motorcycle                                     11     2     -     -     22       22
Cycle                                           1.5   4     -     -      6        6
Sub-total           2/                                      -     -    933      933
Physical contingencies -                                       -    -      61       61
TOTAL                                                          -     -    994      994
Training and Consultancy Serrices                              -     -     -
Establishment Costs                                            -     -     -        -
GRAND TOTAL WITHOUT CONTINGENCIiES                             -   400  2,593    2,993
Physical contingencies                                         -     -    227      227
GRAND TOTAL WITH CONTINGENCIES                                 -   400  2,820    3,220
1/ The capital costs for this substation are the same as in the case of the Thakurgaan
substation (Table 1) plus cost of the la!d and two shallow tubewells.  It is assumed
that the land would be acquired in year 2 and developed in year 3; therefore no
provision has been made for "Training and Consultancy Services" nor for "Establishment
Cost".
2/  See Table 1, footnote 3/ .                                                     72
3/ Unit costs are given in Table 2.



ANNEX 2
Table 8
BANGLADESH
EXTENSION AND RESEARCH PROJECT
Project Cost: Field Trials Division (Soil Fertility Institute)
(Costs in Takas '000's)
1/                  Unit            ---Year - --
Civil Works-                    Cost     No      1      2       3      Total
Staff quarters;
Scientific officers                    62      -     240     240      480
Fie1:., n                             34 3/   500    600     600    1,700
Sub-total              4/                   500    840    840     2,180
Physical Contingencies-                      50     84      84      218
Total                                     550    924    924     2,398
Vehicles
motorcycles                      11     14       77      77     -       154
Cycles                            1.5   98       75     72              147
Total                                     152    149     -        301
Field Trials Equipment
Electronic calculator            10     14       80      30     30      140
Manual Calculator                 5     14       40     15      15       70
Soil auger                        0.15  98       15     -      -         15
Weighing equipment (spring
balance to 100 kg)              6     98      360    228      -       588
Sub-total              4/495                       273     45       813
Physical Contingencies-                      50     27       5       82
Total                                     545    300     50       895
Establishment Costs (Incre-
mental)
5/
Salaries and allowances-                        536    536    536     1,608
Inicremental Operating Cost for
Field Tr.ials */                              247    247     247      741
Sub-total                                   783    783     783    2,349
Physical Contingercies-                      12     12     12        36
Total                                     795    795    795     2,385
GRAND TOTAL WITHOUT CONTINGENCIES             1,930  2,045  1,668     5,643
Physical Contingencies                      112    123     101      336
GRAND TOTAL WITH CONTINGENCIES                2,042  2,168  1,769     5,979
1/ Sizes and cost as in Table 1 except where given.
2/ Three 1-'ouz3 For Scientic officers' on ARI sub-stations.
3/ Apprx. 30% of total fieldmen to be housed.
4/ See Table 1, footnote 3.
5/ See Table 9.                                                          73



ANNEX 2
Table 9
BANGLADESH
EXTENSION AND RESEARCH PROJECT
Field Trials Division Annual.Establishment Cost (Incremental)
(Cost in Takas '000's)
Salary and allowances         No      Salaries     Allowances     Total
1/
Scientific Officer-             9       108            36          144
2/                     5        -              20           20
Fieldmen-                       34      122            87          209
64        -            163           163
Sub-total                                                          536
Field Trials
Miscellaneous: stakes, string,
bags, etc.                                                        20
Fertilizer/Seeds/Pesticides                                         56
Other trials expenses                                               25
Soil analysis (H.Q. Dacca)                                          34
Weeding/cultivation Tk-200/trial                                   112
Sub-total                                                          247
Total                                                          783
1/ Five scientific officers are already in posts; nine wouldbe added.
2/ 64 fieldmen in posts, 34 would be added.
74



ANNEX 2
Table 10
BANGLADESH
EXTENSION AND RESEARCH PROJECT
Africultural Research: Cost Summary
(Tk 1000)
Foreign
Year                                Exchange
1        2         3         Total          %   Tk '000
Civil Works
Total Without Contingencies       4,975     3,195    2,545       10,715       26    2,785
Physical Contingencies              498       320      255        1,073        -      278
Total Without Contingencies     5,473     3,515    2,800       11,788       26    3,063
Land                               -          400     -              400       -     -
Equipment and Vehicles
Sub-total                         1,050     1,866    1,042        3,958       67    2,652
Physical Contengencies               91       107       72           270       -      189
Total                           1,141     1,973    1,114        4,228       67    2,841
Establishment Costs
Salaries and Allowances             833       833      833        2,499        -     -
Training                             24        12      -              36       -     -
Other Operating Cost        1/      493       493      493        1,479       20      296
Consultants and Fellowships-        450       345      225        1,020      100    1,020
Total Without Contingencies     1,800     1,683    1,551        5,034       26    1,316
Physical Contingencies             24        24       24           72        -       15
Total With Contingencies          1,824     1,707    1,575        5,106       26    1,331
BARC Research Contracts           1,000     1,000    1,000        3,000        -     -
GRAND TOTAL WITHOUT
CONTINGENCIES                   8,825     8,144    6,138       23,107      29     6,753
Physical Contingencies              613       451      351        1,415        -      482
GRAND TOTAL WITH
CONTINGENCIES                   9,438    8,595     6,489       24,522      29     7X235
1/  Includes 6 man-months of consultant time which has not been apportioned among the
various stations.
March 10, 1977.
75



ANNEX 3
Page 1
BANGLADESH
EXTENSION AND RESEARCH PROJECT
The North-West Region:
Agricultural Background
A. General
1.        Agriculture dominates the economy of Bangladesh.    It employs
directly about 80% of the labor force, generates 55% of the Gross Domestic
Product (GDP), and accounts for over 80% of the country's foreign exchange
earnings. The major exports are raw jute and jute manufactures, and about
three quarters of all industries are based on agriculture. Production of
rice, the major crop, is insufficient to feed the rapidly increasing popula-
tion, presently estimated at 81 million. As a result, foodgrain imports have
increased from 0.7 million tons in 1960/61 to 2.4 million tons in 1974/75.
Production of vegetable oils, pulses and other protein-rich foods has also
been inadequate and deficits have been made up by imports.
2.        About 90% of the population lives in rural areas and around 80%
are dependent on agriculture. About 30% of rural households are landless
and 40% of the labour force is under-employed. The per capita income, around
US$110, is among the world's lowest.
3.        The Rajshahi Division (13,300 sq. mi.) contains the Districts of
Rajshahi, Dinajpur, Rangpur, Bogra and Pabna. The total cultivated area is
estimated at 5.47 million acres. The Division presently includes 30% of the
cultivated area of the country and 27% of the cropped area but only 22% of
the population. The present agricultural practices are primarily influenced
by rainfall, soil type, and in the southern and eastern parts of the Region,
flooding.
4.        Cropping intensity is less than in the other regions, particularly
in the northwest of the Region where little acreage is devoted to winter
crops. Winter cropping is more prevalent in the south, particularly in Pabna
and Bogra districts. Most of the different kinds of crops grown in Bangladesh
are to be found in the Region including jute, tobacco, fruits and legumes.
The Region produces nearly 50% of the country's sugar-cane, mangoes and
potatoes.
B. Climate
5.        The climate in the northwest is tropical, with heavy seasonal rains
interrupted by a dry period of about four to five months. The rainfall pattern
76



ANNEX 3
Page 2
is highly erratic and mean annual precipitation varies from 50 to 90 inches.
About 90% of the rainfall occurs between -ay and October; however, occasional
showers in March and April are of considerable importance for cultivation of
aus and jute crops. The Region is generally unaffected by cyclones origin-
ating from the Bay of Bengal.
6.        As in other parts of Bangladesh, temperatures rise steadily from
February to April, remain fairly steady from May to October, and then fal'l to
a low in December and January.   MeLan monthly temperatures expressed in Fahren-
heit, vary from the low-sixties to the mid-nineties.    Mean relative humidity
is high throughout the year -- ranging from about 60% in April to 90% during
the rainy season. Maximum monthly evaporation -- about six inches -- occurs
during April. On the average, the winds are moderate but localized heavy
storms are liable to occur during April-May. Subject to availability of irri-
gation during the dry season, the climate is suitable for year-round cropping.
C. Topography. Soil and Land Types
7.        The FAO/UNDP assisted Soil Survey Project has completed detailed
reconnaissance surveys over all the Rajshahi Division. It gives information
on soil conditions, present land use and physical factors limiting agricul-
tural development. The present situation in the North-West and the land
potential are fully described in Volume II, Technical Report No. 1 (pp. 2-23)
and Technical Report No. 2 Annex 1 (pp. 1-25) of the IDA Land and Water Re-
sources Sector Study of Bangladesh published in December 1972.
8.        The topography is characterized by a very gentle slope to the south-
east, with elevations up to 300 ft in the far northwest and down to 25 ft
above mean sea level (MSL) in the southeast. The land gradient in the north-
ern part of the region averages 2 ft per mile, while the gradient in the
southern Ganges plain averages only 0.2 ft per mile. In the middle is a
prominent table land known as the Barind Tract where the topography is flat
to gently undulating. The Tista River crosses the northeast corner of the
region, and a number of small rivers cross    the region in a north-south
direction.
9.        Soils are all alluvial, with the young alluvium of the Tista,
Brahmaputra and Ganges floodplains surrounding the block of older material
of the Barind Tract. The major rivers are bordered by broad flood plains
with gently undulating ridges and deDressions. Higher ridges and the Barind
Tract are only shallowly flooded or stand above normal flood levels.    Soils at
higher elevations on ridges are mainly permeable loams, with some sandy patches,
while in valleys and basins, clays predominate. Barind Tract soils mainly have
an impermeable puddled top soil, except in some better drained areas along the
north-eastern margin.
10.       From North-West to South, five Land Development Units can be
identified:
77



ANNEX 3
Page 3
The Himalayan Piedmont Plain, which occupies most of Dinajpur
District and contains complex patterns of broad sandy or loamy
ridges, inter-mixed with numerous shallow channels or basins
with mainly loamy soils. Almost the whole landscape, except
the highest ridges, is shallowly flooded in the monsoon
season.
Tista alluvial fan and flood plain comprise a complex, braided
river flood plain landscape of sandy ridges and level, silty
depressions throughout most of the North West and on the middle
Atrai flood plain; this grades eastward into mainly silty sedi-
ments on low narrow ridges and in broad level depressions;
heavy clays occur on the lower Purnabhaba flood plain and in
the lower Atrai basin (which separates the Barind Tract from
the Ganges flood plain). The area is subject to shallow sea-
sonal flooding by rainwater.
The Barind Tract is the important physiographic feature of the
centre of the Region, mainly level and with slowly permeable
soils overlying little-weathered Madhupur clay. Most of this
area is shallowly flooded by rainwater in the monsoon season
mainly within field bunds, but subject to severe dessication
in the dry season.
The Deep flooding areas comprising the area subject to severe
river flooding of the Ganges and Jamuna-Brahmaputra. This
includes the Karatoya Bengali flood plain along the Brahma-
putra River and the Lower Atrai Basin occupying tlhe depression
separating the Barind Tract and the Ganges flood plain.
Flooding is up to 15 feet deep in the monsoon season. Flood
levels often rise rapidly because of accumulated run-off from
the Barind Tract, aggravated when this water is backed-up by
high flood levels in the Jamuna-Brahmaputra River.
The Ganges River Flood Plain comprises a typical meander flood
plain landscape of ridges, basins and old channels. In general,
the topography is smooth. The Ganges alluvium is calcareous
though non-calcareous clay soils predominate in basins and on
the greater part of most ridges, but silts and occasionally
sands occupy higher ridge crests. Flooding tends to be deep,
and is caused mainly by rainwater, except near the Ganges and
its distributary channels.
11.       Areas of crop production according to ecological zones are presented
in Table 1 and summarized below. The Piedmont and Tista plain have a main
rotation of B. aus to T. aman at about 150% intensity, with a significant area
cropped with B. aus to rabi at 150-200%. The Barind Tract mostly achieves
only a single aman or aus crop. The flood plains present a mixture of rota-
tions dominated by the normal level of annual flooding and the main crop
varies, with increasing severity of flooding, from T. aman, mixed B. aus
and B. aman, B. aman, through to a single winter boro.
78
-                                          I



ANNEX 3
Page 4
Cropping in the North West-(1974/75)
Crop                         Area                     -
(ac'000)
B. aus                        2,400                   32
B. aman (deep water)            780                   10
T. aman                       2,670                   36
Boro/aus /a                     320                    4
Wheat                           130                    2
Sugarcane                       200)
Oilseeds                        250)                  16
Gram and pulse                  300)
Others                          440)
7,490                  100
/a   With the increase of both HYV rices and irrigatiorn,
the distribution between boro and aus and aus and
aman is becoming very blurred.
D. Water Resources
12.       The scope for surface water irrigation in the North-West Region is
rather limited. It is estimated that currently available supplies from peren-
nial rivers and streams as well as from the stagnant water bodies, are barely
enough to irrigate about 150,000 ac or about 2% of the total cultivated area
in the region.   With some 5,000 low lift pumps installed currently, this
potential is already close to full exploitation.
13.       in general, the scope for groundwater irrigation is much more pro-
mising. The alluvial deposits underlying the region are excellent acquifer
materials, and are highly suitable for development of irrigation wells. Water
tables are generally high -- static water tables rarely go below 15 feet. Re-
charge characteristics are also extremely good. There is, however, little
information on possible interference from deep tubewells on the capacity of
neighboring shallow tubewells. A groundwater survey is now being prepared by
a team of consultants under the IDA-supported North-West Deep Tubewells Project.
It is conservatively estimated that one-third of the total cultivated area is
potentially irrigable with groundwater. The development so far includes about
4,000 deep tubewells (including 3,000 under the IDA-supported NW Tubewells
Project) and abott 6,000 shallow tubewells under various schemes undertaken
by BADC and BKB. Most of the deep tubewells under the IDA project have still
to be commissioned. The total irrigation potential by groundwater should
amount to about 0.2 M ac by June 1977. A new project for 10,000 shallow
tubewells in the North-West is now beirng processed by IDA.
79



ANNEX 3
Page 5
14.       In general, the existing irrigated area is about 50-60% of that
anticipated during design due to socio-economic, organizational and technical
constraints. Farmers form irrigation groups, a prerequisite to obtaining a
well, but after installation they are usually left to construct their o-wn
command and farm area layouts. This has led to inequitable distribution,
poor pump utilization and low productivity/cusec (Annex 7).
E. Transportation
15.       Most major towns and urban centers in the North-West   Region are
accessible by a 500 mi network of all-weather paved roads. The region is
also served by 616 mi of railroads -- 280 mi of Broad Gauge (BG) and 336 mi
of Meter Gauge (MG). The BG route runs the length of the region in the north-
south direction and extends to the city of Khulna in the south-west, thus
providing an important link for the region with the seaport at Chalna. The MG
route, serving the northern part of the region, is the maiii connection with
the rail system east of the Brahmaputra River. The region is poorly served by
water transport. Although there are nearly 200 miles of waterway routes along
the Ganges and Brahmaputra suitable for mechanized inland water transportation,
only limited passenger launch facilities are available at present. Transpor-
tation to and from the region is limited by the difficulties of crossing the
Ganges and Brahmaputra Rivers which form the southern and eastern boundaries of
the region. Facilities for local transportation are primitive and limited:
for most villages, the usual link to markets and other transportation arteries
is through katcha (dirt) tracks and to a limited extent through waterways and
streams. Compared with the rest of the country, water transportation is much
less significant during the rainy season.
F. Farm Sizes and Land Tenure
16.       According to the 1960 Census of Agriculture, the five northwest
Districts had an average farm size ranging from 1,.8 ac in Bogra to 5.5 ac in
Dinajpur, the averages for the North-West Region and the whole country being
4.5 and 3.5 ac, respectively. The region had a total of about 1.5 M farms.
Over one-third of the farms in the region were 2.5 ac or less while only 5%
of the farms were 12.5 ac or more. Farms smaller than 2.5 ac accounted for
about 10% of the cultivated area while those over 12.5 ac, about 20%e About
one-half of the land was cultivated by the owners themselves; the remaining
being cultivated by both owners and tenants. Very few farms were purely
tenant farms.
17.       No reliable and comprehensive information is available on changes in
farm size distribution or the tenurial situation since 1960. However, accord-
ing to the 1974 Population Census, the total number of households in the five
NW Districts increased from about 2.3 M in 1960 to about 3.1 M in 1974, i.e.
80



ANNEX 3
Page  6
an increase of about 35%. Meanwhile the cultivated area is estimated to have
increased by less than 5%. As the urban population grew faster than the rural
population (for the five NW Districts, 85% vs 45% during 1960-1974) and as
the number of rural landless households is also likely to have grown faster,
the decrease in average farm size since 1960 should be considerably less than
35% -- perhaps 20% to 25%. Thus, the current average farm size in the five
Districts would be 3.5 ac. It is generally believed that since 1960 farm
size distribution as well as the tenurial situation has worsened somewhat.
18.       The 1960 Census of Agriculture also found that the farms were heavily
fragmented; over one-third of the farms had ten plots or more.   However, not
all fragmentation is involuntary -- given the unpredictability of rainfall and
flooding patterns in Bangladesh, cultivation of plots at different elevations
is often an attempt to reduce the risk of total crop failure and to gain some
flexibility in cropping patterns.
G. Potential for High Yielding Varieties 1/
General
19.       The North-West Region has a higher potential for rapid agricultural
development than any other region.  This is mainly because of the great extent
of highland and shallowly flooded land suitable for conversion to HYV aman
varieties without irrigation. tMluch of this land, except on the Barind Tract,
could also produce a broadcast HYV aus crop without irrigation, to replace the
local aus varieties.
20.       Substitution of HYV aman for local transplanted aman varieties un-
doubtedly offers the simplest and cheapest method of achieving a dramatic in-
crease in agricultural production. It is considered that HYV could be grown
without irrigation on some 1.2 million acres. This assumption is based on ex-
perience with existing aman varieties, which mature a month later than IR20,
and on the observation that topsoils generally remain wet up to at least early
December, except on permeable ridge sites.
21.       Although provision of irrigation would undoubtedly make HYV aman
production more secure in relatively dry years, the major purpose of providing
irrigaLion facilities on HYV aman land would be to make possible the cultiva-
tion of a second transplanted rice crop, or another crop, in the dry season.
This would be especially beneficial in the Barind Tract, the greater part of
which produces only a single crop of aman or aus at present. On the Tista and
associated flood plains, irrigation would provide lesser - though still import-
ant - benefits since HYV boro or transplanted aus would here be substituted for
1/   For more details, see IDA Land and Water Resources Sector Study, Technical
Report No. 1.
81



ANNEX 3
Page 7
the existing, relatively reliable, broadcast aus and jute production. Culti-
vation of IRRI boro/aus involves very heavy irrigation rates on the 0.3 mil-
lion acres of permeable ridge soils used for aman cultivation, but would be
practical on 0.25 million acres of silty basin soils in the South. The
permeable ridge soils should be diversified to irrigated wheat, vegetable
and other high value crops. There also exists, on better moisture holding
capacity soils, the possibility of double cropping with a quick maturing HYV
aus and HYV aman and for HYV aus and wheat, the latter particularly on the
Piedmont plateau. Present and potential development of HYV's are discussed
below for each broad ecological zone.
Piedmont Plain and Tista Flood Plain
22.       Together, these two units have a cultivated area 2.6 million acres
and cropped area 4.0 million acres.   The area covers most of the North of
Rajshahi Division; the dominant cropping pattern is broadcast aus followed
by transplanted local aman on about two-thirds of the area. About one-quarter
of the area is too high and/or free draining for aman production, and instead
is used to grow aus and a rabi crop. Although there are many variations on
these basic combinations, about 1.4 million acres are devoted to local aus
and 2.2 million to local aman. There are at present some 40,000 acres of HYV
aus and 200,000 of HYV aman only.
23.       In its analysis of the development potential of the area, the Soil
Survey Department has estimated the maximum potential areas as follows:
Crop     Local Varieties      Potential for HYV's        HYV's
-       (present)                                  (present)
-------------------acres     000----------------------
Aus            1,400                1,700                 40
Aman           2,200                1,200                200
Wheat            100                  600                 30
Total    3,700                 3,500                270
24.       There are also prospects of expanding the area under rabi crops
and/or replacing part of the rabi crop with wheat to substantially increase
the food production particularly on the irrigated area, and on the area ex-
pected to come under irrigation as the productivity of the pump schemes is
increased.
Barind Tract
25.       The Barind Tract presents about 1.3 million cultivated acres (1.4
million acres of cropped area) in the center and south-west of Rajshahi
Division. Typically, the rainfall amount and distribution support only one
crop per year, usually taken either as aus or T. aman according to the time
of planting.
82



ANNEX 3
Page 8
26.       The maximum potential areas have been estimated as follows:
Cro      Local Varieties     Potential for HYV's        HYV's
(present)                                 (present)
---------------------acres '000----------------------
Aus            430                   200                  20
Aman           510                   900                 140
Wheat           10                    50                  30
Total     950                 1,150                 180
Gangetic/Karotoya Flood Plains and Deep Flooding Areas
27.       These plains cover a cultivated area of 1.6 million acres and 2
million acres of cropped area. The zone occupies the south-east tip of the
Rajshahi division and cropping is dominated by the annual flooding character-
istics. Where flooding occurs, only jute or deep water rice varieties may
be grown during the flooding season. In much of the area, aus and aman are
broadcast together, mixed to hedge respectively against risk of late rains
or early floods. Some 600,000 acres are estimated as subject to a degree of
flooding risk which would prevent the use of the HYV aman presently available.
There are, however, improved deep water varieties which could be used on much
of this area and the HYV's have significant potential.
28.       The maximum potential areas have been estimated as follows:
Crop         Local Varieties     Potential for HYV's        HYV's
(present)                                 (present)
--------------------- acres '000----------------------
Aus                501                   518                 4
Aman            )  780                   300 /a             70
Deep water aman)
Wheat               33                   571                23
Total       1,314                 1,389                97
/a   Local improved varieties.
Trends in the Adoption of HYV's I/
29.       The area of HYV's in the Region has increased but yields have
dropped principally in the aus and aman crops.
1/   Including local improved varieties (LIV's).
83



ANNEX 3
Page 9
Estimated HYV Yields
National (a)                  Raishahi Division (b)
1969/70
to                             Area                               Area
1971/72       Area    Yield     Increase       Area     Yield      increase
ac '000   md/ac                  ac '000    md/ac          %
Aus             81       34                       9        31
Aman            285      31                      93        36
Boro            744      37                     68         33
1972/73 to
1974/75
Aus            397       29       490           30         20         333
Aman          1,553      23       545           540        23         580
Boro          1,390      32       187           177        28         260
Sources:   (a)  IDA Bangladesh Crop Sector Review - Annex 7, Table 2.6
(b) See Table 2.
30.       Much of the deterioration is apparently due to the rapid expansion
of HYV plantings associated with the transfer of information and seed from
farmer to farmer and absence of the technical and logistical support which
should accompany tho' introduction of new systems.  Thus, although some of
the yield losses ma7 be attributable to the increased use of marginal land
or dilution by less able farmers, much could be recovered with training and
technical and logistical support.
31.       According to a study executed for the Government 1/, the main
constraints on HYV uptakes are inefficiency of the extension service, short-
age of chandina (aus) seed, poor quality seed supplied by BADC, uncertain
and sometimes inadequate fertilizer and pesticide supply stored only at thana
level, lack of credit facilities and in remote areas, the lack of storage
and marketing facilities. Apart from the above organizational constraints,
the technical constraints are basically lack of information available to the
farmer and extension worker on selection of suitable land, potential of HYV's
and opportunities for double cropping, all of which can bc. improved through
extension, demonstration and adaptive research.
H. Fertilizer Use and Yields
32.       Since 1969, sales of fertilizer in the North-West have been
variable but the underlying growth in sales has been firmly upward at a mini-
mum rate of 5% p.a. Sales have now reached an average of about 800,000 tons
per year, the equivalent of 24 lb. of fertilizer per acre.
1/   Brammer:  The potential for rainfed HYV cultivation in Bangladesh, 1974.
84



ANNEX 3
Page 10
33.       The most reliable statistics on fertilizer usage and yields have
beer, collected for the preparation of the IDA Rural Development Project.
Based on this information and field observations, present average yields of
the different seasonal rice crops are estimated as follows:
Crop             Local      HYV     Weighted Average
maund/acre--------------
Aus               11        20            13
B. Aman           12        -             12
T. Aman           16        24            17
Boro              18        33            26
34,       Before fertilizer rationing was imposed for the 1974/75 boro crop,
the use of fertilizers by farmers in the project thanas averaged as follows:
Fertilizer Dosage Rates for MIain Rice Crops
B. aus    Aus     B. aman    T. aman    T. aman     Boro    Boro
local     HYV     Local       Locail      HYV     Local     HYV
Urea
maund/ac        -         0.5       -         0.2         1.0      0.3     1.0
lb N/ac         -        19.0       -         8.0        38.0     11.0    38.0
TSP
maund/ac        -         0.3       -         0.05        0.5      0.2     0.3
lb P 205/ac     -        11.0       -         2.0        19.0      8.0    11.0
maund/ac        -         0.1       -          -          0.1       -      0.1
K20/ac          -         5.0       -           -         5.0       -      5.0
35.       The country-wide fertilizer recommendations for local and HYV paddy
are based on BRRI's yield response experiments:
8 5



ANNEX 3
Page 11
Fertilizer Recommendations for Bangladesh
N          P2 05       K20
Local Varieties      ----lb nutrients/ac------
Aus, T. aman and
boro                40          40          20
B. aman (deep
water)              30          30          20
HYV's
Irrigated            80          60         40
Rainfed              60          60          40
Source:  Islam, M.A. "Soil Problems and
Fertilizer Efficiency Studies in
Bangladesh", BRRI cyclostyled paper.
36.       National farm yields from local wheat varieties average abouit seven
to riine maunds per acre (0.3 tons/ac).  With HYV's and low levels of fertil-
izer utilization (about 10 lb N/ac), yields have increased to about 12 to 15
maunds under rainfed conditions. At present, however, farmers' yields are
still far below what could be achieved with good management. Wheat is mainly
grown without irrigation and little or no fertilizer is used. BARI claims
that average yields of 22 maunds (0.8 tons/ac) can readily be achieved by
farmers under rainfed conditions with good seeds. Soil fertilizer trials
(using seed under typical farmer conditions) averaged 17 maunds for the 1974/
75 season, below BARI's claims but still above present farmers' yields.
37.       While the recommendations for irrigcted paddy boro have had wide
acceptance, they are not followed on any of the other crops. The recommend-
ations are generalized and have had little reliable on-farm testing. No
evaluation has been undertaken on responses to fertilizer recommendations
at lower levels of cultural practices or responses to lower levels of fer-
tilizer applications.
38.       Present recommendations appear particularly high for phosphate and
potash. Although phosphates have shown good response on certain crops -
particularly wheat - there is little quantitative information to support the
economic use of phosphates on rice at recommended present fertilizer applica-
tion rates. Potash has not shown a widespread significant agronomic response
in field trials either. There are probably certain areas and crops which will
require potash but, until these areas are more carefully delineated, the farmer
using low fertilizer rates is probably best advised to spend his money on
straight nitrogen only.
86



214MiEX 3
Page 12
Ll.  <<onszrainr_s M. .Jr,ruct:d;-
39.       rhe oresent .s ucure H- pr4e5s (high 6cst of fIr-tiJifer and low
r Ji   g4 ,rains) is not :-onduCive to mure intensive wv7ork and  easing use of
a1gricultural Inputs.  fod-ifying the price struczurae Jourd require improvirg
the ?rocuremernt systam to support the price of grain and revising the price
level H agricultural inputs to maintain a Lavorable price ratio of grain
to inputs. The -zonstraints on an incraased spread of HYVs    sag are pre-
sented ti paragr.aDn 31. The main constraint, however, consists in the insuf-
" cint standard .D 2usbandry uractices:   ialequate primary cultivatIon,
4 ueff"tien  aursery -tachniquae!, sub-optimal crop spacing and inadequate weed
~ontrol.  li can be remedied by the farmer at low cash cost if guided in
the nor±G:t effective 'ise ' H 2 is oresent resourzces, especially of family labor.
Th-ere -armers `1ave .adopted high ;i Icrng t r Improved ';ri  ties with irr?uts
-he same ;-nadeauate C .1t-cral t ech! iniques meaziU thatLh they -.z rely aIL?Iie ve the
-esponses that would be obtai nable wirh bt.tcer systems .ff mana-,ement. This
is 3art icul1arlV :: ruIe where 4Lerti-L lvtzer is .spp ied; jour listribut iol at the
J,Vn g -:ime without attention 0o je-ed :;ontro1 resultCs in -isappting, responses.
SLgni .c- can.;: numbers of ,-.aeri aave r:everted to 'r-; ad iLL "onaI  ' 'z  ter
-ixpertm 'e tzzing with noda--rn Lnout6.  Te rieailure of the :xtension zrK-rl-  to
oncuntriatoe .on --:nh zaising )of Dastc ius'andr  3tandaLrds -u the point , . 'i:e
-Armers oulia obtain -e± table resuLts from modern `nputs is oerhaps the
;reatest         n nst-int ,o `ncreasing Droduction above aurrent levels.
uine  .977



BANGLADESH
EXTENSION AND RESEARCH PROJECT
Crop Production in Rajshahi Division by Ecological Zones for 1974/75
Ecological Zones         Piedmont Plateau     Tista Flood Plain         Barind Tract          Gangetic Plain and          Total
Deep-Flooding Areas
...................................... '000 acres ..................................................
Cultivated area                     760                  1,820                  1,300                     1,590               5,470
B. aus and             B. aus and
Main Rotatiorn 1/              local T aman            local T aman        single aus or aman      single aus or aman
- Aus     (local)                   221                     615                   433                       501              1770
- Aus     (HYV)                      16                     -                      19                         4                  39
- Jute                                58                    264                   -                          58                  380
- Aman    (local)                   544                   1,118                   409                       400               2,471
- Aman    (HYV)                       42                    156                   139                        70                  407
- Wheat   (local)                     3                       7                    12                        33                   55
- Wheat   (HYV)                       15                                           24                        23                   74
- Others                              -                                           148                       167                  315
Altgrutivo Rotations       B. aus to rabi            B. aus to rabi               -               deep water B.aman to rabi      -
- Aus/B. Jsan (local)                128                    442                   -                 B. aman 380                  950
- Aus          (HYV)                  -                      23                   -                          -                    23
- Rabi/other                          49                     97                   -                         135                  281
- Sugarcane                           36                     42                    55                         65                 198
Special (Irrtgotod/Flooded)2/ Boro to local T aman   Boro to local T aman   Boro to local T aman    Local boro to 0harif
- Boro (local)                         2                     14                    33                         57                 106
- Boro (KYV)                          16                     48                    71                         78                 213
- T aman (local)                      18                     62                   104                         -                  184
- Others                               -                     -                    -                           27                  27
Total Cropped Area                 1,148                  2,900                 1,447                      1,998               7,493
Overall Cropping Intensity           151%                   160%                  111%                       125%                137X
Source:  Rajshahi  Divisional Statistics adapted to ecological zones.   The system gives
approximate distribution only, and some distributions are anomalous because of oversimplification.
These statistics differ slightly from figures of Table 2, of a different source, because of rounding.
1/ The distinction between boro and aus, and aus and aman is becoming blurred as varieties are
increasingly used in two or even three seasons.                                                                                DI
X     2/ Excludes some 50,000 acres of irrigated wheat.
H La
March 1, 1977



ANN1Rt q
Table 2
BANGLADESH
EXhTENSION AND RESEARCH PROJECT
Rajshahi Division - Rice and Wheat Production
1969/70   1970/71    1971/72   1972/73    1.973/74  1974/75    Potential for
HYV Production
krainfed)
AREA                 - --00 ---------------acres '000
Aus
- local           2,557     2,415      2,189     2,080      2,230     2,416           -
- HYV                 9         8          9        11         L4"-    ' 64        2,480
Aman
- local           4,404     4,398      3,739     3,825      2,570     3,131           -
- HYV                 7        78        193       418        727       474        2,350
Boro
- local             130       124        106       106        118       114           -
- HYV                51        83         71       121        187       222           -
All Paddy
- local           7,091     6,937      6,034     6,011      4,918     5,661           -
- HYV                67       169        273       550        928       760           -
Total Paddv         7,158     7,106      6,307     6,561      5,846     6,421           -
Wheat
- local             -         -          -         124        128       108
-HYV                -         -          -          15         21        21        1,217-r
- Total           n.a.      n.a.         128       139        149       129
PRODUCTION          --------                         m tons '000 -------
Aus
- local             914       898       649        634       737        466          -
-HYV                13         12        10         11        18         48         -
Aman
- local           2,078     2,197      1,603     1,473     1,443      1,108          -
- HYV                 9        89        222       299        677       259          -
Boro
-local               74        75        58         54        63         45         -
-rITV                70       103        81        151       227        176         -
All Paddy
- local           3,066     3,170     2,310      2,161     2,243      1,619         -
-EYV                 92       204       313        461       922        483         -
- Total           3,158     3,374     2,623      2,622     3,165      2,102
Wheat
- local             -         -          -         -          -         -            -
- IYV               -         -          -                                           -
- total             n.a.     n.a          49        48         51        51
lt
AVERAGE YIELDS      -----             --maunds/acre
Aus
- local              10        10          8         8          9         5          -
- HYV                39        40         30        27         34        20          -
Aman
- local              13        13         11        10         15         9          -
- EYV                34        31         31        19         25        15          -
Boro
- local              15        16         15        14         14        11          -
- HYV                37        33         31        33         33        21          -
Total Paddy            12        13         11        11         15         9          -
Wheat
local              -         -         -          -         -          -           -
- total            n.a.       n.a.        10         9         9         11
Source:  Hinistry of Agriculture:   Bangladesh Agriculture in Statistics, November 1973,
Basic Statistics of Bangladesh Agriculture, November 1975, HYV Aman Task Force,
December 1975, Wheat Evaluation Committee, June 1976.
1/  Rounded to nearest maund.                                                          89
March 2, 1977



ANNEX 3
Table 3
BANGLADESH
EXTENSION AND RESEARCH PROJECT
Raishahi Division - Average Rice Production Characteristics
Average            Average          Average Change
1969/70-1971/72    1972/73-1974/75      % over 3 years
Area (acres '000)
local paddy                  6,708             5,530                - 18
HYV paddy                      170               746                +340
all paddy                    6,878             6,276                -  9
Production (tons '000)
local rice                   2,847             2,008                - 29
HYV rice                       203               622                +206
all rice                     3,050             2,630                - 14
Yield (maund/acre)
local rice                      11                10                -  9
HYV rice                        32                22                - 31
all rice                        12                11                -  8
HYV Yields (maund/acre)
Aus                             36                23                - 36
Aman                            31                20                - 35
Boro                            33                28                - 15
90
February 28, 1977



ANNEX 3
Table 4
BANGLADESH
EXTENSION AND RESEARCH PROJECT
Rice Production and Self-sufficiency in Rajshahi Div,Lsion
District     Population                    Rice Production
1974       1973/74   1974/75  AMverage   Average/head/day
millions      ....... .tons'OOO .........         lb
Dinajpur        2.45         657       629        643           1.61
Rangpur         5.18       1,120     1,038     1,079            1.28
Rajshahi        4.02         675       708       692           1.05
Bogra           2.15         446       481       464            1.32
Pabna           2.60         262       292       277            0.65
Rajshahi
Division       16.40                           3,155           1.20
Bangladesh     77         11,716    11,109    11,413           0.90
Source: "Basic Statistics of Bangladesh Agriculture" MA, November 1975.
1/ Compared to the First Five-Year Plan target consumption of 1.0 lbs rice
per head per day, Dinajpur shows a substantial surplus; Rangpur and Bogra
a small surplus; Rajshahi is marginally self-sufficient; and Pabna is in
substantial deficit.
February 28, 1977
91



ANNEX 4
Page 1
BANGLADESH
EXTENSION AND RESEARCH PROJECT
Extension and Training: Project Proposals
A. General
1.        The project would initiate the consolidation of the various ex-
tension services with the Directorate of Agriculture (Extension and Manage-
ment) (DEM) of the Ministry of Agriculture and lend support in the North-West
Region to the Training and Visit System introduced nationwide by the DEM in
May 1976. The characteristics of this system, already implemented in several
other countries, have now become familiar. It relies on a regular system of
visits to contact farmers by the field extension agents, regular in-service
training and close supervision and control at all levels by a strong and
unified chain of command.
2.        The extension servic.es of the Plant Protection Directorate,
the Water Development Board and the Cotton, Horticulture and Tobacco Devel-
opment Boards would be amalgamated with DEM throughout the country. Also
the study provided under the IDA-supported Agricultural and Rural Training
Project would be used to survey the extension services of DEM, IJCS, the
Livestock Department and the Sugar Mill Corporation and ascertain the desir-
ability of merging them.
3.        Under this project, the VEA of DEM would visit eight groups of
contact farmers every forthnight and receive training in a Training Unit once
every two weeks. He would obtain regular guidance and supervision from the
thana officers, who in turn would be backstopped by district officers. The
effort of the field and supervisory staff would be supported by the regional
staff and the Agricultural Information Service (AIS). Extension staff of DEM
at the union, thana and district level would be increased. They would be pro-
vided with housing, transport and demonstration equipment. The project would
establish a link between extension and applied research by creating fourteen
Training Units for the fortnightly training of the VEAs. It would finance
new posts of specialists at the Regional headquarters and in AIS and provide
them with equipment and vehicles.
B. Detailed Aspects of the Project (Figure 1)
Union
4.        The organization of the extension service would continue to be based
on the Union and, within the Union, on the villages.  The present number cf
92



ANNEX 4
Page 2
field level staff (about 1,000 VEAs) in the Region is insufficient to estab-
lish a proper coverage of farmers under the Training and Visit System; it
would be increased by 400 to 500            This increase would be achieved
by incorporating in DEM the 70 Plant Protection Assistants and the field
extension agents of the lWater, Cotton, Horticulture and Tobacco Development
Boards posted in the Region and recruiting newly qualified VEAs from the Agri-
cultural Training Institutes (ATIs). GOB has agreed that at least 50% of the
graduates of ATIs would be appointed in the Region.
5.        The increase in staff would aim at providing each Union in the
Region with at least one, and at times two VEAs. In allocating additional
VEAs, the first priority would thus go to Unions presently without one. A
second VEA would then be appointed in the Unions with the greatest agricul-
tural potential and/or wnere a significant technology gap is apparent. The
existence of field agents of other services would also be an important con-
sideration in allocating additional VEAs, since these services should event-
ually be amalgamated with DEM. Based on these considerations, Table 1 gives
a tentative allocation of VEAs among districts and subdivisions (for a target
number of 1,425 VEAs), and the table below indicates a suggested phasing for
the increase in staff:
Target Nos.    Current Nos.      Phasing by Year
1      2      3
Dinajpur             230            162          +33    +35     -
Rangpur              440            335          +40    +35    +30
Bogra                 184           134          +10    +20    +30
Rajshahi             346            229          +30    +40    +47
Pabna                225            142          +37    +20    +26
Region             1,425         1,002           150    150    123
6.        The VEA visit program would be on a fortnightly cycle (as against
the present weekly system).  Where two VEAs are appointed in a Union, it would
be divided into two blocks with one VEA responsible for each of them. Each
block would be in turn sub-divided into eight units, -hamlets-or sub-blocks,
approximating to eight villages (each village would comprise three to five
paras and 60 to 150 farmers) 1/. Each of these eight sub-blocks would be
visited by the VEA on a fixed day of the week, once every two weeks - four
in one week and four in the next. The VEA would spend the full day in the
sub-block, visiting the fields of ten or more contact farmers in the morning
to demonstrate impact points, and holding an open meeting in the afternoon for
all comers.
1/   Blocks and sub-blocks would be defined as geographical, continuous
territories (as opposed to communities of farmers). It may thus be
possible that the several plots of a farmer belong to different
sub-blocks.
93



ANNEX 4
Page 3
7.        Where the agricultural potential justifies only one UAA/VEA per
Union, the same procedure would be adopted for approximately one half of the
Union, for one crop season, with rotation to the other half for the next crop
season. In this case, the VEA could make additional visits to the temporarily
neglected blocks (half Unions) during any spare days remaining in the fortnight,
and mass media support would be concentrated on them. In a limited number of
cases where special circumstances apply, the VEA wc-dld visit two villages in
one day (omitting the open meeting in the afternoon), thus covering the whole
Union.
8.        DEM already has a satisfactory set of guidelines -to assist VEAs in
selecting contact farmers within each community group. These farmers are
from all levels of rural society, including sharecroppers, and are selected
for their potential influence and willingness to collaborate with extension
workers. Changes in contact farmers could, however, be made if those selected
proved to be ineffective or if they so desired.
9.        The VEA ;.;4suld also maintain demonstration plots in four of his
eight sub-blocks. In one contact farmer's field, one-tenth of an acre would
be used for this demonstration plot; it would be cultivated by using only the
full package of practices that the VEA is recommending to the farmers. To -
increase the demonstration effect of these plots their crop would be harvested
and weighed publicly.
10.       As extension efforts would be concentrated on selected farmers, so
also would the 'VEA concentrate on the most important crops; focussing mainly
on those practices which bring the best financial returns and make optimum
use of available resources. Initially, concentration would be on improving
cultural practices, known to produce sure and quick results rather than on
increased use of purchased inputs (Annex 12). Cultural practices requiring
basic changes would first be recommended for adoption on only a small part of
the land, to overcome a natural reluctance to rapid change and to allow results
to be compared with traditional practices. Once farmers' yields and incomes
increase substantially, so will the farmer's confidence in the VEA, making
them more receptive to further advice. Because of this initial increase in
income, the farmers would also be financially better able to adopt more expen-
sive recommendations.
11.       Under the above organization, the VEAs would be fully occupied for
eight days in each fortnight visiting the respective community groups (sub-
blocks). Of the six remaining days two would be holidays (rest days). One
day would be devoted to training in the recommended practices for the ensuing
fortnight at the Training Unit. The three remaining days would be used for:
-    maintaining demonstration plots;
-    making up for visits missed for any reason (sickness);
-    making special visits to farmers' groups, especially
if the Union has adopted a rotating system;                     94



ANNEX 4
Page 4
grouD instruction, whether at markets or fairs (visit
of mobile audio-visual units) or other special demon-
strations; and
essential office work.
12.       Each VEA would keep a chart or simple daily diary - on a printed
format - showing the days for visiting each group and the time and place of
the meeting.  The supervising Thana Officer would review and initial these
while on tour.   This would reduce formal paper reporting to a minimum.    In-
stead, reports would, for the most part, be given verbally during supervisory
visits or at training meetings. (para 2.1).
13.       A typical timetable for a VEA would be as follows:
Sat Sun   Mon Tue    Wed Thu   Fri   Sat  Sun   Mon  Tue  Wed Thu   Fri
1     2   3     4   EV    EV   H     5    6     7    8    T    EV   H
I to 8: VEA visits to specific sub-blocks.
T:   The day of fortnightly training at Training Units w.ill vary
among Thanas and Unions. See Figure 2.
EV: Extra visits, group instruction, demonstration plots, office
work.
H:   Holiday.
Thana
14.       To provide guidance and supervision of VEAs, the staff at the Thana
level would be strengthened. GOB has already decided that an agricultural
graduate will be appointed as the Thana Extension Officer (TEO) in all Thanas.
Of the 113 Thanas in Rajshahi Region, 41 such posts have already been sanc-
tioned, and 33 filled. The remaining 80 posts would be filled during the
project period.
15.       By District, the following would be the numbers of TEO's required.
No. of     TEO         TEO     Appointments" Phasing by Year
District   Thanas    in Post   Required   Year 1      Year 2     Year 3
Dinajpur      22        4         18         10          8         -
Rangpur       31       11         2.0         8         10         2
Bogra         14        5          9          3          4         2
Rajshahi      29        9         20          5.         7         8
Pabna        17         4         13         3           5         5
Total     113        33         80        29          34        17
95



ANNEX 4
Page 5
The suggested phasing of TEO's appointments, as for appointments of additional
VEA's, reflects apparent needs and potentials for increased production, as well
as soil conditions, present standards of farming, and the existence of other
extension services in the area.
16.       The TEO would be the senior extension officer in the thana.    Because
of the supervision workload, however, he would need additional assistance.
The existing Thana Agricultural Officers (TAOs) would become Assistants to
the Thana Extension Officer (ATEOs). The ATEO would supervise half of the
VEAs of the thana; in addition to being the ATEO's supervisor, the TEO would
also supervise directly the other half of the VEAs.    Each TEO or ATEO would
supervise 5 to 8 VEAs; they would keep a schedule of visits of their VEAs.
They would participate at least once every two weeks in part of each VEA's
program of visit to farmers.   This would enable them to visit every farmers'
group at least twice each season.   They would assist the VEAs in carrying out
their demonstrations and in other technical matters. Having access to the
visit schedules of their VEAs, the TEOs and ATEOs would be able to quickly
check up on them, either by surprise visits or by questioning farmers about
visit days, names of VEA's, practices dealt with, etc. Once the system is
appreciated, farmers themselves would become the real supervisors.
17.       The TEOs and ATEOs would themselves participate every two weeks
in the training sessions at the Training Unit for the VEAs so they may
be thoroughly familiar with the selected impact points which the VEA is
extending. In addition, they would receive a monthly training at the Dis-
trict headquarters (para 34).
Training Unit (TU)
18.       The role of the Training Units would be to organize the fortnightly
training of VEAs, and also to ensure the link with applied research and
provide supervision and technical guidance to thana and union staff. With
few exceptions, they would be organized on the basis of a sub-division (in
any case, their territories would always be comprised within the borders
of one district); their officers would be directly responsible to the Dis-
trict Extension Officer (DEO) of their district. A suggested distribution
of the thanas among 14 Training Units, with estimated numbers of farming
households, Unions and VEAs required is given in Table 1. Suggested loca-
tions for these Training Units are given in Table 2. These locations have
been selected to make best use of the facilities of existing and proposed
research substations and ATIs (where no substation or ATI is available, TTDC
grounds and facilities would be used). The Sub-divisional Agricultural In-
formation Center (under AIS) would be closely associated to the Training Units,
especially in the supply and distribution of leaflets, handouts and posters.
19.       Each Training Unit   would cater on average for about 100 VEAs.
They would operate four or five days per fortnight so that their Crop Pro-
duction Specialists would have sufficient time for liaison and support work
96



ANNEX 4
Page 6
- in addition to their training duties. Technical supervision, support and
advice to the thana officers and the VEAs during their farmer visits would be
an aspect of the work of the Training Units staff as important as the more
fcrmal fortnighcL1y rrLining (Appendix 1).
20.       The average size of the daily group of VEAs in the fortnightly train-
ing would be about 25, permitting practical work in smaller groups of six to
ten trainees. The obiective of the day's training would be to cover in theory
and in practice the two or three impact points to be extended during the en-
suing fortnight by the VEAs.   These points would have been planned originally
by the Regional Trainirng Officer (para 31) and confirmed/modified by the Dis-
trict staff when reviewing the TU programs at their pre-season and monthly
meetings.
21.       The training would cover the following points:
(a)  Review of application of previous fortnights instructions
and problems encountered.
(b) Formal instruction on selected impact points to be extended
in the next fortnicht.
(c)  Practical instruction and demonstration (using a one acre
demonstration area) in small groups.
(d) Concluding discussion of the day's instruction points by the
whole class with instructors to ensure that all have a thorough
grasp o-f the impact points.
(e) Distribution of hand-outs summarizing the impact practices
and giving necessary details.
22.       The staff at the Training Unit would normally comprise two or three
officers: one Cereal specialist, one Plant Protection specialist, and where
appropriate one other Specialist on the most common non-cereal crop of the
area. These officers would belong to a special cadre to be established (Appen-
dix 1). Provision is made under the project for the training of the Cereal
Specialists at BARI and BRRI; some overseas fellowships have been included for
assisting the training of specialists in "other crops" (see Appendix 1).
23.       Seven of the Training Units would be located in ATIs or TTDCs where
meeting rooms would be available.   For the seven others (located on research
substations), the project would provide one meeting room. In addition, in
each Training Unit, the project would provide administrative accommodation for
officers and supporting staff, and housing for the TU coordinator and the
cereal specialist. (The other crop specialists would be provided with accom-
modation in the "twin-quarter" of the nearby thana TTDC.) About one acre of
land attached to the TU would be available for demonstration. The project
would also provide for farm and training equipment, and vehicles (one pick-up
attached to the TU and one motorcycle for each officer).
97



ANNEX 4
Page 7
Di-strict
24.       Under the projec- l-   nurT-ker of district officers will be in-
creased to permit the close supervision required under the Training and Visit
System. There is at present one District Extension Officer (DEO) in Dinajpur
district; one in each of the five other districts will be appointed. The
DEO will be responsible for all DEM extension work in his district and, in
particular, for the supervision of the district SDEOs. Each SDEO will have
responsibility for supervising his group of TEOs, in the thanas in his sub-
division (generally about 8) the administrative matters related to the
Training Unit (TU) in his sub-division and the general agricultural develop-
ment in his area.
25.       A District Training Officer (DTO) will be appointed in each district.
He will have responsibility for the organization of the teaching work in the
TUs in his district, including preparation of a plan for each crop season.
They would obtain relevant leaflets and publications from AIS for distribu-
tion to the TUs, and would be responsible for the operation of the audio-
visual equipment to be provided under AIS (para 37).
Regional Level
26.       Responsibility for supervising the extension program in the North
West Region rests with the Regional Director of Agriculture (RDA), helped by
an assistant and clerical staff. The project would reinforce the expertise
of the staff of the regional level by providing the services of a senior ex-
tension adviser (consultant expatriate) for an eighteen month period. This
adviser would assist the Regional Director in implementing the Training and
Visit System, programming the training of the extension staff and ensuring
the liaison with research organizations (Draft Terms of Reference are in Ap-
pendix 2). In addition, the project would provide additional local expertise
at the regional level in farm production economics and field crops.
27.       Present recommendations of the extension service are technically
oriented and neglect the economic aspect of farm production. There is a need
to review these recommendations, and the future research findings before they
are propagated by extension staff, to ascertain their economic viability.
Under the project a unit would be set up under the Regional Director of Agri-
culture comprising five farm production economists (FPEs). For logistic rea-
sons, two of these FPEs would be located in Rangpur, to cover the northern
part of the region; the three others would be posted in Rajshahi. This unit
would establish links with the universities (Rajshahi and BAU at Mymensingh)
and the economic sections of BARI and BRRI. The project would also provide
clerical staff, equipment and vehicles for the unit. Fellowships abroad (36
man-months) would also be provided for the training of these FPEs.
28.       The crop specialists stationed at the Training Units would need
support in more specialized disciplines such as irrigation, physiology,
entomology, pathology, agricultural chemistry, machinery, marketing, rural
98



ANNEX 4
Page 8
organizations and farm management. Specialists in these and other fields are
available in Bangladesh - in BARI, BRRI and other research institutions, or in
Mymensingh and Rajshahi Universities. This expertise, however, needs to be
organized to serve agricultural development. A cadre of four specialists
(Grade III) would be attached directly to the Regional Office covering Agri-
cultural Chemistry and Soils, Plant Pathology/Entomology, Irrigated Agricul.-
ture, and Cereal Crops. These specialists would be available to prQvide
guidance to the Crop Specialists in the Training Units or participate in the
training sessions of the UAAs/VEAs if and when required. They would be pro-
vided with clerical staff and vehicles. The Regional Director of Agriculture,
with the help of his consultant adviser would also endeavor to evolve a scheme
to tap the expertise of universities and research institutions for consultancy
when specific problems arise.
29.       One of the CPs at the regional level would be responsible for the
overall monitoring and coordination of the TUs'work programs.
Additional In-Service Training
30.       Iln addition to the fortnightly training of UAAs/VEAs, union and
thana staff would receive some periodic in-service training.
31.       Periodic Training of TEOs and ATEOs.   While TEOs and ATEOs partici-
pate every fortnight in the training of VEAs, it is important that they keep
up-to-date in a more systematic way with practices and trends. Workshops
would thus take place at District level every four weeks, for one or two days.
The first part of the workshop would be devoted to technical discussions,
with research scientists participating, and the second to working out detailed
training needs and work programs for the next four weeks. In time, these
meetings would become core seminars of District professional staff to review
progress in achieving the targeted program, and prepare the programs for
the next four weeks.
32.       Pre-Season Training for VEAs.   In addition to their fortnightly
training during the crop season, more comprehensive training workshops would
be held for VEAs before the start of each of the two main crop seasons. These
three-days workshops would be organized by Districts and prepared by the DEO
and his staff with the assistance of the Regional Training Officer; they would
follow a pre-season conference of senior staff at District level. The purpose
would be to give to field agents a broader seasonal perspective of the efxten-
sion program and targets, review the timetable of the crop season by crop,
introduce major new concepts and varieties and discuss likely changes in impact
practices. For these workshops, the existing facilities of the ATIs would be
used. (For the Districts with large numbers of VEAs it may be desirable to
have two sessions for half the total, in consecutive weeks).
99



MANEX 4
Page 9
33.       Pre-Season Training for TEOs and ATEOs.   TEO's and or ATEOs would
assemble at District Headquarters for three days towards the end of the prep-
aration of Ui:e district planning for the next season (para 49). Their parti-
cnpation would serve as an introduction to new technology or programs to be
introduced and presented to VEAs at their subsequent training sessions.
Support to the Agricultural Information Service (AIS)
34.       The AIS is organized on the basis of a Headquarters Unit, four
Regional Offices and one Agricultural Information Center (AIC) in each Sub-
division of the country.   Its main activity has been to produce a farmers
radio program transmitted from Dacca and five Regional stations, to manage
mobile audio-visual units in each District (now largely defunct) and to pre-
pare exhibits, pamphlets, posters, journals (distributed through the AIC's).
Instructional film-making is a recent proposal, yet to be effected or fi-
nanced.  AIS maintains an Assistant Technical Information Office (ATIO) in
Rajshahi, together with an Exhibit Specialist and audio-visual mechanic,
responsible for supervising and supplying the AICs with leaflets and posters,
and for preparing the present 20-minute radio program.
35.       The project would support AIS by providing additional staff at the
regional level and vehicles and equipment at the regional and district levels.
At the regional level, two posts of Regional Farm Broadcasting Officers would
be created (one to be located in Rajshahi, the other in Rangpur). These of-
ficers and the existing ATIO would be provided with vehicles. In addition,
each district would be provided with one mobile unit, one portable cinema
projector and one ;xiblic address system. This equipment would be operated
by district staff under the authority of the DTO (para 28). Short courses
of two to three days would be arranged by the ATIO for the extension staff
who would operate this equipment.
36.       To increase the usefulness of the farm broadcast of AIS, each thana
level officer and VEA would be provided with a small transistor radio. They
would thus be able to supplement their periodical in-service training with
the information given during these programs. The potential of the farm broad-
cast as a tool for extension would be further tried out, on a pilot scale, in
four thanas of the Region. In these thanas, the contact farmers (about 6,000)
would also receive transistor radios. To provide them with an incentive, the
contact farmers would be given the radios under the understanding that these
would be recovered if the farmers do not satisfactorily fulfill their expected
duties under the T and V system. This pilot scheme would be implemented in
four thanas of the Natore sub-division of Rajshahi district, so it can easily
be monitored by the AIS staff at Rajshahi.
Salaries, Allowances and Other Incentives
37.       Even though more effort will be required of all extension staff in
the project area, it would not be possible to increase the salary scales for
the project without extending this increase to other parts of the country,
and possibly, other government departments. (Grades and salaries of public
100



ANNEX 4
Page 10
employees are currently under examination by the IIIrd Pay and Services Com-
mission). To provide some incentive for the extension staff without changes
in the salary levels, the project would provide housing and vehicles for
VEAs, Thana Officers and TU officers and vehicles for District officers.
It would also provide adequate level of allowances for travel and daily
subsistence and supply the necessary demonstration equipment.
38.       Housing (Annex 5).   For each VEA, low-cost accommodation would
be provided. The house would also serve as an office or extension sub-center;
it would have one small plot of land attached for demonstration purposes.
These houses would be provided free of rental charge, but the VEAs would
be required to live there, close to the farmers they serve. The project would
also provide the construction of apartment buildings ("twin quarters") at the
thana level. These quarters would provide accommodation to TEOs and ATEOs
and one or two crop specialists of the Training Units. In addition, in each
Training Unit, the project would provide for the construction of houses for
two Crop Production Specialists.
39.       Vehicles.   All field extension staff in the project area, at Union,
Thana, Training Unit, District or Regional level would be provided with
vehicles.  VEAs would get a bicycle, 1/ TEOs, TAOs and TU officers would
receive a motorcyle. In addition, the Training Unit would be provided with
one pick-up.  Additional District and Regional staff would be provided with
cars or motorcyles.
40.       On taking delivery of vehicles, whether under hire-purchase or pro-
vided officially, the responsible officer would be required to undergo instruc-
ticn in driving, routine maintenance and minor repair. This would be done by
arrangement with the District or Tnana level workshops, where qualified mecha-
nics are available. In the same way, a regular servicing contract for these
vehicles could be entered into with BADC which has local workshop facilities,
or with private operators.
41.       Travel and Daily Allowances. Like the salaries, the present rates
of allowances could not be increased for the extension staff of the project
area without extending the increase to the remainder of the country. These
rates are also under the review of the Pay and Service Commission. Sufficient
budgetary provision would be made for payment of these allowances in the
North-West Region. (At present, because of budget constraints, payment of
allowances is usually discontinued before the end of each fiscal year).
1/   About 40 VEAs in four thanas of the North West region (Boda, Jaldhaha,
Mahadebpur and Sujanagar) will already be provided with bicycles under
the IDA-supported Population project; about 100 others in four other
thanas (Bogra, Sherpur, Gabtali and Shariakandi) will also receive
bicycles under the IDA-supported Rural Development Project.
101



ANNEX 4
Page 11
42.       Demonstration Equipment and Audio-Visual Aids.   Each VEA and Thana
officer would be provided with a set of simple agricultural tools, to enable
him to carry out demoristrations. They would also receive a kit of audio-
visual aids and one small transistor radio.
C. Organization and Management
43.       Responsibility for tihe organization and implementation of the exten-
sion component would be withi the Directorate of Agriculture (Extension and Man-
agement). The Agricultural Information Service would be responsible for the
regional broadcasting program and the supply of audio-visual equipment to be
used by extension staff at the district, thana and union level (including the
radios for extension stafff and contact farmers).
44.       At the regional level, the Regional Director of Agriculture (RDA)
would be responsible for the management of all staff and project equipment; he
would also be responsible for direct supervision of the staff provided under
the project at the regional level (farm production economists, regional crop
specialists, training officers). The additional posts to be created at the
district, sub-division, thana and union levels would come under the direct
responsibility of DEOs, SDEOs and TEOs, respectively. The officers of the
Training Units would also be administratively responsible to the SDEOs of the
sub-division where they are located.
45.       The five DEOs and the RDA would be responsible for preparing a pro-
duction program for each district and the whole region before every crop sea-
son. The RDA, in liaison with the Ministry of Agriculture in Dacca, would
prepare regional targets and production guidelines for the coming season.
These would be sent to the five districts two months before the start of the
season; they would be used by the DEOs for drawing up district programs.
These would include extension coverage, impact practices to be taught, train-
Mng requirement, input supply and marketing. These programs would be reviewed
by the District Coordinating Committees before being sent to the RDA. Towards
the end of this district planning exercise, thana officers would meet in dis-
trict headquarters to review and discuss programs, targets and proposed cul-
tural practices (para 36). The district programs would then be reviewed by
the staff of the regional headquarters and presented to the Regional Coordina-
ting Committee for approval.
June 1977
102



ANNEX 4
Appendix 1
Page 1
BANGLADESH
EXTENSION AND RESEARCH PROJECT
The Cadre of Crop Production Specialists
1.        To establish a link between extension and research, a new cadre of
Crop Production Specialists would be established. Posted in Training Units
suitably located, these specialists would carry out other duties besides
teaching.  Because of the importance of this cadre, special attention should
be paid to their recruitment and grades. After their recruitment, they would
receive specialized training in various research institutes.
2.        In the course of their fortnightly schedule, the Crop Specialists
would carry out three main duties:
(a) Training field extension staff and supplying them with
visual aids and demonstration materials (4 days);
(b) Providing the link between adaptive research and extension
by participating in the activities of the research sta-
tions and the Field Trials Division (Soil Fertility Institute)
and by supporting field extension staff with specialist advice
in the Unions and villages (5 days); and
(c) Conducting, or overseeing simple replicated trials, both
at the Training Unit and in farmers' fields and visiting
VEA demonstration plots in Contact Farmers fields (3 days).
3.        Since the effectiveness of the T and V system depends heavily on this
cadre of specialists they would be recruited in open competition, following
public advertisement, stipulating a relevant M.S. level degree and considerable
field experience. Representatives of BARC, BAU and DEM would constitute the
selection committee. To attract the best people, these specialists would be
graded BAS 1 (Bangladesh Agricultural Service I), as are ATI Instructors.
4.        Specialized training of these crop specialists is already planned
in the case of Rice, Wheat and Plant Protection.   For rice specialists, three
four-month training programs have been organized at BRRI, beginning in Feb-
ruary, July and October. The first three months will be devoted to training
in rice production (including plant protection); in the fourth month the future
specialists will get some practice by helping in the training of TEOs and ATEOs
in the same subjects. A Communication, Training and Applied Research Unit at
BRRI, Joydebpur will conduct this training; assistance may also be sought from
BAU Mymensingh, especially from the Agricultural Extensionl and Teacher Training
Department. The project would provide for the cost of accommodation for two
103



ANNEX 4
Appendix 1
Page 2
courses to be conducted early in the project period at BRRI. (Other funds
have been secured for some courses to be conducted prior to project commence-
ment, so that some Rice Specialists would already be trained by the time the
project starts.)
5.        BARI will train the wheat specialists at their present headquarters
(Tejgaon), utilizing also the facilities of BARI. Building facilities are
available - but equipment is presently lacking. The thirty-day training
period would be spread over the wheat season in either three periods of ten,
or four periods of seven days. BARI Scientific Officers or staff would con-
duct the training courses. The first course is to begin in September/ October
1977 and continue through to March; the second would take place in the sub-
sequent year. The project would provide the equipment required for these
courses. Because of the importance of these two crops in the North-West
Region, the rice specialists and wheat specialists would follow both training
at BARI and BRRI.
6.        For training the fourteen plant protection specialists required
in the North-West Region, one of the BRRI courses for rice specialists would
be modified, emphasizing more the plant protection aspect. These specialists
could then get additional training on plant protection for wheat from BARI.
7.        For crop specialists outside these three categories, the limited
number of specialists required would receive specialized training in the
respective research institutes. In isolated cases where the required ex-
pertise is not available in Bangladesh, the project would provide study fel-
lowships (36 months) in other countries.
June 1977
104



ANNEX 4
Appendix 2
Page 1
BANGLADESH
EXTENSION AND RESEARCH PROJECT
Agricultural Extension SDecialist - Draft Terms of Reference
1.        This special adviser to the Regional Director of Agriculture and
his staff would assist them in:
(a)  Planning, implementing and monitoring the field extension
programs;
(b)  formulating, designing and implementing all types of
training programs required (periodic, on-the-job, sea-
sonal, annual, or ad hoc specialists training);
(c)  preparing pre-se,lson schedules for on-the-job training
programs at the Training Units;
(d)  designing and supervising the field demonstration program;
(e)  coordinating the research program with the objectives of
extension and production;
(f)  developing iaass extensior programs and advising on the
production of extension material and the use of audio-
visual equipment; and
(g)  reviewing the initial extension "packages"' and advising on
their technical and economic suitability.
2.        In addition to the above primary responsibilities he would be avail-
able as required to assist the Director of Agriculture (E&M) in plannina the
Extension program at National Level.
Duration of the Appointment     -   18 months
Duty Station                    -   Rajshahi, with periods
in Dacca at Headquarters
3.        QualificarionLs Required:
-    At least 10 years experience in managing extension services;
-    Experience of cereal growing;
-    Experience in training agricultural extension staff, at all
levels, formally and informally.                                 105



ANNEX 4
Appendix 2
Page 2
4.        It is desirable that he be familiar with the Training and Visit
System of extension as now priaticed in several countries in Asia. Expe-
rience in evaluating extension schemes, liaising with senior management,
and setting up extension programs at National and Regional Levels would be
an added assets.
June   1977
106



ANNEX 4
Table 1
Page 1
BANGLADESH
EfIgSION AND RESEARCH PROJECT
RaJshahi Region
Proposed Nos. of UAA/VEA, by District, Thana and Training Unit.
Rural     1/          Farming   2/       No. of          Proposed No.
T.U. No.                         Populatiol-          Households-         Unions3,        of UAA/VEA
RAJSHAEI REGION     16,388,747             1,902,320          1,100 -        1,425
Districcs
DINAJPUR              2,402,241              2=1l               198                     i3 0
Tetulia                  56330                 6,572              8
Panchagarh               7M575                 8P17               7
Boda                    148,927               17,74              12
Atwari                   7:,541                8,346              6
Baliadangi               9V754                11,287              6
I      Ranisankail              90,559               10,565              5
Haripur                  42,831                4,997              6
Pirganj                 139,536               16,279             11
*Thakurgaon             244999                 28,333             19
Birganj                 150)834               17,587             10
BochaganJ               75306                  8781               6
Kaharole                 78,221                9.120              7
1,269,413               148,058           103            121
Debiganj                114P050               13,298              8
Birol                    75,306                8,781             10
Khanshama                85,180                9,932              6
*Dinajpur Kot.          150,565                17,556            11
II      Chiri;bandar            152l04                17735              12
Parbatipur              178,946               20865              14
Fulbari                 104,832               12223              10
Nawabganj               142,82                16601              10
Hakimpur                 73,440                8563               5
Ghoraghat                56,023                6532               4
1,132,828               132086             90           109
RANGPUR              5,184A423               603.874            340-/                   440
Domar                   127731                14893              10
tNilphamari             182.47                 21,38             14
III      Saidpur                  67734                 7P39               5
Kishoreganj             17q241                19,009             11
Jaldhaka                17)115                19,952             13
Dimla                   135,223               15,780              8
853,691               98,711             61             82
Gangachara              126501                14,750              3
Badarganj               212977                24,833             15
*Rangpur Kot.           213433                 24,886            11
IV      Kaunia                 110389                 12,871              6
Pirgacha                175271                20,536              9
Mithapukur              267530                31,194             17
Pirganj                 201693                23,517             15
1,303794                152,387            81           115
1/ Rural population: defined as the population living in communities of less than 5,000 people.
2/  Assumed that family size is 6, and 30% are landless.
3/ Actual total of Unions greater than sum of Thanas/Uniot.a indicated due to recent creations.
Distribution not available. Rajshahi, Bogra and Rangpur are Municipal/Town Unions - Rural
Unions total 1,097.
4/  Field Agents of other agencies taken into consideration.
Sources: Bangladesh Population Census 1974, Bulletin 2; and mission estimates.
* Subdivision Headquarters
April 12, 1977
107



ANNEX 4
Table 1
Rural                Farming            No. of         Proposed       Page 2
T.U. No.                        Population           Households         Unions         No. of UAA/VEA
Patgram               102318                1;930               6
aatibandha            121598                14.178             10
Kaliganj              230;82                26,850             16
Bhurungamari          126,518               14,752             10
Nageswari             199750                23,291             15
V        Fulbari                89308                10,413              6
Lalmonirhat           197pO2                22,70              13
*Kurigram              116024                13,528              9
Ulipur                293,158               33,949             17
Chilmari               96633                11,267              7
Rah-sri               121J56                14,96               7
1,692,347,             197,324            116            130
Sundarganj            257772                30p56              15
Sadullapur            169088                19767              11
Polashbari            156495                18,251              9
VI        Gobindaganj           2724066               331750             17
Saghatta              148,36                17,334              9
Fulchari               99P15                12,648              7
*Gaibandha             226§19                26,446             12
1,330,91               155,252             80            113
BOGRA               2,180266               245558             139/                      184
XdaTighi               94278                11p002              6
Dupchanchia            96,607               13,274              6
Shibganj              210 964               24,619             12
Kahaloo               117,584               13722               9
Nandigram              87,802               10,246              5
VII       *Bogra                 291,912               35p66              22
Panchbibi             1254018               14,90               8
Khetlal               137,938               16p97              10
*Jaipurhat             144;79                16P60               8
Akkelpur               84619                                    5
1,391O201                                  91            120
Sherpur               126287                14P19               9
VIII        Gabtali               291212                4s)66              14
Dhunat                168788                19,697             10
Shariakandi           201378                23J50              16
789p65                924)82             49             64
RAJSHAHI            4,021,691              469324             2732/                     346
Dhamoirhat            104,112               12,150              4
Patnitola             125,243               14,615             11
Badalgachi            134,959               15750               8
IX        Mohadebpur            164,865               19,40              10
Niamatpur             128,859               15,037              8
Manda                 206,559               24L05              14
*Naogaon               1794097               20900              13
1,043,694              123,797             68             90
ife



ANNEX 4
Table 1
Page 3
Rural                Farming            No. of         Proposed
T.U. No.                        Population           Households         Unions         No. of UAA/VEA
Porsa                 130X26                15909               6
Gomastapur            127.38                14@37               8
X        Bholahat               47,094                5,496              4
Shibganj              287845                33,591             16
*Nawabganj             225,826               26E354             17
Nachole                6Q780                 7,093              4
8794X9               102,580             55              72
Tanore                 91,571               10,686              6
Godagari              143,69                16789               9
Boalia (Rajshahi city)   -                    -                 -
Paba                  150588                17,574             13
XI       Charghat              194009               2441               12
Puthia                101,431               11,37               6
Durgapur               89,677               10,465              7
Bagmara               194,632               22,713             14
Mohanpur               79,78                 9333               6
Rajshahi SD         1,045755               122p038             73             92
Raninagar             103,928               12}28               8
Atrai                 111,739               13P39               8
*Natore                191,832               22387              12
XII       Bagatipara             68)867                8,037              4
Lalpur                143,656               16764              10
Baraigram             140798                16,431              7
Gurudaspur            111,233               12,80               6
Singra                181,180               21,143             12
1,053,233              122,09              67             92
PABNA               2,600,126              303420             150                         225
Kazipur               178,389               20018              11
Raiganj               153,61                17,67               9
Tarash                 87,450               10;05               8
XIII       Ullahpara             248)480               28298              13
Shahjadpur            254,415               29690              13
Chowhali              100,85                11773               5
Belkuchi              149,915               17,495              6
Kamarkandi             75,616                8A24               4
*Sirajanj              201,223               23.483             10
1,450,334              16V53               79           122
Chatmohar             170,863               19,40              11
Atgharia               89,556               10,441              5
Ishurdi               105,840               12,50               8
*Pabna                 215,609               25l61              10
XiV       Sujanagar             15q664                17,582             10
Bera                  135,417               15,803              8
Santhia               174792                20,631             11
Faridpur              105p051               12g59               8
1,149,792              134,67              71            103
Total - Region     16,388)747            1,902,320          1,100                      1425
109



ANTNEX 4
Table2
BANGLADESH
EXTENSION AND RESEARCH PROJECT
Suggested Location of Training Units
TU No.     District          TU                Facilities at Location
I       Dinajpur          Thakurgaon  SD    BADC Farm
II          It             Dinajpur. SD      Rajbari Farm   CORR-BAI-l
III       Rangpur           Nilphamari  SD    TTDO   Nilphamari
IV                         Rangpur Kotwali   Tajhat ATI
V          "              Kurigram  SD     Lalmanirhat - TTDC
VI          if             Gaibandha         ATI Gaibandha
VII       Bogra             Bogra             BograFARI Farm
VIIi         "'              Sherpur/Gabtali-  Shariakamdi TTU
IX       Rajshahi          Naogaon  SD       lIahadebpur TTDC;
X          "              Nawabganj  SD     Nawabganj
XI          "              Rajshahi  SD     BARI Trials Farm
XII          "              Natore SD         ATI  Natore
XTII       Pabna             Sirajganj  SD     Ullahpara.      TTDC
XIV         if              Pabna Sadar SD    Pabna BARI Farm
1/ In six Thana in the Region, (Bogra , Sherpur , Gabtali , Shariakadi , -
Bogra District): Pirganj-Rangpur Distr ct: and Sujanager Pabna District a
Thana Training Unit is being set up under IDA Agricultural and Rural Training
Project (Cr-621), comprising a 30-bed dormitory, field demonstration area and
training equipment. The TT proposed for Shariakandi/Gabtali/Sherpur would
utilize equipment provided under this project.
110



ANNEX 4
Table 3
BANGLADESH
EXTENSION AND RESEARCH PROJECT
Structure of the North-West Region
District          Area(sg.mls.)     Sub-divisions   Thanas    Unions   V
Dinajpur            2,609                2              22      151     3,089
Rangpur             3,704                4              31      327     3,699
Bogra               1,502                2              13      134     2,497
Rajshahi            3,654                4              30      250     6,312
Pabna               1,877                2              17      150     2,757
TOTAL            13,346               14-            113    1,012    18,354
Source:  RDA, Rajshahi
jl



BANGLADESH
EXTENSION AND RESEARCH PROJECT
Agricultural Extension Costs:   Buildings and Offices- '
(Values in Tk '000)
Unit                                                     Foreign
Area    Number of   Cost/                    Year                             Exchange
Type    (sq ft)  Buildings    Building        1          2           3         Total   %  Tk '000
Training Units (TU)-/                                        -
Crop Production
Specialist                House    800         28         80        83O   (10)  800  (10)  640  (8)     2,240    21     476
Instruction Room-/                 540          7         38         114  (3)    76  (2)    76  (2)       266    18 ,    49
Administrative
Accommodation           Office   270         14         19          95  (5)    95  (5)    76  (4)        266   20      53
4'
Thana Level-'
Completion o
Structures-            Twin Quarter          85         78       2,262 (29) 2.184 (28) 2,184 (28)     6,630    26   1,724
New Structures            Twin Quarter        126         545     22,890 (42)22,890 (42)22,890 (42)     68,670   26  17,852
Union Level-
61
Renovated Seed Storey,    Category I          324         13       1,404(108) 1,404(108) 1,404(108)      4,212   18     758
Renovated Seed Store-     Category II         419         18       2,520(140) 2,520(140) 2,502(139)      7,542   18   1,357
New Structure             House    308        592          27      5,346(198) 5,319(197) 5,319(197)     15,984   21   3,356
Sub-total Building                                                35,431     35,288     35,091         105,810   24  25,625
Physical Contingencies 8/                                          6,216      5,998      5,894          18,108    -   4,385
Total Building                                                    4164,      41,.86                              24   m,oin
9V
Land-                     Land for UAA's      592          .7        138(198)   139(197)   139(197)        416
new Houses
1/  Details of building construction shown in Annex 5.                    8/  About 17%, 10% at TU, 15% at Thana level;       D X
2/  14 Training Units.                                                        20% at Union level.                            4 4
H  3/  7 of TU's in ATI's or TDDC's with adequate instruction facilities.    9/  Land for Training Units and at Thana level
H  4/  "Twin quarters" - four family housing units,                              already available.   Only the land for new
5/  Construction has been stopped due to lack of funds. on certain units.     structure at the Union level would be acquired
6/  Seed store in poor state of repair.                                       (1,440 sq ft per house at 2u,uO0 Tk/ac).
71  Seed store in very poor state of repair.                                                                  June o, 1977



ANN&[ 4
BALIDESH                                                         Table 5
EYI02BIoN AiD RESE&RCH PPDJHET
Aaricultural Extension Costs: Vehicles and Equipaent
(A000)
Nusber                            Ya                                  oeg       khn
of       Unit                    Mear
Te                 Unit       Cost          1           2 l              Total          Foe
A. A-ut,::ob2 2 a3
Rezinal Level
Crop Soecialists (4)      Four-wheel Drive             2       200         400          -         -        400           50         200
ISSaf()Pick-up                                   2       130         260         -         -        260           50          130
AIonoSists (5)            Four-wheel Drive/S.'Wagon    2       200         400         -         -         400           50         200
:ctension Adviser (1)     Four-wheel Drive             1       200         200         -         -        200            50         100
Ais-zict Level            Mobile Units                 5       270       1,350         -                 1,350           50         675
DTO        (5)            Four-wheel Drive             5       200       1,000          -                1,000           50
(6)
, azi in Units (114)      Pick-up                     14       130       1,820         -         -      1,820            50         910
&6, aon)    tcrobus                                 1       200         20               -             200            50
r                                      5,630                           5,630           50      ,2, 8S1
Sub- tWa; § A )
B. Bicy.zLes u 1o4crcycles:
aol Level
Crcp S;ecialists (4)      Motorcycle 70 cc                      11           4                              4 54         50          22
s (5)                 it                            5        11          5                    -         55            5)          27
SDF0    5)                                            14       154         154         -         -         154           50          77
CPS   (39)                                            39       429         429                             429           50         215
Thana Level (113)
TMJ/ATM                               5              226        11       1,925 (175) 374 (34) 187 (17) 2,186             50       1,243
Bicycle                  1,425         1.5     1 728(152)    225(15OW) 184(123) 2,137          50       1,068
Sub-to;a1 XB)                                                               4,335        599       371      5,335           50       2,652
Sub-To,3ai 7ehicles (A & B)                                                 9,965        599      371     10,935            50       5,467
C. d
Tools 1/                  Fieldworik                  14        15         210         -         -         210            5          10
Didacdic 2/               Teachirg                    11       30         420         -          -        420           40         168
Domes tic 3/              Coolking                    14         6          84         -          -         84           -           -
.heaa Sosci alis tS
(Te,gaon) LI           Training                     1       100         100         -         -         100           40          LO
_-i .- - (&Regional)
5c onoois L S  /          Office Equipment             2        15          30         -          -         3°           30           9
AIS )/                    Portablae                    5        10.5        52         -          -         52           40          21
Th.vn,i iLavel 7
De0jorstrat4 on Plots    Ibouts                    2,100          .4       280 (700) 280(700) 280(700)     840           -           -
T M.,                     Tools & Visual Aids        226         4.4       770 (175) 149 (34) 74 (17)      993           30         298
Unlioni Level 8/
UJU                       Tools & Visual Aids      1,1425        1.4     1,612(J,152)  210(150) 172(123) 1,994           30         598
Contact Far-mer3
(1 Than.s)             Radios                   6,ooo          .3       900(3pOO) 900(3pOO) -         1,800           40         720
Field Jiemo,Plots         Inputs                  30,000          .04       400(1C)00) _L400()h)D0A=)1,200                           -
Sub--t.aI (0)                                                               1.858       19         926      7,723           24       1a864
Sub-total (A - B + C)                                                      14,823       2,538    1,297    18,-638           3g       7,331
Physi-l Contingency (10% of C)                                              486        1914      9         773                       186
Total -r.:lu:ro Contingency                                                15,309       2,732    1,390    19,431            39       7,51
/ 20 sets of hoes, drills, sprayers.
2/ .6 m   cl,eaa unit & generator, 2 screens, slide film strip projector (35 m), overhead projector, tape recw'der and tapes, microphone,
co   ^;izir radio receivw, duplicator, typewriter and miscellaneous office supplies.
J/ 140 sets of zx'.erY, utansils arx cooking equiprmnt.
14  rra .:; 'quipment including furniture, audio visual aids, 2 typewriters, hand calculators, duplicating machine, field equipment.
/   Irnclu- r- 2 calculators, 2 typewriters, duplicat r and miscellaneous office supplies.
IcIr -i. .rP 2. portable 16 mm cinema projector arn generator and 1 public address svstm.
7   Same too`a as 6/plus sprayer, line seeder, thresher, Same audio visual aids as 6/plus slide & film strip projector & screen.
b/ Tools iacluie hec, rake, seeder, sprayer, spade, trowel, soil auger, seed and chemicals.
Audio j1-.l aids include ora MW transistor radio, flash card set, flip data set, posters, chalkboard
113



AS! 4
BANGLADESH                                          Table 6
EXTENSION AND RESELRCH PROJECT
Agricultural Extension Costs: Salaries, Allowances, Training, Consultancy
(Tk 2000)
Foreign
Number     Unit                    Year                               Exchange
Grade   Of Units    Cost         1            2           3         Total     %     T-LLI2
A. Salaries1/                      Persons
DEO                   III        4       18.70       75  (4)     75   (4)     75  (4)      225      -       -
D.T.O.                III        5        18.70      94  (5)      94  (5)     94  (5)       282      -       -
Crop Specialists,
(Region)              III        4       18.70       75  (4)     75   (4)     75  (4)      225      -       -
Officers, Sub-
division             IV         53       13.68      260 (19)    520 (38)     725 (53)    1,505
Farm Production
Economists          IV         5       13.68       68  (5)     68   (5)     68  (5)      204
TEO                   V         80        9.60      278 (29)    605 (63)     768 f80)    1,651
Broadcaster           V          2        9.60       19  (2)     19   (2)     19  (2)       57      -       -
Clerk/Typist          VIII      45        3.84      173 (45)    173 (45)     173 (45)      519              -
UAA    3              VIII     423        3.84      576(150)  1,152(300)   1,624(423)    3,352      -       -
Driver'-              IX        33        2.88       95 (41)     95 (41)      95 (41)      295      -       -
Peons-                X         45        1.62       73 (45)     73 (45)      73 (45)      219      -       -
Sub-total (A)                                   1,786       2,949        3,789         8,524
B.  Allowances-l
Consolidated                                        384         617          784         1,785      -       -
Travel                                              576         925        1,177         2,678      -       -
Daily                                               172         182          190           544     -        -
Sub-total (B)                                  1,132        1,724        2,151         5,007      -       -
C.  Train/                        Persons
Preseason-/    Studants UAA    3,975       .1     -             113(1,125)   285(2,850)    398     -        -
7/    Attending-
TU staff        168       .2     -              11 (56)     22 (112)       33     -        -
Attending
Regional Staff   75       .3     -               6 (25)     15   (50)      21     -       -
BRRY-=         Crop Specialist    40      6.        120 (20)    120 (20)       -           240      -       -
TEO/TAO            50      1.4       35 (25)      35 (25)      -             70     -        -
Sub-total (C)                                     155         285          322           762X    -        -
D. Consultants
and FellowshiDs                                                                                            (
Building    9/
Supervisiott-                                   1,772        1,764       1,755          5,291              -
Extension Adviser
(Ra'shahi)        Expatriate     18      75       450   (6)    900 (12)    -            1,350    100     1,350
Fellowships         Ag.
Economics      36      15       180 (12)    180 (12)     180 (12)      540     100     540
10/              Crop
Specialist    36       15       180 (12)    180 (12)     180 (12)      540     100     540
Sub-total (D)                                   22.         a iQ2.      2, 115         7         31     2,430
Total Salaries (A+B+C+D)                         5,655        7982        8.377          2-Q4     ,       2,430
1/  Details in Annex 2, Table 2.
3/  One per autombile in Table 5.
4/ The unit rates are given in Appendix 1, Annex 2.
5/ Additional to Allowances in B, Table 6.
6/  4 days x Tk 12 + Bus allowance Tk 50 each    Tk 100/UAA/session.   Year 2 only one course; Year 3 - two courses.
7/  4 days x Tk 25 + Tk 100 vehicle allowance. = Tk 200/TU member/session.
8/ 20 crop specialists x 120 days x Tk 50 x 2 courses + 25 TEO/TAO x 28 days x Tk 50 x 2 courses.
9/  5Z of cost of buildings is provided for supervision of construction, shared between Governent departments and
consultants.
1Q/ Training in crops which are not catered to by research institutes in Bangladesh (Appendix 1, Annex 3).       Additional
training costs have been included (Annex 3, Table 5) for Tejgaon wheat specialists equipment.
June R, 1977                                                                                                   114



ANNEX 4
Table 7
BANGIADESH
EXTENSION ANTD RESEARCH PROJECT
AgriculturaLl Extension Costs:  Summary
(Tk '000)
Foreign
Year                                Exchange
1        2        3          Total         %   Tk t000
Civil Works (Table 4)
Total Without Contingencies      35,431   35,288   35,091      105,810      24   25,625
Physical Contingencies            6,216  5j998      5,894       18,108       -    4,385
Total With Contingencies       41,647   41,286   40,985      123,918      24   30,010
Land (Table 4)                      138      139      139          416       -
Equipment and Vehicles (Table 5)
Vehicles                          9,965      599      371       1G,935      50    5,467
Equipment                         4,858    1,939      926        7,723      24    1,864
Total Without Contingencies     14,823     2,538    1,297       18,658      40    7,331
Physical Contingencies             486       194       93          773       -      186
Total With Contingencies      15,309     2,732    1,390       19,431      39    7,517
Establishment Costs (Table 6)
Salaries                         1,786    2,949     3,789        8,524       -     -
Allowances                        1,132    1,724    2,151        5,007       -
Training                           155       285      322          762       -     -
Consultants and Fellowships      2,582    3,024     2,115        7,721      31    2,430
Total                          5z655     7,992    8,377       22,014      11    2,430
GRAND TOTAL WITHOUT
CONTINGENCIES                 536,047  45,947    44,904      146,898      24   35,386
Physical Contingencies           6,702     6,192    5,987       18,881       -    4,571
GRAND TOTAL WITH
CONTINGENCIES                 62 749   52 139   50,891       i65_779      24   39.957
June 8, 1977
115



BANGLADESH
EXTENSION AND RESEARCH PROJECT
Organization and Staffing
LEVEL                        EXTENSION                                                                   RESEARCH
Regional                                                                         Senior
Director                                                                         Officer
of
Agriculture
REGION                                                                                                Consultant
REGION__                                                              ZAdvisor
Consultant       Crop              Farm
Advisor          Production        Production
)     Specialists       Economists
(4)         |~      5
ICrop
District                   District            Technology
DISTRICT                   FInformation
(5)                        Extension                  Training            I                          Ban  Sub-Station (7)
Officer                    Off Jier                                              and
(5)                   Field &           Soil Fertility Institute
Technical      I       Research
i                                 Supervision    j       Information
SUB-DIVISION                 Sub-Division    (Ad        raining      -
(14)                      Extension       Spr        Ui
IOfficer         vso
vision
J(14)                1   (2 weekly)
THANA                        TEO, ATEO                     I    (training)
(113)                        113+113                      1
-  UNION                        UAA/VEA                    - -   -
O    (1,012)                       (1,425)



ANNEX 4
Figure 2
'BANOL XDEH
EXlSTONSO A,ND RESEARCTI PROJF.CT
S C H EM AT I C
TRAINING AND VISITS TIMETABLES
( WITHIN ONE TRAINING UNIT )
WEEK I                   WEEK 2
DAY   1 2  3  4   5   6  7   8  9   10  l-l  !2  13  14
T   _v      v      vrj                 -G (R.0 -UP I
T    J V   V  V            v    V   v  v          GROJP2I
_ J         v  V =v                 v 1V V r71     GROUP 3
@     7     v   v vlv       _       V  V   V   V          GROUP 4
L E G E N D
EIV VISITS            REST
WTRAININIG      LIIMISCELLANEOUJS
7DUTIES
117



ANNEX 5
Page 1
BANGLADESH
EXTENSION AND RESEARCH PROJECT
Construction Program for Extension Service
The Program
1.        The project would provide housing for all the extension staff at the
thana and union level and the Training Unit Officers in the North-West. Under
the IDA Agricultural and Rural Training Project (ARTP. CR-621), 90 houses will
be built in the North-West for VEAs. Under the EARP, some 743 former union
seed stores would be rehabilitated and remodelled to provide housing for an
equal number of VEAs. In addition, some 592 new houses would be built for the
remainder. Some 85 incompleted quarters for officers at the thana level would
be completed and 126 additional ones would be built to ensure a minimum level
of accommodation in all the thanas. Finally, housing and training facilities
would be provided in. fourteen Training Units.
Housing for VEAs under the Agricultural and Rural Training Project (ARTP)
2.        Under ARTP, six thanas have been selected in the North-West (Bogra,
Sherpur, Gabtali, Shariakandi thanas in Bogra district; Pirganj thana in
Rangpur district and Sujanagar thana in Pabna district). In each of these
thanas, a Thana Training Unit (TTU), comprising a 30-bed dormitory, a field
demonstration area and training equipment, will be provided. In addition,
the ARTP will provide 15 units for VEA housinlg in each of these thanas. The
project will experiment with various types of grouping of these units: in
Shariakandi and Sujanagar thanas, the units would be dispersed on 15 differ-
ent sites; in Bogra and Pirganj they would be built in three clusters of five
houses plus one meeting room, and, in Gabtali and Sherpur, in five clusters
of three houses and one meeting room. Plans and specifications for these
buildings are now being prepared by a local consulting firm.
Union Seed Stores
3.        In the early sixties, government seed stores were constructed in
most of the unions. Shortly after, however, the decision was made to transfer
seed distribution to BADC which now sells seeds directly to the farmers from
its thana depots. Consequently the seed stores have never been used for
storage and, very often, have never been used at all. In a few cases, they
have served as housing for VEAs. Out of 1102 unions in the North-West, 975
have a seed store and 743 of these are suitably located and can be repaired
and remodelled into housing facilities. The alternative of returning these
stores to their initial purpose (by selling them or letting them out to pri-
vate traders after having repaired them) is not feasible since most of these
stores are not located within close distance of the village markets.
118



ANNEX 5
Page 2
4.        In addition to minor repairs, these stores would need some addi-
tions (latrine, fencing and tubewell) to make them suitable for habitation.
The cost of these improvements would, of course, vary, depending on the
store. For cost computation, however, two categories have been distinguished
for which an average improvement cost has been estimated. Some 324 stores
would belong to Category I with an average improvement cost of Taka 14,000
(inicluding physical contingencies) and 419 to Category II with average cost
of Taka 20,000. (Stores belonging to Category II have been heavily damaged
and additional works would be required, mostly for wall, ceiling and roof
repair). For the repair and transformation of these stores, a basic plan
has beLa prepared (Figure 2).  It will be reviewed and improved if neces-
sary by the consulting firm working for the PIiU prior to execution of the
works (para 16).
New Houses for VEAs
5.        Besides the transformation of union seed stores into housing, some
592 new houses for VEAs would be provided under the project. 1/ No satis-
factory solution to low-cost housing presently exists in Bangladesh, in spite
of various on-going studies. CARE has carried out research in various types
of material (cement-clinker blocks, panels of jute and plastic). The scar-
city of clinker, however, rules out its use on a wide scale. Panels of jute
and plastic have not been tested for wind-resistance and durability; besides,
preliminary indications of cost suggest that this material may not be cheaper
than traditional construction material.
6.        To the number of low-cost houses expected in both this and the
proposed Jute Project (about 3,000 in total) would be later on added the
requirements of a repeater Extensio-n and Research Project in other parts of
the country. In view of the big numbers thus involved, it appears important
that a satisfactory method of low-cost housing be found.   Under the IDA-
supported Population Project, a study is carried out on the costs and
respective advantages of various construction materials. The results of
this study would be used by the consulting firm of the PIU (paragraph 16)
to prepare a design for VEA houses.
1/   Similar houses would be provided to the Jute Extension Agents under the
proposed Jute Project. The locations proposed for the additional UAAs of
DEM have been selected taking account of other extension services present
in the area and of the Jute Extension Service in particular (Annex 3,
para 5). To this extent there should not be any duplication of housing
for field agents if and when the Jute Extension Service is amalgamated
with DEM.
119



ANNEX 5
Page 3
7.        For cost estimation, a basic, simple design has been used (Figure
1). The guiding principle has been to provide the VEAs with the minimum of
comfort that would enable them to keep their families with them while avoiding
too high standards that would set them a.part from the farmer's community.
The house of 308 square feet comprises office room, bedroom, kitchen and
shower; it has a brick wall and reinforced cement concrete roof. Outside
the house, a latrine, a tubewell and a surrounding fence would be provided.
The cost (including physical contingency) comes to about Taka 30,000 (or
US$2,000).
Accommodation for Thana Officers
8.        For accommodation of the thana level officers of the various depart-
ments, the Ministry of Local Government and Rural Development (MOLGRD) has
constructed buildings in most thanas of the country. In their initial design,
these buildings, usually called "Twin Quarters," were providing accommodation
for two families, The drawings were modified in December 1974, providing
for four apartments (two on each of the two floors of the building), but the
name of Twin Quarter remained.
9.        Most of the thanas now have one twin quarter but some have already
Cwo or even three while others do not have any. By the end of 1976, 128 twin
quarters (71 first, 47 second and 4 third twin quarters) have been completed
while 85 (27 first, 46 second and 12 third) are in various stages of completion.
In certain cases, works have been interrupted before or during the last war
and have not been resumed since.
10.       Because of the big number of officers in each thana, most of them
cannot be accommodated in the existing facilities. A priority list exists
ranking the officers of the various departments. While the Thana Agricultural
Officer is on the list, the Thana Extension Officer (TEO), a new post, does
not at present figure on the list even though he is the second highest grade
in the thana. Officers who cannot benefit from the existing facilities have
to rent accommodation in thana towns, where the housing situation is usually
difficult.
11.       To improve the housing situation, the project would provide for the
completion of unfinished twin quarters and the construction of new ones, so
that each thana in the region would eventually have three twin quarters. The
total cost for completing the unfinished buildings would come to Taka 7.3 M
(including physical contingency). The unit cost for constructing a new twin
quarter comes to some Taka 600,000 (including physical contingency), or Taka
76 M for the additional 126 required.
12.       The twin quarters completed or constructed under the project would
be used by the officers of the various departments represented at the thana
level. These officers of agricultural departments and related agencies (TEO,
ATEO, Irrigation officer, BADC officer, Livestock officer, Fishery officer)
120



ANNEX 5
Page 4
would be given a priority. If necessary, one of the Crop Specialists of each
of the fourteen Training Units would also be housed in priority in the twin
quarters of the nearby TTDCs.
Training Units
13.       The project would provide for the construction of teaching, housing
and administrative facilities in f ourteen Training Units (TUs). Each Training
Unit would be provided with an instruction room and administrative accommoda-
tion. In the case of the seven TUs to be located on TTDC's grounds, the meet-
ing room of the TTDC would be used and no instruction room would be constructed
under the project.  In addition, accommodation would be provided on the grounds
of the Training Unit for the two Crop Production Specialists; the other
officer(s) of the TU would be accommodated in the nearby twin quarters (para
12). Areas and unit costs of the various TU buildings are given in Annex 4,
Table 4.
14.       In addition to housing VEAs and thana officers and facilities for
the Training Unit, the project would provide accommodation for research workers
as well as working facilities on the research stations (Annex 6),
Organization and Management
15.       The Project Implementation Unit (PIU) for the project would have
the entire responsibility of the building component in all its aspects (UAAs
housing, thana twin-quarters, Training Units, research building and accommo-
dations). Within the PIU one architect-engineer, one procurement officer
and one accountant would be concerned with this building program. To ensure
the good execution of the program, the PIU would have authority for: drawing
and disbursements of funds; selection of sites; purchase of land; appointment
of consultants; procurement of material and equipment; approval of drawings and
tender documents; invitation of tenders; evaluation of bids for buildings,
equipment and machinery; opening of letters of credit; preparation of time
schedule for the works; supervision of building construction. For VEAs hous-
ing and for research training facilities, the PIU would also have authority
for prequalifying bidders and awarding contracts. In the case of new twin
quarters, PIU would prepare the prequalification and tender procedures (in-
cluding bid evaluation) on behalf of the Thana Development Committees. These
Committees would be responsible for prequalifying bidders and awarding con-
tracts in the light of the recommendations of the PIU.
16.       The PIU would appoint a consulting firm to prepare and supervise
the construction program. The consulting firm would have the charge of,
inter alia, defining the works to be executed, prequalifying bidders, prep-
aring tender documents, evaluating bids, supervising the execution of the
works. The appendix gives draft terms of reference for this consulting firm.
June 1977
121



ANNEX 5
Appendix
Page 1
BANGLADESH
TXTENSION AND RESEARCH PROJECT
Draft Terms of Reference for Consulting Firm for Building Program
General
1.        The Government of Bangladesh, through the Project Implementation
Unit (PIU) of the Ministry of Agriculture would engage the services of a
Consulting Firm to assist the PIU in preparing the work programs, designs,
specifications, contract documents, appointment of contractors, selection
of sites, certification of contractor's work and payment, and supervision
of the project facilities. The Consultant would also provide advice and
assistance in the procurement of imported and local materials. It is ex-
pected that Consulting Services would be required for about 3 years.
Project
2.        The proposed project will cover the North-West Region (Rajshahi
Division) and consist of the following building program: rehabilitation
of existing union seed stores and their transformation into houses for Vil-
lage Extension Agents (VEAs), construction of new houses for UAAs, construc-
tion of housing and teaching facilities for Training Units, construction of
Thana four-apartment Twin Quarters, construction of housing and administra-
tive buildings on agricultural research sub-stations.
Responsibilities of the Consultant
3.        The responsibilities of the Consultant would be as follows:
3.1 Architect - Engineering Services
3.1.1 Review of pertinent reports and data.
3.1.2 Preliminary planning and design of UAA houses
based on past studies of low cost construction
methods.
3.1.3 Preparation of final construction drawings,
detailed designs, specifications and tender
documents for all works, scope of contracts,
engineering and construction schedule.
122



ANNEX 5
Appendix
Page 2
3.1.4 Preparation of cost estimates for rehabilitation of
seed stores and formulation of cost estimate. This
will require the Consultant's visit to site and
inspection of sizeable numbers of seed stores.
3.1.5 Preparation of cost estimates for new buildings.
Advice and assistance in the procurement of local
materials, including, evaluation of tender documents.
3.1.6  Advice and assistance in the procurement of imported
materials including preparation of tender documents
and evaluation of bids.
3.1.7 Assistance in the final selection of sites for buildings.
3.1.8  Establishment of criteria for and ensuring the pre-
qualification of contractors.
3.1.9 Preparation of tender documents, assistance in inviting
tenders, evaluation of bids and recommendation for the
selection of contractors and suppliers.
3.2 Supervision of new construction and rehabilitation
3.2.1 Updating of construction schedule.
3.2.2  Furnishing a management plan exhibiting adequately
the supervision program. The plan shall delineate
the locations of site offices, staffing, means of
transportation of staff to sites, time and duration
of visit to sites as related to construction schedule.
3.2.3  Providing qualified staff in the field for supervision
of work. Qualification of the staff will be agreed in
writing.
3.2.4 Supervising duiring laying out of buildings and while
construction is in progress, more particularly for the
roof work.
3.2.5 Supervising during the progress of work of all repair
and rehabilitation of union seed stores, in particular
during the roof repair.
3.2.6  Ensuring that the contractors comply with specifications
both in the use of materials and in workmanship.
3.2.7 Certifying contractor's work and recommending periodic
payment.
123



ANNEX 5.
Appendix
Page 3
3.2.8 Issuing completion certificate and recommending
final payment.
3.2.9  Submitting to PIU as-built drawings.
4.        The Consultant shall maintain full and continuous liaison with
designed officers of the PIU. For the construction of Thana Twin-Quarters
he will work in close liaison with the Thana Development Committees, which
will be responsible for award of the contracts in the light of the recom-
mendations of the Consultant. In addition, the Consultant shall prepare
and submit to the PIU the following documents:
4,1  Quarterly progress report, on calendar quarters, describing
the progress of work in detail and summarizing' the consult-
ant's staffing and activities during the period and the
work program for the coming quarter. The reports will pre-
sent a summary statement of all the consultants' certified
expenditures on the project for that period and a detailed
forecast of expenditure for the coming quarter, together
with a summary forecast for the subsequent three quarters.
Each report will incorporate updated schedules for all
construction contracts.
4.2  A final report, on completion of the consultants' services
incorporating a full set of "as-built"' drawings and "as-
repaired" drawings and descriptions and identifying all as-
pects normally required in maintenance procedures.
Necessar- Procedure to be Followed by Invited Consulting Firms
5.        Invited consulting firms are requested to submit their proposal
addressed to the Project Implementation Unit of the Extension and Research
Project, Ministry of Agriculture. The proposal should state clearly the
following:
5.1  Terms and conditions under which they would carry out
the duties and responsibilities specified above (finan-
cial terms are not desired at this stage);
5.2 the proposed composition of the team (name and qualifi-
cation) which they intend to assign to the Project both
in the office and in the field, number of man-month for
each individual, and
5.3 a list of vehicles and any other equipment which they an-
ticipate would be required in the execution of their work.
(Note: To facilitate the inspection of construction, the consultant may need
vehicles. If they are provided with vehicles by the PIU, the cost
will be realized from the consultant's periodic payment.)
124



BANGLADESH
EXTENSION AND RESEARCH PROJECT
VEA HOUSE-308 ft2
3' T)4ck (Avwrou) LUma Testradg (7:2:2)
Over 4' Th3sk Rakifome Cnernt Conw.ia
i&J  (1:2:4)                   Tg              - 4
e_fi_                                     . -nth e-e     - -L- v                            BoundarV Fan=ng,
Ground Lfivel                                   v~| ;
FRON'r LIEVATION                                -                            LOCATION PLAN
%W Thick Canmnt Sand
Plgic Ovcr r BArk F!at  SECTION A-A
1 0
-I-   ,             ar~ -             --                            I
| <         X$"Cement Sand Pl"tzr
ri-r- T-1 -- -- - . - -- - -. - ->                                             Wkh Nodt Cement Finkihhg
-  -~n Top
t 2-                                                        ,  E 1  B,. M8urriou
T1-X1 r   7,-T                                         One Brick Flat
L    ~Bedroom
7-.0r xVI       1r4-O" x 74
Bath                                  Compcte Cow"/,
-r-4r 4-                                 Co     C
--  --- ---         -    -    -    -    -   --      --4ro
PLAN                                          .      -Brhak
Sce: 1/ - 1'O                                 4     - -r
OUNDATION DETAIL
Ln
World Bank-17012



BANGLADESH
EXTENSION AND RESEARCH PROJECT
VEA HOUSE
REHABILITATED UNION SEED STORE
t
Lu                                             ul                         Bound-y Fwrki
|~~~                            ~       ~                              Lav 1  1tnI  aine
POOU S0AV,AN                              FRONT FILXATIO.N                         G      3.
TubeweK
B:' z:                                                        k WI                   LOCATION PLAN
Sfd11 1r-'wlnt111Room
x                        I Ir-Oh x.314
Kkch.n
Storer
4'-r
PLAN                                     PLAN
(Exi* Unin 8sW .ombiPs                              I
World Bank-17011



ANNEX 6
Page 1
BANGLADESH
EXTENSION AND RESEARCH PROJECT
Agricultural Statistics
1.        Agricultural Statistics are poor in Bangladesh.    Collection pro-
cedures have traditionally been through village level agricultural extension
workers or agricultural staff. Until 1976, collection was supervised by 200
Thana Statistical Officers (TSOs) in 23 subdivisional offices throughout the
country. The result has bDeen a non-verifiable mass of unanalyzed data. Most
recent crop estimates were carried out by Village Extension Workers (VEAs)
and Thana Agricultural Officers (TAO's), using crop cutting techniques on
6,000 clusters of 2-1/2 acres each. These clusters were selected in 1961 and
their number and location need to be reviewed to take into account the spread
of HYV's. Due to lack of statistical staff, the 1977 agricultural census
statistical data collection will be done by 3,000 revenue agents and 3,000
primary school teachers.
2.        Because of the weakness of the agricultural statistics, planning
in the agricultural sector has been especially difficult. In the absence of
reliable data on acreages, yields, production and marketing, the selection
of agricultural programs and projects cannot be based on sound technical
and economic considerations. Neither can the impact of these programs and
projects be thoroughly evaluated since no good system of reference exists.
Recent Reorganization of Statistics Departments
3.        Recognizing the deficiencies of the collection and analysis of
statistics, the Ministry of Planning proposed, in May 1976, a reorganization
of the Ministry of Planning's Statistics Division and the Bangladesh Bureau
of Statistics. Four statistical and census agencies - the Bangladesh Bureau
of Statistics, Bureau of Agricultural Statistics, Agricultural Census and
Population Census have been merged to provide a unified countrywide organi-
zation.  This national statistical organization was named the Bangladesh
Bureau of Statistics (BBS) and was placed under the Statistics Division of
the Ministry of Planning (MOP). The present objective of BBS is to have
one TSO per thana and one union statistical assistant (USA) fo every two
unions in the country. Presently 350 of the 450 thanas have TSOs, (of
which 88 are in the Northwest), but no USAs have been appointed yet.
4.        Although collection of agricultural statistics is officially the
responsibility of the MOP, there is still an operational forecasting group
in the Ministry of Agriculture which is involved in statistics evaluation.
This group requires coordination on concepts and procedures to improve its
methods and avoid duplication with the BBS.
127



ANNEX 6
Page 2
5.        The BBS receives some technical assistance from the UNDP and the
American Bureau of Census in computer analysis of data, but it does not have
any external financing for its own staff. Since its Project Evaluation Pro-
forma (PEP) has not yet been approved, BBS cannot obtain additional funds from
the Ministry of Finance, and hence cannot expand its staff.    These financial
difficulties are the major constraint to expansion of the statistical service
in Bangladesh.
B. Project Proposal
6.        Under the project the statistical services in the North West would
be raised to a strength of one TSO and 2 USAs per thana. Since UAA respon-
sibilities no longer include statistics collection, this is considered the
minimum staff required to do the job effectively.
7.        Eighty-eight TSO's are presently in the project area, therefore
an additionial 25 would be required to bring the complement to one for each
of the 113 thanas. No USA's are in the field, and thus a full complement
of 226 would be required. It is assumed that only half of the personnel
would be recruited in the first year of the project, the remainder being
appointed in the second year.
8.        This cost component would be all in local currency.    Additional
annual Government budget allocations would be Tk 0.75 M/year (excluding con-
tingencies) from year 2 of the project. Details of project costs for this
component are shown in Table 1.
June 1977
128



ANNEX 6
Table 1
BANGLADESH
EXTENSION AND RESEARCH PROJECT
Agricultural Statistics Costs-/
(Thousand Tk)
------------------ Year------------------------
12           3         Total
Incremental Salaries
2/
TSO               74  (13)   148   (25)    148   (25)      370
3/
USA-             301 (113)    602 (226)    602  (226)    l.505
Sub-total        375 (126)    750 (251)    750  (251)    1,875
4/
Allowances 4
TSO               41          81            81             203
USA              304         607           607           1,518
Sub-total        345         688           688           1,721
Total
(excl. contingencies)   720       1,438        1,438            3,596
1/ Values - parentheses denote numbers of personnel.
2/ Thana Statistical Officer (grade V, Tk475 per month).
3/ Union Statistical Assistant (grade III, Tk 220 per month).
4/ Allowances based on Annex 4, Appendix 1:              Total
Field       Travel        Tk/month
TSO (=TAO rates)              145         34              260
(9 days 5 miles
x Tk.75)
USA (=UAA rates)                90        12              222
(20 days x 0.60)
129



ANNEX 6
Chart 1
BANGLADESH
EXTENSION AND RESEARCH PROJECT
AGRICULTURAL RESEARCH
INSTITUTIONS CONDUCTING AGRICULTURAL RESEARCH IN BANGLADESH
CHITTAGONG           RURAL DEVELOPMENT--
UNIVERSITY           RESEARCH
PRESIDENT OFl
PEOPLES RESPUBLIC -I
OF BANGLADESH            AR  ULTUI -                                   -  -  -  -  -  -  -  -  -  -  -
|MYMENSINGH
I  EEARCH AND
OP        A       |       AGRICULTURAL            AGIUTRA-       -    -    --     -    -    -
MINISTRI               EDUCATION  - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - -    - - - - - |
DII
RESEARCH INSTITUTE
INSTITUTEAl
COLNON DEVELOPMENT
F            NATIONALZED             ESUGAR MILL               RESEARCH
INDUSTRIES            DEVEOIND MNTRIES B       CORPORATION              INSTITUTE
BANGLADESH COUNCIL                                                     C
AND INDUSTRIAL
RESEASECH                L
ANGLADECH      INSTITUTE IT
PLANNIN         -   OF DEVELOPMENT                                                         Z
STUDOIlES                                                              0
CMR                    FORBANLADESH WATER ADEA BOARD-                   TEA RESEARH  ---- -
|UTS DEVELOPMENT BOARDC                             --us
.jURC                          INOSRURAL
ITHE IRRADIATION AND  |                        f
-    PEST CONTROL   - -    - - - - - - - - - - - - - L
r   |                               {FOOD PRESERVATION)
15INATURAL RESOU |         ATOMIC ENERGY  -                                                    t
ITECHNOLOG'ICAL  lCOMMISSION
RESEActCH l lu
I NUCLEARAGRICLTURE .-------------W- -i 0
ESTOCK      LIVESTCKREEACH4           - --- -- -- -- ----          ---
D IRECTORATE_|          CENTERl
FORETY,FSHRE               FISHERIES             FIHEIE            ---,------              --H
|AND LIVESTOCK   rDIIRECTORACETER                              - - -
FOESR R FOES                            - - - ---- ---- -- --   - -
C t INSTITUTE
|COMMEC DIISO                                                             INST-
ItJT IIS                                 NTTT          ------ -  -                 -
LOCAL GOVEFRNMENIT |    COOPERATIVES AND |       ANGLAOIESH ACADMY -l
COOPERATIVES, AND                               OF RURAL        "~~~~     ~~~
RURAL DEVELOPMENT       RURAL DEVELOPMENT       D EVELOPMENT  l
SOURCE: Based onUSAID "Agricult-rl Reseach in Bangladesh" Th. H.-e Report, 1974
Order 1976"                                                                                  130
Actual line of contro
World Eank-1700£t



ANNEX 7
Page  1
BANGLADESH
EXTENSION AND RESEARCH PROJECT
Assistance in Command Area Development
A. Irrigation in the North-West Region
General
1.        The scope for surface water irrigation in the region is rather
limited. It is estimated that, in low flow conditions, currently available
supplies from perennial rivers and streams, as well as from the stagnant
water bodies, are barely enough to irrigate about 150,000 ac or about 2%
of the total cultivated area in the region.   With some 5,000 low-lift pumps
(LLPs) installed currently, this potential is already close to full exploita-
tion. It is possible to augment the current supplies somewhat through projects
involving major construction works. Two possibilities are the Belkuchi and
Pabna projects for development in the southern part of the region. Technical
and economic feasibilities of such projects are still being investigated.
Even if these projects are eventually undertaken, because of long gestation
delays, it would be at least ten years before additional areas can be irriga-
ted by surface water.
2.        The scope for groundwater irrigation is much more promising.   The
alluvial deposits underlying the region are excellent aquifer materials, and
are highly suitable for development of irrigation wells. Water tables are
generally high -- static water tables rarely go below 15 feet. Recharge
characteristics are also extremely good. Conservatively, it is estimated
that at least one-third of the total cultivated area is potentially irrigable
with groundwater. So far, programs executed or under way include about 4,000
deep tubewells (DTWs) (including 3,000 under the IDA-supported North-West Tube-
wells Projects) and about 6,000 shallow tubewells (STWs) under various schemes
undertaken by BADC and BKB. M0ost of the DTWs under the IDA project are still
to be commissioned. The total area irrigated by groundwater is expected to
amount to about 0.2 UI ac by June 1977.
Command Area
3.        In general, the area irrigated by low-lift pumps and wells is below
the potential. Various studies 1/ have found that the area actually under
1/   (i)  Alam, M., Capacity oL low-lift pump utilization, BIDS Research
Report Series No. 17, January 1974.
(ii) Evaluation of the Planning Commission, 1974.
131



ANNEX 7
Page 2
irrigation is well below that reported by BADC, which seems to be recording
the potential instead of the actual irrigated area. The mission's estimates
of actual and potential irrigated areas for the various types of irrigation
are given below:
Average          Area Irrigated
Pump Size        (acres per pump)
(cusec)       Actual     Potential
(minimum)
Low-lift pump (LLP)          1.8          30           45
Shallow tubewell (STW)       0.6           5           10
Deep tubewell (DTW)          2.0          35           50
4.        The failure to irrigate more than 50% to 60% of the potential area
causes a wastage of investment and resources; it has recently been the source
of much discussion in both national and international agencies concerned.
The main reason for poor pump utilizations are socio-economic, technical and
organizational:
(a) Socio-economic
(i)  the farmers are often reluctant to pay for the channel
lining; drop structures or junction boxes essential for
good water distribution and control.
(ii)  in isolated areas, much pressure is used by influential
members of the community to site wells for personal
aggrandizement rather than technical efficiency; many
wells are badly sited and selfishly used.
(iii)  since farmers usually do not pay charges for water com-
mensurate to its real cost, there is little economic
pressure to maximize its efficient use.
(b) Technical
Farmers have been, by and large, left to do their own
development work. In the absence of any topographical
survey and channel maps, the actual layout of the dis-
tribution system is less than optimal. Also, the farmers
carry out the construction of the channels themselves,
without any technical guidance or supervision.
(c) Organizational
To obtain a well, the farmers have to form an irrigation
group. These groups, however, have not proved very
effective; they are often manipulated by the most
influential members to their own benefit. The necessary
discipline for developing the command area, sharing the
water and the cost of required inputs is at times lacking.
132



ANNEX 7
Page 3
Potential for Improvement
5.        Farmers in Bangladesh have proved to be adaptive and inventive, if
they receive the right incentives. Because of the weakness of both the manage-
ment and the technical backstopping of the extension and research service,
isolated success areas have stood out sharply (Bangladesh Academy for Rural
Development, Comilla and some districts with exceptional officers). These
successes have shown that it t3 possible both to achieve high yields through
improved practices in the irrigated areas and to increase significantly the
acreage irrigated per cusec. There is ample evidence among the best of the
pump groups that, given technical assistance in the matters of cultural tech-
niques, seed and input utilization and sensible watering regimes, excellent
yields are readily achievable. Such assistance would be provided by the
UAAs/VE.As under the Training and Visit system.
6.        Increasing the irrigated area per pump, however, also requires
specific measures beyond the scope of the extension service: a prerequisite
would be the construction of an efficient channel layout for water distribu-
tion. This, in turn, requires that the channel layout be based on a topo-
graphical survey, that technical guidance and supervision be given to the
farmers during the construction of the channels and that the minor structures
necessary to avoid excessive water losses be built.
B. Project Proposals
7.        Even though the benefits to be expected from an improved water
distribution system would be significant, a program to develop the command
areas would face various uncertainties. The major one concerns the degree
of cooperation that such a program would receive from the benefitting
farmers since their active participation would be a prerequisite to the
success of the undertaking. The farmers' cooperation would be required for
the construction of the channels and concrete structures and for the eventual
repayment of the costs of these structures. Organizing farmers and enlisting
their cooperation for the commissioning and management of a well has however
proved difficul in the past; it would presumably be even more so in the case
of command area development, since its benefits are less conspicuous and not
yet appreciated by the farmers.
8.        The project would therefore attempt the development of command
areas on a pilot scale only. For this purpose, some 1,500 deep tubewells
sunk under the IDA-supported Northwest Tubewells Project and having parti-
cularly deficient distribution systems would be selected. If successful,
this experiment could then be carried out later on a widerscale. The work
program would include preparation of topographical maps and channel layouts,
digging of channels and construction of Pucca (brick or concrete) structures,
where necessary.
133



ANNEX 7
Page 4
9.        BADC or local engineering firms under BADC's supervision would carry
out topographical surveys of the tubewell command areas and prepare maps for
optimal d:stribution systLas .akLg c-zcount of physical and land tenure con-
straints. During the project period, this would require some three teams of
surveyors-topographers, each with a four-wheel drive vehicle and topographical
equipment.  When the distribution map for a command area is completed, the
farmers would be given technical guidance and supervision for the earthworks
required for channel construction. For this purpose, two construction super-
visors with motor bicycles would be attached to each of them.
10.       In addition to earthwork, the development of the command areas would
require some pucca structures. While channel lining does not appear generally
necessary as a first priority due to the relatively low soil permeability,
there is a need for simple control boxes and channel junctions. These would
be constructed by the farmers or by the same engineering firms or would be
contracted out to local contractors; the cost of these structures would be
financed by BADC, which would recover it from the farmers by including them
in the rental charge for the wells and/or the pumps.
C. Organization and Management
11.       Overall supervision of project execution would rest with BADC. The
regional chief engineer of BADC in Rajshahi would be responsible for project
execution and monitoring. This engineer, working in liaison with the PIU and
the district engineers of BADC, would define the scope of the works to be exe-
cuted, invite proposals from engineering firms and recommend contract award
to BADC management. After selection of one or several engineering firms, he
would assign responsibility to the district and thana irrigation engineers for
their supervision, including spot checking of work execution by farmers and
contractors. He would also be responsible for ensuring the payment of these
firms.
12.       For physical works not carried out directly by BADC, one of several
firms would contract with BADC for the area development of a group of deep
tubewells. They would prepare topographical maps and channel layouts and
provide supervision and guidance to the farmers for the earthworks required
in channel construction. The farmers could also undertake themselves the
construction of the structures required for each command area or they would
agree to have the engineering firm carry it out or give it by contract to local
contractors or small entrepreneurs. The engineering firms would periodically
report to the district engineers about the advance of their works and their
future work schedules.
13.       Under the IDA-supported Northwest Tubewells Project, it was a
precondition to the obtention of a well that the farmers in the potential
command area had formed a farmers' association. These associations or co-
operatives were to coordinate farmers' action with regard to financing of
inputs, management of the well and the development of the command area. They
134



ANNEX 7
Page 5
would be the focal contact point for the command area development, extension
and IRDP staff for approaching the farmers, raising their interest in the
proposed program and enlisting their cooperation. The assistance of the
extension and IRDP staff would be required to persuade the farmers of the
usefulness of a proper distribution system and to enlist their contribution
for executing the earthworks. It would be the responsibility of the District
Coordinating Committees to ensure the coordination between BADC, DEM, IRDP,
topographical teams and civil works contractors and, in particular, to make
certain that extension staff is irformed ahead of time of the movements and
schedules of the topographical teams and contractors.
D. Financial and Economic Benefits
14.       Better distribution systems would make for a more efficient use of
water on the areas already irrigated, thus permitting an increase in pro-
duction. More importantly, it would make possible an increase of the irri-
gated area with virtually no change in the operating costs. The benefits
of the project component have been quantified by taking into account only
this increase of the area under irrigation.
15.       It has been assumed conservatively that irrigation would not
increase the cropping intensity but simply permit a shift from an aus crop
of local variety to a boro crop of improved variety (with, in both cases a
cropping intensity of 200%, see Table 2). The resulting increase in finan-
cial and economic benefits has been computed, using the yields and prices
assumptions given in Annex 12. Table 2 shows that every additional acre
brought under irrigation by improving the distribution system would yield
an additional financial benefit of some Tk 600 for the gro-up of farmers,
corresponding to an additional economic benefit of some Tk 1,900.
16.       It is estimated that an improved distribution system would increase
the water utilization, and thus the irrigated area, by about 10% (3 ac per
deep tubewell or low lift-pump); the additional income for the farmers would
thus be about Tk 1,700. It should enable them to meet easily the reimburse-
ment to BADC of the cost of the concrete structures (Table 3).
17.       With these very conservative assumptions, the financial rate of
return for the group of farmers would be 20%. The economic rate of return,
derived by using the assumptions on shadow pricing given in Annex 12 and
taking into account the economic cost of the supervising consulting firms,
is as high as 50% (Table 3).
June 1977
135



BANGLADESH
EXTENSION AND RESEARCH PROJECT
Cpst of Command Area Development
(Costs in Takas '000)
Foreign Exchange
Unit                            Year                                             Takas
Civil WorKs                       Cost    Number            1        2        3          Total           %          '000
Drop structures and                    1/
junction boxes                    6-    1,500         1,000     4,o00    4,000        9,000          30         2,700
Physical contingencies                                      250    1,000    1,000        it250                       675
TOTAL                                                1,250    5,000    5,000       11,250                      3,375
Engineering Firms IJ(or BADC)
Engineers                           30          1            20       30       30           80
Team leaders                        14          3            28       42       42          112           -
Surveyors                            8         6             32       48       44          128           -
Laborer/drivers                      4          6            16       24       24           64           -
Foremen                             12          6            48       72       72          192           -            -
Non-salary expenditures -            -          -            54       80       80          214           50          107
4'
Overhead and consultant fee -        -          -            79      118      118          315           -            -
Sub-total                                                277      414      414        1,105                       107
Physical contingencies                                        1       10       10           27                         5
TOTAL                                                  284      424      424        1,132                       112
GRAND TOTAL WITHOUT CONTINGENCIES                         1,277    4,414    4,414       10,105           26        2,807
Physical contingencies                                      257    1,010    1,010        2,277           30          680
GRAND TOTAL WITH CONTINGENCIES                            1,534    5,424    5,424       12,382,          27        3,487
1/  This is the estimated average cost for   these structures per deep tubewell or low-lift pump.
2/  For year 1, only 8 months of work by the engineering firms have been provided.                                        N
3/  Rental of four-wheel drive vehicles (4 ) and motor bicycles (6), cost of fuel, rental of
sets of topographical equipment ( 3) plus other miscellaneous expenditures.
4/ 40% of the above.
4/20/77



ANNEX 7
Table 2
BANGLADESH
EXTENSION AND RESEARCH PROJECT
Net Financial and Economic Value of Crop Production Per Acre
Net Crop Value        Cropping 2/             Net Crop Value
Per Acre-/          Intensity -----------------(Taka)--------- -------
------(Taka) -----                         FWO                    FW
Crop               Financial   Economic    FWO   FW    Financial   Economic  Financial  Economic
(1)        (2)       (3)  (4)        (5)       (6)         (7)       (8)
T. aman (local)       317       1,321       85   75        269      1,123       238         991
T. aman (improved)    409       1,752       15   25         61        263       102         438
Aus (local)            98         828      100    -         98        828        -          -
Boro (improved)       647       2,688       -   100        -           -        647       2,688
Total                                   200  200       428       2,214       987      4,117
Net financial benefit per acre (column (7) - column (5)) = Tk 559
Net economic benefit per acre (column (8)- column (6))    = Tk 1,903
l/   From Annex 12, Tables 5 and 6.   The net crop value per acre taken corresponds
to the situation "without project", so as not to take into account here the
benefits resulting from an improved extension service. The values indicated
in the tables have been corrected to account for the fact that the operating
cost of increased irrigation (for boro) is nil; the cost of irrigation per acre
indicated in Table 6 has thus been added to the net crop values.
2/   FWO: :future situation without project (unirrigated).
FW:   future situation with project (irrigated).
April 13, 1977
137



ANNEX 7
Table 3
BAiNGLADESH
.EXTENSION AND RESEARCH PROJECT
Investment Cost and Incremental Income Per Command Area
Values in Taka
Financial     Economic
Investment Cost                                1,400 -/     7,004 2/
Reimbursement of structures 3/                 1,068          -
Additional Annual Income (Year 4 to 20) 4/     1,677        5,709
Rate of Return 5/                                20%          50%
1/ 175 man-day of farmer's labor for channel construction, costed at
Tk 8/man-day. This amount was taken as the investment "cost" even-
though the farmers would not be actually paid for this work.
2/ Total project cost of this component, taxes excluded (Tk12.382 M minus
Tk 3.45 M for taxes on civil works - Table l), divided by number of
DTWs  (1,500)   or Tk 5,954 plus Tk 1,050 for channel construction
(175 man-day costed at Tk 6/man-day).
3/ Assuming that the cost of the concrete structures (average Tk 7,500
with physical contingencies) would be reimbursed over twenty years with
an interest rate of 13%.
4/ 3 ac x net benefit/ac (Table 2).
5/ The rate of return was computed by assuming a 20-year duration for the
investment and a build-up of the benefits over 3 years (Investment year 1,
30% of benefits in year 2, 70% in year 3 and 100% from year 4 to.20).
April 15, 1977
138



ANNE 8
BANGLADESH
E1lNSION AND RESEARCH PROJECT
Prolect Cost Sumarm
Tk' 000s --09      ---
Year                               Exchange
1          2           3        Total     Z       Amount     Local   Foreign      Total
Extension and TrainiN   (Annex 4)
Civil Works                              35,431     35,288      35,091    105,810     24      25,625     5,3463    1,708      7,054
Land                                        138        139         139        416     -           -        -28        -28
Equipment and vehicles                   14823       ;,538      1,297      18,658     39      7,331        755       489      1,244
Establishment Costsa92                                                                                                          92
E  Salaries and allowances            (2,918)    (4,673)    (5,940)    (13,531)    -         ( -)      (902)      t - )     (902)
^  Training and consultants           (2.737)     3-9        (2.Z)    £,.8,.7      28      (Z,430)     (40-)     (162)       r
Sub-total                               .5655       -Z925       8.377      2,2014     11      2_, 430 1A2            162
56,047     45,947      44,904    146,898      24     35,386       9,7 2,359             93
hyial    concingency                     6,702       6,192      5,987     18,831      24       4,571       951       308
Physical coucingency                                                                  24                                    _I f f   X,
Total                               62,749     52,139     50,891     165,779     24     39,957      8,385     2,6b7     11,052
Agricultural Statistics (Annex 5)
Salaries and Allowances                     720      1,438      1,438       3,596     -          -         240        -         240
Total                                  720      1,438      1,438       3,596     -          -         240        -         240
Agricultural Research  (Annex 6)
Civil Works                               4,975      3,195      2,545      10,715     26      2,785        528      186         714
Land                                         -         400         -          400     -           -       * 27        -          27
Equipment and Vehicles                    1,050      1,866      1,042       3,958     67       2,652        88      176         264
Establishment Costs
-  Salaries and allowances              (833)      (833)      (833)     (2,499)    -         (- )      (167)       -        (167)
-  Training and consultants             (474)      (357)       (225)    (1,056)    96      (1,020)       (0)      (68)       (70)
-  other                                (493)      (493)       4        (1,479)    2_ (296)             (79)      20)        (99)
Sub-total                                 1,800      1,683      1,551       5,034     26      1,316        248       88         336
BARC Research Contracts                   1.000      1,000      1.000       3.000     -           -        200       -         -00
Total(before contingency)                 8,825      8,144      6,138      23,107     29       6,753     1,091      450       1,541
Physical contingency                        613        451         351      1,415                482        62       32          94
Total                                9,438      8,595      6,489      24,522     29      7,235      1,153      482       1,635
Co-nd Area Development     (Anmex 7) ,
Civil Works                               ;-    .0   4,000       4,000      9,000     30       2,700       420      180         600
Engineering firm                            277        414         414      1,105                107        67         7         74
Total (before contingency)                1,277      4,414       4,414     l0o; 5     28       2,801       48.7     187         674
Physical cotgcy        .     .              2--- .  7  1010      1.010      2.277     30         680                            . 4  51
Total                                1,534      5,424       5,424     12,382     28       3,487       593      232         825
Monitoring and Evaluation (Annex 11)
Consultants                                 700        500         700      1,900     -         -          127       -          127
Physical contingency                         70         50          70        190     -         -           12       -           12
Total                                  770        550         770      2,090     -         -          139       -          139
BASE COST ESTIM&TE                      167,        60,443     57,j94     i85.606    24      44,946      9,378    2,996      12,374
Phyaical Contirngency                      ,64       7,5 7;4i8             22,763    25           1.,.                 i        17.
Total with Physical Contingencied        75,211     68,146      65,012    208,369    24      30,679     10,513    3,378      13,891
Price Contingenciesirounding              6,279     lZW                              24.     .8,.25. 2    -4R21,
VOTAL PROJECT COST                       81,490     80,120      82,695    244,305    24      59,304     12,334    3,953      16,287
June 8, 1977



BANGLADESH
EXTENSION AND RESEARCH PROJECT.
IMPLEMENTATION SCHEDULE
SIGNATURE OF
AUTHORITY                                                   CREDIT                YEAR 1                                YEAr 2                                  YEAr 3
RESPONSIBLE                                                 AGRE IENT     EFFECTIVENESS
GOB         Prepare and Aporov PP
G   I       ESt-ol-o PIU .nd Coordir-nngi
C-ommitee,- staIll FlU esPattlislt
revonling lund t-t
Ap-ponr-t nonnat.lIg firm lot b,itdingg
EXTENSION
Bu-ldtnee and Eqatpment
Ol            Survey of Io..n hourng                                      -
o   1         Fre-annality noritrOEtOi5t
inaEI seed notet and loam quarter ltrti
D  F   I      prepare tender  ctloations                                 t
Incite bids, enlu.te and amard lor rad
0   1         stores and teen qua.ter-
o   E         Renoir rad storos and nonetruct tent quarters                                       -tr t
F   I         Slocn stt.or UAAr h-u-s
F   I         P.rnhase land ftr UAAr h.Lsi-
O   F  I      Pre-are tender donurnonts for UAA h.usas
O   I         In-,te bds veluate andaa.d rd to- UAA h..sa.                                   1 Lsch                                 d b-a
0   E         C2nd UAAb H-                                                                                                                            2 -antch
I reParo enderOOocurtdnts forvehnlesand i,
F   I         erononent
F   I         Incite bids. ecalua,ee and aw srd                                                                                    ii
F   I         Pectre elololes and esoilPmaiit                                                           t     |
SO all
A   C         Tnin firSt Croo Production Soenrali.s iCPSsI
F             Selent edditional CPSa
A   C         Train add-tCon  CEPS.
F             Recruit UAAs IVEAj
F             icrumo addi,tonIl TEO.s, district and ragioo saallff
F   I         Recruit rntnnsionconsultaos
Stay of consulte-                                                    m                  m
RESEARCH ANO TRAINING
Buildinot -ito Equipm tnt
G             Transfr land at Thokurgon and argpur.t
A   I         Selent and acquire lnd IBarind tro-n                m                   m                 m         m
A   F  I      Salac and an-uire land (Field Trial OiNisioni
and Training Unita)
A   0         Pre-are soaciflnatlons                                      I    I
A   0              bndi , -b ds.etluat and a.erd                        I                                      I                                               B n i   i
O   E         Connruct buidl.ig                                                                          m         m                                     m       m    m      m
Prenala tendon donunosns for eeroles                      I
A   I         and eqp-ment
A   I         1n-rtr .,ds.evaluatee nd ad rd
A   I         Reneiveunhlcan and equipmennt
Sta,
A             Ade.tise, aelent and Pne- -aff|
A             Salent r c holarshin|
A  I          Recruit te.rarch nonu-tant|
Viits ol consultantf
AGRICULTURAL STATISTICS                                                r
tf            Enorarut stafflIll
ASSISTANCE IN COMMANO AREA OEVELOPMENT
J I    RecruIt onnealtlng Ermms                             i              '         |
o   J         Start topograPhical sureysi
E             S  nicil vorks on concrEte -ucturt                                       -
MONITORING AND EVALUATION
I             Anptn a consulting fIrm|
O Esrecuteasur-ays -i -III
77 -I    1         1         1        1         1         1                                     1       1
KEY
A, - BARI                                                                                                                                        Word benk-)724a
B. -8BUREAU OF STATISTIGSl
C.- BRRI
0. - CONSULTINQ; FIRMS
- CONTffACTCsIs
F - DEM
G- MINISTFRY OF AGRICULTURE                                                                                                                                140
H -GOB . GOVEiRNIET OF BANGLADESH
1. -PIU



ANNEX 10
BANGLADESH
EXTENSION AND RESEARCH PROJECT
Es3timated Schedule of Disbursement
(US$ Thousands)
IDA Fiscal Year                            Disbursement
and Quarter                      In Quarter              Cumulative
FY 1978
lst
2nd
3rd                              100                     100
4th                              200                     300
FY 1979
1st                              700                   1,000
2nd                              900                   1,900
3rd                            1,100                   3,000
4th                            1,200                   4,200
7FY 1980
1st                            1,200                   5,400
2nd                            1,200                   6,600
3rd                            1,200                   7,800
4th                            1, 200                  9,000
FY 1981
lst                            1,000                  10,000
141



ANNEX 11
Page 1
BANGLADESH
EXTENSION AND RESEARCHI PROJECT
Monitoring and Evaluation
General
1.        The proposed project represents an expansion of a new extension
system in Northwest Bangladesh. It is, therefore, important that project
implementation be closely monitored and that the impact on production and
farm incomes be thoroughly evaluated. The lessons derived from this project
should also prove very valuable for a future repeater project covering other
regions of the country.
2.        Given the project's fundamental objectives, monitoring should con-
sist of a process of timely data gathering and analysis on the gradual build-
ing up of the extension organization and on the quality of the performance
of the project's staff.   Its purpose is to ensure that the entire extension
apparatus is fulfilling the functions for which it was established. The
project's evolution through the execution and operation phases, i.e. project's
inputs and project's activities and outputs, should be monitored against the
schedules, targets and expectations defined at the start.
3.        Evaluation of the project, to be carried out during project imple-
mentation, should assess the overall impact of extension on crop yield levels
and on the beneficiaries welfare. The evaluation should also determine the
degree to which the project is reaching the economic, technical and social
targets set for agricultural development. It has to assess the comparative
effectiveness of the technological practices recommended for extension and the
changes in farmers' production behavior. It should be conducive to improve-
ments of the extension program and of the agricultural policy altogether.
A. Monitoring
Background
4.        The present system of quarterly reporting through District Officers
to headquarters in Dacca is inefficient. Considerable time is spent in prep-
aring reports, with non-verifiable information, at the district level. Con-
versely little time is available at Dacca headquarters to summarize these
voluminous reports for current use. Often when specific data are urgently
required, the central agencies send requests to thanas since the needed in-
formation is buUied along with less relevant items in the routine reports.
This has resulted in unreliable statistics and ineffective planning of action
programs.
142



ANNEX 1 1
Page 2
5.        The UNDP Extension Project has already started discussions with
the Ministry of Agriculture in redesigning the reporting forms for extension
activities, and the Rural Development I Project (Cr. 631) has initiated an
intensive monitoring and evaluation exercise in the seven project thanas
in Bogra and Mymensingh districts.
Proj ect Activities
6.        This project proposes to strengthen monitoring activities in the
Northwest following the concept used in the Bogra thanas of the Rural Devel-
opment I Project.
7.        If records and books are kept accurately and up-to-date by exten-
sion staff or statistical agents, District Extension Officers (DEOs) need
only monitor key elements of the various project components. The project
would thus assist in strengthening statistical collection procedures instead
of establishing a parallel system for collecting the information required.
Agricultural statistics would be the responsibility of the Bureau of Statistics
(Annex 5) and extension staff would not be involved in data collection.
8.        The monitoring system would, therefore, be built into the regular
progress reports of the DEOs and other project officers. These reports would
in turn be used for the quarterly and annual reports to IDA.   Monitoring will
pay particular attention to two aspects of project implementation. The first
is GOB appropriation of funds to the project agencies, including conformity of
the amounts to the approved PEPs and timeliness with regard to project needs;
this aspect would be monitored by the Regional Coord*.4nating Committee and the
PIU. The second is the execution of project works and its conformity with
proposed criteria and procedures; this aspect would be the responsibility
of extension staff at the thana, district and regional levels, research of-
ficers in the sub-stations and BADC irrigation officers.
9.        The monitoring and evaluation system should use a limited number
of selected indicators, which would reflect the essential agronomic, economic
and sociological dimensions of the project. The indicators should revolve
around three key concentration points: (a) the visits (quantitative and
qualitative aspects); (b) the adoption of recommendations; and (c) the yields.
For the institution building objectives of the projects, the main monitoring
indicators suggested are: staffing of the extension organizations; selection
of contact farmers; training; and physical equipment. For monitoring extension
performance, the suggested indicators are: degree of exposure to extension;
visit performance; farmers' evaluation of T&V; adoption rates of new practices;
and quality of training sessions. Additionally, the number of VEAs contact
farmers, participants per union, acreage of all command area tubewells surveyed
and developed, number and type of experiments carried out on research farms
for each cropping season, would be monitored. Formats would be simplified to
present only monthly targe.ts and achieveciaents to minimize time spent on report
preparation. A final list of items to be monitored for each project component
would be prepared by the evaluation officer of the PIU before the end of 1977,
as a part of the IDA project reporting r'!quirements.
143



ANNEX 11
Page 3
10.       Extension.  Each TEO would prepare a quarterly report, according
to a format prepared by PIU, to be submitted to his District Extension
Officer (DEO)>  The basic information for these reports would come from field
observations of the VEAs and field visits of the TEOs. The VEAs will supply
this information verbally at the regular training meetings. On reception of
these reports, the DEO would exercise his supervisory responsibility and
visit the thanas to clarify and/or resolve problems encountered by the thana
officers. Based on the TEO reports and his own activities, he would then
compile a quarterly district progress report according to a format also pre-
pared by PIU. He would submit copies of the report to regional headquarters
in Rajshahi with a copy to the District Coordinating Committee. The district
information would be compiled by Regional headquarters and submitted to the
Regional Coordinating Committee for information and to the PIU.
11.       Adaptive Research.  The senior research officer of each of the
research sub-stations would prepare a quarterly report, according to a format
prepared by PIU. A copy of this report would be sent to the District Coordi-
nating Committee for information. The original would be submitted to the
Regional Director of Agriculture, Rajshahi, for review.   These reports would
then be submitted for information to the Regional Coordinating Committee and
forwarded to the PIU Evaluation Officer and the Senior Research Officer from
BARI working with the PIU.
12.       Command Area Development.  A similar flow would operate for the
command area development executed under BADC respopc-ibility (Annex 7); the
district irrigation engineer would submit his report to the Regional Officer,
BADC, Rajshahi for recommendations.
13.       Since District and Regional Coordinating Committees would review
the reports of all the project participants, they would be directly informed
of the problems or delays and would propose actions to overcome them. The
PIU evaluation officer would compile quarterly reports of the various project
components. This information, along with data on procurement, expenditure
and disbursement would be included in the quarterly progress report sent to
IDA. In addition, the accounts of the PIU would be audited every year and
the auditor's report also sent to IDA;
Conclusion
14.       A scheme of the flow of information is shown in Figure 1.  Monitor-
ing would be concentrated on data of key importance to project progress. The
format would allow field staff to report only on items which can be easily
measured or estimated with reasonable accuracy. Training aiid supervisory
staff would also maintain their own evaluation of extension and training
methods to produce a system which is sensitive to changing field conditions
and permits prompt adjustments of these methods when required.
144



ANNEX 11
Page 4
B. Evaluation
Background
15.       While project monitoring would follow the implementation of the
project, the evaluation would assess the impact of the various project com-
ponents on farm level productiou, the rural population, and agricultural
services.
Project Activities
16.       Overall project evaluation would be the responsibility of the plan-
ning section of the Ministry of Agriculture which would assign an Evaluation
Officer to work full time in the PIU. Since this will require varied ex-
pertise, it would be difficult in the short term to assemble an independent
group with such broad competence. The evaluation exercise would, therefore,
be contracted to an experienced national institute, such as the Bangladesh
Institute of Development Studies (BIDS) under the supervision of the Eval-
uation Officer, FIU. Three separate sample surveys would be required; a
benchmark survey; one after three cropping seasons; and a final survey after
project implementation is complete in the third year.
17.       The primary objective of the proposed surveys would be to provide
reliable data on agro-socio-economic conditions in the project area. They
should attempt to capture the relationship between yields achieved, the adop-
tion of the recommended practices and the influence of extension on farmers'
work patterns. They would produce information about the dissemination of the
new practices beyond the contact farmers, and correlate yields and take up
rates with data on holding-sizes and socio-economic status of farmers, in order
to assess which rural groups benefit from the project. Data from the three
surveys would be used to evaluate and analyze project impact. In addition, it
is expected that the surveys would provide useful data to better understand the
decision making process at the farm level as well as the constraints which
presently limit production and income levels in the project area. Findings
would be used to improve project implementation and evaluation.
18.       It would be a condition of effectiveness of the credit that a
program (including time schedule) for project evaluation has been agreed
between GOB and IDA and a consulting firm has been recruited to execute it.
GOB should therefore obtain survey proposals from interested institutions
as soon as possible, preferably before negotiations with IDA. Draft terms
of reference for the evaluation are given in Appendix 1. The proposals of
these institutions should be submitted to IDA for review. Cost estimates
for the Monitoring and Evaluation component are shown ill Table 1.
June 1977
145



ANNEX 1 1
Appendix 1
Page 1
BANGLADESH
EXTENSION AIM RESEARCH
Draft Terms of Reference for Evaluation Consultants
General
1.        The Government of Bangladesh, through the Project Implementation
unit (PIU) of the Ministry of Agriculture will engage the services of an
institution to assist the PIU in evaluating the impact and benefits of an
Extension and Research Project. This project will cover the North-West
Region (Rajshahi Division); it aims at strengthening the extension service
and adaptive research stations in the region. The evaluation of this three-
year project will require three separate sample surveys: a benchmark survey,
one after three cropping seasons and a final survey in the last year of the
project.
2.        Proposals are invited from interested institutions for project
evaluation and the execution of these surveys.
3.        The proposal should be presented along the following lines:
I.   Specific Objectives and Data Requirements:   The proposal
should include a clear statement of the key indicators
to be estimated for use in the evaluation and analysis
of the project impact. It should also state specific
hypotheses to be tested or relationships to be studied
To the extent possible, the stated data requirements
should be related to the specific objectives.
II.   Sample Design:  The primary units of survey should be
rural households selected through stratifiec random
sampling techniques. The sample should be represent-
ative, and of adequate size, to reasonably estimate
key indicators up to the thana level. The raw data
should be collected by the direct interview method
using specifically designed questionnaires. The
period of reference should be one full agricultural
year.
III.   Questionnaire:  The questionnaire proposed for the
surveys should accompany the proposal. The question-
naire should be simple and designed to accommodate
146



ANNEX 11
Appendix 1
Page 2
future needs for computerized data processing. The
terminology used should conform to the customs and
practices prevailing in the areas surveyed.    For
agricultural statistics, to the extent possible,
the concepts and definitions should also conform
to the ones to be used in the forthcoming Agricul-
tural Census. The questionnaire should be accom-
panied by detailed explanatory notes and guidelines
to be provided to the field investigators.
IV.   Field Survey:   The proposal should give full details
of how the surveys would be organized and supervised,
indicating arrangements for pretesting of the question-
naire and the training of field invesigators and
supervisors. The procedures for detecting and
correcting incomplete or incorrectly filled
questionnaires should also be indicated.
V.   Processing and Analysis of Data:   The proposal should
include details of the procedures to be followed in
coding, processing and tabulation of the data from
the questionnaires. Formats for the proposed tables
should be specified, and details of the analyses
used to test various hypotheses or studying various
relationships should be stated.
VI.   Implementation Schedule:   It is desired that each
survey be completed within 3 months of initiation
and the final report within 3 months of completion
of the field survey. The proposal should accord-
ingly give a detailed implementation schedule of
various activities.
VII.   Progress Reporting and Submission of Report:    The
proposal should specify how the PIU would be in-
formed on progress. It should also specify the
format in which the final report would be submitted.
As the findings are to be compared with other
surveys, it is important that the compiled data
should be made available to PIU in a readily use-
able form.
VIII.  Manpower and Budgetary Requirements:   The proposal
should include a detailed breakdown of the estimated
manpower requirement, specially recruited versus
regular staff, and detailed lists of expe.1itures
147



ANNEX 11
Appendix 1
Page 3
IX.   Overall Coordination:  Responsibility for overall coordina-
tion and supervision of the field surveys, data processing
and analysis and preparation of the final report should be
with the PIU Evaluation Officer.
June 1977
148



AN=1
Table 1
BANGLADESH
EXTENSION AND RESEARCH PROJECT
Cost Estimates - Monitoring and Evaluation
-- Tk million -------
Local   Foreign   Total
Survey:
- Benchmark                     0.60    0.10      0.70
- After 3 crop seasons         0.45     0.05      0.50
- After 3 years                0.60     0.10      0.70
Sub total                      1.65     0.25      1.90
Physical Contingencies (10%)       .17    0.03       .20
Total                             1.82    0.28      2.10
149



AN1327 11
BANG LADESH                                                     FigureJ
EXTENSION AND RESEARCH
MONITORING AND EVALUATION
FLOW OF INFORMATION
UAA/
VEA
TEO                                                            Consulting
Firms
Research Officer                         District Irrigation
DEO                Substation                               Engineer
District                J                      I                                      I
Coordinating  --    -
Committee    .                                                                       J
Regional Director of Agriculture                        Regional Officer
BADC
II
I                                                          I
Regional            J--                                                                I
Coordinating
Committee    ---------------------
PIU
Evaluation Officer
Research Officer
Main Flow
--- Information and Input only.
World Bank-17224



.ANNEX 12
Page 1
BANGLADESH
EXTENSION AND RESEARCH PROJECT
Extension Packages and Their Farm Level Impact
A. General
1.        The complexity of the extension effort in the North-West is com-
pounded by a wide range of crops grown under different cropping patterns
resulting from different soil types, microtopography, flooding depths, farm
size, labor and draught power availability. Despite the undoubtedly high
skill of the average farmer in Rajshahi Division, a wide gap exists between
average and better farmers in cultural practices and yields obtained. Sig-
nificant increases in production could result from more efficient use of
existing resources and better cropping systems.
2.        The extension service envisaged under the project would concen-
trate on the improvement of wheat and paddy. Present cropping patterns and
the potential for improvement of the main crops and farming systems in these
agro-ecological zones have been identified (Annex 3) 1/. Specific cropping
patterns and detailed work calendars would be drawn up by the DEOs for the
conditions prevalent in his district. An example of a cropping calendar
is shown in Table 1.
3.        At the lower level of farming technology, improvements in production
would be achieved simply through more effective use of existing labor and local
varieties without increasing other inputs. Resulting yield increases would
develop farmer confidence in the extension service and stimulate responsive-
ness to improved seed and more inputs. At a higher level of technology,
where HYVs and inputs are already in use, the full potential of varieties
and fertilizer application could be released.  New improved varieties are
being developed which could form part of a more sophisticated package. How-
ever, it is important that research institutes increase their efforts to
produce new varieties to meet the future needs of skilled farmers and main-
tain the value and impact of production packages without which the extension
impetus will diminish.
4.        A valuable addition to all production packages, especially high
level ones, will come from refinements in fertilizer recommendations and
times of application.  This information should be generated by the Field
Trials Division of BARI (Soil Fertility Institute) which is to be strength-
ened under the project (Annex 2).
1/   Potential for Rainfed HYV Rice Cultivation in Bangladesh, H. Brammer,
1974 and also, Potential for Wheat Expansion, H. Brammer.
150



ANNEX 12
Page 2
B. Main Impact Points
5.        The extension package should be simple and concentrate primarily
on factors resulting in most immediate and effective response, some of which
are listed below:
Land Preparation can be improved by better timing of practices
with existing implements, which could ultimately be replaced by improved
ploughs. Advice on better bunding and levelling of paddy fields to give
improved control. of impounded water as well as the degree of ploughing neces-
sary to make a satisfactory seedbed under different soil conditions would
be included.
Time of planting would be stressed only where sufficient informa-
tion exists on the achievable level of response.
Seed and seedbeds. For sown crops selecting seeds and simple pre-
germination tests would give better information on the optimal seed rate.
Seed treatment of wheat and paddy has been shown to give significant responses.
For transplanted crops the use of raised seedbeds with improved soil prepara-
tion and less dense sowings would also be promoted.
Optimization of plant poDulations by simple improvements in line
transplanting and line sowing of direct seeded crops would provide increases
.a yield and facilitate effective weeding.
Weeding. More efficient and timely weeding, combined with line
sowing to avoid increasing total labor requirement, would increase yields.
This would be particularly true for rainfed crops by reducing competition
for water.
Seed selection and storage for the next year's crop would be
improved if proper advice is given at harvest time.
HYVs and inputs. After cultural standards have improved on a
given area, emphasis would be directed to encourage HYVs and fertilizer
application at dosage rates which farmers could afford, and which could be
expected to give satisfactory returns.
Pest and diesease control. Simple diagnosis of major pests and
diseases, and the method of control. This would be intensified as the UINDP
program, outline in para 21(c) become available.
6.        The above sequence of extension actions is appropriate to the
""average" farmer. The more advanced farmer, however, who is already using
HYVs and varying amounts of fertilizer also provides development opportunities.
More advanced packages (para 3) covering this population would concentrate on
151



ANNEX 12
Page 3
efficient use and timing of fertilizer application. Such packages should take
into account the fact that farmers are presently not applying recommended rates
and many medium yielding varieties (MYV's), which require lower levels of
fertilizer, are being grown instead of HYV's.
C. Packages of Practices
7.       .As a rule, farmers use fertilizer rates below those recommended by
the extension service but research organizations have not investigated the
yield responses under low fertilizer rates. However, some information is
available, based on observations of extension agents in the field. This
should be sufficient to enable tentative recommendations to be made, but
more accurate quantification is urgently required and must be the priority
within the adaptive research program.
8.        Uptake of packages by farmers growing local (traditional) varieties
would presumably differ from those growing improved varieties (Table 2); how-
ever, a limited number of simple packages, applicable to both varieties, can
be drawn up for the major rice crops and for wheat. These packages will be
augmented as adaptive research provides better information.
Package A: Improvements based on cultural practices (para 5)
but not implying any change in fertilizer application, (if any
is applied), nor any increment in cash inputs. This package
would be aimed at the poorest farmers and sharecroppers. There
would be no increase in costs, apart from family labor. Although
yield potential will not be reached in the absence of additional
fertilizer, considerable yield responses can be obtained from
cultural practices alone. Farmers presently growing HYV's with
low levels of fertilizer would also benefit from this package if
their present level of cultural practice is low.
Package B: Package A plus 20:20 (lbs N:P/ac). Present recommended
fertilizer rates (Annex 1) are not based on efficient financial
returns, but purely on yield responses. Of the fertilizer recom-
mended under package B, which is supplementary to any existing
level, one-half should be applied in the seedbed and the balance
at tillering. This would be applicable to small farmers and
sharecroppers who as a result of improved cultural practices
have achieved higher yields and thus have some cash or access to
credit.
Package C: Package A plus 40:40 (lbs N:P/ac). This higher level
of additional fertilizer should primarily be aimed at producers
of improved varieties with good cultural practices. These
levels are still below the officially recommended levels of
application (Annex 3, paras 35 to 36). Here again, one half
should be applied in the seedbed and the balance at tillering.
152



ANNEX 12
Page 4
Later on, some amount of K could be added to the composi-
tion of this package if research confirms the usefulness
of this nutrient.
9.        The fertilizer levels under packages B and C can be altered, based on
variation in paddy and input prices and research results on varietal responses
to varying combinations of nutrients.    The suggested levels in packages B and C
represent conservative estimates which sould give visual responses and obtain
farmer confidence in the extension message.
D. Farm Models and Benefits
10.       The packages are aimed only at paddy and wheat and project benefits
are based only on these two crops. Gbviously, the extension service will
ultimately encompass many crops and farming operations, thus producing addi-
tional benefits (para 21). Conservative assumptions have been used on yield
responses (Table 2) and prices of product (Table 7). Most of the changeover
to HYV as a result of the project will presumably occur with T. aman. Simi-
larly, uptake of the respective packages for local varieties is expected to
be more effective with T. amar and boro (!able 2). This, of course, does
not imply that the message should be restricted to these two local crops
plus improved varieties, but that these crops and varieties are most respon-
sive to the extension message.
Crop Input Requirements
1l.       Crop Budgets were determined for local varieties (Table 5) and
improved varieties (Table 6), based on the yield as'sumptions of Table 2 and
the crop input requirements of Table 4.    The prices used in the farm 'budgets
are the "financial" farm gate prices shown ini Table 7.
12.       The estimated current levels of inputs are based on the agro-
econ;omic surveys conducted during project preparation as well as on the
information obtained from the thana administrations, the Ministry of Agricul-
ture and several other surveys in similar areas of Bangladesh. Some improve-
ments in yields and fertilizer usage are assumed for the future "without
project" situation. Future "with project1 requirements are based on recom-
mendations by the Directorate of Agricultural Extension and Management and
on observed cultural practices of progressive farmers of the area. The
Luture estimates assume that there would be no significant change in the
level ow Larm mechanization.
13.       The estimated hired labor is costed at Tk r"'day while no value is
put on family labor.   In estimating the need for hire   'abor, due regard is
given to the larger family size, and hence the labor     rce, on the larger
farms.  Crop wise monthly labor requirements are given in Table 8.
153



ANNEX 12
Page 5
14.       Cropping patterns used in the Farm Models (Table 9) are approxi-
mations of average situations in the project area. It is unlikely, however,
that many farms with exactly these patterns could be found due to the ex-
treme diversity of cropping situation alluded to in Annex 3.
Yields
15.       Yield increases at full development of the project in year 10,
are estimated in Table 2. Very conservatively, it has been estimated
that yield increases would be obtained only for wheat, boro, T. aman and
improved aus (para 10). These yields are summarized below.
Future with-     Future with
Present       out Project         Project
Crop           Tons/acre /a   Tons/acre     /a Tons/acre    /a
Aus      - local           0.41           0.45              0.45
-  improved      0.75            0.82              0.93
B. aman                    0.45           0.45              0.45
T. aman  - local          0.60            0.67              0.75
- improved       0.90            0.97              1.19
Boro     - local           0.67           0.71              0.85
- improved       1.23            1.31              1.49
Wheat    - local           0.26           0.26              0.26
- improved       0.37            0.41              0.56
(rainfed)
- improved       0.93            1.12              1.49
(irrigated)
/a   Paddy yields.
Farm Labor Requirement
16.       The Appraisal Report of the Rural Development Project 1/ estimated
that 15% of the population in the Northwest were non-agricultural and that
the effective work force comprised 28% of the remainder (the women generally
do no significant work outside the house). These data indicate a labor force
of some 3.9 million male farm workers between the ages of 14 and 65. The
average family of 6.4 would have 3.2 males; 1.6 between 14 and 65 year. Work-
ing 27 days per month during peak periods (allowing 3 days for accidents,
1/   World Bank Report No. 837a-BD.
154



ANNEX 12
Page 6
relief, sickness, etc), an average of 17 man-days per month would be avail-
able (200 man-days per year) 1/. It was assumed that hired labor would not
decrease over ti-- (Table 9), thus although theoretical family labor require-
ments may rise, the level of hired labor would not decrease on a given farm
unit.  The demand for hired labor was then assessed by comparing labor avail-
ability with estimated crop requirements (Table 8).
Model Sizes for the Farm Budget Analysis
17.       Households in the project area can be arbitrarily classified into
four groups according to their economic situation:
Landless workers, most of whom earn a living as daily
workers or sharecroppers in the fields, in construction
or other odd jobs. They make up about 30% of the house-
holds in the area.
Sub-marginal farmers cultivate less than 2.5 ac of land.
Usually the farm production of these farmers is insuffi-
cient to satisfy subsistence requirements and they need
substantial outside income to supplement their farm in-
come. In the farm budget analysis, a 1.5 ac farm has
been chosen to represent some 45% of the households that
operate more than 0.25 ac but less than 2.5 ac.
Small farmers cultivate an area of 2.5-5.0 ac and typically
have a per capita income close to the national average.
About 15% of the households belong to this category,
which have been represented here by a 4.0 ac farm.
Large farmers are defined as those owning 5 ac or more.
The medium holding size for the "large" farmers is roughly
8.0 ac; this size was thus chosern to represent this group.
18.       Farm budgets based on the assumptions outlined in paras 10-20, are
given in Table 9 for the three representative farm models. The cropping
patterns of these three models show the existing differences among farms of
various sizes. The bigger farms have a greater variety of crops and a higher
proportion of improved varieties of wheat and paddy. In assessing the im-
pact of the extension message, the probable differences of reaction have
been taken into account. For instance, the smaller farmers are likely to
accept more readily a package not requiring any incre-se in cash inputs
while they would be slower to change from local to improved varieties.
Project Benefits
19.       The following table summarizes the estimated income level for the
three farm models:
1/ In practice, much of this would be hired if the farmer could afford it.
155



ANNEX 12
Page 7
Per Capita
Net Value of                         Income
Production       Family Size        (Taka)
1.5 ac farm
Present                               1,740              6               290
Future without project               2,070               7               300
Future with project                  2,800               7               400
4.0 ac farm
Present                              4,160               7               590
Future without project               5,280               9               590
Future with project                  6,650               9               740
8.0 ac farm
Present                              5,600               9               620
Future without project               6,920              11               630
Future with project                  9,140              11               830
20.       Using these three hypothetical models, it is estimated that, with
the project, farm incomes, as measured by net value of production, could
increase by about 60% over the present level and about 30% over the future
situation without the project.   Because they rely more on family labor, the
smaller farmers should benefit more from the recommendations of the exten-
sion service. For all farm sizes, however, the benefits forecast are con-
sidered to be sufficient incentive to obtain the participation of the farmers.
E. Future Packages
21.       Additional packages would be developed as adaptive resear - provides
suitable information.   Some examples of priority packages which shou-. be
prepared are:
(a) Plant Protection. Packages could be generated by the UNDP
Plant Protection Training Program to cover different pesti-
cides, rates and methods of application, and specific pack-
ages for special pests as they appear eg. Brown Plant Hopper.
(b) Diversification of Rabi Crops: The Oil Crop Research & Devel-
opment Program of GOB and SIDA is proposing to produce better
practices for mustard, soybeans and other legumes. The poten-
tial for crop diversification is beginning to be exploited
in the North-West but adequate extension packages must be
generated to stimulate effective diversification into other
crops such as chillies, potatoes, ginger, etc.
156



ANNEX 12
Page 8
(c)  General Animal Husbandry Packages for Cattle and Poultry:    The
poor physical status of livestock in Bangladesh and their role
in the cropping system make the development of such a package
of extreme importance. In fact many of the benefits of the
project could be greatly augmented by simple improvements in
the management of draft livestock.
June   1977
157



ANNEX12
BANGLADESH                Table 1
EXTENSION AND RESEARCH PROJECT
Cro ppi Calendar
JAN FEB MRJ4 APR1hT4Y | JUN JUL 1 AUG SEP 1 OCT NOV DEC
- -. t , -- J.iJ.z. .. ......-
AMAN  B.C....-..      .........
AMAN  TP  I   J      I          ,     .    ;.r
BORO                ..')J
WHEAT    __\b                                     '   1
JUTE  C_ 'E  s                         " . ' s  4
POTATO    ______f__~_             _  _ _ _ _  j  A    ?
GROUND NUT (S)        V         I      I
zW ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~   ~  ~   ~~~~. PE  .....0i 0{,,,0.,  ""'
158
AprOUN 5,197
VEGETABLE(S ,4.______                      b
VEGETABLE VP'
SWEET POTATO r__
SESAIMUM                 .\.
SUGAR CANE         \
LiNSEE~D   T  T,'               -----
LEILS, GRAMAV-"'
MUNG8BEAN__
-    SEEDING       GROWTH         HARV ST
158
April 5, 1977



BANGLADESH
EXTENSION AND RESEARCH PROJECT
Yields and Extension Package Uptake!/
------------------------------- Future    -------------------------------------
Without                          With Project PackageS3-
Present    Projectl/          QT           A             B             C      kverage Yield
Local Varieties
Aus                    11          12        12   (100%)        -            -                         12
B. Aman                12          12        12   (100%)        -            -                         12
T. Aman                16          18        18   ( 40%)    20  (30%)    24   (30%)         -          20
Boro                   18          19        19   ( 40%)    23  (30%)    27   (30%)         -          23
Wheat                   7           7          7  (100%)               -             -                  7
Improved Varieties
Aus                    20          22        22   ( 40%)    24  (30%)    28   (20%)    32  (10%)       25
T. Aman                24          26        26   ( 40%)    32  (30%)    37   (20%)    42  (10%)       32
Boro                   33          35        35   ( 30%)    37  (25%)    42   (25%)    46  (20%)       40
Wheat - Rainfed        10          11        11   ( 30%)    13  (25%)    16   (25%)    20  (20%)       15
- Irrigated      25          30        30   ( 30%)    35  (25%)    40  (25%)     44  (20%)       38
1/  Yields in maunds/acre of paddy.   The percentages of uptake shown above are only used to obtain
an estimate of the average yields with project; they are highly conjectural and can not be
considered as a forecast of the project uptake.
2/ Values equivalent to cropped area accepting no packages.
3/ Details in Table 3.
Area under project not accepting packages.
April 5, 1977
- ^tri
D                                                                                           1



BANGLADESH
EXTENSION AND RESEARCH PROJECT
Fertilizer Rates: Present and Recommended with Packages
(maunds/acre)
Present        ------------------------------- Future  -------------------------------
Without                       With Project Packages
Project2/             A                  B                 C
Ui1  TSP1''14P-1/   U   TSP    MP       U   TSP    MP      U   TSP  MP      U   TSP   MP
Local Varieties
Aus
B. Aman
T. Aman             0.2 .05      -     0.3     .1          0.3     .1   -     0.7   0.55
Boro                0.3  0.2     -     0.4    0.3    -    0.4    0.3    -     0.8   0.7   -
Wheat                .05  -      -      .05
Improved Varieties
Aus                 0.5  0.3    .1     0.6    0.4  0.1     0.6   0.4  0.1     1.0    .8  0.1    1.5  1.3  0.1
T. Aman              1.0 0.5    .1     1.2     .6    1     1.2    .6   .1     1.5   1.0    1    2.0 1.5   0.1
Boro                 1.2 0.6    .2     1.4     .7   .2     1.4    .7   .2     1.7   1.1   .2    2.2 1.6   0.2
Wheat - Rainifed     0.2 0.1     -     0.3   0.15    -     0.3  0.15    -     0.7   0.6   -     1.2 1.1    -
- Irrigated    0.5  0.2    .1     .7     .3 0.1       .7    .3  0.1     1.0   0.7   .1    1.5  1.2   0.1
-    Urea; TSP   Triple Super Phosphate; NP = Muriate of Potash.
2
-Inputs same for "with package" zero uptake situation (Table 1, column 0).
April 5, 1977
a
0



BANGLADESH
EXTENSION AND RESEARCR PROJECT
Crop Input Require.entsl/
--------------------------- L.cal Varieties ----------------------------  ------------------------- Improved Variet es--------------------------------------------
Aus    B.Aan          T.A,aan             Boro              Wheat               A,,s            T.Aman             Boro            Wheat  I)W
P/F      P/F       P   FWO   F        P   FWO    FW      P   FWO FW       P   FWO    FW       P   FWOO R       P   FIo    FW      P   FWO  FW
Ferriltzers 3nd Pe.ticIdes-
Urea (46% N)    (ada/ac)           -       -       0.2   0.3   0.4     0.3   0.4   0.5    .05  .05  .05    0,5  0.6   0.8     1.0  1.2   1.4    1.2   1.4   1.7    0.2  0.3   0.6     0.5  0.7  1.0
TSP (46% P2Os)  (ada/ac)           -       -      0.05   0.1   0.25    0.2   0.3   0.4     -    -    -     0.3   0.4  0.6     0.5  0.6   0.8    0.6   0.7   1.0    0.1  0.1   0.4     0.2  0.3  0.6
HP  (60%  K)    (ads/ac)           -       -       -      -      -            r     -      -    -    -     0.1   0.1   0.1    0.1  0.1   0.1    0.3   0.3   0.3     -    -     -      0.1  0.1  0.1
Diazinon        (mds/ac)           -       -       .005  .005  .005   .005  .005   .005    -    -    -      -  0.005   0.01    .01  .01   .01  .005  .005  .005     -    -   0.01    .005  .01  .01
Si.aithion      (mds/ac)           -       -      .005  .005   .005   .005  .005   .005    -    -    -      -  0.005  0.01     .01  .01   .01  .005  .005  .005     -    -   0.01    .005  .01  .01
Labor (man days/acre)3/
Preparation                       17      15       20    21    22      22    22    22      19   19   19     18   18    19      22    22   22    22    22    22      19   19   20       19   1)   21
Planting and Nursing               2       2       18    18    18      18    18    18       2    2    2      2    2     2      18    18   18     18   18    18       2    2    2        2    2    2
Crop Management                    6       3       10    11    12      10    lt    12      12   12   12     10   11    12      11    12    13    12    13   15      12   12   13        12   14  16
Harvesting and Threshing          20       20      22    23    24      23    25   127      20   20   20     22   23    24      25    26    28    30    31    33      22   22  24        22  26   31
Sub-total                       45      40       70    73    76      73    76    79      53   53   53     52   54    57      76    78    81    82   84    88      55   55   59        55  62   70
Other Input.
Bullock Power (pair-days)         15       17      17    17    17      17    17    17      17   17   17     15   15    17      18    18    20    18    18    20      18   18  20       17   17   18
Seed            (ads/ac)         1.0     1.0       0.5   0.5   0.4     0.4   0.4   0.4    1.0  1.0  1.0    1.3   1.0   0.9     0.4   0.4   0.4   0.4   0.4   0.4    1.0  1.0  1.0      1.0  1.0  1.0
Miscellaneous   (Tk/ac)           10       10        10    10   15      10    10    10     10   10   10     10    10    20      30    30    40    30    30   40      10   10   20       10  30   40
1/  P - Present, FWO - Future without, FW = Future with project.
/   Future aft..a:ion based on details in Table 3. FW is a weighted average.
3/ Monthly profiles in Table 7.
APril 5, 1977



BAINGLADES11
EXITENSION AND RESEARChI PROIJECT
Crop Budget,, per Acre - L-cL Vr         t1../2/
A..8.ms                                                              T.A-.a                                                           Boro                                  wheat
p                p                    /                    p                  FWO                  pwP                                         FWO                 P1W               P/F
V.lue of Production
Paddy    -ada                      11        3/    12                   12                   16                   1s                   20                     18                   19                   23               7
-  Tkc                   495(1,l00)-.    540   (1.200)       600    (1,200)       800    (1,600)       900   (1.800)      1,000   (2,000)          810    (1,800)       855    (1,900)     1.035    (2.300)  350    (805).
Straw    -ad    _4/                14              16                   16                   24                   27                   30                     27                   30                   36               7
-   'k                   11       (1)    128      128         128  (   128)       1921_(    192)       216   (  216)        240   (  240)          216   (   216)       240   (   240)       288   (   288)    14   ( 14)
Gross Value                       607(1,212)      668   (1,328f        728   (1,328)        992   (1,792)     1,116    (2,016)     1,240    (2,240)        1,026   (2,016)      1,095   (2,140)     1,323    (2,588)   364   (819)
Production laput Coot.
Fertilizera:
Dre.     -   ada .                                                                          0.2                  0.3                  0.4                    0.3                  0.4                  0.5             0.05
- Tkc-                          -         -                                         12(      22)         18(      33)         24(      44)           18(      33)         24(      44)         30(      55)     3(5.5)
TSP      -   sas                                   -       -                                0.05                 0.1                 0.25                    0.2                  0.3                  0.4-
-  Tk                     -      -        -       --                   -           2.4   (6.25)         4.8   (12.5)          12   (31.25)          9.6   (   25)       14.4   (37.5)        19.2   (   50)     -
MP        -ads .
Pesticides:
Diazino-     ads                   -      -        -       -            -       -           .005                .005                 .005                   .005                 .005                 .005-
-  Tk                     -      -        -       -            -       -            1.4   ( 3.5)        1.4   (  3.5)        1.4   (  3.5)          1.4   (  3.5)        1.4   (  3.5)        1.4   (  3.5)
S..ithion- ada                     -      -        -       -            -       -           .005                .005                 .005                   .005                 .005                 .005
- Tk                    -      -         -       -            -       -          4.75    (11.5)      4.75    ( 11.5)      4.75   ( 11.5)          4.75   ( 11.5)       4.75   ( 11.5)       4.75   ( 11.5)     -
Seed:
- ads                  1.0              1.0                  1.0                   0.5                 0.5                 0.4                     0.4                  0.4                  0.4               1.0
- Tic                   50   (100)       50   (  100)         55   (  100)        26.5   (  50)      26.5    (   50)         22   (   40)           20   (   40)         20   (   40)         20   (    40)  55.0    (110)
Draft Power:
-B-pair days           15               15                   17                    17                  17                   17                     17                   17                   17                17
-Tkc                  150   (120)      150      120)        iSO      136)         150   ( 136)        150   (  136)        150   (  136)          150   (   136)       150   (   136)       150   (   136)    1.50  (136)
rr ato(ka)/- - -      -            -       ---                                       --                   -150                (  150)        150   (   150)       150   (   150)     -
Misce.llaneous                       10   ( 10)       10       10)         10       10)          10   (  1O)         10   (   10)         15   (   15)           10        10)        10   (    10)         15       15)     10   ( 10)
Total Costs                       210   (230)     210   (  230)        215   (  246)          207  ( 240)        215   (   257)       229   (   281)          364   (  409)        375   (  1,32)       390   (  161)    218    (262)
Net Crop V.a1ue6'                   397   (982.)    458   (1,098)         513  (1,082)          785 (1,552)         901   (1,759)      1,011   (1,959)          662   (1,607)        720   (1,708)        933   (2,12?)     146   (557)'
Numl,er of Mandays                 45              45                   40                     70                  73                   76                     73                   76                   79                53
Labor Cost                         360 (   270)    360   (   270)       320   (   240)         560 (   420)        581,  (  438)       608    (  456)          584i   (  438)       608   (  456)        632   (   474)    1,21  (318)
Economic Net Crop Value*~           37 (   712)      98  (   828)       193   (   84,2)        225 (1.132)         317   (1,321)       1s03   (1,503)           78    (1.,1b9)      112   (1,252)        301   (1,653)1- 278     (239)
(after lAtbor)
Production details fro1m Table      1.
2/ Prices used in Table 6.
TI/Loca:    Paddy TK8/ed. wheel TK2/.d; T.proved:        pddy TK6/.d, wheat TK2/.d.
(Straw is valued since assume all draft powdr hired).
5/Ref:. Brasesr Field Surv,ey 3/76.
6/   Excluding labor coats.
7/ Labor haa beae, costed at financial price of hired labor (Tk 8 par mian day). Certain crops give a negative
net value, but they wousld remain profitable if cultitvated with faidAy labor
April 5,1977



BANGLADESHI
EXTENS1100 AND RESEARCH PROJECT
C-op B.dp.t. p-t A-r - Or-c-d V-ri-t-ee-
A..                                 T. A-,                                 Boro                          Wheat (Reiof.d)                  wh-o (Irrlated)   V
P    NO           P11PW                                 FW             P          NWO         NW            P       FWO      PW            P          P oON
Paddy   -   de.     2022                    25            24          26           32            33          35          40           10       11        is         25           30         38
T k       900 (2,000)  900 (2,200) 1,25 (2,500)  1,200 (2.400) 1,300 (2,600) 1,600 (3,200)  1,485 (3,300) 1,75 (3,500) 1,00 (4,000)  5o 0(1,150) 550(1,265) 750 (1,725) 1,250 (2.875) 1,500 (3,450) 1,900 (4,370)
Strw    -ed.       12          13           15            15          16          19            20           21          24          10        11       15          25           30         38
- 0  2  7      0    9(     9)     9      0    96     96   14    14      12(2)       16    126   42201A4            1  1ffi l!}   13{70} 9(79)05 T O  05  6C     0 &2
T",.Vau      I3T~02     1,6(,    )    9025 (590)  1,902,90    1,962,6§9   T, 1 54NS-,4)  T,1642O       171(,626) 1,944 (4,1)   52(,7)52127        8(175      ,0    295    ,6  (3,56100) T.11A6 4,44g)
Ure        a.,d   0.5          0.6         0.8           1.0          12          1.4           1.2         1.4         1.7          0.2      0.3      0.6          0.5         0.7         1.0
-k    30(   5)    3(    6)     4(    08)    60(10         2132)      84 (154)      72(10         4(3)      102 (165)    12(22)   18 (33)   36(   66)   30(   55).  42(77)      60(110)
'TSP       d.ol    0.3         0.4     S)  0.6           0.5          0.6         0.8           0.6         0.7     5)   1.0    8)   0.1      0.1       0.4    5)   0.2         0.3         0.6
Tk2       14  (  38)   19 (  50    29  (  75)    24 (  63)   29  (  75)   38  (  100)   29 (  38)   34 (  50    48  (  8)     5 ( 13)  5  ( 13)  19 ( 50    10 (  25)   14 (  38)   29 (  75))
Mr      - oe       0... 0.1                       0       .     0.1         0.1                 0.3         0.)0.                       -    -      -               0.1         0.1         0.1
-Tk              9)     4(    9)    1(    9)      4(    9)    41     9)    )1    9)      2(    9)   2(    2)    12(    275        -                          4(    9     4(    9)    4(    9
P ... c.d-e
DO-teelo-  d~                 .005         .01           .01         .01          .01          .005         .005        .01           -    -   -    -   0.1         .005        .01         .01
-Tk        -           .4 (3.5)    2.8(   7)     2.B(   7)   2.8(    7)  2.8(    7)    1.4(3.5)     1.4(3.5)    2.8(   7)    -    -        -   2.8(    7)  1.4(3.5)     2.8(   7)  2.8(    7)
Semithi.. - ode               .005         .01           .01         .01          .01          .005         .005        .01           -    -   -        0.1        .005          .01        .0L
-  Tk       -         4.75  (11.5)  9.5  ( 23)    9.5  ( 23)  9.5  C 23)  9.5  ( 23)   4.75  (11.5)  4.75  (11.5)  9.5  ( 23)  -   -    -       9.5  ( 23)  4,75  (11.5)  9.5  ( 23)  9,5  ( 23)
Seed:
-  d.     1.0         1.0         0.o.4                     0.4          0.4           0.4         04          04           1.0      10        .01.0                 .10L
-  2k      90  (140)   90  ( 140)  81516          6  (  3)    3      6)   36 (  56)     36 (  56)   36  (  56)   36 C  56)  11  (140)  10 (140)  10 ( 140)  110  ( 140)  110  ( 140)  510  ( 140)
fraftpdv-r:
B.p.fr deye      1           15          17            11820                                   81820                               17       17t 7                              17         1
Tk       1S0 ( 20)   150 C120)   170 (135)     180 (144)    180 (144)   200   1 60)   180   144)  180 (144)    200 (160)   170 (136) 170 (136) 180 (144),  170 (136)   170 (136) ISO    14.4)
IriaIn(h-a)---       ----        --     ------             ----         ----        ---22)5        225)   225 (225)   225 (2255--      -   ---       ---       -200 (200)     200 (200)   200 (200)
Hi ... 1elIaneot(Tk)   10(105      10(   10)    2OC   20)    30(    30)   30(   30)   40C    40)    30(    305   30(   30)   40C   40)   10( 10)   10 (50)  20C   20)   30(    30)   30(   305 40   460)
Total Coet        298 (372)   315 C410)   361 C 113)    346 ( 42)   363   4 176)  4135  5119)  090 C627) '607   699)  675 (791)    307 (32l) 313 (332) 377 ( 150)  560 (610)  582 C660) 635      M )10
Net Crop V.lue       674 (1,709)  753 (1,868)  051 (2,017)  944 (2.040) 1,033 (2,220) 1,300 12,765)  '1,015 (2,793) i,o94 (2,9117) 1,269 (3,353)  213 (849) 259 (955) 1103 (1,305)  740 (2,315)  978 (2,850) 1,3411 (3,698)
Labor- Requi. t (oaday.) 52      54           57            76          78          81             82          84          80           55       55       59           55          62          70
la-b-  Coat          1116  312fl  1132  (  324)  1156  C  342)  608  (  456)  6211  (  468)  6118  (  486)  656  (  492i  672  (  504)  7011  (  528)  1110  (330)  1111  (330)  1172  354)  1110  (  330)  1196  C  372)  560  C  420)
11t ~ ~~        250i (1,388)  321 (1,544)  39,5 (1,67 5)  336 (1,592)  1109 (1,752)  652 (2,279)  359 (2,301)  1122 (2,1413)  565 (2,85)2,  -227 (519) -181 (625) -69 C951)  300 (1,985)  4182 (2,478B) 781 (3,278)
I/ Details lie to Table 4.
2/Sefootnote 7, toble 5.
41/,5/77



ANNEX 12
Table 7
BANGLADESH
EXTENSION AND RESEARCH PROJECT
Prices Used in Analysis
Financial Price        Economic Price
Crops                            (Tk/md)                (Tk/md)
Paddy
Aman                               501'                        lO0i/
Aus                                45-'                        10W
Boro                               4SX                         lOQi6
Wheat                                51'                         115
Inputs
Urea                               60                          110 8/
TSP                                48                          125
M]?                                40                           85
Diazinon                          280                          700
I Sumithion                         950                        2,300-
Seed HYV Padd                      90                          140
Seed HYV Wheat2-                  110                          140
Animal Laboqt/                     10                            8
Hir*d- Farm Labor4/                 8                            6-1/
1/ Price after transportation costs deducted at Tk5 per maund. Official paddy
procurement prices of Tk74 per maund are not received in practice in the NW.
2/  For local varieties same as crop prices (including transportation costs).
3/  Tk/animal pair-day.   The economic price has been taken below the financial
price since more than adequate numbers of draft cattle are available.
4/  Tk/man-day.
5/  Tk 4/man-day during months of Jan., Feb., Sept. and Oct.
Tk 6/man-day during months of March-June, Nov. and Dec.
Tk 8/man-day during July and August.
These unit rates have been weighted by the approximate number of man-days
worked during these three periods.
6/  See Annex 13, Table 1.
7/  See Annex 13, Table 2
8/  The fertilizers prices have been derived from IDA Commodity Price Forecast
for 1985: adjusted for transport and handling cost.
9/ Local prices corrected for subsidies.
164
April 5, 1977



BANGLADESH
EXTENSION AND RESEARCH PROJECT
Monthly Labor Requirements for Various Crops
(man-days / acre)
Jan   Feb   Mar    Apr   May   Jun   Jul    Aug   Sept   Oct   Nov   Dec    Total
RICE (PADDY)
Aus:
Local                  P/F    0     0      7    13     2     2     12     9      0     0     0      0      45
Improved                P     0     0      6    12     7     3     14    10      0     0     0      0      52
FWO    0      0     7    12     7     3      14   11      0     0      0     0      54
FW     0      0     7    13     7     3      15   12      0     0      0     0      57
B. Aman                 P/F    0      0     6    12     2     1       1    0      0     6     12     0      40
T. Aman                  V     0     0      0     0     0     7     14    20      3     3    15      8      70
Local                  FWO    0     0      0     0     0     7      15   20      3     3    16      9      73
FW     0      0     0     0     0      7     15   21      3     4     16    10      76
Improved                P     0     0      0     0     0     7     15    21      4     3    18      8      76
FWO    0      0     0     0     0      7     15   21.     4     4     18     9      78
FW     0      0     0     0     0      7     15   21      5     4     19    10      81
Boro                     P    12    27      2     2    10    16       0    0      0     0      0     4      73
Local                  FWO   12     27     3     3    11    16       0    0      0      0     0     4      76
FW    12     27     3     4    12     17      0    0      0      0     0     4      79
Improved                P    12    28      3     3    12    20       0    0      0     0      0     4      82
FWO   12     28     4     3    12     21      0    0      0      0     0     4      84
FW    12     28     5     4    13     22      0    0      0      0     0     4       88
WHEAT
Local                  P/F    2      2    18     4     0      0      0    0      0      0    12    15       53
Improved rainfed        P     2     3     15     4     0     0       0    0      0      0    21    10      55
FWO    2      3    15     4     0      0      0    0      0      0    21    10       55
FW     3      4    16     4     0      0      0    0       0     0    21    11       59
Improved irrigated      p     2     2     18     4     0      0      0    0      0      0    20     9      55
FWO    3      3    19     4     0      0      0    0       0     0    22    11       62     3
FW      4     4    22     4      0     0      0    0       0     0    24    12       70
m x
Rabi Crops             P/F   10    10     10     5     0      0      0    0      0      0     5    10       50
Apkil 5, 1977



''  '     ~3AIGLDE                      '    '
NflUSIMAND RESEARM PROJECT
met Fars Incomes-
1.5 acre -                 4.0 acre    -        --      8.0 acre --
P      FO      FW          P      nO       N           P       NO F
Cro2p*d Area
Aus   - local                                      0.6     0.5     0.3        1.4     1.3     1.0        2.4      2.0      1.7
- improved                                    -      0.1     0.3        0.2     0.4     0.8        0.6      1.2      1.7
Aman  -3,                                          0.1     0.1      -         0.2     0.2     0.1        0.3      0.3      0.3
--T. local                                   1.3     1.2     0.9        2.5     2.2     1.6        4.8       3.8     3.0
- T. improved                                0.1     0.2     0.6         .5     0.8     1.6        1.4      2.5      3.5
Boro  - 2ocal                                       -       -       -         0.4     0.4     0.4        0.4      0.4      0.3
- improved                                    -       -       -         0.3     0.4     0.5        0.6      0.8      1.0
Wheat - local                                      0.3     0.3     0.2        0.4     0.4     0.3        0.4      0.3     0.3
- improved                                    -      0.1     0.3        0.1     0.3     0.4        0.8      1.0     1.2
Rabi Crops 2/                                      0.2     0.2     0.2        0.4     0.4     0.4        0.8      0.8     0.8
Total                                            2.6     2.7     2.8        6.4     6.8     7.1       12.5     13.1    13.8
Cropping Intensity (Z)                             173     180     187        160     170     176        156      164     172
Gross Cro" Va&ue (Tk)j3                            2,370   2,800   3,780      6,280   7,540   9,640     12,020   14,280  17,750
Production Cost,
Crop Inputs (k) A/                                 630     730     980      1,800   1,900   2,590      3,700    4,320   5,250
Family labor (man days) ./                         155     170     190        350     405     440        450      460     540
Hired labor (man days)                              -       -       -          40      45      50        340      380     420
Hired labor (Uk)                                   -       -       -          320     360     400      2        37040   3 360
Total                                            630     730     980      2,120   2,260   2,990      6,420    7,360   8,610
Net Pro&uction Value (Tk)                           1740   2,u70   2,800      4,160   5,280   6,650      5,600    6,920   9,140
ttimated FLily Sizeq                                6       7       7          7       9       9          9       11      11kD
Per Capita- Income (Tk)                            290     300     400        590     590     740        620      630     830
Increent i u Net !arhff3Ge?Yotrt
FW - FNO (Tk)                                                      730                      1,370                       2,220
Incrment per acre (TSt)                                            490                        340                         280
P - present, FWO   future without, FW   future with project.
-   Assumed gross value of production Tk2,000/acre and cost of inputs Tk.500/acre.
Individual crop values and input costs shown in Tables'S and 6.
Onea, 1.5 acre farm, in order to maintain a per capita consiption of 0.8 kg foodgrain (paddy equivalent) per day
and purchase crop inputa, off-farm cash resources would be required as follos: P'Tk 1,170; IWOmTh 1,280;
Finc 530.   (These additional funds would be obtained from off-farm employmnt or credit facilities'.) The project
would ths decreae the dependence on off-farm cash resources by Tk 750.
4  1 s4ly  labor 200 man days per ab le bodied male. Every family of 6.4, there are 1.6 able bodied sales (Annex 12,para 16).
6 / Rural Development I Project (rotmded).                                                                           166



ANNEX 13
Page    1
BANGLADESH
EXTENSION AND RESEARCH PROJECT
Economic Analysis of the Extension and Research Component
1.        Attributing a precise level of benefits to this type of project
is difficult since the expected benefits of improved agricultural practices,
which also require additional inputs, cannot be attributed solely to exten-
sion and research. Moreover, there is not enough experience in Bangladesh to
estimate acceptance rates with any degreL of accuracy. However, there is no
doubt that the substantial improvement in the efficiency of utilization of
existing resources, which would be brought about by the project, would gene-
rate a high rate of return. To illustrate this, a test has been performed
showing-the increases in paddy and wheat production required to generate a
50% economic rate of return on the incremental costs involved.
2.        The attached Table 4 shows that to realize a 50% economic rate of
return, annual incremental production value by year 7, at 1977 prices, would
need to reach about Tk 136 M (US$9.1 M). This could be achieved with an
annual increase in foodgrain production of about 59,000 tons or 1.6 M maunds,
equivalent to an average yield increase of 0.24 maund/ac (20 lb/ac), or about
2% over the "without project" situation. Experience with reorganized exten-
sion services in other countries where paddy and wheat are the main crops,
suggests that there would be little risk that yields would not increase by
an average of at least 20 lb/ac, since this remains well below gains recorded
in farmer trials. Moreover, as discussed in Annex 12, para 15, yield in-
creases in excess of 10% could be expected for the main paddy crops and wheat
largely from improvement in cultural practices with little additional input
other than additional farm labor. These potential yield increases average
close to 20%. If on only 11% of the area under cereals in the region, yields
were increased by 20%, a 50% economic rate of return would then be achieved.
Assumptions
3.        The life of the project is assumed to be 20 years and no residual
value is attributed after that period. In deriving the cost stream, the
costs of all the components (extension, research, training, statistic col-
lection, monitoring and evaluation) have been aggregated, excluding the cost
of command area development. (Financial and economic analysis of command
area development is in Annex 7.) Taxes and duties have been subtracted from
the project cost to arrive at the cost stream (Table 4).
4.        With the exception of unskilled farm labor and subsidized agri-
cultural inputs, financial prices have been used for all cost items. No
shadow price has been used for foreign exchange. The project would have
167



ANNEX 13
Page   2
a low foreign exchange cost while it would result in considerable savings of
foreign currencies by increasing local production of foodgrain, thus reducing
the need for import. Shadow pricing foreign exchange would therefore have
made the profitability of the project even more apparent. Because of the
existing underemployment of farm labor, especially outside the peak periods
of sowing and harvest, a shadow price of Tk 6 per man day has been used for
both family and hired labor - as opposed to an average actual price of Tk 8
for hired labor. For agricultural inputs, the shadow price was determined in
relation with the world market price (Annex 12, Table 7). For estimating the
benefits, an economic price of Tk 100 per maund for paddy ard Tk 115 per maund
for wheat has been used, based on the Bank Commodity Price Forecasts (Tables 1
and 2).
5.        By following the recommendations   of the extension service, the
farmers would increase their yields, but this would imply an incremental cost
in labor and inputs. To quantify this incremental economic cost to the farmer,
Tables 5 and 6 of Annex 12, have been used. These tables give the economic
values of various crops, net of the cost of inputs and labor, both "with"
and "without" the project; they have been used to derive a net crop value
per additional maund obtained by following -he recommendations of the exten-
sion service. This net crop va'ue per maund has then been weighted by the
potential production increase of the various crops of paddy or wheat, to
arrive at an average value for an additional maund of paddy or wheat (Table
3). This unit value of Tk 86 per maund has, in turn, been used to calculate
the additional production required to achieve the 50% rate of return (Table 4).
6.        The benefits required have been measured against the area grown
under paddy (about 6.58 M ac) and wheat about (0.14 M ac). It has been as-
sumed that project benefits would increase over time to reach a ceiling in
year 7 (Table 4).
June 1977
168



Table 1
BANGLADESH
EXTENSION AND RESEARCH PROJECT
Economic Justification
Economic Price for Paddy
US$
Per ton
Price 1985 Milled 5%, broken,
F.O.B. Bangkok 1/                              389.8
- less 30% for price of 25-35% broken            116.9
- plus transportation to Chittagong               25.0
Price C. I. F. Chittagong                            297.9
- plus 16% of above for handling -and        2
distribution to urban consumptLon centers -     47.7
Price in urban markets                               345.6
- less 205% of above for cost of marketing,
milling and transportation from farm to
urban market 2/                                 70.7
Price of rice equivalent at farmgate                 274.9
Price of paddy at farmgate 3/                        178.6
Price of paddy at farmgate (Taka/maund) 4/           100.0
1/ IDA Commodity Price Forecast, November 23, 1976, modified
to express in 1977 constant dollars.
2/ Percentages established from a GOB study of these costs.
3/ Assuming rate of conversion for paddy to rice of 65%.
4/ Using the official exchange rate of..Taka 15 for US$1.
April 20, 1977
169



ANNEX 13
Table 2
BANGLADESH
EXTENSION AND RESEARCH PROJECT
Economic Justification
Economic Price for Paddy
US$
Per Ton
Price 1985 F.. 0. B. Canada -                                        186.6
- plus transportation to Chittagong                               40.0
Price C. I. F. Chittagong                                             226.6
- plus 16% of above for handling and         2/                   36.3
distribution to urban consumption centers -
Price in urban markets                                               262.9
- less 22% of above for marketing and       2/                    57.8
transportation from farm to urban market -
Price of wheat at farmgate                                           205.1
Price of wheat at farmgate (Taka per maund) 3/                       115.0
1/  IDA Commodity Price Forecast, November 23, 1976,
modified to express in 1977 constant dollars.
2/  Percentages established from GOB study of these costs.
3/ Using the official exchange rate of Taka 15 for US$1.
March 1, 1977
170



ANNEX 13
Table 3
BANGLADESH
EXTENSION AND RESEARCH PROJECT
Econcmic Justification
Economic Net Crop Val,l for Each Crop
(1)             (2)             (3)            (4)              (5)
Economic                         Future
Net Crop l/      Yield    1/   Area Under      Potential3/      Total Net
Value -      Increment -        Crop         Increase -      Crop Value -
(Taka/maund)    (Maund/acre)     ('000 Acre)    ('000 Maund)     ('000 Taka)
Local Paddy
T. aman          91                2             1,480           2,960           269,360
Boro            100                4                30             120            12,000
Improved Paddy
Aus              74                3               590           1,770           130,980
T. aman          88                6             1,400           8,400           739,200
Boro             72                5               110             550            39,600
Improved Wheat
Rainfed          81                4                70             280            22,680
Irrigated       100                8                50            400             40,000
TOTAL                                               3,730          14,480         1,253,820
Weighted Average of Economic Net Crop Value: 5/ Tk 86/md
1/  From Annex 12, Tables 5 and 6.   The economic cost of increasing the yields has
been taken as the difference of FW and IWO; this economic cost has then been
divided by the expected yield increase given in the same tables.
2/  Estimated area under each crop by 1980.
Only the crops on which significant yield increases are expected are shown
here (local aus and B. aman are not shown).
3/ Column (4) = Column (2) x Column (3).
4/ Column (5) = Column (1) x Column (4).
5/  Total Column (5) divided by Total Column (4).                                171



BANGLADESH
EXTENSION AND RESEARCH PROJECT
Economic Analysis
----------------------- COSTS IN THOUSAND TAKAS -------------------------      ---------------BENEFITS ---------------
% of
Taxes on.              Total Cost     Ultimate                    Present
Incremenjil       Taxes on      Vehicles &    Total     Discounted     Benefit      Discount     Value.Factor
Year       Costs         Civil Works     Equipment -/ Cost        at 50%        Achieved       Factor      of Benefits
1        73,677           8,073          8,534      57;070-      38,047          -           0.666
2.       62,722           7,647          2,231      52,844       23,463          10          0.444         0.049
3        59,588           7,532          1,160      50,896       15,065          30           0.296         0.088
4         8,838             -              -         8,838        1,741           60          0.197         0.118
5         8,838             -              -         8,838        1,158           8(          0.131         0.105
6        .8,838             -              -         8,838           769          90          0.087         0.078
7 to 20     8,888             -              -         8,838        1,538          10           0.174         0.174
81,781
0.612
The annual incremental revenue from focdgrain production required from year 7 onward to achieve
a 50% rate of return 's:  Tk  0.612 or Tk 134 M.   Based on an economic net crop value
of Tk 86/maund of foodgrain (Table 3), this is equivalent to 1,558,000 maunds or,aboiit'59,000 tons
- of foodgrain (wheat or paddy).
1/ Project cost without the cost of command area development.
2/ About 20%.
31 Mostly duties on imports (50%).
Z 4/ Incremental cost minus taxes.



I BR D i2851
8S°              8°                                   90°APRILe 5977)E
BANGLADESH 9'0 1977
EXTENSION AND RESEARCH PROJECT
®   RESEARCH STATIONS
CROPPING PATTERN I    TRAINING UNITS
(Mainy Broadcast Aman, FallowI  PABNA  DISTRICT HEADOUARTERS
CROPPING PATTERN It   MAJOR ROADS
;{Mainly T,a.spla.t Aman. Fallow)  MAJOR ROADS UNDER CONSTRUCTION
(Mainly Transpiant Ansa,Auss)  RRAILWAYS
7OTHERS               THANA BOUNDARIES
DISTRICT BOUNDARIES
INTERNATIONAL BOUNDARIES
210                                                                                            2110D4 UN:e
250                                                                                            26-
mphpJ  e,rdvoriascnrt r7ar cepbocne hi she   ,/    }    (LAA  f S
kndd lUI nlmnNfdD IeA
B8°                        *tHARAT      ARALDCHI
*.? -T 1 '-.--  ,9 u                       S A   )gS402
\       .                            KIME L OMTESL
a a
INDIA          2   )                                          *'A  A
Er                      20A    40N, T          0    o  s g
KILOMETERSu
(                              I     2     3     4     5
MILES"          S
K          990GAN"



