Report No. PID10794
Project Name             SRI LANKA-National HIV/AIDS Prevention
Project
Region                   South Asia Regional Office
Sector                   Health (50%); Central government
administration (25%); Other
industry (15%); Media (10%)
Project ID               P074730
Borrower(s)              GOVERNMENT OF SRI LANKA
Implementing Agency
Address MINISTRY OF HEALTH
Address: Suwasiripaya, 385 Rev.
Baddegama Wimalawansa Thero Mawatha,
Colombo 10
Contact Person: Dr. H A P Kahadaliyanage,
Director General Health Services
Tel: (94-1) 698543
Fax: 693869
Environment Category     B
Date PID Prepared        October 12, 2002
Auth Appr/Negs Date      May 31, 2002
Bank Approval Date       December 17, 2002
1. Country and Sector Background
Sri Lanka has achieved noteworthy success in human and social development,
despite its low to middle per capita income. The country's social
indicators compare favorably to those of more advanced economies. Life
expectancy at birth is 72 years, as compared to a regional average of 61
years. Immunization rates for diphtheria, pertussis, tetanus, polio, and
measles range from 86 to 91 percent. A high level of dedication among
health care staff, a high level of access to health services, geographical
equity, and high literacy rates, as compared to countries in the region
and countries with same income level, are cited as contributing to these
impressive achievements.Over the past decade, however, the country has
faced significant challenges in improving the health of its population.
Regional disparities in health and nutritional outcomes continue to be
vast, and malnutrition and low health status are still rife among the poor
and underserved communities, such as the internally displaced, populations
in conflict areas, and tea estate workers. In addition, the health sector
is not prepared, in terms of human and financial resources, to address the
unfinished agenda, including a resurgence of TB, to serve the needs of an
aging population and at the same time, to respond to increasing
noncommunicable diseases and emerging diseases and epidemics, such as
HIV/AIDS. HIV/AIDS poses a significant challenge to a health system in
Sri Lanka, because of the nature of the disease and the unique
requirements of forging an effective response to it - namely, greater
partnership between governmental, private, and civil society sectors; the
necessity of addressing illegal and taboo behaviors and reaching
marginalized subpopulations; and the need to shift from a purely clinical



approach to community mobilization. However, the strong public health
infrastructure in Sri Lanka affords a solid foundation upon which to build
prevention efforts, affording the country an excellent opportunity to
prevent an epidemic from taking hold.Dimensions of the HIV/AIDS Epidemic
in Sri LankaMany of Sri Lanka's neighbors, such as India and Nepal,
already face serious and growing HIV epidemics. UNAIDS and WHO estimate
that there are currently more than 5.8 million people living with HIV in
South and South-East Asia. Sri Lanka has an estimated 8,500 people with
HIV infection as of December 2000, with a prevalence rate among adults of
0.07%.  Since 1986, only 415 cases have been reported; however,
underreporting is common because of the country's limited capacity for
voluntary counseling and testing, along with prevailing stigma and fear of
being identified as HIV positive. While men generally outnumber women in
the early phases of HIV epidemics, in Sri Lanka the number of women
infected nearly equals the number of men. This is so because women
comprise the majority of migrant labor to the Middle East, and as a result
are required to be tested for HIV. Among the total number of cases
reported from 1987 to 2000, in which the mode of transmission is known,
98% of reported HIV cases were due to sexual transmission.    Only a few
cases of HIV transmission from mother to child and through blood have been
reported. Transmission through injection has not been reported thus far.
The small number of reported cases and a low prevalence rate can, however,
be misleading. Lessons from around the world demonstrate the danger of
denial, apathy, and perceived insusceptibility that are often a
consequence of a low prevalence setting. While existing scant data cannot
predict if or when (and how fast) the epidemic would occur in Sri Lanka, a
review of HIV/AIDS studies conducted in the country indicates extensive
risk behaviors and environmental and contextual factors that promote these
behaviors and impede protective measures. This is further supported by
the findings of the social assessment (SA), which consisted of key
informant interviews and focus group discussions with highly vulnerable
subpopulations. The HIV risk and vulnerability factors in Sri Lanka
include:Significant level of commercial sex work (female and male
prostitution) Low level of condom use in risky sex (i.e., casual and
commercial sex) Considerable sexual activity among youthSignificant level
of drug and other substance use (however, injecting drugs at this time
remains low)Considerable internal and overseas migration, leading to
increased opportunities for casual/commercial sex as well as increased
exposure to substance abuse and sexual coercionHigh mobility within the
country, in particular that which is related to military movement
(prostitution is known to thrive around transit camps and points, such as
Anuradhapura, Trincomalee, and Ratmalana) Low levels of awareness and
knowledge in underserved communities (only 40% of women in the tea
estates, as compared to over 909 of women in other urban and rural areas,
have heard of HIV/AIDS)In summary, Sri Lanka today is experiencing a
low-level HIV/AIDS epidemic, but behavioral factors that facilitate the
spread of infection are prevalent in the country and pose a threat that
the epidemic could become concentrated within highly vulnerable groups and
then become generalized. The present time presents a critical
epidemiological juncture, because acting now will cost only a small
fraction of the overwhelming resources that would otherwise be needed if
HIV were to spread.    Increasing Concern over TB and Potential to Improve
Results Quickly. The country's vulnerability to an HIV epidemic further
heightens concerns over a resurgence of TB. HIV infection increases
susceptibility to TB infection and break down to disease. TB is the
-2 -



principal killer of HIV-infected persons worldwide. There is no evidence
that HIV-associated TB has yet taken off in the country, but a
deterioration in program results and the emergence of HIV could effect a
dramatic change on this situations. The number of new TB cases reported
annually in Sri Lanka increased from about 6,500 in 1997 to 8,400 in 2000,
following stagnation in the early and mid-1990s. Initial 2001 reporting
appears to confirm an increasing trend. Furthermore, while the national
average cure rate in recent years has been above 80w, the levels are
nearer to 70t in the concentrated urban regions of Colombo and Gampaha,
with default rates surpassing 15t and re-treatment default even higher.
Improvements in case detection and an increase in treatment effectiveness
are especially important among poor and marginalized communities. Several
likely operational and epidemiological factors could have contributed to
the recent rise in reported cases. These include urban migration and
significant internal migration throughout the country. In addition, over
the past decade the operations of the national program have been
restricted and greatly altered with the decentralization of health system
management to provincial and district levels. Resources and support have
been insufficient, limiting the role of the center in ensuring adoption of
proper norms, efficient drug and other supply logistics, and effective
implementation of services, surveillance, supervision, and evaluation.
Infrastructure and lab capacity also have weakened. In addition, the
historical success of National TB Respiratory Diseases Control Program
(NTP) in Sri Lanka, which had benefited from the overall development of
primary care services and trained human resources at referral levels, may
have contributed to reduced attention to the problem in recent years, due
to a misperception, as in many parts of the world, that TB is no longer a
public health problem. For these reasons, Sri Lanka's solid grounding to
achieve global TB case detection and cure targets by 2005 is being
challenged, and there is a threat of emerging drug resistance if poor
quality care continues, especially in urban areas. Drug resistance
surveillance in India and other countries in the region already documents
this rising threat.    As has been seen in other countries, TB programs can
quickly break down in the presence of social and economic crises, and the
epidemic can resurge rapidly and drug-resistant strains can emerge. It is
essential to avoid such deterioration, as the economic and social costs of
rebuilding will be much greater. Therefore, this is an opportune time to
support Sri Lanka in reducing the risk of an emerging HIV-associated TB
epidemic among the HIV infected and non-infected.Government Strategy to
Control HIV/AIDSIn 1992, the Government of Sri Lanka (GOSL) initiated HIV
prevention and control efforts through National STD and AIDS Control
Program (NSACP). The program, managed by the Directorate of Health
Services in the Ministry of Health, was implemented in collaboration with
the provincial directors of health services, STD clinics, and the National
Blood Transfusion Service. Multilateral and bilateral agencies, such as
WHO, UNICEF, and JBIC have provided financial and technical assistance to
the government and NGOs. Moreover, IDA has to date provided support in the
amount of about $1 million each year for the STD control program through
the Health Services Project (1997-2002). This investment has largely
supported strengthening the capacity of STD clinics. Since its inception,
NSACP has made significant progress in improving STD services through
refurbishment of clinics, meeting of staffing and equipment norms, and
establishment of outreach camps. In addition, the program has helped to
ensure blood safety through screening of transfusions for HIV and
upgrading of blood banks, and has increased knowledge of HIV/AIDS among
-3 -



the general population (with the exception of the estates workers,
awareness of HIV/AIDS among women nationwide is at over 90%-). These
advances, however, are not sufficient to prevent the further spread of HIV
infection among highly vulnerable subpopulations and to the population at
large. Past strategies had certain shortcomings: Clinically focused.
HIV interventions were primarily implemented through STD clinics, which
resulted in low coverage. Use of community based approaches and engagement
with the civil society, NGOs, and other private agencies were
limited.Health sector focused. HIV/AIDS was regarded primarily as a
health and medical issue, with the Ministry of Health assuming sole
responsibility for confronting it. Other line ministries that are
instrumental in prevention, such as education, youth affairs, defense,
police, and labor, were not sufficiently involved.Awareness-raising
focused. Interventions focused on raising awareness of HIV, which is
necessary but insufficient, in bringing about safe sex and injecting
behaviors. General population as primary audience. HIV/AIDS prevention
efforts did not pay adequate attention to subpopulations that were
engaging in high risk behaviorsHighly centralized. The program had
limited involvement of provincial, municipal and other local
governments.Stigma not addressed. Discrimination and negative attitudes
towards people living with HIV/AIDS and subpopulations known to b higher
risk are prevalent, thereby pushing the epidemic further underground and
creating an environment that fosters blame and shame.Recognizing these
limitations, Government of Sri Lanka (GOSL) formulated the National
Strategic Plan for 2001-2006, which indicated a significant shift in the
national HIV prevention and control strategy. The following key areas of
the strategy are noteworthy:Call for a multisectoral response, involving
other ministries, such as the police force and the military, and
partnering with the private sector and the civil society organizations,
such as trade unions, religious leaders, academic institutions, and
NGOs;Priority to be placed on targeted behavior change among vulnerable
subpopulationsEmphasis on creating an enabling environment--policy, legal,
social, and cultural--that will facilitate behavior change and provision of
support and care to those infected with and affected by
HIV.Operationalizing the strategy, however, confronts several
challenges:Capacity and commitment is mixed among ministries other than
health and at provincial level. Some line ministries, such as Defense,
Labor, and Child protection have demonstrated keen commitment and
experience in working on HIV/AIDS, and a few provinces, particularly those
with "high transmission areas," have expressed a considerable level of
interest to act and enhance their response. Others, however, require more
training on their role in HIV/AIDS prevention and care, as well as more
exposure on effective interventions. NGO efforts are primarily limited to
awareness generation and remain largely uncoordinated. Many organizations
are active in HIV/AIDS control, but the coverage of the programs for high
risk subpopulations is estimated to be less than 10%.    However, NGOs are
found to have established trust and strong bonds within the communities in
which they serve (which is a critical element in providing services and
mobilizing marginalized communities). TB Control Strategy and its
Challenges. Given the design of the national health system and its
development, NTP has incorporated both vertical and integrated elements.
Persons with respiratory symptoms are detected in general primary services
and referred for diagnosis and follow-up, or self-report directly to TB
clinics within or attached to general health services. The program is
fully ambulatory and does not involve hospitalization of patients, except
- 4 -



where medically indicated. In 1996, Sri Lanka revised its national
program and adopted the WHO-recommended Directly-Observed Treatment,
Short-course (DOTS) strategy for TB control, which provides a framework
for early and cost effective case detection, standardized treatment and
patient-centered follow-up to improve outcomes and reduce the emergence of
drug resistance. To date, DOTS cover 13 out of the total 25 districts and
much faster expansion is needed. To reverse incidence of TB and achieve
global targets, GOSL has adopted a strategic plan for DOTS expansion
(2002-2007) that includes the following objectives:improve detection of TB
cases to about   80-90% (well above the already surpassed 70% case
detection level) and focus on earlier detection to prevent
transmissionreduce treatment default rates for new and retreated cases,
especially where they are especially high in concentrated urban
populationsaddress the special needs in TB prevention and control of
special populations (people living with or at high risk for HIV/AIDS, as
well as estate populations, marginalized groups, defense, prisons
etc.)Coordination with HIV/AIDS prevention and care efforts can also
improve the early identification of HIV-infected persons requiring TB
treatment (and care for other opportunistic infections), as well as
enabling provision of TB preventive therapy among HIV-infected persons
without TB disease.To reach those objectives, GOSL intends to enhance the
leadership, organization, and functions of the NTP, improving coverage and
quality of TB case detection, treatment, and follow-up under DOTS,
including strengthening provincial/district-initiated supervision,
monitoring, evaluation, and logistics, as well as expanding operational
research and analysis. Each element includes strengthening links to
primary health care efforts, improving involvement of NGOs and civil
society, especially in high-risk poor communities, so as to increase
demand, access, and utilization.External SupportIn recognizing the need
for additional resources to expand the national HIV/AIDS and TB response
and effectively overcome the challenges, GOSL requested IDA support.
Apart from IDA, external assistance for HIV/AIDS and TB has been confined
to small amount of funds, but substantial technical assistance, from WHO
and other UN agencies. With the exception of JICA, bilateral assistance
in the health sector is nonexistent. During project preparation, GOSL
sought support from the Global Fund to Fight Against AIDS, TB, and Malaria
(GFATM), and in April 2002 was awarded US$6 million for TB control and
US$8 million for Malaria. The grant from GFATM would primarily support
enhanced social mobilization and outreach functions through NGOs, which
have not been involved previously in TB efforts. IDA funds would
represent a critical complement to these approved funds, as GFATM
supported efforts will only be successful in improving early case
detection and community-based follow-up if the public health
infrastructure and public health manpower are reinforced concurrently to
provide effective and safe diagnostic and treatment services, oversight
and outreach to link with these new partners, who are inexperienced in TB
control.   IDA would finance capital expenditures to improve TB chest
clinics and hospital wards, and increased mobility to carry out closer
supervision of NGOs and districts level activities. In addition, IDA
would invest in training on synergy between HIV/AIDS and TB, enhancing
management, planning, and the monitoring and evaluation capacity of the
national program at central and provincial levels. IDA-support for
strengthening institutional and implementation capacity would ensure
timely undertaking, improvements in monitoring and supervision, and
sustainability of activities funded by GFATM.
- 5-



2. Objectives
Sri Lanka presently has a window of opportunity to act vigorously to
prevent a nationwide HIV/AIDS epidemic. The primary objective of the
project is to limit the spread of HIV infection in Sri Lanka among its
highly vulnerable subpopulations and the population at large, without
stigmatizing those who are engaging in high risk behaviors. Furthermore,
by acting now to revitalize and expand the TB control program, Sri Lanka
can help reduce the risk of an emerging HIV-associated TB epidemic among
the HIV infected and the non-infected.The project aims to assist the
Government of Sri Lanka (GOSL) in curbing the spread of HIV infection by
(i) expanding prevention programs for highly vulnerable groups and the
general population, in particular youth; (ii) developing programs to
sustain political and societal commitment to HIV/AIDS prevention and to
reduce stigma and discrimination against people living with HIV/AIDS
(PLWHA) and highly vulnerable subpopulations; (iii) strengthening
multisectoral involvement and capacity. Sensitive to the synergy between
TB and HIV, the project would also support GOSL in its effort to
strengthen its early TB case detection and treatment to reverse rising
incidence, improve cure rates and prevent the emergence of drug resistant
disease. This project would enable Sri Lanka to make rapid progress
towards the Millennium Development Goals of halting the spread of HIV and
TB and associated mortality.
3. Rationale for Bank's Involvement
The Bank has provided assistance over the past decades to improve the
health and nutritional status of the Sri Lankan population through
improvement in service delivery and disease control. The Bank will bring
added value to this proposed project in the following ways:The Bank, as
the largest financier of HIV/AIDS control projects in the world, brings to
the fore regional and global experience to assist Sri Lanka in enhancing
its national response. The Bank places HIV prevention in a broader
context of economic growth, poverty alleviation, and health sector
development, which helps strengthen the financial, institutional, and
technical sustainability of the proposed project.The Bank places emphasis
on building capacity of local institutions in the public and private
sectors, and assures appropriately sequenced inputs through the careful
design of institutional and implementation arrangements.The Bank builds on
lessons from previous investments in Sri Lanka in the areas of health and
education, and findings from analytical work, such as the poverty
assessment.
4. Description
Component 1: HIV Preventionl.l. Targeted interventions among highly
vulnerable populations. This subcomponent supports programs for highly
vulnerable populations which in Sri Lanka include female and male sex
workers, transport workers, workers in the free trade zones, migrant
workers, drug users, men who have sex with men, and armed service
personnel. NGOs/CBOs, including organizations comprising of PLWHA, and
other ministries would implement these programs, as they are shown to be
effective in mobilizing these communities. These programs would promote
condom use and safe injecting practices, and would reduce the number of
sexual partners and casual/commercial sex encounters, as well as promote
timely STD care. To bring about these behavioral changes, strategies
would include interpersonal communications (i.e., peer education),
voluntary testing and counseling, and community mobilization, which aims
- 6 -



to empower the groups at risk to protect themselves and demand better HIV
and STD prevention and care services. In addition, STD services
(outreach, diagnostic, and treatment) would be strengthened and referral
established. 1.2. Broad based programs for youth and the general
population. Five program areas would be supported under this
subcomponent: (i) advocacy for policy makers and opinion leaders; (ii)
behavioral change communications for youth; (iii) condoms social
marketing; (iv) blood safety; and (v) prevention of mother to child
transmission.(i) Complementing the interventions for highly vulnerable
subpopulations, broad-based programs are necessary in order to sustain
political and societal support and commitment to HIV prevention, create an
enabling environment for provision of services and mobilization of highly
vulnerable subpopulations, and reduce stigma attached to HIV/AIDS and
condoms, and discrimination against people living with HIV/AIDS and
communities at higher risk. These programs would include targeting
advocacy to policy-makers and opinion leaders, media personnel, law
enforcement, and health personnel, through seminars/workshops, study
tours, training, internet based communications, distance learning, and
high publicity events. In addition, to help reduce discrimination against
PLWHA (such as refusing to provide services) by health workers,
post-exposure prophylaxis would be made available to them. (ii) Programs
for youth would be financed under this component to promote safe sexual
norms and practices (i.e., delay in age of first sexual intercourse,
abstinence, use of condoms), and to empower young men and women in making
decisions about their reproductive and sexual health. The interventions
would involve use of peer networks, interpersonal communications (i.e.,
peer education), entertainment-based education, involvement of role models
(e.g. athletes, pop culture celebrities), school-based programs, radio
call in shows, and telephone hotline. These activities would be undertaken
by NGOs, youth groups, and schools.(iii) A condom social marketing
campaign, which would be implemented by a private firm or NGO, would be
supported to increase availability of condoms in "high transmission" areas
and to subpopulations that are most at risk, and to reduce stigma attached
to condoms.(iv) The project would also benefit the general population by
contributing to the safety of blood supply by screening HIV and other
infections. JBIC financed project which is under preparation would fund
the refurbishment of the blood bank infrastructure and support HIV
screening, would be complemented by communications and outreach programs
for voluntary non-remunerative blood donations, and promotion of rational
use of blood and blood products, to be supported by the component.
National Blood Transfusion Services (NBTS) would be the key agency
responsible for implementation of these interventions. (v) The project
would seek to prevent HIV transmission from mother to child by supporting
capacity of health systems to manage HIV in pregnancy, undertake voluntary
counseling and testing (VCT) at antenatal care clinics, and provide care
and support to HIV positive mothers, including antiretroviral therapy.
Local and international expertise would be sought in development of
guidelines and for training. NSACP, along with provincial health
authorities, would undertake these activities.To ensure coherence and
quality of communications and advocacy activities, the project would
support contracting of a full-service communications firm to undertake
audience research, develop strategies, design messages and materials,
implement mass media campaign (with focused messages), and provide
technical assistance to NSACP and implementing agencies.Component 2: TB
ControlThe objective of this subcomponent is to help reverse the
- 7-



increasing incidence of TB, surpass the global target for TB cure rate of
85w, and reduce defaulter rates of new and re-treatment cases from the
present 13t and 26t to 5t and 15t respectively by 2007.    To achieve these
objectives, this component would consist of the following two areas:2.1
Enhancing leadership, organization and functions of the NTP. This
involves support for advocacy and communications programs, updating
technical norms, manuals, and guidelines, training to upgrade skills of
program managers and staff, and building the capacity of the central
program unit to better address TB and HIV, conduct outreach, supervision,
monitoring and evaluation. In so doing, the Central Reference Laboratory
and Teaching Chest Hospital will be strengthened and conditions of TB
wards and chest clinics improved, as well as the logistics for enhanced
supervision at the provincial and district levels. With support from local
and international expertise, NTP would be the key executing agency for
these activities. 2.2. Improving coverage and quality of DOTS and
research for adapting and enhancing DOTS. This component aims to expand
DOTS services from 10 districts to 25 districts by training key staff in
DOTS implementations, involving community groups and leaders, and
advancing the information system. In addition, the component would
support research on approaches to reduce defaulter rates, especially in
urban areas, and to develop pilot drug-resistant TB treatment projects and
protocols for testing models for effective care in Sri Lanka. NTP, along
with provincial health authorities and community-based organizations,
would be responsible for implementation of this subcomponent. Component
3: Institutional Strengthening3.1. Enhancing capacity of agencies
involved in the national response, specifically the (i) Office of the
Director General Health Services (DGHS) for program management and
coordination; (ii) National STD/AIDS control program; (iii) provincial
health authorities; (iv) multisectoral agencies, such as National AIDS
Committee (NAC), and Provincial AIDS Committees (PAC); and (v) NGOs and
other private/voluntary organizations. Both human resources as well as
infrastructure related to HIV/STD services would be supported in this
subcomponent. Activities include training, workshops/seminars, consultant
services to support implementation, and strengthening the STD clinic and
lab infrastructure in the North and Northeast regions through minor civil
works and refurbishment. 3.2. Improving information base for policy
decisions and program management. There is a great need for improving the
information base for better decision making on HIV/AIDS related policies
and programming. To meet that need, the proposed project would support:
(i) Management Information System (MIS) which would be set up to
facilitate routine monitoring of HIV/STD and TB prevention and control
activities. A well designed monitoring and evaluation (M&E) system is
needed to provide timely and coordinated feedback to the project executing
agencies. DGHS office, in collaboration with NSACP, NTP, and NBTS, would
coordinate project monitoring, to be guided by the core indicators
highlighted in Annex 1. In addition, it would be responsible for
compiling and consolidating data related to input/output indicators into
an implementation progress report. Base-line surveys and impact
evaluation of interventions, particularly those focusing on highly
vulnerable populations and youth, would be contracted out to external
groups, such as universities.(ii) A second-generation surveillance
(behavioral and sero-surveillance systems), as well as STD surveillance,
would be designed and developed to track the trend and direction of the
epidemic.   The surveillance systems would provide information that would
enable the program management to modify project interventions to better
- 8 -



respond to the changes in the direction of the epidemic, as well as to
provide a strong advocacy tool for strengthening political and societal
commitment to prevention. (iii) Operational research would help fill
knowledge gap and guide interventions, and would be undertaken by academic
and research institutions. DGHS would be responsible for maintaining the
MIS. NSACP would oversee the functioning of the STD and
sero-surveillance, and subcontracting services to undertake independent
evaluations, studies, and behavioral surveillance.3.3. Improving health
care waste management: This subcomponent would aim to prevent pollution
and biological hazards from the health care waste generated from project
activities, in particular at STD clinics and TB chest clinics, as well as
treat and dispose of clinical waste produced by hospitals in Colombo in an
environmentally acceptable manner. In addition, this subcomponent would
support creating a proper legislative environment for enforcement of an
integrated clinical waste management plan in Sri Lanka.
5. Financing
Total ( US$m)
BORROWER/RECIPIENT $1.96
IBRD
IDA
THE GLOBAL FUND TO FIGHT AIDS, TUBERCULOSIS & MALARIA $6.36
IDA GRANT FOR HIV/AIDS $12.55
Total Project Cost $20.87
6. Implementation
Estimated period of implementation: 5 yearsThe institutional and
implementation arrangements supporting the project are guided by the
following assumptions:Build capacity of MOH to improve procurement and
financial management practices and to collaborate and coordinate programs
with other ministries, NGOs, civil society, and the private
sector.Facilitate management and oversight of various national programs
and sources of external funds (such as GFATM and IDA)Ensure leadership,
high visibility, and a multisectoral approach to HIV/AIDS
preventionNational Health Council, chaired by the Prime Minister, is an
existing multisectoral mechanism, represented by ministers from all
ministries. It has effectively championed other issues that have needed
multisectoral and high level political support, which Sri Lanka has come
to be known for. Its role in the institutional set up will be to ensure
that each key ministry has developed an HIV/AIDS strategy and annual
workplan and monitor its implementation. National AIDS Committee (NAC)
will function as the policy making body with the Secretary of Health as
the Chair, and represented by Secretaries and HIV/AIDS focal points of key
line ministries, as well as representatives of NGOs, including PLWHA
organizations, the private sector, media, and civil society. NAC will (i)
review and approve broad priorities for action for each year of project
implementation, identify key policy measures, and develop policy options
and actions (which are to be prepared by technical committees); (ii)
monitor the overall performance of NSACP; (iii) ensure compliance with
international ethical standards in testing and working with marginalized
communities; and (iv) coordinate and support the functioning of the
Provincial AIDS Committees (PAC), which would be involved in selection and
monitoring of NGOs/CBOs in their respective provinces.National STD and
AIDS Control Program (NSACP) will be responsible for implementing NAC
policy decisions and overseeing implementation of HIV/AIDS and STD
-9-



prevention and control activities. NSACP will prepare norms and
guidelines for subprojects and selection criteria, develop terms of
reference of consultant services, coordinate orientation/training for
implementing entities (line departments, NGOs and CBOs), and provide
technical support, supervision and monitoring. In addition, NSACP will
manage serological and behavioral surveillance systems and be responsible
for all technical input for procurement and selection of consultants
related to the HIV components. In collaboration with the health care
waste management coordinator, NSACP will also ensure implementation of
waste management activities at the Central STD clinic and laboratory and
STD clinics at the periphery.Situated in the Ministry of Health, under the
Directorate of Health Services, NSACP will be headed by a Director who
will have the responsibility for overall administration of the national
program. Supporting the Director, full time program staff will include an
intersectoral coordinator, three regional facilitators, a
social/behavioral specialist, an epidemiologist, and medical
officers/specialists responsible for coordinating and overseeing technical
areas, such as STD management, training, counseling, care, and treatment.
National Tuberculosis and Respiratory Disease Control Program (NTP) will
be responsible for overseeing the implementation of the TB control
activities. Unlike NSACP, NTP will largely rely upon the health sector to
deliver prevention and treatment services. The current setup and
managerial and technical capacity of the national program are adequate;
thus, incremental project staff will only include regional facilitators,
who will assist in supervising and monitoring the activities at the
provincial and district levels. With assistance from the health care
waste management coordinator, NTP will undertake waste management
activities in Central Chest Hospital and Laboratory, as well as the TB
chest clinics.National Blood Transfusion Services (NBTS), which is
receiving support from JBIC to improve the blood bank infrastructure and
screening for HIV, will be responsible for implementation of the IDA
supported voluntary donor recruitment campaign and training of relevant
medical and health personnel on rational use of blood and blood products,
in addition to waste management activities.Project management. With an
objective to build the in-house capacity of MOH and foster sustainability,
the project will not have a stand-alone project coordination unit. The
management and administration of the project, which will support NSACP,
NTP, and NBTS, will be placed under the authority of the Director General,
Health Services (DGHS). This set-up will enable enhanced coordination
between the national programs and the various sources of funds, including
IDA and GFATM, and provide higher political visibility. DGHS office will
be responsible for day-to-day management of project, including
procurement, contracting implementing agencies, disbursement, preparation
of consolidated annual work programs, budgets, quarterly and annual
progress and financial reports. In addition, it will be responsible for
approving workplans and proposals by the various implementing agencies. A
management information system will help track information on project
physical progress linked financial management information. DGHS will
supervise, monitor, and report on project activities to the relevant
government agencies and to the Bank, and will ensure that annual audits
are carried out as stipulated in the Credit Agreement and the Operational
Manual. DGHS will also liaise with external donors such as UNDP, WHO,
UNICEF, the GFATM, and others to ensure that all program activities are
coordinated. IMPLEMENTATION ARRANGEMENTSThe project has various
implementing agencies, which differ in scope and capacity, and will
- 10 -



support three implementation mechanisms: (i) annual workplan budget
support; (ii) subprojects; and (iii) subcontracts. Workplan budget
support. Prior to drawing up workplans, each participating line ministry
and PHA would receive training on the guidelines and priorities for HIV
prevention, as well as on financial management, procurement, and M&E. The
annual workplans would be appraised by a committee and approved by DGHS.
A Memorandum of Understanding will be signed between DGHS and the
Ministry/PHA to manage the funds that will be disbursed in tranches, with
verification of appropriate management of funds, and meeting the
objectives. As during preparation, regional facilitators would assist
each agency with implementation issues, resolve bottlenecks and monitor
progress. The workplan cycle and processes will be detailed in the
Operational Manual. Subprojects. The project will employ a mechanism to
finance subprojects to be implemented by small NGOs/CBOs. This type of
mechanism, with each subproject not exceeding more than US$15,000, is
intended for demand driven/innovative prevention efforts by community
based groups. The subproject cycle would consist of several stages: (i)
planning and promotion stage in which areas of intervention, target
beneficiaries, subproject criteria, NGO/CBO selection criteria, are
defined (during project preparation, this step has been initiated); (ii)
call for proposals, in which NGOs/CBOs are invited to be part of the
program through workshops and other communications means; (iii) selection
and capacity building, in which NGOs would be classified and trained in
technical and administrative fields; (iv) trained NGOs will be requested
to submit proposals using specific format; (v) appraisal of proposals by
an appraisal committee, consisting of members from NSACP, civil society,
and UN agencies; and (iv) upon approval of the proposal, a legal
agreement, which would be signed between NGO and DGHS, would establish the
scope of work, expected deliverables, financial data, and other specific
clauses. Funds would be disbursed in tranches, based on verification of
appropriate management of funds and progress on meeting the proposal
objectives. Subcontracts. Activities including condom social marketing,
communications strategy development and campaign, behavioral surveillance,
and operational research, will be subcontracted to NGOs and private
firms. In addition, national/large NGOs, with the scope of the work
exceeding the subproject limit, will be contracted to deliver prevention
services to specified target groups or areas. Selection of NGOs under
this implementation strategy, which will be undertaken according to the
World Bank procurement/consultancy guidelines, will be monitored by DGHS
together with the national programs. The subcontractor would be expected
to provide quarterly reports, and funds would be released according to
meeting specified indicators and deliverables.The table below indicates
the type of mechanism to be used by each key agency.Financial
managementImplementing EntityThe project will be implemented by the
Ministry of Health (MOH) and the key agency within this ministry will the
Director General of Health Services (DGHS). Other agencies include line
ministries, government agencies (e.g. NSACP, NBTS, etc), and Provincial
Health Authorities (PHAs). In the office of the DGHS, three specialists
will be recruited to advise the DG, they are, a management advisor, a
financial management specialist and a procurement specialist. The FMS in
the DGHS office will be responsible for overall financial management and
disbursement of the project. He/she will liaise with the accounting staff
of line ministries, government agencies, and PHAs, in preparing budgets,
releasing imprest advances, and receiving reports. He/she will be
responsible for consolidation and timely preparation of FMRs for the
- 11 -



project and rendition of annual accounts for audit.Funds FlowBudgets will
be prepared annually for all activities of the project. For activities to
be undertaken by the line ministries, government agencies and PHAs, the
respective agency will be responsible for preparing the budget in the
requested format and forwarding them to the DGHS. The DGHS will review and
approve the consolidated budget for the project and inform the Ministry of
Finance of the cashflow needs for the forthcoming fiscal year.Project
funds will be deposited in a Special Dollar Account (SDA) to be opened in
the Central Bank of Sri Lanka and operated by the DGHS. DGHS will release
the initial monthly cash advances to all the implementing agencies, based
on the forecasts, using GOSL funds. Implementing agencies will open a
separate bank account for receiving the funds under this project. On a
monthly basis, all implementing agencies will report back to the DGHS'
office (formats for these reports are in the Financial Accounting Systems
Manual) and renew their imprests. FMS in the DGHS' office will consolidate
this information, and claim the IDA share of these expenses from the SDA.
DGHS will be responsible for submitting withdrawal applications to the
World Bank for replenishment of the SDA.For government agencies which will
implement special programmes, advance will be released on the basis of the
approved proposal. These will be special purpose programmes and do not
require monthly imprests.Operational Manual An operational manual is being
prepared by MOH and a draft will be submitted to the Bank for review prior
to negotiations. The final version of the OM is expected to be cleared
and adopted by the Government by Board approval. A good portion of the OM
is near completion, as the main activities have been described in the
Project Implementation Plan. The OM would include conditions necessary
for implementation, such as procurement and contracting procedures,
budget, disbursement, and administration of the project. Guidelines
detailing the predefined funding cycles--workplans for line ministries and
PHAs and subproject for NGOs/CBOs, as well as the selection criteria,
eligible (and non-eligible) expenditures, and monitoring and evaluation
arrangements would be clearly delineated in the OM. An OM would increase
transparency and reduce implementation delays, as roles and
responsibilities, mechanisms, schedules, and accountability arrangements
would be clearly delineated and agreed upon by all executing agencies
prior to project effectiveness. In addition, it would facilitate
review/supervision of the project by the Bank.
7. Sustainability
Social/political, implementation, and financial dimensions of
sustainability are addressed by the project in the following manner:Social
and political sustainability. High level political commitment would be
sustained and fostered by advocacy programs that sensitize key policy
makers, opinion leaders, and selected groups of people, such as media
personnel, health professionals, and lawyers. These groups are perceived
to be influential in setting the social norms and creating an environment
that would facilitate HIV prevention interventions. In addition, National
Health Council and NAC would function as high level multisectoral agencies
that would ensure visibility of HIV/AIDS in both social and political
arenas.Implementation sustainability. The program would be implemented
through existing institutional arrangements in the country and would
promote implementation sustainability by: (i) placing project management
and coordination under the authority of the Directorate General; (ii)
increasing MOH financial management and procurement (in particular with
regards to services) capacity; and (iii) building capacity and training
- 12 -



for key personnel from health, other key ministries, NGOs, and the private
sector on implementing HIV/AIDS activities.Financial sustainability.
Incremental recurrent burden is expected to be limited. However, some
expansion of structures, use of technical assistance, and staffing
deployment within the MOH and Department of Health at the central and
provincial levels would be needed, mainly for program management,
intersectoral coordination, procurement, and financial management.
Furthermore, the proposed project would be incorporated into the future
health sector development program support. The project also has a
potential fiscal benefit from the reduced burden of HIV/AIDS.
8. Lessons learned from past operations in the country/sector
The strategy and design of the proposed project reflects the lessons
learned from the past 15 years of global experience in HIV/AIDS control,
specifically: Aggressive response to prevention is needed in the early
stages of the epidemic.Highest level of political commitment is necessary
to undertake an effective HIV prevention program, and continued advocacy
is needed to promote leadership and maintain political support.Governments
cannot do it alone; NGOs, HIV positive groups, and other civil society
organizations need to be involved to work with vulnerable groups, promote
political and societal support, and ensure ethical standards.Interventions
targeted at highly vulnerable groups during a nascent epidemic are
cost-effective; but for the interventions to be effective, they require a
high level of coverage and saturation. Identification, reach, and
coverage of vulnerable groups remains a major challenge.Improving
information base, through surveillance and MIS, is critical for effective
program monitoring and evaluation and planning, but also for advocacy to
sustain political and societal commitmentTargeting without an effort to
address stigma has resulted in negative unintended effects. Stigmatizing
people engaged in risk behaviors leads to pushing them further underground
and is detrimental to program effectiveness. Therefore, a broad based
advocacy and communications campaign to reach out to the general public,
in particular opinion leaders and policy makers, is strongly
needed.Community mobilization and empowerment of highly vulnerable
communities, which are often marginalized, can be a powerful approach to
HIV prevention (e.g., Sonargachi).Knowledge and awareness are not
sufficient to accomplish behavior change--there is a need for both
individual level interventions (i.e., peer education and counseling) as
well as environmental/structural interventions (e.g., 100l condom use
brothels, family migrant camps). Creating an enabling environment, such
as through policy adjustments and legislation, is necessary to facilitate
behavior change.Flexibility of implementation procedures is necessary to
allow for innovation and responsiveness to opportunities, as new
information about the effective strategies of responding to the epidemic
is emerging.Building up the information base, in particular surveillance,
is critical for effective program monitoring and evaluation.IDA has
financed stand-alone HIV/AIDS projects in India and Bangladesh. These
projects offer the following lessons:The central government needs to take
the lead role in catalyzing the national response to HIV, particularly
when the epidemic has not produced visible effects at the local
level.Effective program management requires high quality, up-to-date
epidemiological and management information, and needs to be strengthened
in the areas of procurement, disbursement, financial management,
surveillance, monitoring and evaluation.TB control component has
incorporated lessons from numerous IDA assisted large-scale health
- 13 -



operations that include support for implementing the DOTS strategy. Among
the most important are ongoing operations in China and India as well as
support in middle-incidence, middle-income countries such as Morocco and
in Eastern Europe.    Lessons learned include:Even in highly decentralized
and integrated primary health care systems, core public health functions
to support effective and safe TB control are necessary. These include:
(a) support for a central unit to oversee and guide national policy,
capacity-building, implementation, evaluation and surveillance; (b)
effective drug supply; (c) an adequate laboratory network to ensure early
and correct case detection and surveillance for drug resistance; and (d)
problem-solving operational research to adapt TB control efforts to
specific epidemiological and social conditions.Improvements in early case
detection and treatment follow-up depend heavily on ensuring easy access
by patients and attention to their economic and social profiles. High
default rates can be brought down with well-designed directly-observed
treatment delivery strategies.Implementation of Health Services Project,
which closed in 2002, experienced delays primarily related to procurement
and management problems, which have been addressed by the proposed project
design and preparation in the following manner:Technical assistance will
be in place to strengthen management and procurement capacity and planning
(training of MOH staff in procurement was carried out during
preparation)Project management will be integrated into the Ministry to
improve coordination and ownership by various departmentsFinancial
management guidelines and procurement plans and capacity building program
have been developed prior to effectivenessProvincial health authorities
will be involved in implementing locally specific interventions as well as
selecting and monitoring NGOs
9. Environment Aspects (including any public consultation)
Issues     :  The proposed project would produce pollution risks
and biological hazards that are associated with clinical waste. The main
types of waste expected to be generated by activities under the project
include: (i) microbiological waste and items, such as needles,
contaminated with blood in the STD clinics; (ii) sputum cups in the
laboratories of the TB clinics; (iii) HIV infected blood; and (iv) HIV
test kits used in VCT centers, blood banks, and STD laboratories. As part
of project preparation, an assessment of the clinical waste management
situation in Sri Lanka was undertaken in two phases. The first phase
consisted of a situational analysis of health care waste in the entire
health sector, and the second phase focused on waste generated from
facilities that are included in the project, i.e. STD clinics, TB chest
clinics, and blood banks. The study involved field visits and
consultations with government officials, lab technicians, and health care
personnel . The analysis revealed that approximately 15 tons of clinical
wastes are produced per day in major health facilities in Sri Lanka, of
which sharps comprise about 500 kg, and the total quantity of blood
transfusion bags that are screened to be positive to HIV, Hepatitis B or
MP amounts to 2.7 kg. Sexually transmitted diseases (STD) laboratories
carry out microbiological and blood tests that generate highly infectious
waste such as contaminated blood samples and culture plates. No chemical
or autoclave disinfection is performed in most STD clinics. No proper
procedures are in place for environmentally acceptable disposal of needles
and syringes. The same situation exists for waste generated in TB clinics
and in blood banks.        Based on the situation analysis and
- 14 -



consultations with key stakeholders, the proposed project identified the
following environmental objectives: (i) to prevent pollution and
biological hazards from the above mentioned medical waste which may arise
as a direct result of project financed activities; (ii) treat and dispose
of clinical waste produced by hospitals in Colombo (which accounts for 28?
of the overall production of clinical waste in the country) in an
environmentally acceptable manner; (iii) to ensure that a proper
legislative environment exists for enforcement of an integrated clinical
waste management plan in Sri Lanka. In preparing the project, MOH, through
an expert committee assisted by an international consultant, formulated
the National Policy and National Guidelines on Health Care Waste
Management, and an action plan to manage health care waste generated by
project activities, fulfilling the requirement of OP 4.01. Cabinet has
approved the National Policy and Guidelines, which have been disclosed to
the public as of August 2002. Health care waste management plan, to be
financed by the project, consists of the following: (i) One
auto/hydroclave central system to treat clinical waste from all public and
private sector hospitals in Colombo; (ii) Considering the very small
amount of waste generated at STD and TB clinics in the periphery, the
waste will be disposed in lined deep burial pits under controlled
conditions; (iii) Needle destroyers will be provided to selected STD and
TB clinics and Blood Banks;(iv) Technical assistance for training and
awareness raising on health care waste management for health care
personnelSpecific environmental assessments will be undertaken for each
treatment and disposal system prior to construction. The National
Environmental Act confers the responsibility of enforcement and monitoring
to the Central Environmental Authority (CEA). This includes review and
approval of environmental assessments. Specific environmental assessments
will be undertaken for each treatment and disposal system prior to
construction. The National Environmental Act confers the responsibility
of enforcement and monitoring to the Central Environmental Authority
(CEA). This includes review and approval of environmental assessments.
The CEA's enforcement and EA review capacity is being strengthened under
the IDA-financed Environment Action I Project, USAID, and the
Netherlands. ADB is proposing to continue the work under EAlP when it
comes to a close, therefore, CEA has adequate funds and programs to
strengthen its enforcement capacity. In addition, under the National
Environmental Act (NEA) under Part IVA, Section 23, any person
(institution, enterprise, industry etc.,) who discharges, deposits, or
emits waste into the environment which will cause pollution is required to
do so under the authority of a licence issued by the Central Environmental
Authority (CEA). Section 23 of the NEA and associated regulations enacted
under the NEA, has gazetted discharge standards that have to be complied
with in order to be issued with the Environmental Protection Licence
(EPL). Therefore, the Government has stated that health care waste is
covered under the above mentioned provisions of the NEA and such, the CEA,
as the Regulatory Agency is able to regulate management of health care
waste under the existing legislation.    The Government has stated that
they do not see any point in preparing new legislation at this stage but
regulate health care waste under the NEA. The Bank has reviewed the NEA
and associated legislation and is satisfied that there are adequate
legislative provisions to regulate health care waste management under the
present provisions of the NEA. The CEA has agreed that if there are
treatment/disposal facilities, they will issue EPLs to the hospitals and
regulate them. As the project will be financing the establishment of a
- 15 -



centralized treatment facility for Colombo, the CEA has agreed that EPLs
will be issued and enforced for the hospitals (both public and private) in
Colombo.
10. Contact Point:
Task Manager
Hnin Hnin Pyne
The World Bank
1818 H Street, NW
Washington D.C. 20433
Telephone: 202-473-3208
Fax: 202-522-2955
11. For information on other project related documents contact:
The InfoShop
The World Bank
1818 H Street, NW
Washington, D.C. 20433
Telephone: (202) 458-5454
Fax:        (202) 522-1500
Web: http:// www.worldbank.org/infoshop
Note: This is information on an evolving project. Certain components may
not be necessarily included in the final project.
- 16 -



