Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka
Ministry of Health and Indigenous Medicine
E600
Vol. 2
Health-care waste
management
National Policy
FIlE COPY
Draft version - October 2OO]



National Policy for Health-Care Waste Management in Sri Lanka
Table of contents
Table of contents                                                            1
Introduction                                                                 2
Section 1: general considerations                                            3
1.    Preamble                                                               3
2.    Definitions                                                            3
3.    Policy statement (objectives)                                          4
4.    Audience                                                               4
5.   Institutional mechanisms for the implementation of the National Policy  4
Section 2: provisions for a safe management ofhealth-care waste in medical
institutions                                                                 6
1.    Regulations, duties and responsibilities                               6
2.    Set-up of HCWM plans                                                   6
3.    Approved HVWM practices in medical institutions                        6
*        HCW minimisation                                                    7
*        Segregation of HCW                                                  7
*        HCW collection and on-site transportation                           7
*        HCW storage                                                         7
*        HCW off-site transportation                                         8
4.    Acceptable equipment for HCW treatment and disposal                    8
Section 3: provisions for the implementation and the monitoring of health-care
waste management plans at national and provincial levels                    10
1.    Legislation                                                           10
2.    Set up of provincial HCWM plans                                       10
3.    Development of adequate financial resources                           10
4.    Training and public awareness                                         11
5.    Monitoring and evaluation                                             11
6.   Involvement of the civil society                                       12
7.    Private sector participation                                          12
Conclusion                                                                  12
last updated October 27th 2001                                           page 1



National Policy for Health-Care Waste Management in Sri Lanka
Introduction
This document presents the National Policy on health-care waste management of the
Democratic Republic of Sri Lanka. It is divided into three sections:
*   the  first section  provides   general  considerations   on   Health-Care   Waste
Management (HCWM) and presents briefly the institutional mechanisms for policy
implementation that should be set up at national level,
*   the second section reviews the policy that should be observed for the management
of Health-Care Waste (HCW) in medical institutions. It includes regulations and
definitions of HCWM plans;
*   finally, the third section presents the policy that should be implemented at national
and provincial levels to ensure efficient implementation and monitoring procedures.
It includes, legislation, provisions for human and financial resources, training and
awareness as well as a few considerations relative to the participation of the
private sector.
Box 1: presentation of the National Policy on health-care waste management
General
considerations
Administrutive
Section 1: general                                       Ievel
considerations     _1           I 
ESectfornt Proiinea safe ...       -
* Prcambie         omanaeementfo HftwAinimedicaI
* Definitions       I fIFisRSWos
* Policy statement (objectives)
* Audience
* Institutional mcchanisms for
policy implementation  ielstand responsabiiitie
tpabiedisposa             llil s
Documents or task to be
produced/done
Setting-up of four worming  producedon
groups
I groups   1  _!! |X[SEhl  llElE  | Du~~~~cuments oir taikti hlibe produiced/dotie
-            jEl~~~~~~mplemecntation  f smle andl  _  _
last updated October 27th 2001                                                         page 2



National Policy for Health-Care Waste Management in Sri Lanka
Section 1: general considerations
1.     Preamble
(1)  It is known that Health-Care Waste (HCW) generated by medical institutions can
transmit infectious diseases to people who are exposed to them and have harmful
environmental effects if disposed of in an inadequate manner. The implementation of safe
practices of Health-Care Waste Management (HCWM) in public and private medical
institutions is a priority issue that has been addressed by the Ministry of Health of the
Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka. The National Steering Committee on Clinical
Waste Management (NSCCWM) has therefore developed this National Policy that sets out
the national framework for HCWM in the country. It is completed by two other documents:
*  The National Guidelines which is a more technical oriented document that shall be
used as a reference to ensure the implementation of the present policy is done
according to the recommendations it contains.
*  The National Action Plan (NAP) that suggests both a strategy and timeframe,
foreseen over a period of 5 years, for the implementation of the present policy.
2.     Definitions
(2)  The definitions hereafter are a synthesised version of the ones provided in the National
Guidelines (see box 2).
* Health-care waste
(3)  Health-care waste includes all the waste produced by a medical institution (public or
private), a medical research facility or a laboratory. It can be divided into three groups: non-
risk health-care waste, hazardous health-care waste and highly hazardous health-care
waste.
* Non-risk HCW
(4)  Non-risk HCW includes all the waste produced by a medical institution that has not
been contaminated with potential infectious agents or toxic products. It is similar to domestic
waste and can be managed with the municipal waste.
* Hazardous HCW
(5)  Hazardous HCW includes all the waste produced by a medical institution that has
been contaminated with a potential infectious agent or a toxic product. It includes
pathological, anatomical, pharmaceutical, chemical waste, waste with high contents of heavy
metals and pressurised containers.
last updated October 27th 2001                                          page 3



National Policy for Health-Care Waste Management in Sri Lanka
* Highly hazardous HCW
(6)  Highly hazardous HCW   includes sharps, highly infectious waste, genotoxic and
radioactive waste.
Policy statement (objectives)
(7)  The Ministry of Health pursues the policy by which all the HCW generated by the
medical institutions of the public and private sectors of the Democratic Socialist Republic of
Sri Lanka must be safely handled and disposed of. This means that every medical institution:
*  Has a duty of care and is fully responsible for the potential harmful effects that the
public and the environment may suffer from any mismanagement of the HCW
generated in- and outside the institution;
*  Must set-up a specific HCWM plan that shall include approved management and
disposal procedures as stipulated in this policy document and described in the
National Guidelines;
*  Considers that the HCWM plan is an integral part of the health-care system and
consequently allocates sufficient funds for its implementation.
Audience
(8)  This present policy document has been prepared for National Policy Officers,
especially those who are in charge of developing, implementing and evaluating HCWM plans
at central, provincial and district levels.
(9)  It provides the essential elements that should help them to get an overall view of the
legal, institutional, technical and financial aspects linked to the implementation of the
National HCWM programme in Sri Lanka.
Institutional mechanisms for the implementation             of the National
Policy
(10) To ensure an efficient implementation of the National Policy, a suitable institutional set-
up for the implementation of the National Policy should be established at all levels. At the
central level, the co-ordination should be assumed by the National Steering Committee on
Clinical Waste Management. The NSCCW should adjust the policy and adapt the strategy for
its development in accordance with the national requirements. The NSCCW should set-up
four working groups with specific tasks in order to tackle simultaneously the numerous
aspects that will need to be dealt with: 1) human and financial resources; 2) legal and
regulatory framework; 3) training and awareness 4) technical aspects. The implementation of
the National Policy at Provincial and District levels should be vested with the Provincial
Councils.
last updated October 27th 2001                                          page 4



National Policy for Health-Care Waste Management in Sri Lanka
Box 2: categories of health-care waste
Health-care waste
• Non-risk health-care waste (75-90%)
* Hazardous health-care waste (10-25%)
- Infectious waste
(laboratory cultures, waste from isolation wards, tissues, equipment that has been
in contact with infected patients...)
Anatomical waste
(body parts)
Pathological waste
(blood, human fluids ..)
- Chemicals, heavy metals and pressurised containers
(laboratory reagents, solvents, broken mercury thermometers...)
- Pharmaceutical waste
(expired drugs, bottles contaminated with drugs...)
* Highly hazardous health-care waste (<5%)
- Sharps
(scalpel, needles, blades, infusion sets, broken glass...)
- Highly infectious waste
(microbial cultures...)
- Genotoxic waste
(mitotic inhibitors, alkylating agents...)
- Radioactive waste
(urine and excreta from inpatients treated with radionuclides, contaminated
glassware...)
last updated October 27th 2001                                                                  page 5



National Policy for Health-Care Waste Management in Sri Lanka
Section 2: provisions for a safe management of health-care
waste in medical institutions
1.     Regulations, duties and responsibilities
(11) Every hospital is legally responsible for the proper management of the waste that it
generates until its final disposal in accordance with the National Environmental Act No 47 of
1980 and National Environmental (Amendment) Act, No 53 of 2000.
(12) Furthermore, management of HCW is an integral part of hospital hygiene and infection
control that must be reinforced by the application of strict internal rules and clear assignment
of responsibilities among the health workers as mentioned in the "National Guidelines, from
§105 to §117.
(13) The Government of Sri Lanka shall develop a comprehensive Code of Hygiene- for
each category of medical institutions providing:
*  Rules setting duties and responsibilities of the medical and non-medical staff
regarding the hygienic procedures to be applied;
*  Recommended practices to maintain a high level of hygienic conditions;
*  Monitoring and managerial activities to be carried out in the hospital to ensure that
hygienic conditions are maintained at all time.
2.      Set-up of HCWMplans
(14) Major hospitals should set-up internal HCWM plans. Results of initial assessments,
needs, objectives, strategy, procedures and timeframe for the implementation of the HCWM
plan should be outlined in a HCWM plan document. The plan should address the different
points that can be found in the National Guidelines, from §102 to §135 and should be
submitted to the Central or Provincial Health Services for validation and support. The Ministry
of Health should compile all the HCWM plans in order to carry out a proper diagnosis of the
HCWM situation throughout the country.
3.     Approved HC WMpractices in medical institutions
(15) The preparation of a comprehensive HCWM plan should be based on the directives
contained in the National Guidelines that include waste minimisation, segregation, safe
handling, on-site storage and transportation, safe treatment and disposal and efficient
monitoring of waste production and destination.
The HCWM procedures would be contained in the Code of Hyglene and would be seen as part of
an overall set of actions to control the hygienic conditions within the hospitals.
last updated October 27th 2001                                             page 6



National Policy for Health-Care Waste Management in Sri Lanka
* HCWminimisation
(16) Minimisation is an important step in the management of HCW for the implementation
of environmental-friendly processes of HCW. The Ministry of Health, through its purchasing
and supply policy encourages:
* Optimal stock management practices aiming at minimising the quantities of expired
drugs and chemicals to be disposed of by the medical institutions;
* Safe reuse and recycling procedures as stipulated in the National Guidelines from
§39 to §45.
* Segregation of HCW
(17) Segregation and identification are the keys to reduce the risks of infecting workers and
to control the economical incidence of hazardous HCW disposal. Segregation of HCW is
under the responsibility of the medical institutions that generates the waste. The Ministry of
Health recommends to implement of simple and safe procedures as described in the
National Guidelines from §29 to §36:
*  Segregation should take place as close as possible to where the waste is
generated, that is at the source;
* HCW should be sorted into containers or plastic bags coded with the international
colour system (cf. National Guidelines, §37 and §38);
(18) Five categories of HCW are considered for segregation, treatment and disposal (see
box 2) Specific procedures associated with each HCW category are detailed in the National
Guidelines from §69 to §101. The categories are:
*  Class 1: non-nsk HCW;
*  Class 2: hazardous HCW other than the one classified under class 3, 4 and 5;
*  Class 3: all kinds of sharps;
*  Class 4: radioactive HCW;
* Class 5: specific hazardous HCW.
* HCWcollection and on-site transportation
(19) Waste should not be allowed to accumulate at the point of production. Medical
institutions should establish a routine programme for their collection that should be
consigned in the HCWM plan. In particular, medical institutions should establish daily
procedures of HCW collection and transportation to a designed central storage site. When
collected, bags or containers should be replaced immediately with new ones of the same
type.
* HCWstorage
(20) Each medical institution should dedicate sufficient and adequate storage space in
each ward/department for HCW containers or bag-holders. The place should be easily
accessible to the sanitary staff and instructions for segregation and handling shall be
displayed as described in the National Guidelines, §47.
last updated October 27th 2001                                          page 7



National Policy for Health-Care Waste Management in Sri Lanka
(21) In all the medical institutions, a separate central storage facility shall be provided for
hazardous HCW, except for radioactive waste that shall be stored specifically as stipulated in
the National Guidelines, §54-56 and §90). No waste shall be stored for more than two days
before being treated or disposed of.
* HCWoff-site transportation
(22) In case off-site transportation is required to treat hazardous HCW at a central
treatment facility, medical institutions should be responsible for the safe packaging and
adequate labelling of the waste to be transported.
(23) The medical institutions should comply with the provisions contained in the regulations
of the Gazette No 924/13 of May 23, 1996 with respect to the application of the National
Environmental Acts of the Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka. The administrative
authorities supervising the medical institutions shall approve the off-site transportation plan
before any transit occurs.
4.     Acceptable equipment for HC Wtreatment and disposal
(24) Waste management options should be chosen based on the following criteria:
reliability and efficiency, safety for the workers and social acceptability, environment-
friendliness and sustainability. The options should be adapted according to the size, location,
human and financial resources of the medical facility.
(25) The technology for HCW disposal/treatment shall be selected and sized according to
the recommendations provided by the Central and Provincial Health Services and to the
quantities of HCW generated in the hospital. The Operation and Maintenance procedures
shall be carefully estimated and documented in the HCWM plan. A contingency plan shall
also be included in the HCWM plan in case of breakdown of the disposal/treatment facility.
(26) Currently environmental-friendly, safe and affordable options may not be available for
every situation in Sri Lanka. Incineration in double chamber incinerators may be considered
as the technology that ensures the most reliable disposal of hazardous HCW. Alternative
technologies such as autoclaving and shredding are recommended in large health-care
facilities situated in populated areas. Specific recommendations are provided in the National
Guidelines from §69 to §101.
(27) The NSCCWM should set up criteria to select adequate equipment and materials
suitable for the handling, the treatment and the disposal of HCW. Material and equipment
that is considered as satisfactory shall be registered in an official list. The list shall be
periodically reviewed according to the evolution of the technology and the international
standards.
last updated October 27th 2001                                          page 8



National Policy for Health-Care Waste Management in Sri Lanka
Box     3:   classification,    packaging      and    treatment     of   health-care     waste
(refer to the National Guidelines for specific definitions)
Class Colour Coding  Type of HCW                       Packaging             Treatment
system
Non-Risk HCW                      2001p bags    With municipal waste
Black         'Non-contaminated plastics     Adequate     Disinfection or sterilisation
'Non-contaminated glassware    container    and recycling
2                   Hazardous HCW                                   * In Major Hospitals.
Disinfection, Incineration,
Infectious and highly                      Autoclaving and shredding,
infectious HCW
- In Minor HCFs:
Incineration or safe burying
Yellow         - Pathological HCW            300 1 bags    I Incineration, or safe
burying (placentas)
* Anatomical HCW                            * Incineration or safe burying
* Small quantities of Pharma-               & Incineration, encapsulation
ceutical and chemical HCW                   or fnertization
3        Yellow     Sharps                           Safety boxes  Safety boxes to be put together
with hazardous HCW
4        Yellow    Radioactive HCW                     Specific    Storage and follow the
containers   streams of class 1 or class 2
5                   Specific Hazardous HCW
i Large quantities of Pharma-   Sp  f       To supplier or encapsulation
Yellow         ceutical and chemical HCW      Specaifc     Tosnertization
containers   ietzto
- HCW with high content of                  To supplier or encapsulation
heavy metals
_            e Effluents                                 To be treated specifically
last updated October 27th 2001                                                            page 9



National Policy for Health-Care Waste Management in Sri Lanka
Section 3: provisions for the implementation and the
monitoring of health-care waste management plans at
national and provincial levels
Legislation
(28) The Government of Sri Lanka (GOSL) will reinforce the current legislation by editing
specific decrees related to the management and the disposal of HCW aiming at:
* Creating a framework for the appropriate management of HCW at national level;
*  Ensuring that Directors of health-care facilities take their share of responsibility to
implement safe HCW procedures in the medical institutions they are in charge of.
(29) Rules and regulations pertaining to HCWM will be prepared based on national and
international existing ones such as the National Environmental (Amendment) Act and the
Technical Guidelines on biomedical and healthcare wastes prepared by the Secretary of the
Basel Convention.
(30) The GOSL will complete the Local Government Acts to vest the Provincial Councils
with the adequate legal provisions to ensure a strict application of the decree as well as of
the National Guidelines.
(31) The Ministry of Health should develop incentives and law enforcement mechanisms in
the framework of the new legislation to incite individuals and institutions to comply with the
legislation.
2.     Set up ofprovincial HC WMplans
(32) The Provincial Health Services should set up an annual Provincial and District HCWM
plan presenting the strategy for HCWM that should be developed at the regional level. This
plan shall compile all the HCWM plans of the medical institutions they are responsible for,
provide clear analysis of the prevailing situation, set up short, medium and long term
objectives and expenses associated with them. It shall contained the provisions included in
the National Guidelines, §139 and should be approved by the Central Health Services before
implementation.
3.     Development of adequate financial resources
(33) In order to ensure the sustainability of the HCWM plans that are set up by medical
institutions and Provincial Health Services, the Ministry of Health shall allocate sufficient
human and financial resources.
last updated October 27th 2001                                           page 10



National Policy for Health-Care Waste Management in Sri Lanka
(34) Furthermore, the HCWM costs only have a chance of being taken into consideration if
specific budget lines are developed at all levels of the accountancy. The Ministry of Health
will complete the National Accountancy of the Health System to develop budget lines
specifically related to hospital hygiene and HCW disposal. Cost recovery mechanisms will
also be developed to ensure the sustainability of the HCWM plans set up at local and
provincial levels.
(35) The GOSL shall take the initiative to provide disposal and treatment facilities to ensure
a safe disposal of health-care waste and to reduce hazards in an environmentally sound
manner through the donation of subsidies. For major hospitals the GOSL estimates that a
minimum of 0,5% of the annual running cost should be dedicated in the budget for the safe
management of HCW.
4.     Training and public awareness
(36) Awareness of the risks related to health-care waste and training in safe practices are
essential in obtaining both commitment and behaviour change by all actors involved in the
management of HCW.
(37) All health workers, including those in the private sector, should be informed about the
basics of a safe management of HCW. Provision must be made for in-service training of
existing health workers. Formal training, curricula for physicians, pharmacists, nurses,
administrative and other categories of health professionals should be revised to include
appropriate instructions and materials on the practices of HCWM. Training packages should
be prepared at National level. Their implementation will be supervised by the National
Steering Committee on Clinical Waste Management with the help of the Provincial Health
Services for periodic review of the programmes they contain. The support of professional
trade unions should solicited and their involvement encouraged.
(38) The Ministry of Health in partnership with other concerned Ministries (e.g. the Central
Environmental Authority) should accept the role of advocate to promote safe HCWM
practices within the medical institutions and to identify priority target groups and strategies for
dissemination of those messages.
5.     Monitoring and evaluation
(39) The present policy once implemented will need to be monitored on the basis of the
specific objectives defined in the National Action Plan. Reporting procedures will need to be
prepared and implemented at the different administrative (decision making) levels to ensure
coherent and easy data analysis.
* The National Steering Committee on Clinical Waste Management will be
responsible for the overall monitoring and evaluation;
* The Provincial Health Services shall be responsible for the implementation of
monitoring procedures in the medical institutions located within their area of
jurisdiction as already addressed in the National Guidelines from §142 to §145;
last updated October 27th 2001                                         page 11



National Policy for Health-Care Waste Management in Sri Lanka
6.     Involvement of the civil society
(40) The GOSL will encourage the development of partnerships between medical
institutions, Provincial Health Services and organisations representative of the civil society,
like national and international NGOs. In its advocacy role and in particular for the
implementation of safe HCWM practices within the medical institutions, the GOSL will
develop joint backstopping programmes with the national trade unions of the concerned
professionals.
7.     Private sector participation
(41) Private sector involvement and partnership is an essential component for the
implementation of sustainable HCWM plans in the medical institutions. The Government will
encourage the participation of the private sector by supporting enterprises that may be
involved in the production at a reasonable price of adequate material and equipment useful
for the implementation of the HCWM plans.
(42) Shall be contracted for HCW disposal only enterprises or companies having received
the licence from the Central Environmental Authority as stipulated in the National
Environmental Act No 47 of 1980 and National Environmental (Amendment) Act, No 53 of
2000.
(43) Any memorandum of understanding or agreement with a private enterprise or
association shall stipulate duties and responsibilities of each party regarding HCWM
procedures and/or final disposal of HCW as explained in the National Guidelines, from §134
to §137.
Conclusion
(44) Safe implementation of HCWM practices and upgrading of hygiene in medical
institutions represents a highest priority and will become a high priority in all the health
programmes carried out by the GOSL. It should also be the concern of all health workers,
supervisors and managers.
(45) The GOSL encourages all the actors directly or indirectly involved in the HCWM of
medical institutions to contact the NSCCWM to make suggestions to complete the above
policy. The policy should be developed in a timeframe of 5 year but will be periodically
reviewed according to the necessities that the MOH may identify in a near future.
last updated October 27th 2001                                          page 12



