Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka
Ministry of Health and Indigenous Medicine
E600
Vol. 1
Health-care waste
management
National Guidelines
FILE COPY
Draft version 2 -October ZOO.i



National Guidelines for Health-Care Waste Management in Sri Lanka
Table of contents
TABLE OF CONTENTS                                                                   1
List of figures                                                                     4
Abbreviations                                                                       4
FOREWORD                                                                            5
INTRODUCTION                                                                        6
Objectives                                                                          6
Audience                                                                            6
How to use these guidelines                                                         7
We need your feedback                                                               7
SECTION 1 - DEFINITIONS                                                             8
1.    Health-care waste                                                             8
2.    Non-risk health-care waste                                                    8
3.    Hazardous health-care waste                                                   8
3.1      Infectious waste                                                           8
3.2       Pathological waste                                                        8
3.3       Anatomical waste                                                          9
3.4       Pharmaceutical waste                                                      9
3.5       Chemical waste, waste with high contents of heavy metals and pressurised containers  9
4.    Highly hazardous health-care waste                                            9
4.1       Sharps                                                                    9
4.2       Highly infectious waste                                                   9
4 3       Genotoxic waste                                                           9
4.4       Radioactive waste                                                        10
SECTION 2 - PUBLIC HEALTH RISKS ASSOCIATED WITH HEALTH-CARE
WASTE                                                                              I 1
1.    Occupational risks                                                           11
2.    Risks to the population                                                      11
3.    Indirect risks via the environment                                           12
last updated October 27th 2001                                                  page 1



National Guidelines for Health-Care Waste Management in Sri Lanka
4.     Managing health-care wastes to minimise the overall risks                          12
SECTION 3 - HEALTH-CARE WASTE MANAGEMENT PROCEDURES                                       13
1.     Classification of health-care waste                                               13
1.1       Segregation                                                                     1 3
1.2       Colour coding system                                                            14
1.3       Consideration on HCW minimisation and recycling                                 14
Recycling of non-contaminated plastic items                                    14
*          Recycling of glassware inside the Medical Analysis Laboratories                15
*          Reuse of specific equipment                                                    15
2.     General HCWM      procedures                                                       15
2.1       Waste collection and on-site transportation                                     15
2.2       Waste storage                                                                   16
2.3       Off-site transportation                                                         16
2.4       Waste treatment and disposal                                                    17
2 5       Accidents and spillage                                                          17
3.     Specific procedures associated with HCW     categories                             18
3.1       Class 1: non-risk health-care waste                                             18
3.2       Class 2: hazardous health-care waste                                            18
*          Specific treatment of anatomical waste and placentas                           18
*          Specific treatment of blood                                                    18
*          Specific treatment of highly infectious waste                                  19
3.3       Class 3: sharps                                                                 19
3.4       Class 4: radioactive waste                                                      20
3.5       Class 5: specific hazardous health-care waste                                   20
*          Large quantities of pharmaceutical waste                                       20
*          Large quantities of chemical waste                                             21
*          Waste with high contents of heavy metals                                       21
*          Effluents                                                                      21
SECTION 4 - GUIDELINES FOR THE IMPLEMENTATION OF HEALTH-CARE
WASTE MANAGEMENT PLANS IN THE HEALTH-CARE FACILITIES                                      30
1.     Assign duties and responsibilities                                                30
1.1       Duties and responsibilities of the Director of the Hospital                    31
1.2       Duties and responsibilities of the health-care waste management team           31
1.3       Duties and responsibilities of Head of administration                          31
1.4       Duties and responsibilities of the Heads of departments                        31
1.5       Duties and responsibilities of the Matron of the hospital                      32
1.6       Duties and responsibilities of the Head of infection control nurses            32
1.7       Duties and responsibilities of the Head of overseers                           32
1.8       Duties and responsibilities of the health-care waste management Officer        32
2.     Allocate resources and provide equipment for health-care waste handling           33
last updated October 27th 2001                                                        page 2



National Guidelines for Health-Care Waste Management in Sri Lanka
2 1       Estimation of needs                                                       33
2.2       Selection of the technology for HCW disposal                              33
2.3       Allocation of resources and provision of equipment                        33
3.    Organise the HCW streams                                                      34
3.1       Outline the procedures and practices                                      34
3.2       Ensure training of staff members                                          34
3.3       Prepare the HCWM plan document                                            34
3.4       Set-up a monitoring system and reporting procedures                       34
3.5       Focus on specific locations                                               35
4.    Consideration on the involvement of the private sector                        35
SECTION 5 - GUIDELINES FOR CENTRAL AND PROVINCIAL HEALTH
SERVICES                                                                            38
1.    Setting-up of annual provincial health-care waste management plans            38
2.    Backstopping of health-care facilities                                        38
3.    Inspection                                                                    38
CONCLUSION                                                                          40
last updated October 27th 2001                                                   page 3



National Guidelines for Health-Care Waste Management in Sri Lanka
List of figures
Box 1: categories of health-care waste (examples) ................................................................ 10
Box 2: hazards related to sharps ...................................................................  12
Box 3: classification, packaging and treatment of health-care wastes ................................... 22
Box 4: illustration of the protective clothing of HCW sanitary staff and sweepers ......... ........ 23
Box 5: international symbols to be used for hazardous and radioactive HCW .......... ............ 23
Box 6: treatment and disposing technologies for large quantities of health-care waste ........ 24
Box 7: example of low cost safety box made with cardboard recommended by the WHO ... 26
Box 8: basic consideration for radioactive health-care waste disposal ............. ..................... 27
Box 9: health-care waste management inside the Medical Analysis Laboratories ......... ....... 28
Box 10: synthesis of the health-care waste streams inside a hospital .............. ..................... 29
Box 11: sample sheet for the assessment of waste generation .................... ......................... 36
Box 12: Checklist for a minimum HCWM programme in HCFs .................... .......................... 37
Abbreviations
HCF        : Health-Care Facility
HCW        : Health-Care Waste
HCWM         Health-Care Waste Management
last updated October 27th 2001                                                       page 4



National Guidelines for Health-Care Waste Management in Sri Lanka
Foreword
Health-care services inevitably generate wastes that may be hazardous to health or have
harmful environmental effects. Some of them, such as sharps or infected blood, carry a
higher potential for infection and injury than any other type of wastes. Their improper
management can cause direct health impacts on the personnel working in the health-care
facilities or on the communities.
An integrated effort is necessary in Sri Lanka to set-up safe health-care waste management
practices. To achieve this goal, the Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka set up a
National Steering Committee on Clinical Waste Management chaired by the Ministry of
Health. This Committee includes representatives of the Central Environmental Authority, The
National Hospital of Sri Lanka, the Colombo Municipal Council, the World Bank and the
World Health Organisation.
The National Steering Committee on Clinical Waste Management underlines that the
following issues are capital to define and implement a sustainable and effective health-care
waste management programme:
* Health-care waste is first of all a management issue (and not only a technical one)
that should become an integral feature of health-care services;
* It is essential that clear individual responsibilities are established and monitoring
procedures set up at each level of the health-care waste management streams;
* Additionally, awareness and training programmes for medical and ancillary staff
should be strengthened in health-care establishments, Faculties of Medicine,
Nursing Schools and at the National Institute of Public Health Science;
* Specific administrative procedures should be defined and adequate resources
allocated at all levels to ensure a proper management of the health-care wastes;
. Appropriate, environmental-friendly and affordable technologies should be
selected for the treatment and the disposal of health-care wastes, taking into
consideration the resources of each health-care facility.
The National Steering Committee on Clinical Waste Management prepared this document
which provides guidelines for all the persons involved in health-care waste management at
central and local levels. These guidelines have been reviewed and approved during a
workshop held at the Ministry of Health in October 2001. They are part of a more global
action undertaken by the Government of the Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka to
improve the management of health-care waste throughout the country.
last updated October 27th 2001                                          page 5



National Guidelines for Health-Care Waste Management in Sri Lanka
Introduction
Safe management of Health-Care Waste (HCW) is a key issue to control and reduce
nosocomial infections inside a hospital and to ensure that the environment outside is well
protected. Health-Care Waste Management (HCWM) should be part of the overall
management system of a Health-Care Facility (HCF) and reflect the quality of the services
provided by the hospital.
The absence of management measures to prevent exposure to hazardous HCW results in a
maximum health risk to the general public, in- and out- patients as well as the medical and
ancillary staff. Therefore, the recommendations that are contained in this document should
be applied to all the HCFs of Sri Lanka. This may not be possible in some of them due to
financial constraints, etc.... In this case, a minimum HCWM programme should be set up.
Objectives
This document aims at identifying appropriate HCWM methods that can be applied in the
HCFs of Sri Lanka. More specifically, it attempts to:
*  Provide a better knowledge of the fundamentals of HCWM planning and a better
understanding of the hazards linked to HWC;
*  Develop HCWM plans and standards which are protective for both the human
health and the environment, in compliance with the current environmental
legislation of Sri Lanka' taking into consideration the financial possibilities of each
institution;
*  Set priority actions in order to tackle the most sensitive problems related to HCWM
(e.g. disposal of sharps and blood) and to present these actions as part of a more
global framework;
*  Review appropriate and sustainable technologies to treat and dispose of HCW;
*  Facilitate the analysis of HCWM problems and develop strategies for the safe
management of HCW at provincial level.
Audience
This document provides both conceptual and practical information on HCWM for:
* The medical staff members having a "duty of care" at all levels in public or private
HCFs, namely: Directors, Heads of all Hospital Departments, Administrators,
Doctors, Matrons, Infection Control Nurses and Overseers;
National Environmental Act No 47 of 1980 and National Environmental (Amendment) Act, No 53 of 2000.
last updated October 27th 2001                                          page 6



National Guidelines for Health-Care Waste Management in Sri Lanka
.  National policy makers in charge of developing, implementing and evaluating
HCWM plans at Central and Provincial levels as well as Public Health Officers in
charge of their implementation and monitoring;
*  Members of the teaching boards in charge of training medical doctors, nurses and
public health officers at National Faculties of Medicine, Nursing Schools as well as
the National Institute of Public Health Science;
*  International Organisations or NGOs involved in the backstopping of the medical
institutions of Sri Lanka.
How to use these guidelines
These guidelines are divided into five sections and have been structured to be as practical as
possible.
*  The two first sections should be read by all people involved in health-care waste
management at any level. They provide key information on HCW and the potential
harmful effects that can result of its mismanagement;
*  The third section gives the procedures for health-care waste manipulation and
disposal that should be applied and followed in all the HCFs of the country.
*  The instructions contained in the fourth section have been written for personnel
involved in the organisation of HCWM plans in major hospitals' and minor HCFs-*;
*  The fifth section has been written for personnel of Central and Provincial Health
Services that should deal with HCWM to ensure a smooth implementation of the
instructions contained in this document;
*  At the end of each section, practical tools are provided to help you to organise and
manage the health-care waste streams at your level.
We need your feedback
This document will be periodically reviewed by the Steering Committee on Clinical Waste
Management according to the inputs that will be sent back by each Medical Institution to the
Ministry of Health. All the actors involved in this issue are therefore highly encouraged to
send their comments to the Ministry of Health, Division of Health Services, 231 De Saram
Place, Colombo 10.
' Are considered as Major Hospitals all the tertiary and secondary health-care institutions They include Teaching
Hospitals, Special and Armed Hospitals, Provincial Hospitals and Base Hospitals
- Are considered as Minor Health-Care Facilities all the pnmary health-care institutions. They include District
Hospitals, Peripheral Units, Rural Hospitals, Maternity Homes, Central Dispensaries
last updated October 27th 2001                                              page 7



National Guidelines for Health-Care Waste Management in Sri Lanka
Section 1 - Definitions
(1)  The definitions and the classification hereafter are adapted from the international
classification provided by the World Health Organisation* and reproduced by The World Bank
in its guidance note on health-care waste management'*.
1.   Health-care waste
(2)  Health-Care Waste (HCW) includes all the wastes generated by medical activities. It
embraces activities of diagnosis as well as preventive, curative and palliative treatments in
the field of human and veterinary medicine. In other words, are considered as HCW all the
wastes produced by a medical institution (public or private), a medical research facility or a
laboratory. It can be divided into three groups: non-risk health-care waste; hazardous health-
care waste and highly hazardous health-care waste.
(3)  Although they represent the smallest part of the total amount of HCW generated by the
HCFs, hazardous and highly hazardous HCW must be managed specifically due to their
potential harmful effects both on health and the environment.
2.   Non-risk health-care waste
(4)  Non-risk HCW includes all the waste that has not been infected like general office
waste, packaging or left over food. They are considered as domestic waste and can be
managed by the municipal waste services. They represent between 75% and 90% of the
total quantity of HCW generated by medical institutions.
3. Hazardous health-care waste
3.1 Infectious waste
(5)  Are considered as infectious waste, all wastes that are susceptible to contain
pathogens (or their toxins) in sufficient concentration to cause diseases to a potential host.
This category includes for example tissues (swabs), material and equipment that have been
used in surgery or been in contact with patients.
3.2 Pathological waste
(6)  Pathological waste consists in organs, tissues, body parts or fluids such as blood.
Even if pathological waste may contain healthy body parts, it has to be considered as
infectious waste for precautionary reasons.
'Safe management of waste from health-care activities, WHO, 1999 Edts Pruss, Giroult & Rushbrook.
Health Care Waste Management, Guidance Note, HNP, The World Bank, 2000, Edts Johannssen and al.
last updated October 27th 2001                                           page 8



National Guidelines for Health-Care Waste Management in Sri Lanka
3.3 A-natomical waste
(7)  Anatomical waste consists in recognisable human body parts, whether they may be
infected or not. Following the precautionary principal, anatomical waste is always considered
as potential infectious waste.
3.4 Pharmaceutical waste
(8)  Pharmaceutical  waste  includes  expired,  unused,  spilt and  contaminated
pharmaceutical products, drugs and vaccines. In this category are also included discarded
items used in the handling of pharmaceuticals like bottles, vials, connecting tubing... Since
the Ministry of Health has taken specific measures to reduce the wastage of drugs, HCFs
should deal only with small quantities of pharmaceutical waste.
3.5 Chemical waste, waste with high contents of heavy metals and pressurised containers
(9)  Chemical waste consists of discarded chemicals (solid, liquid or gaseous) that are
generated during disinfecting procedures or cleaning processes. They may be hazardous
(toxic, corrosive, flammable...) and must be used and disposed of according to the
specification formulated on each container. Nevertheless non-explosive residues or small
quantities of outdated products may be treated together with infectious waste.
(10) Waste with high contents of heavy metals and derivatives are potentially highly toxic
(e.g. cadmium or mercury from thermometers or manometers). They are considered as a
sub-group of chemical waste but should be treated specifically.
(11) Pressurised containers consist of full or emptied containers or aerosol cans with
pressurised liquids, gas or powdered materials.
4. Highlyhazardous health-care waste
4.1 Sharps
(12) Sharps are items that can cause cuts or puncture wounds (needle stick injuries for
instance). Whether they are infected or not, they are considered as highly dangerous and
potentially infectious waste. They must be segregated, packed and handled specifically
within the HCFs to ensure the safety of the medical and ancillary staff.
4.2 Highly infectious waste
(13) Highly infectious waste consists in microbial cultures and stocks of highly infectious
agents from Medical Analysis Laboratories. They also include body fluids of patients with
highly infectious diseases.
4.3 Genotoxic waste
(14) Genotoxic waste derives from drugs generally used in oncology or radiotherapy units
that have a high hazardous mutagenic or cytotoxic effect. Faeces, vomit or urine from
patients treated with cytotoxic drugs or chemicals should be considered as genotoxic. In
specialised cancer hospitals, their proper treatment or disposal raises serious safety
problems.
last updated October 27th 2001                                           page 9



National Guidelines for Health-Care Waste Management in Sri Lanka
4.4 Radioactive waste
(15) Radioactive waste includes liquids, gas and solids contaminated with radionuclides
whose ionizing radiations have genotoxic effects. The ionizing radiations of interest in
medicine include X- and y-rays as well as ax- and P- particles. An important difference
between these types of radiations is that X-rays are emitted from X-ray tubes only when
generating equipment is switched on whereas y-rays, ax- and j3- particles emit radiations
continuously.
(16) The type of radioactive material used in HCF results in low level radioactive waste. It
concerns mainly therapeutic and imaging investigation activities where Cobalt 60Co,
Technetium 99mTc, iodine 1311 and iridium 1921r are most commonly used.
(17)  With the noticeable exception of Cobalt 60Co, their half-life is reasonably short (6 hours
for 99mTc, 8 days for 1311 and 74 days for 1921r) and the concentrations used remain low. A
proper storage with an appropriate retention time is sufficient to prevent radioactivity to
spillage in the environment.
Box 1: categories of health-care waste (examples)
Health-care waste
• Non-risk health-care waste (75-909%)
* Hazardous health-care waste (10-25%)
- Infectious waste
(laboratory cultures, waste from isolation wards, tissues, equipment that has been
in contact with infected patients...)
*Anatomical waste
(body parts)
-Pathological waste
(blood, human fluids...)
- Chemicals, heavy metals and pressurised containers
(laboratory reagents, solvents, broken mercury thermometers...)
- Pharmaceutical waste
(expired drugs, bottles contaminated with drugs...)
* Highly hazardous health-care waste (<5%)
- Sharps
(scalpel, needles, blades, infusion sets, broken glass...)
- Highly infectious waste
(microbial cultures...)
- Genotoxic waste
(mitotic inhibitors, alkylating agents...)
- Radioactive waste
(urine and excreta from inpatients treated with radionuclides, contaminated
glassware...)
last updated October 27th 2001                                                        page 10



National Guidelines for Health-Care Waste Management in Sri Lanka
Section 2 - Public health risks associated with health-care
waste
(18) It is not often understood why HCW should be managed in a different way than the
other categories of wastes, and particularly why HCW should be segregated at the
generation point. Furthermore, the constraints related to their management as well as the
funds required to set up a proper management discourage many medical institutions to
undertake the necessary steps to improve their current HCWM practices.
(19) Nevertheless, HCWM is an integral part of hygiene and infection control within a HCF
and a proper management should help in controlling nosocomial infections. All individuals
exposed to hazardous HCW are potentially at risk of being injured or infected. They include:
•  Medical staff: doctors, nurses, sanitary staff and hospital maintenance personnel;
*  In- and out- patients receiving treatment in HCFs as well as their visitors;
*  Workers in support services linked to HCFs such as laundries, waste handling and
transportation services;
*  Workers in waste disposal facilities, including scavengers;
*  The general public and more specifically the children playing with the items they
can find in the waste outside the HCFs when it is directly accessible to them.
1. Occupational risks
(20) During handling of wastes, the medical and ancillary staff as well as the sanitary
labourers can be injured if the waste has not been packed safely. In that respect, sharps are
considered as one of the most dangerous waste. Many injuries occur because syringe
needles or other sharps have not been collected in safety boxes or because these have been
overfilled (see box 2).
(21) On dumpsites, scavengers during their recycling activities may also come in contact
with infectious waste if it has not been properly treated or disposed of.
2.   Risks to the population
(22) The general public can be infected by HCW either directly or indirectly through several
routes of contamination. Dumping HCW in open areas is a practice that can have major
adverse effects on the population.
(23) The "recycling" practices that have been reported, particularly, the reuse of syringes is
certainly the most serious problem in some of the developing countries. the WHO estimates
that some 10 million infections of Hepatitis B, C and HIV occur yearly from the reuse of
discarded syringes needles without prior disinfection.
last updated October 27th 2001                                         page 11



National Guidelines for Health-Care Waste Management in Sri Lanka
3 Indirect risks via the environment
(24) Finally, the dumping of HCW in uncontrolled areas can have a direct environmental
effect by contaminating soils and underground waters. During incineration, if no proper
filtering is done, air can also be polluted causing illnesses to the nearby populations. This
has to be taken into consideration when choosing a treatment or a disposal method by
carrying out a rapid environmental impact assessment.
4. Managing health-care wastes to minimise the overall risks
(25) Implementing adequate procedures to minimise the overall risks associated with
HCWM remains the prior objective of these National Guidelines. Waste management and
treatment options should first protect the health-care workers and the population and
minimise indirect impacts from environmental exposures to HCW.
(26) Currently environmental-friendly, safe and affordable options may not be available for
every situation in Sri Lanka. The risk of health impact from environmental exposure should
always be weighed against the risk of accidental infection from poor HCWM. This is why:
*  The instructions contained in theses guidelines for the handling and the disposal of
sharps, and more specifically used syringes, attempt first to minimise the risks of
cuts or needle stick injuries that may occur after an injection.
*  Some treatment options such as low-cost incinerators which emits pollutants may
be used in certain situations (e.g. low densely populated areas) where the overall
health benefits from preventing infections are likely to outweigh the risks from
exposure to toxic pollutants in the air. Nevertheless, environmental-friendly
practices, like the recycling of plastics are recommended when they are in
accordance with the precautionary principle*.
Box 2: hazards related to sharps
~qjpetsrfiineaiozsiwtnagnsa,rips-
h7rpsarve rconsrsiareaas one of the rrost ha2arizroiou   at in  orserous irw mnkttons
Infrenon              RIsA of               thin71 e-tiin
Precautionary rienciple: when the magnitusdeofanpaerticular risk isluncerain,et should beasmed
Source. Safe management of waste from health-care activiyies, WHO, 1999.
* Precauponary principle: when the magnitude of a partcular risk is uncertain, It should be assumed
that this risk is significant, and measures to protect health and safety should be designed accordingly.
last updated October 27lth 2001                                        page 12



National Guidelines for Health-Care Waste Management in Sri Lanka
Section 3 - Health-care waste management procedures
(27) The implementation of safe HCWM procedures aims at containing infections and
reducing public health risks both within and outside the HCF. The procedures should always
contain the following measures:
* Minimisation of the quantity of HCW generated by the HCF;
* Segregation and identification of hazardous HCW from non-risk HCW;
* Adequate packaging and safe storage of the different HCW;
* Proper treatment and disposal of hazardous and non-risk HCW.
1.   Classification of health-care waste
(28) A proper segregation must follow rigorous and standardised procedures. It enables to
reduce the risks of infecting workers and control the economical incidence of hazardous
HCW disposal by decreasing the treatment costs. It must be:
* Simple to implement for the medical and ancillary staff;
*  Safe and guaranty the absence of infectious HCW in the domestic waste flow;
*  Stable and homogeneously applied in all the HCFs;
*  Regularly monitored to ensure that the procedures are respected.
1.1 Segregation
(29) The segregation consists in separating the different waste streams based on the type
of treatment and disposal practices. A proper segregation should thus identify waste
according to source and type of disposal or disinfection. It should provide receptacles
specifically suited for each waste.
(30) Segregation shall take place at the source, that is at the ward bedside, Operation
Theatre, Medical Analysis Laboratory, or any other room or ward in the hospital where the
waste is generated. It shall be applied uniformly throughout the country.
*  Class 1: non-risk HCW;
*  Class 2: hazardous HCW other than those classified under class 3, 4 and 5;
*  Class 3: all kind of sharps;
*  Class 4: radioactive HCW;
*  Class 5: specific hazardous HCW.
(31)  Non-risk HCW includes all the domestic waste as defined in §4. In the HCFs where a
safe collection and recycling of plastic and glassware can be ensured, a more specific
segregation may be set up (see §43 and §45).
last updated October 27th 2001                                         page 13



National Guidelines for Health-Care Waste Management in Sri Lanka
(32)  Hazardous HCW includes all infectious or highly infectious' waste, pathological waste
(such as blood) and anatomical waste. Can be included in this category pharmaceutical,
residues of genotoxic drugs and chemical waste as long as small quantities are concerned.
Due to the specific treatment or disposal, all hazardous HCW shall not be identically treated
or disposed of (see specific procedures).
(33) Sharps include all items that can cause cuts or puncture wounds as indicated in §12.
Sharps shall be considered as highly hazardous waste and collected in rigid safety boxes to
avoid any wound. Once full, the safety boxes shall follow the hazardous HCW stream.
(34) Radioactive HCWincludes all HCW as defined in §15, §16 and §17. They shall always
be treated specifically and separately from the other categories of HCW.
(35) Specific hazardous HCW includes large quantities of pharmaceutical or chemical
waste, waste with high content of heavy metals and effluents. In Sri Lanka, large quantities of
pharmaceutical and chemical waste are unlikely to arise from HCFs.
1.2 Colour coding system
(36) The colour coding system aims at ensuring an immediate and non-equivocal
identification of the hazards associated with the type HCW that is handled or treated. In that
respect, the colour coding system shall remain simple and be applied uniformly throughout
the country.
(37) All health-care facilities shall apply the following colour coding system:
* Black: all bins or bags containing non-risk HCW of class 1;
*  Yellow. any kind of containers filled with hazardous HCW, sharps, radioactive
HCW or specific hazardous HCW (classes 2, 3, 4 and 5).
1.3 Consideration on HCWminimisation and recycling
(38) The implementation of recycling procedures in HCFs to minimise the quantity of HCW
generated is highly sensitive. Recycling procedures complicate the overall segregation
scheme by increasing the segregation criteria and multiplying the number of waste streams
in the HCF. It is a source of errors.
(39) Nevertheless, considering the specific recycling practices in Sri Lanka, the necessity to
implement an environmental-friendly process of HCW disposal and the financial resources of
each HCF, a simple and safe recycling programme should be implemented whenever it is
possible. In these situations the instructions hereafter should be followed.
* Recycling of non-contaminated plastic items
(40) All non-contaminated plastic items (e.g. bags of sodium chlorine) should be collected,
packed in separate boxes and delivered to or picked-up by local contractors capable to
Although highly infectious waste is defined as a highly hazardous HCW, it is disposed with the
hazardous HCW in the HCFs after having been pre-treated (§80) at the point where they are
generated (i.e. in medical analysis laboratories most often). For this reason, they are considered with
the hazardous HCW.
last updated October 27th 2001                                           page 14



National Guidelines for Health-Care Waste Management in Sri Lanka
recycle them with environmental-friendly techniques. A non-contaminated item is an item that
has never been in contact with any of the hazardous HCWs as defined in §5 and following.
* Recycling of glassware inside the Medical Analysis Laboratories
(41) All non-contaminated and non-broken glassware (flasks of injectable penicillin for
instance) can be collected separately. They should be put in a solution of 10% sodium
hypochlorite for 30 minutes, carefully washed, rinsed and dried before being reused. The
disinfected glassware should be reused only for specific medical analysis (blood, urine)
carried out inside the Medical Analysis Laboratory.
(42) After having been used once, they shall be considered as contaminated and infectious.
Broken glassware shall always follow the stream of sharp waste (class 3) while non-broken
glass flasks shall be reused only after disinfection in a solution of 10% sodium hypochlorite
for 12 hours, carefully washed with a brush and soap, rinsed and dried. It is recommended to
autoclave the glassware after washing at 121 °C for at least 30 minutes to ensure a complete
disinfection. During the disinfection process, hands shall always be protected with gloves.
* Reuse of specific equipment
(43) In general, to encourage reuse, each hospital shall collect separately, wash and
sterilise, either thermally or chemically in accordance with approved procedures, surgical
equipment and other items which are designed for reuse and are resistant to the sterilisation
process. Pressurised gas cylinders should be returned to suppliers for refilling and reuse.
(44) Pharmacy department stores in each HCF should be rigorously managed to avoid
wastage and stock positions should be recorded on a regular basis.
2. General HC WMprocedures
(45) Are given hereafter all the general instructions that should be respected in a HCWM
plan to ensure a safe manipulation of all the HCW generated in HCFs. The specific
instructions associated with the manipulation and the treatment of each class of HCW are
presented in §69 and following.
2.1 Waste collection and on-site transportation
(46) All HCW or disposal of medical equipment shall be discarded at the point of use by the
person who used the item to be disposed of. In case any such used equipment or supplies
are found or are handed over to any person, it should be discarded by that person.
(47) All the specific procedures of HCW segregation, packaging and labelling shall be
explained to the medical and ancillary staff and displayed in each department on charts
located on the walls nearby the HCW containers.
(48) When handling waste, sanitary staff and sweepers shall wear protective clothing at all
times including face masks, industrial aprons and boots, heavy duty gloves, as required and
illustrated in box 4.
last updated October 27th 2001                                         page 15



National Guidelines for Health-Care Waste Management in Sri Lanka
(49) The waste collection trolley should be easy to load, unload and clean. The trolley shall
not be used for any other purpose. It shall be cleaned regularly, and especially before any
maintenance work is performed on it.
(50) Yellow bags of hazardous HCW and black bags of non-risk HCW shall be collected on
separate trolleys that shall be painted or marked with the corresponding colours and washed
regularly.
(51) The collection route shall be the most direct one from the collection point to the central
storage facility. The collected waste shall not be left even temporarily anywhere other than at
the designated central storage facility.
2.2 Waste storage
(52) In each room where HCW is generated, an adequate place shall be dedicated for
storing HCW bag-holders, bins or containers. It should be easily accessible for the sanitary
staff. Instruction shall be displayed as described in §47.
(53) In all HCFs, separate central storage facilities shall be provided for hazardous HCW,
except radioactive waste that shall be stored specifically (see §90). It shall clearly be
mentioned that the facility stores hazardous HCW and no materials other than yellow bag
waste. No waste shall be stored for more than two days before being treated or disposed of.
(54) The designated central storage facility shall be located within the hospital premises
close to the treatment unit but away from food storage or food preparation areas. It should be
large enough to contain all the hazardous HCW produced by the hospital during one week,
with spare capacity to cope with any maintenance or breakdown of the treatment unit.
(55) The designated central storage facility shall be totally enclosed and secured from
unauthorised access. It shall be inaccessible to animals, insects and birds. It shall be easy to
clean and disinfect, with an impermeable hard-standing base, good water supply, drainage
and ventilation.
2.3 Off-site transportation
(56) In case off-site transportation is required to treat hazardous HCW at a central
treatment facility, the Provincial Council shall approve the off-site transportation plan before
any transit occurs.
(57) All yellow bags shall be collected at least every second day. The transportation shall
be properly documented, and all vehicles shall carry a consignment note from the point of
collection to the central treatment facility.
(58) Vehicles used for the carriage of yellow bags shall not be used for any other purpose.
They shall be free of sharp edges, easy to load and unload by hand, easy to clean/disinfect,
and fully enclosed to prevent any spillage in the hospital premises or on the road during
transportation.
(59) All vehicles shall be cleaned and disinfected after use. They shall carry adequate
supply of plastic bags, protective clothing, cleaning tools and disinfectants to clean and
disinfect in case of any spillage (see §65 and following).
last updated October 27th 2001                                           page 16



National Guidelines for Health-Care Waste Management in Sri Lanka
(60) All vehicle staff handling yellow bags shall wear protective clothing. They shall be
properly trained in the handling, loading and unloading, transportation and disposal of the
yellow bags. They shall be fully aware of emergency procedures for dealing with accidents
and spillage.
2.4 Waste treatment and disposal
(61) After the proper implementation of segregation procedures, HCW shall be treated and
disposed of in accordance with the National Environmental Act No 47 of 1980 and the
National Environmental (Amendment) Act, No 53 of 2000.
(62) Amongst all the current existing technologies for treating and disposing of HCW (see
box 6), the most appropriate technology shall be applied, that is:
* The most reliable, affordable and sustainable technology in accordance with the
technical, human and financial resources of each HCF;
* The technology that minimises the immediate public health risks associated with
HCWM with the lowest impact on the environment.
(63) Incineration may be considered as the technology that ensures the most reliable
disposal of hazardous HCW. When incineration is used, ash and residues of incineration
shall be safely removed and properly buried in an appropriate pit. Nevertheless, in highly
densely populated areas, large quantities of hazardous HCW shall not be incinerated at low
temperatures. Alternative technologies such as autoclaving and shredding shall be used or
off-site transportation to a central treatment facility ensured.
2.5 Accidents and spillage
(64) All hospital staff members shall be properly trained and prepared for emergency
response, including procedures for treatment of injuries, cleanup of the contaminated area
and prompt reporting of all incidents or accidents.
(65) In case of accidents or spillage, the staff involved in the decontamination or
disinfection shall wear protective clothing as mentioned in §49.
(66) The following actions shall be taken:
* Evacuation of the contaminated area if required;
* Decontamination or disinfection, rinsing and wiping dry with absorbent cloth by
personnel wearing adequate protective clothing;
* Decontamination or disinfection of the protective clothing if necessary.
(67) Cuts with sharps or needle stick injuries shall be immediately disinfected, Accident
shall be reported to the infection control nurse. All cases shall be registered by the Direction
of the HCF and annually reported to the Provincial or Central Health Authorities. It is highly
recommended to perform blood tests after such an injury to ensure that the injured staff has
not been contaminated by any pathogen.
last updated October 27th 2001                                         page 17



National Guidelines for Health-Care Waste Management in Sri Lanka
3. Specific procedures associated with HCW categories
3.1 Class 1: non-risk health-care waste
(68) Non-risk HCW of classl shall be placed in black polyethylene bags of minimum 200
microns gauge. Non-contaminated items that are designated for recycling shall be packed in
specific black containers marked "Non-contaminated plastic, to be recycled" or "Non-
contaminated glassware, to be recycled". All non-risk HCW not designated for recycling shall
be collected with the other municipal waste.
3.2 Class 2: hazardous health-care waste
(69) All class 2 hazardous HCW shall be placed in yellow polyethylene bags of minimum
300 microns gauge marked "Danger! Hazardous medical waste" and indicated with the
international Biohazard symbol (see box 5). Preferably, the bags shall be hanged in bag-
holders. If not available, yellow bins shall be used. Bags shall be sealed with appropriate
adhesive tape, removed and replaced immediately when they are no more than three-
quarters full.
(70) Class 2 hazardous HCW shall be preferably incinerated in double chamber
incinerators. In densely populated areas, it shall be alternatively treated with a process
ensuring a proper disinfection before being disposed of with the non-risk HCW by the
municipal services. Autoclaving and shredding are the disinfecting and treating technologies
currently recommended.
(71) In minor HCFs, as long as small quantities are involved, hazardous HCW may be
incinerated in a single chamber incinerator. A pit hole with a concrete lining is an alternative
solution when underground waters do not risk being contaminated.
* Specific treatment of anatomical waste and placentas
(72) In Operation theatres, all anatomical waste shall be collected separately, packed as
described in §70 but labelled "Danger! Anatomical waste" and transported to a crematorium
for incineration. Alternatively it can be dropped into a concrete lined pit or buried at a
sufficient depth (>1m) inside the HCF compound in a location totally enclosed and secured
from unauthorised access and at least at 100 m away from any underground water well. If
transportation and disposal cannot be immediately ensured, anatomical waste should be
stored in the mortuary at temperature between 1 to 5 0C.
(73) In maternity wards, all placentas shall be collected separately and preferably treated
with the other hazardous HCW of class 2. Nevertheless, when incineration is used, large
number of placentas can be difficult to incinerate and reduce drastically the performance of
the incinerator. If incineration cannot be performed, placentas shall be dropped into a
concrete lined pit. Alternatively they shall be buried as indicated for anatomical HCW.
* Specific treatment of blood
(74) Blood and any item contaminated with blood shall always be considered as infectious.
They shall be discarded with the class 2 hazardous HCW and treated/disposed of
consequently as mentioned in §71.
last updated October 27th 2001                                        page 18



National Guidelines for Health-Care Waste Management in Sri Lanka
(75) In some specific locations such as Operation Theatres, Medical Analysis Laboratories
or Transfusion Centres, large quantities of infected blood may be generated and found either
spilled over or contained into recipients or bags. Their safe disposal may be problematic.
(76) Ideally, Infected units/samples of donated blood should be autoclaved on a fluid cycle
for an appropriate period and then incinerated. If there is no autoclave available, infected
blood bags shall be directly incinerated with precaution to ensure that the bags do not
explode while they are put inside the incinerator. If autoclaving or incineration is not possible,
infected blood bags shall be securely packaged and transported to a suitable facility nearby
for disposal.
(77) Alternatively, infected units/samples of donated blood shall be opened with great care
and blood poured into a plastic recipient with a strong disinfectant, such as sodium
hypochlorite in concentrated form and left overnight before being discarded into the sink
connected to a buffer (neutralisation) tank. The bags shall then be burned. Gloves shall
always be put on.
(78) Blood that has been spilled over shall always be washed with a solution of sodium
hypochlorite 10% before being drained off with the effluents that shall be treated as
mentioned in §100.
(79) The sodium hypochlorite solution shall always be properly stored in hermetic and
opaque plastic bottles, in ventilated areas. The expired date must be respected.
Specific treatment of highly infectious waste
(80) Highly infectious waste from the medical analysis laboratory of the HCF, such as
media and culture plates, shall be collected preferably in leak proof yellow bags suitable for
autoclaving and properly sealed. It shall be autoclaved at a temperature of 1210C at 2 bars
for at least 20 minutes at source i. e. in the medical analysis laboratory itself. Disinfected
waste shall be collected and treated with the hazardous HCW of class 2.
(81) If a distinct autoclave is not available at the Medical Analysis Laboratory to ensure a
thermal treatment, highly infectious waste shall be disinfected in a solution of sodium
hypochlorite in concentrated form and left overnight. It shall then be discarded in a specific
yellow bag properly sealed and itself discarded with the hazardous HCW of class 2.
(82) If none of the above treatment options can be ensured, highly infectious waste should
at least be packed in a specific yellow bag that shall be sealed and directly discarded with
the hazardous HCW of class 2. This measure shall remain exceptional.
3.3 Class 3: sharps
(83) Sharps shall be placed in specific cardboard or plastic safety boxes (see box 7),
resistant to punctures and leakage proof, designed so that items can be dropped in using
one hand, and no item can be removed. The safety box shall be coloured yellow, marked
"Danger! Contaminated sharps)) and indicated with the Biohazard symbol. It shall be closed
when three-quarters full and then placed in a yellow plastic bag with the other hazardous
HCW of class 2
last updated October 27th 2001                                         page 19



National Guidelines for Health-Care Waste Management in Sri Lanka
(84) In particular, all disposable syringes and needles shall be discarded of immediately
following use. The needle shall not be recapped or removed from the syringe, the whole
combination shall be inserted into the safety box directly after use.
(85) Under no circumstances are used syringes or needles, or safety boxes, to be disposed
of in normal garbage or dumped randomly without prior treatment.
(86) Sharps are destroyed together with the hazardous HCW of class 2. The method of
choice for destruction of full safety boxes is incineration, preferably in an appropriate double-
chamber incinerator.
(87) If such an incinerator is unavailable, alternative methods may be used like autoclaving
and shredding or, in small HCFs, single chamber incineration as long as small quantities are
concerned. Under exceptional circumstances, in rural areas, full safety boxes may be
incinerated in small numbers by open burning. The residues of incineration shall be safely
deeply buried at sufficient depth (<1m).
3.4 Class 4: radioactive waste
(88) All radioactive waste of class 4 shall be stored to allow decay to background level.
They shall be placed in a large container or drum and labelled with the radiation symbol
showing the radionuclide's activity on a given date, the period of storage required, and
marked 'Caution! Radioactive waste' (see box 5).
(89) Containers or tanks with radioactive waste that has not decayed to background level,
shall be stored in a specific marked area, preferably in a lead-shielded storage room or
alternatively in a room with concrete walls 25 cm thick.
(90) Non-infectious radioactive waste, which has decayed to background level, shall follow
the non-risk HCW stream (class 1) while Infectious radioactive waste which has decayed to
background level shall follow the hazardous HCW stream (class 2). Liquid radioactive waste
shall be discharged into the sewerage system or into a septic tank only after it has decayed
to background level in'adequate tanks. More detailed information is provided in box 8.
3.5 Class 5: specific hazardous health-care waste
(91) Class 5 groups all the specific solid hazardous waste that is not often encountered in
the HCFs of Sri Lanka. Are also grouped under this class, liquid waste and wastewater that
should require specific treatment.
* Large quantities of pharmaceutical waste
(92) Large quantities of pharmaceutical waste shall be returned to the Regional Offices of
the Medical Supply Division for a proper incineration. Alternatively and only if the return
cannot be ensured, an inertization technique may be foreseen.
Inertization consists in mixing pharmaceutical waste with cement and lime before burying to minimise
the risk that toxic substances migrate into the surface water or groundwater. The packaging should
previously be removed.
last updated October 27th 2001                                           page 20



National Guidelines for Health-Care Waste Management in Sri Lanka
* Large quantities of chemical waste
(93) Large quantities of chemicals shall be returned to the supplier. Nevertheless currently
appropriate controlled and standardised methodology does not exist in Sri Lanka to dispose
of chemicals: on-site disposal might be sometimes necessary. The disposal methodology
shall depend on the type of chemicals.
(94) In such circumstances, non-corrosive and non-flammable chemicals may be
encapsulated- separately to avoid unwanted chemical reactions after neutralisation. In all
circumstances, appropriate advises shall be requested at the regional representative of the
Central Environmental Authority before any disposing of chemicals waste.
* Waste with high contents of heavy metals
(95) Waste with high contents of heavy metals should normally be treated in specific
recovering industries. Alternatively, as for chemical waste, it may be encapsulated. Waste
with high contents of mercury or cadmium shall never be incinerated because of the risk of
atmospheric pollution with toxic vapours.
* Emuents
(96) No solid waste shall be discarded into the sewerage and all liquid infectious waste
shall be discharged into the sewerage system only after being properly treated.
(97) Wastewater from HCF may contain various potentially hazardous components such as
microbiological pathogens, hazardous chemicals, pharmaceuticals and radioactive isotopes.
The proper treatment of wastewater from HCFs is very expensive and cannot be currently
foreseen in every HCF of Sri Lanka. Nevertheless basic steps can reduce the public health
risk associated with liquid waste and wastewater.
(98) Patients with enteric diseases shall be isolated in wards where their excreta can be
collected separately for chemical disinfection. Whenever it is technically and environmentally
possible, toilets shall be connected to septic tanks with soakaway pits or infiltration trenches.
(99) Effluents of all medical analysis laboratories (see box 9) shall always be neutralised in
a buffer tank before being drained off into the sewerage.
(100) Radioactive effluents of isolation wards shall be discharged into the sewerage or into
a septic tank only after it has decayed to background level in adequate retention tanks (see
box 8).
* Encapsulation consists in filling containers such as a drum with waste, adding an immobilising
material and sealing the container.
last updated October 27th 2001                                           page 21



National Guidelines for Health-Care Waste Management in Sri Lanka
Box 3: classification, packaging and treatment of health-care wastes
Class  Colour Coding  Type of HCW                        Packaging              Treatment
system
Non-Risk HCW                       200p bags      With municipal waste
Black          eNon-contaminated plastics      Adequate     Disinfection or sterilisation
Non-contaminated glassware      container    and recycling
2                   Hazardous HCW                                     - In Major Hospitals:
Disinfection, Incineration,
, Infectious and highly                      Autoclaving and shredding,
infectious HCW
- In Minor HCFs:
Incineration or safe burying
Yellow         * Pathological HCW             300u bags     *Incineration, or safe
burying (placentas)
• Anatomical HCW                             . Incineration or safe burying
* Small quantities of Pharma-                *Incineration, encapsulation
ceutical and chemical HCW                    or inertization
3        Yellow     Sharps                             Safety boxes  Safety boxes to be put together
with hazardous HCW
4        Yellow     Radioactive HCW                      Specific    Storage and follow the
containers   streams of class 1 or class 2
5                   Specific Hazardous HCW
e Large quantities of Pharma-    Specific    To supplier or encapsulation /
Yellow         ceutical and chemical HCW       cter'        inertization
* HCW with high content of                   To supplier or encapsulation
heavy metals
-  Effluents                                  To be treated specifically
last updated October 27th 2001                                                             page 22



National Guidelines for Health-Care Waste Management in Sri Lanka
Box 4: illustration of the protective clothing of HCW sanitary staff and sweepers
H.~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~t"
~~~~~~~~~~~~~f '0 '404. 
,{gS1,~~~~~~~''.,'         "                      A,S.I  'IS.
, n  t-              - rgt;     @Pz - A
Source. Safe management of waste from health-care activities. WHO, 1999.
Box 5: international symbols to be used for hazardous and radioactive HCW
Biohazard symbol                              Radioactive symbol
t u e  O- 20                                                      pg 2
last updated October 27(h 2001                                                       page 23



National Guidelines for Health-Care Waste Management in Sri Lanka
Box 6: treatment and disposing technologies for large quantities of health-care waste
Option        Description                      Advantage                Disadvantages
Rotary kiln   Rotary oven with a post combustion  Adequate for all infectious  High investment and
chamber ensuring an incineration  waste and pharmaceutical  operation costs.
between 1200 and 1600°C          waste.
Pyrolytic     Double chamber incineration at    Very high disinfection  Incomplete destruction of
incineration  medium-temperature combustion    efficiency.              cytotoxic waste.
process (800-900QC), producing   Drastic reduction in waste  Relatively high investment
solid ashes and gases Gases may be  volume                and operation costs.
incinerated in the post-combustion  Adequate for all infectious
chamber at high temperature      waste and most
pharmaceutical and
chemical waste.
Chemical      Adding of chemicals to waste to kill  Highly efficiency   Require highly qualified
disinfection  or inactivate the pathogens it   disinfection under good  technicians for operation
contains with a shredding process  operating conditions.  and maintenance.
before the treatment.            Good reduction in waste  Uses hazardous chemicals.
volume.                  Inadequate for
pharmaceutical, chemical
and some type of infectious
waste.
Autoclave      Wet thermal disinfection based on  Environmentally sound.  Shredders are subject to
exposure of shredded infectious waste Reduction in waste volume. frequent breakdowns and
to high-temperature (121 °C      Relatively low investment  poor functioning.
minimum), high-pressure steam (up  and operation costs.   Operation requires
to 6 bars).                                               qualified technicians.
Inadequate for anatomic,
pharmaceutical and
chemical waste
Microwave     Application of microwave at a    Environmentally sound.   High investments and
irradiation   frequency of 2450 MHz rapidly    Good disinfection efficiency operation costs.
heating the water contained in the  under appropriate     Potential operation and
waste and destroying infectious waste operating conditions,  maintenance problems.
by heat combustion.              Good reduction in waste  Shredders are subject to
volume.                  frequent breakdowns and
poor functioning.
Source. Safe management of waste from health-care activities. WHO, 1999.
last updated October 27th 2001                                                          page 24



National Guidelines for Health-Care Waste Management in Sri Lanka
Box 6 (continued): disposing options for small quantities of health-care waste
Option           Description                    Advantage                Disadvantages
Single-chamber  Incineration at low temperature  Good disinfection      Significant emission of
incineration   300-400CG in simple           efficiency.               atmospheric. pollutants.
incinerator.                  Drastic reduction of weight Need for periodic removal
and volume of waste.     of slag and soot.
No need for highly trained  Inefficiency in destroying
operator.                thermally resistant
chemicals and drugs
Drum or brick    The simplest form of single  Reduction of weight and   Massive emission of black
incinerator    chamber incinerator!          volume of waste.         smoke, fly ash and toxic
Very low investment and  flue gas.
operating costs.         Odorous.
Destruction of only 99 %
of the micro-organisms.
No destruction of many
chemicals and
pharmaceuticals.
Encapsulation   Filiing containers with waste  Simple, low-cost and safe.  Not recommended for non-
adding an immobilising material May be used for pharma-  sharp infectious waste.
and sealing the container.    ceutical waste.
Safe burying   Burying of waste inside the   Low cost.                 Safe only if access to site is
hospital premises in a pit lined  Relatively safe If access to  limited and certain
with low permeability material  site is restricted and where  precautions are taken
natural infiltration is
limited.
Inertization   Mixing waste with cement and  Inexpensive               Not appiicable to infectious
other substances before disposal                        waste
in order to minimise the risk of
toxic substances contained in the
waste to leaking into the
surrounding..
Source. Safe management of waste from health-care activities. WHO, 1999.
last updated October 27th 2001                                                            page 25



National Guidelines for Health-Care Waste Management in Sri Lanka
Box 7: example of low cost safety box made with cardboard recommended by the
WHO
9s',S4c, Q6'§i                                  9 
;; .      -g                      x                          -  ' 
t%,.s.~~~j1                              XI   h 
These boxes exist in different sizes, the most common are the 5 and 10 litres models. Average cost is
approximately 0, 3 to 0, 5 USD/box
material       volume         capacity
(litre)        (number of disposable 0.5 ml syringes with needle)
cardboard      20             500
cardboard      10             220
cardboard       5             120
cardboard       2.5            50
Note that'
1 - The cardboard is hermetically sealed.
2 - The whole box is disposed of and consequently destroyed after use.
3 - The box can easily be incinerated.
4 - The box is "waterproof" and resistant to punctures.
last updated October 27th 2001                                                          page 26



National Guidelines for Health-Care Waste Management in Sri Lanka
Box 8: basic consideration for radioactive health-care waste disposal
Class 4
Radioactive waste
Solid                       iquid
+ + _+
| Non                  infectious
infectious             |
Isolated storage                      3-5nm PVC
area with 25cm                        3
thick walls                        tanks located
in isolated area
Allow to decay to                    Allow to decay to
background level                     background level
fI week to 3 months)                      [1 week)
Municipal              Infectious     Septic tank
Waste                  waste           and
(class 1)              (class 2)    soakaway pit
(see §101)
last updated October 27th 2001                                                          page 27



National Guidelines for Health-Care Waste Management in Sri Lanka
Box 9: health-care waste management inside the Medical Analysis Laboratories
In Medical Analysis Laboratories, highly infectious waste is generated, including infected blood. The waste
generated is under solid and liquid form. It is important to consider that the effluent may be highly
contaminated. A buffer (neutralisation) tank has to be installed at the outlet of the Medical Analysis Laboratory
to ensure a proper disinfection. In order to disinfect highly infectious waste in solid form, an autoclave strictly
assigned to this procedure should be used within the Laboratory.
The disinfection procedures shall include all the steps already described from §75 to §83. They are summarised
in the chart hereunder.
1 Highly infectious
health-care waste
Option I                      Option 2                      Option 3
Optio  1            Opion    .                 (accepted under
(preferred)                  (alternative)           ex  ceptin   cumne
exceptional circumstances)
Soli ed                                        Effluent    SBlood]           ffluent
Chlorination                  Chlorination                  Chlorination
in                           in                             in
Buffer tank                   Buffer tank                   Buffer tank
rv                          A ut,ocla ve  ,              Chem ical     
Autoclave    Septic tank         or        Septic tank     disinfection
+             +           Chemical          +             and          Sewerage
Incineration  Soakaway pit    disinfection  Soaka way pi   Deep burying
last updated October 27th 2001                                                         page 28



National Guidelines for Health-Care Waste Management in Sri Lanka
Box 10: synthesis of the health-care waste streams inside a hospital
Health care waste (HC W)
AC SourcA
Class 1 Non -risk       Class 2             Class 3             Class 4        Class 5 Specific
Health care waste   Hazardous HCW           Sharps         Radioactive waste  Hazardous HCW
Recycling                     ,                            1
glassware                    Safety          h      |Liuld
(see §43 and                  Bxq
§43)
Anatornical waste]  Highly infectious waste  Inrfe   Nous
Andplacentas j l (including infected blood)      infectious
.. _ _ __ _ _ _   __ _ _ _ _ __ _   ...
Allow to decay to
background level
fl week to I months)
Treatment            Treatment
and disposal         and disposal
(see §73 and         (see §75 to §83
§74)                  and 100)
Mun cipal            Choice 1 incineration                      Septic tank    Specific
solid waste          Choice 2. autoclaving and shredding        and            Treatment
or               Choice. burying (for small HCF)            soaka way pit  (see from §92
Recycling (plastics)    (see §71 - §72)                             (see §101)     to §100)
last updated October 27th 2001                                                             page 29



National Guidehnes for Health-Care Waste Management in Sri Lanka
Section 4 - Guidelines for the implementation of health-
care waste management plans in the health-care facilities
(101) The following section provides guidelines for the Direction Boards of Major Hospitals
and for Directors of minor HCFs so that they may implement the HCWM procedures
described in the previous section and turn them into rules that have to be applied in the
establishments they are responsible for.
(102) In order to achieve this goal, the Direction Boards shall set up a HCWM plan. This plan
shall contain
*  Duties and responsibilities for each of the different categories of HCF staff
members who will generate HCW or be involved in their management;
* An estimation of the quantities of hazardous and non-risk HCW generated and the
annual needs (human resources, equipment and budget) for the implementation of
the HCWM procedures/plan (see box 11);
*  A manual synthesising all the procedures for the management of HCW in the
establishment with special mention for those requiring specific treatment such as
autoclaving before final disposal. This manual should contain time-tables including
frequency of waste collection from each ward and department, map of the HCF
showing the different collection points, storage and treatment locations;
*  Monitoring procedures to trace HCW inside the HCF and to ensure that HCWM
rules are respected;
* Awareness and indications of the procedures to be followed by the HCF staff
members displayed at strategic points i.e. nurse rooms, bin locations, temporary
and central storage points;
* Training courses and programmes for all categories of HCF staff members;
*  Contingency plans for storage or disposal of hazardous HCW in the event of a
breakdown of the incinerator or autoclave. Emergency procedures should also be
foreseen.
(103) Are detailed hereunder the steps that shall be taken at anytime to ensure a smooth
implementation of a HCWM plan inside major hospitals. In minor HCFs, proper assignments
and rigorous managerial procedures shall often be sufficient to ensure a smooth
implementation of a limited but efficient HCWM plan.
1.   Assign duties and responsibilities
(104) Every hospital is responsible for the proper management of the waste that it generates
until its final disposal, in accordance with the National Environmental Act No 47 of 1980 and
National Environmental (Amendment) Act, No 53 of 2000.
last updated October 27th 2001                                         page 30



National Guidelines for Health-Care Waste Management in Sri Lanka
1.1 Duties and responsibilities of the Director of the Hospital
(105) The Director of the HCF shall be responsible for the overall effectiveness of the
HCWM plan within the establishment that he/she is responsible for. He/she shall take all the
necessary measures to implement a safe HCWM plan and particularly assign duties and
responsibilities to all medical and non-medical staff that he/she supervises.
(106) The Director of the Hospital shall:
*  Constitute a HCWM Team;
*  Designate a HCW Officer;
*  Supervise implementation, monitoring and review of the HCWM plan;
*  Allocate sufficient financial and manpower resources for the implementation of the
HCWM plan;
*  Ensure adequate training and refresher courses for the concerned hospital staff
members.
1.2 Duties and responsibilities of the health-care waste management team
(107) The HCWM team shall comprise the following persons:
*  The Director or his/her Deputy, who shall be the Chairman;
*  The Head of the administration;
*  The Heads of all hospital departments;
*  The Matron of the hospital;
*  The Head of the infection control nurses;
*  The Head of the overseers;
*  Any other person that the Director may designate such as the Chief pharmacist or
the radiation Officer if required.
(108) The HCWM Team shall be responsible for the preparation, the implementation, the
monitoring and the upgrading (if necessary) of the HCWM plan.
1.3 Duties and responsibilities of Head of administration
(109) The Head of the administration shall ensure that all the logistic, financial and human
resources needs are adequately fulfilled to implement the HCWM plan. In particular, he/she
shall ensure that a proper budget is allocated for the implementation the HCWM plan.
(110) He/she shall liaise with the Director and the HCWM Officer to estimate the specific
costs and to request the proper budget to the Central or Provincial Health Services.
1.4 Duties and responsibilities of the Heads of departments
(111) Heads of departments shall be responsible for the proper management of the HCW
generated in their respective departments. They shall:
*  Ensure that all the medical and ancillary staff working in their department respect
the HCWM procedures;
*  Ensure that the HCWM procedures are clearly displayed at strategic locations;
last updated October 27th 2001                                          page 31



National Guidelines for Health-Care Waste Management in Sri Lanka
Liaise with the HCWM Officer for effective monitoring and reporting of mistakes
and errors in the implementation of the HCWM plan;
1.5 Duties and responsibilities of the Matron of the hospital
(112) The Matron of the hospital shall liaise with the Direction Board. She shall be
responsible for the application of the HCWM procedures by the nursing and the sanitary
staff.
(113) He/she shall be responsible for the recording and the reporting to the Direction of all
cuts or puncture wounds associated with sharps manipulation such as needles stick injuries
of medical and non-medical staff members. He/she shall ensure that the staff members know
the immediate disinfection measures to be taken.
1.6 Duties and responsibilities of the Head of infection control nurses
(114) The Head of infection control nurses shall be responsible for the training of nursing
staff, medical assistants, sanitary staff members and sweepers in HCWM procedures.
He/she shall identify training requirements for each category of staff and organise, training
and refresher courses on safe HCWM procedures.
1. 7 Duties and responsibilities of the Head of overseers
(115) The Head of overseers shall be responsible for the installation, maintenance and safe
operation of waste storage facilities as well as the waste handling and treatment equipment.
He shall ensure that the concerned hospital staff members are properly trained for these
purposes.
1.8 Duties and responsibilities of the health-care waste management Officer
(116) The HCWM Officer shall be responsible for the daily implementation and monitoring of
the HCWM plan and in particular, he shall:
*  Ensure internal collection of waste bags and waste containers and their transport
to the central storage facility of the hospital on a daily basis;
*  Liaise with the Medical and Supply Department to ensure that an adequate supply
of waste bags, containers, protective clothing and collection trolleys are available
at all times;
.  Ensure that sanitary staff and sweepers immediately replace used bags
(containers) with a new bag (container) of the same type and, where a waste bag
is removed from one container, that the container is properly cleaned before a new
bag is fitted in;
*  Ensure correct use of the central storage facility and that it is kept secured from
unauthorised access. He should also prevent unsupervised dumping of waste
bags and waste containers on the hospital premises, even for short periods of
time.
*  Co-ordinate and monitor all waste disposal operations, and for this purpose meet
regularly with the concerned representative of the local council;
*  Ensure that the correct methods of transportation and disposal of waste are used;
last updated October 27th 2001                                          page 32



National Guidelines for Health-Care Waste Management in Sri Lanka
*  Ensure that sanitary staff and sweepers are not involved in waste segregation and
that they only handle waste bags and containers, in the correct manner.
*  Ensure that emergency procedures exist and can be activated at any time. He
shall make sure that HCF staff are aware of the actions to be taken. He shall
investigate, record and review all incidents reported regarding hospital waste
management.
2. Allocate resources and provide equipment for health-care waste
handling
2.1 Estimation of needs
(117) The daily, weekly and annual quantities of the different categories of HCW generated
by the hospital shall be estimated in each department (a sample sheet for assessment of
waste generation is provided in box 11). The quantities shall be recorded and figures sent to
the Central and Provincial Health Services for up-dating of statistics.
(118) The number of safety boxes, yellow and black bags as well as bag-holders, containers,
collection trolleys and protective clothing annually required for HCW handling shall be
estimated. A safety margin of 10% shall always be applied for safety boxes, yellow and black
bags.
(119) The quantities of disinfectants, necessary spare-parts for HCW treatment and disposal
shall be estimated.
(120) The annual costs for HCWM shall be estimated as well as the number of staff
members required for HCW collection and disposal.
2.2 Selection of the technology for HCW disposal
(121) The technology for HCW disposal/treatment shall be selected and sized according to
the recommendations provided by the Central and Provincial Health Services and to the
quantities of HCW generated in the HCF.
(122) The Operation and Maintenance procedures shall be carefully estimated and
documented in the HCWM plan (see §132). A contingency plan shall also be included in the
HCWM plan in case of breakdown of the disposal/treatment facility.
2.3 Allocation of resources and provision of equipment
(123) Financial and human resources shall be allocated to ensure a safe disposal of the
HCW. As an indication, for a major hospital, a minimum of 0,5% of the annual running costs
should be dedicated in the budget for the safe management of the HCW.
(124) Material and equipment (safety boxes, bags, disinfectant, protective clothing) for HCW
handling and treatment shall be supplied on a regular basis without any shortage in stocks.
last updated October 27th 2001                                         page 33



National Guidelines for Health-Care Waste Management in Sri Lanka
3.   Organise the HCWstreams
3.1 Outline the procedures andpractices
(125) Segregation, handling, collection, transportation, treatment and/or disposal, monitoring
procedures and contingency plans shall be specified for each department of the HCF and
clearly indicated to each Head of department.
(126) The rules related to HCWM shall be clearly explained to all categories of staff and
displayed in the hospital at strategic locations.
(127) Shall be drawn and displayed at strategic points:
.  Drawings of the hospital showing designated bag-holder sites for every
department, the central storage site and the path of waste collection through the
hospital;
*  Clear and simple flow charts showing procedure for waste segregation displayed in
all bag-holder sites.
3.2 Ensure training of staff members
(128) On-going training shall be ensured by the Infection Control Nurse and the HCWM
Officer for each category of medical and non-medical staff dealing with waste. The training
shall focus in priority on HCW segregation and on safe practices of HCW handling.
(129) A welcome briefing shall be ensured to each new staff member working in the hospital.
It shall include a comprehensive briefing on HCW segregation and handling as well as
emergency measures to be taken in case of accident or injury. At the end of the welcome
briefing, the new staff member shall acknowledge his/her responsibilities by filling-in and
signing a "duty of care" form.
3.3 Prepare the HCWMplan document
(130) In major hospitals, results of initial assessments, needs, strategy, procedures and
timeframe for the implementation of the HCWM plan shall be outlined in a HCWM plan
document. This document shall be submitted to the Central or Provincial Health Services for
validation and support.
3.4 Set-up a monitoring system and reporting procedures
(131) A monitoring system shall be set up to track hazardous HCW and sharps along the
waste stream until final disposal. The monitoring system shall include:
*  A balance between the number of yellow bags and safety boxes supplied at the
hospital against the quantity of hazardous HCW and sharps produced;
.  Periodic survey carried out in the departments, the central storage and
treatment/disposal facilities with a reporting of all the mismanagement practices
observed and proposals for improvement.
last updated October 27th 2001                                          page 34



National Guidelines for Health-Care Waste Management in Sri Lanka
3.5 Focus on specific locations
(132) A special attention shall be paid to Operation Theatres and Medical Analysis
Laboratories for the implementation of the HCWM plan. The HCW streams shall be clearly
identified in particular for anatomical or highly infectious waste.
(133) The HCWM strategies in Operation Theatres and Medical Analysis Laboratories shall
be defined after having initiated meetings with the staff members. A full participation and co-
operation of the staff members shall be required to set up internal segregation and treatment
procedures particularly in these two departments.
4.   Consideration on the involvement of the private sector
(134) All contracts agreed between the private sector and any hospital (public or private) for
collection, on-site or off-site transportation, treatment or disposal of HCW shall be submitted
to the Central or Provincial Health Services for approval.
(135) Shall be contracted for HCW disposal only enterprises or companies having received
the licence from the Central Environmental Authority as stipulated in the National
Environmental Act No 47 of 1980 and National Environmental (Amendment) Act, No 53 of
2000.
(136) Any memorandum of understanding or agreement with a private enterprise or
association shall stipulate duties and responsibilities of each party regarding HCWM
procedures and final disposal of HCW.
(137) The hospital shall ensure that the private enterprise procures adequate security
conditions to its staff. In particular, all workers dealing with HCW shall be properly dressed
with adequate protection clothes.
last updated October 27th 2001                                         page 35



National Guidelines for Health-Care Waste Management in Sri Lanka
Box 11: sample sheet for the assessment of waste generation
Name of the Health-care Facility....-.--.--.-.--.-----.|. Week.- . ----   ...
Quantity of waste generated per day
Monday    Tuesday  Wednesday   Thursday   Friday    Saturday   Sunday
Source: Safe management of waste from health-care activities, WHO, 1999.
last updated October 27th 2001                                                       page 36



National Guidelines for Health-Care Waste Management in Sri Lanka
Box 12: Checklist for a minimum HCWM programme in HCFs
Minimal strateRY
1. Assess the current situation in the HCF
- Estimate the quantity of Hazardous HCWproduced
* Estimate the risks linked to the current situation
i Decide the priorities to implement a HCWM system
l   Evaluate the needs (equipment and budget) to implement the priority actions In the hospitals
2. Set up a basic HCWMplan
!   Set-up segregation procedures and a colour coding system
* Set-up a system for HC Wcollection within the HCF
* Decide on a disposal technology
* Allocate funds
|   Provide immediate training to medical and non-medical staff
* Assign responsibilities to the staff of the HCF
3 Ensure a periodic monitoring
Minimal requirements for identification and disposal of HCW
1. Identify and segregate
'   Non-Risk HCW
* Hazardous HCW
* Sharps
2. Hazardous HCW collection
* Dispose of hazardous HCW into leak proof containers
* Discard sharps into puncture proof boxes
3. Disposal equipment
|   Minimum: low-cost double chamber incinerator in major HCFs
j   Minimum. pit with a concrete lining in the minor HCFs
Indication for funds allocation
* Allocate a minimum of 0,5% of the HCF budget for Implementing a HCWMsystem
last updated October 27th 2001                                                          page 37



National Guidelines for Health-Care Waste Management in Sri Lanka
Section 5 - Guidelines for Central and Provincial Health
Services
1. Setting-up of annual provincial health-care waste management plans
(138) The Provincial Health Services shall set up an annual Provincial HCWM plan. This
plan shall be approved by the Central Health Services before implementation.
(139) The annual Provincial HCWM plan shall contain:
* A review of all the HCFs generating HCW in the province with information on the
quantities and categories of HCW produced during the year;
* An inventory on existing treatment and disposal facilities in each HFC;
* data on incidents/accidents and results of inspection programme;
* Recommendations, compilation of the needs for each HCF;
* An estimation of the budget to be allocated for HCWM in the coming year;
* Middle and long term objectives to improve the HCWM in the HCF located within
the area of jurisdiction and in particular, the objectives to reduce the public health
and environmental risks associated with mismanagement of HCW.
2.   Backstopping of health-care facilities
(140) The Central and Provincial Health Services shall ensure that all the hospitals prepare
and implement a proper HCWM plan. They shall support them in the definition and the
implementation of the HCWM plan by providing technical advice, supplying adequate
material and allocating sufficient financial and human resources.
(141) The Central and Provincial Health Services shall set up periodic training programmes
review programmes in all the Faculties of Medicine, Nursing Schools and at the National
Institute of Public Health Science to ensure that adequate training on HCWM is given.
3.   Inspection
(142) The Central and Provincial Health Services shall liaise with the Central and Provincial
Environmental Authorities to ensure that treatment and disposal facilities comply with
guidance and regulations contained in the National Environmental Act No 47 of 1980 and
National Environmental (Amendment) Act No 53 of 2000.
(143) The Central and Provincial Health Services shall ensure that the HCWM plan of each
hospital is in conformity with the National Guidelines. They shall set up regular monitoring
and control procedures.
last updated October 27th 2001                                          page 38



National Guidelines for Health-Care Waste Management in Sri Lanka
(144) In particular, any Public Health Officer may inspect any hospital, treatment or disposal
facility located within the area of his jurisdiction to check that the provisions of the National
Guidelines are being complied with. Any contravention shall be reported.
(145) As far as health-care waste treatment and disposal is concerned, Central and
Provincial Health Services shall review and approve all contracts settled between a HCF. In
particular, a great care shall be paid to safety of personnel and procedures related to off-site
transportation.
last updated October 27th 2001                                                  page 39



National Guidelines for Health-Care Waste Management in Sri Lanka
Conclusion
(146) The current HCWM situation in Sri Lanka cannot guaranty safety for personnel,
patients and general public and shall not improve rapidly unless the recommendations,
instructions and rules contained in the National Guidelines are implemented at all levels.
Actually, the implication of all the parties currently involved in the health-care waste
management is necessary to drastically improve the situation.
(147) The National Steering Committee on Clinical Waste Management underlines that the
implementation of Health-care waste management plans in major hospitals and at provincial
level is a priority issue and should be implemented as soon as possible. These plans should
aim at improving segregation and disposal of sharps and hazardous health-care waste in
priority.
(148) Finally, it is essential that all staff members at all levels understand that health-care
waste management is a priority to improve the sanitary condition within hospital premises. A
great attention shall be paid to training and awareness programmes that should be
implemented on an on-going basis in each health-care facility.
last updated October 27th 2001                                           page 40



