Document of
The World Bank
Report No: 25107-CE
PROJECT APPRAISAL DOCUMENT
ONA
PROPOSED GRANT
IN THE AMOUNT OF SDR 9.6 MILLION
(US$12.6 MILLION EQUIVALENT)
TO THE
DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA
FOR A
NATIONAL HIV/AIDS PREVENTION PROJECT
NOVEMBER 14,2002
Human Development Unit
South Asia Region



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
(Exchange Rate Effective October 31, 2002)
Currency Unit = Sri Lanka Rupees (LKR)
LKR 96.3 = US$1.00
US$0.01 = 1 LKR
FISCAL YEAR
January I -- December 31
ABBREVIATIONS ANTD ACRONYMS
AIDS                                 Acquired Immune Deficiency Syndrome
ARV                                  Anti-retrovirals
CBOs                                 Comnmunity Based Organizations
CEA                                  Central Environmental Authority
DGHS                                 Director General Health Services
DOTS                                 Directly Observed Treatnent Short-course
EMP                                  Environmental Management Plan
EPL                                  Environmental Protection License
GFATM                                Global Fund to Fight Against AIDS, TB and Malaria
GOSL                                 Government of Sri Lanka
HIV                                  Human Immunodeficiency Virus
IDA                                  International Development Association
JBIC                                 Japan Bank for International Cooperation
MDGs                                 Millennium Development Goals
MOH                                  Ministry of Health, Nutrition & Welfare
NAC                                  National AIDS Committee
NBTS                                 National Blood Transfusion Service
NEA                                  National Environrmental Act
NGOs                                 Non-Govermnental Organizations
NSACP                                National STD and AIDS Control Program
NTP                                  National TB and Respiratory Diseases Control Program
PAC                                  Provincial AIDS Comnmittees
PI-IA                                Provincial Health Authority
PHRD                                 Policy and Human Resources Development Fund
PLWHA                                People Living With HIV/AIDS
SDR                                  Special Drawing Rights
STDs                                 Sexually Transmitted Diseases
TB                                   Tuberculosis
UJNDP                                United Nations Development Programme
UNFPA                                United Nations Population Fund
UNICEF                               United Nations International Children's Fund
VCT                                  Voluntary Counseling and Testing
WHO                                  World Health Organization
Vice President:   Mieko Nishimizu
Country Manager/Director:    Peter C. Harrold
Sector Manager/Director:    Anabela Abreu
Task Team Leader/Task Manager:      Hnin Hnin Pyne



SRI LANKA
NATIONAL HIV/AIDS PREVENTION PROJECT
CONTENTS
A. Project Development Objective                                                    Page
1. Project development objective                                                    2
2. Key performance indicators                                                        2
B. Strategic Context
1. Sector-related Country Assistance Strategy (CAS) goal supported by the project   3
2. Main sector issues and Government strategy                                        3
3. Sector issues to be addressed by the project and strategic choices                8
C. Project Description Summary
1. Project components                                                              10
2. Key policy and institutional reforms supported by the project                    14
3. Benefits and target population                                                   14
4. Institutional and implementation arrangements                                    15
D. Project Rationale
1. Project alternatives considered and reasons for rejection                       21
2. Major related projects financed by the Bank and other development agencies       22
3. Lessons learned and reflected in the project design                             22
4. Indications of borrower commitment and ownership                                 24
5. Value added of Bank support in this project                                     24
E. Summary Project Analysis
1. Economic                                                                        24
2. Financial                                                                       26
3. Technical                                                                       26
4. Institutional                                                                    26
5. Environmental                                                                   29
6. Social                                                                          31
7. Safeguard Policies                                                              34
F. Sustainability and Risks
1. Sustainability                                                                  35



2. Critical risks                                                                  35
3. Possible controversial aspects                                                  37
G. Main Conditions
1. Effectiveness Condition                                                         37
2. Other                                                                           37
H. Readiness for knplementation                                                       37
I. Compliance with Bank Policies                                                      38
Annexes
Annex 1: Project Design Summary                                                       39
Annex 2: Detailed Project Description                                                 44
Annex 3: Estimated Project Costs                                                      48
Annex 4: Cost Benefit Analysis Summary, or Cost-Effectiveness Analysis Summary        49
Annex 5: Financial Summary for Revenue-Earning Project Entities, or Financial Summary  54
Annex 6: Procurement and Disbursement Arrangements                                    55
Annex 7: Project Processing Schedule                                                  69
Annex 8: Documents in the Project File                                                70
Annex 9: Statement of Loans and Credits                                               71
Annex 10: Country at a Glance                                                         73
Annex 11: Development of Health Sector Strategy                                       75
Annex 12: Millenium Development Goals                                                 77
Annex 13: HIV Risk and Vulnerability                                                  78
Annex 14: Monitoring and Evaluation                                                   81
Annex 15: Supervision Plan                                                            83
MAP(S)



SRI LANKA
National HIV/AIDS Prevention Project
Project Appraisal Document
South Asia Regional Office
SASHD
Date: November 15, 2002                           Team Leader: Hnin Hnin Pyne
Sector Manager/Director: Anabela Abreu            Sector(s): Health (50%), Central government
Country Manager/Director: Peter C. Harrold        administration (25%), Other industry (15%), Media (10%)
Project ID: P074730                               Theme(s): Fighting communicable diseases (P),
Lending Instrument: Specific Investment Loan (SIL)  Vulnerability assessment and monitoring (P), Other public
sector governance (P), Gender (S)
Project Financing Data
[ ] Loan    [ ] Credit   [X] Grant    [] Guarantee     [] Other:
For Loans/Credits/Others:
Amount (US$m): $12.55
Financing Plan (US$m):    Source                            Local         Foreign         Total
BORROWER/RECIPIENT                                             1.36           0.60           1.96
THE GLOBAL FUND TO FIGHT AIDS, TUBERCULOSIS &                  4.10           2.26          6.36
MALARIA
IDA GRANT FOR HIV/AIDS                                         6.55           6.00          12.55
Total:                                                        12.01           8.86         20.87
Borrower/Recipient: GOVERNMENT OF SRI LANKA
Responsible agency: MINISTRY OF HEALTH, NUTRITION, AND WELFARE
Address: Suwasiripaya, 385 Rev. Baddegama Wimalawansa Thero Mawatha, Colombo 10
Contact Person: Dr. H A P Kahadaliyanage, Director General Health Services
Tel: (94-1) 698543          Fax: 693869            Email:
Contact Person: Dr. Dula De Silva, Deputy Director-General (PHS I), Department of Health
Tel: (94-1) 674682          Fax:             Email1:
Estimated Disbursements ( Bank FY/US$m):
FY          2003      2004       2005      2006       2007
Annual      1.07      2.95       4.68       3.17      0.68
Cumulative     1.07       4.02      8.70      11.87      12.55
Project implementation period: 5 years
Expected effectiveness date: 02/01/2003  Expected closing date: 06/30/2008
OCS PAD Fn C. 5C 2WO



A. Project Development Objective
1. Project development objective: (see Annex 1)
Sri Lanka presently has a window of opportunity to act vigorously to prevent a nationwide HIV/AIDS
epidemic. The primary objective of the project is to limit the spread of HIV infection in Sri Lanka among
its highly vulnerable subpopulations and the population at large, without stigmatizing those who are
engaging in high risk behaviors. Furthermore, by acting now to revitalize and expand the tuberculosis
(TB) control program, Sri Lanka can help reduce the risk of an emerging HIV-associated TB epidemic
among the HIV infected and the non-infected.
The project aims to assist the Government of Sri Lanka (GOSL) in curbing the spread of HIV infection
by (i) expanding prevention programs for highly vulnerable groups and the general population, in
particular youth; (ii) developing programs to sustain political and societal commitment to HIV/AIDS
prevention and to reduce stigma and discrimination against People Living with HIV/AIDS (PLWHA) and
highly vulnerable subpopulations; and (iii) strengthening multisectoral involvement and capacity.
Sensitive to the synergy between TB and HIV, the project would also support GOSL in its effort to
strengthen its early TB case detection and treatment to reverse rising incidence, improve cure rates and
prevent the emergence of drug resistant disease. This project would enable Sri Lanka to make rapid
progress towards the Millennium Development Goals (MDGs) of halting the spread of HIV and TB and
associated mortality.
2. Key performance indicators: (see Annex 1)
The project aims to reduce I-V transmission, to be indicated by a decline in the incidence (new cases) of
HIV, which would maintain Sri Lanka's current status as a low HIV prevalence country (with prevalence
of less than 5% among subpopulations engaging in high risk behaviors, and less than 1% among the
general adult population). In addition, it aims to reduce TB transmission, as measured by a decline in
smear-positive tuberculosis incidence. As the program impact, which is normally achieved in five to ten
years, may be subject to only marginal change during the implementation period of five years, particular
attention will be paid to outcome indicators, which signify behavior change, such as an increase in the
adoption of safer sexual and injecting behaviors and sexually transmitted disesease (STD)
treatment-seeking behaviors, and attitudinal change, such as a reduction in discriminatory attitudes
towards PLWHA and stigma. In addition, the project would focus on prerequisites to behavior change,
such as level of knowledge about HIV/AIDS prevention and care (especially among poor communities,
as in the estates sector), as well as coverage and quality of programs for condom promotion, voluntary
counseling and testing (VCT), and STD management. For tuberculosis, outcomes of interest would
include expansion of early case detection and effective treatment of infectious cases.
Key impact indicators include:
* HIV prevalence rate among: (i) women (aged 15-24) attending antenatal clinics remains below 1%;
(ii) STD clinic population stays below 5%; and (iii) sex workers stays below 5%.
*   Syphilis prevalence rate among women (aged 15-24) attending antenatal clinics remains below 5%
*   Smear-positive TB case notification rate remains under 20/100,000
Key outcome indicators include:
*   Increase in % of sex workers who report condom use with most recent client (from less than 10% in
2001 to 60% by project end)
*   Increase in % of clients of sex workers who report using condom at last commercial sex acts (from
-2-



less than 10% in 2001 to 60% by project end)
*   Increase in % of sex workers reporting symptoms of STDs in the last 12 months who sought care
*   Increase in % of clients of sex workers reporting symptoms of STDs in the last 12 months who
sought care
*   Increase in % of people expressing accepting attitudes towards people with HIV
*   Increase in TB cure rate, particularly in Colombo and Gampaha where the rates are low, to surpass
the 2005 global target of 85%
*   Increase from 35% of estimated smear positive cases detected under Directly Observed Treatment,
Short-course (DOTS) in 2000 to 85% by project end
B. Strategic Context
1. Sector-related Country Assistance Strategy (CAS) goal supported by the project: (see Annex 1)
Document number: IDA/R99-190      Date of latest CAS discussion: 01/19/1999
The proposed operation is in line with the priorities of the Country Assistance Strategy (CAS) for Sri
Lanka, one of which is to build up human capital. One aspect of pursuing this priority includes improving
access and quality of health services, and strengthening the health sector to become more responsive to
emerging and pressing problems. One such emerging problem facing Sri Lanka today is the spread of
HIV/AIDS. The CAS, as well as the progress report of 1998, highlighted the concem over the potential
threat of HIV/AIDS. Unlike other diseases, a generalized HIV/AIDS epidemic, combined with a
resurgence of TB, is likely to threaten the progress that has been achieved in human development
outcomes in Sri Lanka thus far. Consistent with the CAS goals, the project would build the capacity of
public and private institutions to effectively contain this nascent epidemic, as well as empower
marginalized and underserved communities that are at higher level of HIV risk, to protect themselves
from HIV/AIDS. In addition, this project would be complemented by the future health sector program
support. Currently, the Bank is supporting GOSL to undertake analytical work for developing a coherent
sector strategy and policies designed to achieve well-defined outcomes, especially for the poor. See
Annex 11 for details on the development of the health sector strategy financed by the PHRD grant.
Furthermore, the Bank has made HIV/AIDS prevention and mitigation one of its top priorities, as it
recognizes the devasting economic and social consequences of widespread epidemic. As such, in
September 2002 the IDA Board of Governors approved the expanded use of grants under IDA 13,
allowing HIV/A1IDS projects for IDA-only countries to be eligible for up to 100% grant financing. The
proposed project satisfies this eligibility criteria.
2. Main sector issues and Government strategy:
Sri Lanka has achieved noteworthy success in human and social development, despite its low to middle
per capita income. The country's social indicators compare favorably to those of more advanced
economies (see Annex 12 for Sri Lanka's progress on meeting the MDGs). Life expectancy at birth is 72
years, as compared to a regional average of 61 years. Immunization rates for diphtheria, pertussis,
tetanus, polio, and measles range from 86 to 91 percent. A high level of dedication among health care
staff, a high level of access to health services, geographical equity, and high literacy rates, as compared
to countries in the region and countries with same income level, have been identified as contributing to
these impressive achievements.
Over the past decade, however, the country has faced significant challenges in improving the health of its
- 3 -



population. Regional disparities in health and nutritional outcomes continue to be vast, and malnutrition
and low health status are still rife among the poor and underserved communities, such as the internally
displaced, populations in conflict areas, and tea estate workers. In addition, the health sector is not
prepared, in terms of human and financial resources, to address the unfinished agenda, including a
resurgence of TB, to serve the needs of an aging population and at the same time, to respond to
increasing noncommunicable diseases and emerging diseases and epidemics, such as HIV/AIDS.
HIV/AIDS poses a significant challenge to a health system in Sri Lanka, because of the nature of the
disease and the unique requirements of forging an effective response to it - namely, greater partnership
between governmental, private, and civil society sectors; the necessity of addressing illegal and taboo
behaviors and reaching marginalized subpopulations; and the need to shift from a purely clinical
approach to community mobilization. However, the strong public health infrastructure in Sri Lanka
affords a solid foundation upon which to build prevention efforts, affording the country an excellent
opportunity to prevent an epidemic from taking hold.
Dimensions of the HIV/AIDS Epidemic in Sri Lanka
Many of Sri Lanka's neighbors, such as India and Nepal, already face serious and growing HIV
epidemics. UNAIDS and WHO estimate that there are currently more than 5.8 million people living with
HIV in South and South-East Asia. Sri Lanka has an estimated 8,500 people with HIV infection as of
December 2000, with a prevalence rate among adults of 0.07%. Since 1986, only 415 cases have been
reported; however, underreporting is common because of the country's limited capacity for voluntary
counseling and testing, along with prevailing stigma and fear of being identified as HIV positive. While
men generally outnumber women in the early phases of HIV epidemics, in Sri Lanka the number of
women infected nearly equals the number of men. This is so because women comprise the majority of
migrant labor to the Middle East, and as a result are required to be tested for HIV. Among the total
number of cases reported from 1987 to 2000, in which the mode of transmission is known, 98% of
reported HIV cases were due to sexual transmission. Only a few cases of HIV transmission from mother
to child and through blood have been reported. Transmission through injection has not been reported thus
far.
The small number of reported cases and a low prevalence rate can, however, be misleading. Lessons
from around the world demonstrate the danger of denial, apathy, and perceived insusceptibility that are
often a consequence of a low prevalence setting. While existing scant data cannot predict if or when
(and how fast) the epidemic would occur in Sri Lanka, a review of HIV/AIDS studies conducted in the
country indicates extensive risk behaviors and environmental and contextual factors that promote these
behaviors and impede protective measures. This is further supported by the findings of the social
assessment (SA), which consisted of key informant interviews and focus group discussions with highly
vulnerable subpopulations (Annex 13 highlights SA major findings about these groups). The IEV risk
and vulnerability factors in Sri Lanka include:
*   Significant level of commercial sex work (female and male prostitution)
*   Low level of condom use in risky sex (i.e., casual and commercial sex)
*   Considerable sexual activity among youth
*   Significant level of drug and other substance use (however, injecting drugs at this time remains low)
*   Considerable internal and overseas migration, leading to increased opportunities for
casual/commercial sex as well as increased exposure to substance abuse and sexual coercion
*   High mobility within the country, in particular that which is related to military movement
(prostitution is known to thrive around transit camps and points, such as Anuradhapura, Trincomalee,
and Ratmalana)
*   Low levels of awareness and knowledge in underserved communities (only 40% of women in the tea
-4 -



estates, as compared to over 90% of women in other urban and rural areas, have heard of HIV/AIDS)
In summary, Sri Lanka today is experiencing a low-level HIV/AIDS epidemic, but behavioral factors that
facilitate the spread of infection are prevalent in the country and pose a threat that the epidemic could
become concentrated within highly vulnerable groups and then become generalized. The present time
presents a critical epidemiological juncture, because acting now will cost only a small fraction of the
overwhelming resources that would otherwise be needed if HIV were to spread.
Increasing Concern over TB and Potental to Improve Results Quickly. The country's vulnerability to
an HIV epidemic further heightens concerns over a resurgence of TB. HIV infection increases
susceptibility to TB infection and break down to disease. TB is the principal killer of HIV-infected
persons worldwide. There is no evidence that HIV-associated TB has yet taken off in the country, but a
deterioration in the national program results and the emergence of HIV could effect a dramatic change on
this situations.
The number of new TB cases reported annually in Sri Lanka increased from about 6,500 in 1997 to 8,400
in 2000, following stagnation in the early and mid-1990s. Initial 2001 reporting appears to confirm an
increasing trend. Furthermore, while the national average cure rate in recent years has been above 80%,
the levels are nearer to 70% in the concentrated urban regions of Colombo and Gampaha, with default
rates surpassing 15% and re-treatment default even higher. Improvements in case detection and an
increase in treatment effectiveness are especially important among poor and marginalized communities.
Several likely operational and epidemiological factors could have contributed to the recent rise in,
reported cases. These include urban migration and significant internal migration throughout the country.
In addition, over the past decade the operations of the national program have been restricted and greatly
altered with the decentralization of health system management to provincial and district levels.
Resources and support have been insufficient, limiting the role of the center in ensuring adoption of
proper norms, efficient drug and other supply logistics, and effective implementation of services,
surveillance, supervision, and evaluation. Infrastructure and lab capacity also have weakened. In
addition, the historical success of National TB and Respiratory Diseases Control Program (NTP) in Sri
Lanka, which had benefited from the overall development of primary care services and trained human
resources at referral levels, may have contributed to reduced attention to the problem in recent years, due
to a misperception, as in many parts of the world, that TB is no longer a public health problem.
For these reasons,.Sri Lanka's solid grounding to achieve global TB case detection and cure targets by
2005 is being challenged, and there is a threat of emerging drug resistance if poor quality care continues,
especially in urban areas. Drug resistance surveillance in India and other countries in the region already
documents this rising threat. As has been seen in other countries, TB programs can quickly break down
in the presence of social and economic crises, and the epidemic can resurge rapidly and drug-resistant
strains can emerge. It is essential to avoid such deterioration, as the economic and social costs of
rebuilding will be much greater. Therefore, this is an opportune time to support Sri Lanka in reducing
the risk of an emerging mHV-associated TB epidemic among the HIV infected and non-infected.
Government Strategy to Control HIV/AIDS
In 1992, the Government of Sri Lanka initiated HIV prevention and control efforts through the National
STD and AIDS Control Program (NSACP). The program, managed by the Directorate of Health
Services in the Ministry of Health, was implemented in collaboration with the provincial directors of
health services, STD clinics, and the National Blood Transfusion Service (NBTS). Multilateral and
- 5-



bilateral agencies, such as WHO, UNICEF, and JBIC have provided financial and technical assistance to
the government and NGOs. Moreover, IDA has to date provided support in the amount of about $1
million each year for the STD control program through the Health Services Project (1997-2002). This
investment has largely supported strengthening the capacity of STD clinics.
Since its inception, NSACP has made significant progress in improving STD services through
refurbishment of clinics, meeting of staffing and equipment norms, and establishment of outreach camps.
In addition, the program has helped to ensure blood safety through screening of transfusions for HIV and
upgrading of blood banks, and has increased knowledge of HIV/AIDS among the general population
(with the exception of the estates workers, awareness of H[V/AIDS among women nationwide is at over
90%).
These advances, however, are not sufficient to prevent the further spread of HIV infection among highly
vulnerable subpopulations and to the population at large. Past strategies had certain shortcomings:
* Clinically focused. HIV interventions were primarily implemented through STD clinics, which
resulted in low coverage. Use of community based approaches and engagement with the civil society,
NGOs, and other private agencies were limited.
*   Health sectorfocused. HIV/AIDS was regarded primarily as a health and medical issue, with the
Ministry of Health assuming sole responsibility for confronting it. Other line ministries that are
instrumental in prevention, such as education, youth affairs, defense, police, and labor were not
sufficiently involved.
*   Awareness-raisingfocused. Interventions focused on raising awareness of HIV, which is necessary
but insufficient, in bringing about safe sex and injecting behaviors.
* General population as primary audience. HIV/AIDS prevention efforts did not pay adequate
attention to subpopulations that were engaging in high risk behaviors.
*   Highly centralized. The program had limited involvement of provincial, municipal and other local
governments.
*   Stigma not addressed. Discrimination and negative attitudes towards PLWHA and subpopulations
known to be higher risk are prevalent, thereby pushing the epidemic further underground and
creating an environment that fosters blame and shame.
Recognizing these limitations, GOSL formulated the National Strategic Plan for 2001-2006, which
indicated a significant shift in the national HIV prevention and control strategy. The following key areas
of the strategy are noteworthy:
*   Call for a multisectoral response, involving other ministries, such as the police force and the military,
and partnering with the private sector and the civil society organizations, such as trade unions,
religious leaders, academic institutions, and NGOs;
*   Priority to be placed on targeted behavior change among vulnerable subpopulations; and
*   Emphasis on creating an enabling environment-policy, legal, social, and cultural-that will
facilitate behavior change and provision of support and care to those infected with and affected by
HIV.
Operationalizing the strategy, however, confronts several challenges:
*   Capacity and commitment is mixed among ministries other than health and at provincial level. Some
line ministries, such as Defense, Labor, and Child Protection have demonstrated keen commitment
and experience in working on HIV/AIDS, and a few provinces, particularly those with "high
-6 -



transmission areas," have expressed a considerable level of interest to act and enhance their response.
Others, such as Interior and Tourism, however, require more training on their role in HIV/AIDS
prevention and care, as well as more exposure on effective interventions.
*   NGO efforts are primarily limited to awareness generation and remain largely uncoordinated. Many
organizations are active in HIV/AIDS control, but the coverage of the programs for high risk
subpopulations is estimated to be less than 10%. However, NGOs are found to have established trust
and strong bonds within the communities in which they serve (which is a critical element in
providing services and mobilizing marginalized communities).
TB Control Strategy and its Challenges. Given the design of the national health system and its
development, NTP has incorporated both vertical and integrated elements. Persons with respiratory
symptoms are detected in general primary services and referred for diagnosis and follow-up, or
self-report directly to TB clinics within or attached to general health services. The program is fully
ambulatory and does not involve hospitalization of patients, except where medically indicated. In 1996,
Sri Lanka revised its national program and adopted the WHO-recommended DOTS strategy for TB
control, which provides a framework for early and cost effective case detection, standardized treatment
and patient-centered follow-up to improve outcomes and reduce the emergence of drug resistance. To
date, DOTS cover 13 out of the total 25 districts and much faster expansion is needed.
To reverse incidence of TB and achieve global targets, GOSL has adopted a strategic plan for DOTS
expansion (2002-2007) that includes the following objectives:
*   improve detection of TB cases to about 80-90% (well above the already surpassed 70% case
detection level) and focus on earlier detection to prevent transmission;
*   reduce treatment default rates for new and retreated cases, especially where they are especially high
in concentrated urban populations;
*   address the special needs in TB prevention and control of special populations (people living with or
at high risk for HIV/AIDS, as well as estate populations, marginalized groups, defense, prisons etc.);
*   coordination with HIV/AIDS prevention and care efforts can also improve the early identification of
HIV-infected persons requiring TB treatment (and care for other opportunistic infections), as well as
enabling provision of TB preventive therapy among HIV-infected persons without TB disease.
To reach those objectives, GOSL intends to enhance the leadership, organization, and functions of the
NTP, improving coverage and quality of TB case detection, treatment, and follow-up under DOTS,
including strengthening provincial/district-initiated supervision, monitoring, evaluation, and logistics, as
well as expanding operational research and analysis. Each element includes strengthening links to
primary health care efforts, improving involvement of NGOs and civil society, especially in high-risk
poor communities, so as to increase demand, access, and utilization.
External Support
In recognizing the need for additional resources to expand the national HIV/AIDS and TB response and
effectively overcome the challenges, GOSL requested IDA support. Apart from IDA, extemal assistance
for H1V/AIDS and TB has been confined to small amount of funds, but substantial technical assistance,
from WHO and other UN agencies.
During project preparation, GOSL sought support from the Global Fund to Fight Against AIDS, TB, and
Malaria (GFATM), and in April 2002 was awarded US$6 million for TB control and US$8 million for
Malaria. The grant from GFATM would primarily support enhanced social mobilization and outreach
functions through NGOs, which have not been involved previously in TB efforts. IDA funds would
- 7 -



represent a critical complement to these approved funds, as GFATM supported efforts will only be
successful in improving early case detection and community-based follow-up if the public health
infrastructure and public health manpower are reinforced concurrently to provide effective and safe
diagnostic and treatment services, oversight and outreach to link with these new partners, who are
inexperienced in TB control. IDA would finance capital expenditures to improve TB chest clinics and
hospital wards, and increased mobility to carry out closer supervision of NGOs and districts level
activities. In addition, IDA would invest in training on synergy between HIV/AIDS and TB, enhancing
management, planning, and the monitoring and evaluation capacity of the national program at central and
provincial levels. IDA-support for strengthening institutional and implementation capacity would ensure
timely undertaking, improvements in monitoring and supervision, and sustainability of activities funded
by GFATM.
3. Sector issues to be addressed by the project and strategic choices:
Recognizing the limitations and challenges outlined above, as well as utilizing the known effective
strategies for HIV prevention in low prevalence settings, GOSL made the following strategic choices in
consultation with the Bank.
*      Given the low prevalence setting of Sri Lanka, the primary thrust of the proposed project will be
to develop focused prevention programs for vulnerable subpopulations. Programs that meet the
prevention needs of those with a greater rate of partner exchange (sexual or needle-sharing) are efficient,
because they avert many more subsequent secondary infections. In addition, such interventions could
serve as powerful means to mobilize and empower these communities to not only protect themselves
from HIV and STDs, but also to reduce their own economic and social vulnerability. These targeted
interventions would be complemented by communications and advocacy for selective groups, such as
opinion leaders, policy makers, media, and health personnel, to reduce stigma and sustain a high level of
political and social commitment to addressing HIV prevention, and for the population at large,
particularly the youth and poor/underserved communities. In addition, the project would strengthen the
capacity of public and private institutions to undertake a broader multisectoral national response and
build the information base, utilizing surveillance and operational research, for better policy making and
program management.
*      Low prevalence also means that the broader impact of HIV on greater Sri Lankan society remain
largely invisible. Although leadership to catalyze the national response has emerged from the Ministry of
Health, Nutrition, and Welfare (MOH), many key sectors have expressed commitment and a keen desire
to join the fight against HIV/AIDS (indicated by proposals submitted during project preparation). GOSL
made a strategic decision to build upon the existing institutional arrangement, with the role of MOH in
guiding and assisting other sectors, NGOs, and civil society to become more effective partners in HIV
prevention, and to revitalize a high level council with multisectoral representation that would help
mobilize civil society and monitor prevention efforts by key ministries.
*      With regard to the proposed TB component, the Bank worked with the client in reviewing the
justification for IDA support and determined that it is critical to Sri Lanka's success in controlling the
epidemic. The program needs urgent strengthening to meet national and global targets, to reduce risks
associated with emerging HIV infection, and to curtail risks of emerging TB drug resistance. While this
is a small component relative to HIV, it builds on the resources provided by Government to the National
TB Program and complements the GFATM support which focuses on reaching out to NGOs and civil
society. No other financing source is available to finance improvements in infrastructure and capacity.
The GFATM proposal was successful, in part, because it was complementary to proposed IDA support.
Should IDA support not be provided for this component, it is unlikely that GFATM funds could be fully
-8 -



reallocated to support these core needs, nor is it certain that GFATM would be as well suited as the
World Bank to assist in procurement of critical inputs for core public health services. The work plan
for the TB component emphasizes strengthening core functions in the initial phase of support, followed
by investigation of new strategies to speed case detection, improve cure rates in sub-populations, and
collaborate effectively with emerging HIV/AIDS prevention and control efforts.
The principal project design choices made by the proposed project are as follows:
A focused and phased approach. The National Strategic Plan, which was formulated by GOSL through
an extensive consultative process, represents a broad framework for HIV/AIDS prevention and care
activities. Based on this framework, GOSL, in consultation with the Bank, has decided to adopt a
focused and phased approach, signifying that interventions need not all be implemented at once. The
proposed project would strategically phase-in interventions based on the potential impact, given low HIV
prevalence and the capacity for prompt implementation.
Public health focus (vs. clinical and medicalfocus). HIV control efforts in Sri Lanka have, to date,
been clinically oriented and laboratory based, and have been built on the infrastructure for treating STDs.
While continuing to improve services at STD clinics, the proposed project would shift the focus to
community based approaches. This shift would increase the scope and coverage of programs and would
help foster a supportive policy, legal, social, and cultural environment. Furthermore, public health
interventions would directly tackle social and behavioral issues that are at the heart of HIV risk and
vulnerability. A social assessment (detailed in Section E: Special Issues) was undertaken during project
preparation to elucidate these issues. Additionally, the proposed project would strengthen the capacity of
program management in public health through recruitment of staff with experience in epidemiology and
social and behavioral sciences.
Multisectoral involvement (vs. health sector focus). The proposed project would engage other line
ministries, such as education, defense, labor, and interior, to undertake HIV/AIDS prevention and control
efforts. Such sectors would draw upon their own existing institutional arrangements, which are better
positioned to reach and work with vulnerable populations, such as soldiers, migrant workers, and youth.
Through a series of meetings and high publicity events, MOH already has taken a strong initiative to
involve other sectors. Due to these efforts, initial proposals have been drafted by the Ministry of Defense,
Labor (Foreign Employment Bureau, Workers Education), Education (Youth Development Council),
National Child Protection Agency, National Dangerous Drug Control Board and Ministry of Interior
(Police). Under the proposed project, these line ministries and others not yet fully involved would be
trained on fundamentals of HIV prevention (ethical considerations and best practices on effective
interventions to bring about behavior change and reduce stigma) and orientated on the national priorities
and desired outcomes. Based on this training, line ministries would refine/develop their own workplan
for HIV prevention under the broad guidelines formulated by MOH. Guidelines specifying the workplan
cycle (planning, appraisal, monitoring) and eligible/non-eligible expenditures would be included in the
Operational Manual.
A systematic approach to NGO involvement. International experience has shown that NGOs and
community based organizations (CBOs), more so than government, have been effective and innovative in
providing services to highly vulnerable subpopulations, as well as serving as catalysts for organizing and
mobilizing these often marginalized groups. The social assessment conducted a mapping of vulnerable
subpopulations and NGO activities, as well as determined their coverage and assessed their capacity.
Presently in Sri Lanka, NGOs are delivering HIV prevention services to some key vulnerable and high
risk groups; however, their activities are not coordinated and not strategic, and types of intervention and
-9-



coverage remain limited. While many have weak capacity to implement effective HIV/AIDS prevention
activities, they are trusted within the vulnerable communities, making them potentially powerful agents
for change.
Consistent with SA recommendations, the project would support capacity building of NGOs/CBOs
already working on HIV/AlDS and/or with vulnerable subpopulations, to help develop or diversify
interventions, to become more outcome (behavior change) focused, and to foster information and
knowledge exchange between the NGOs. The project would support NGOs/CBOs in two ways:
subcontracting and demand driven subprojects. The first strategy would enable GOSL to subcontract
national/large NGOs with relatively more experience working on HIV/AIDS or with vulnerable
communities to deliver prevention services to specified target groups or in specified geographical areas.
During project preparation, NSACP developed service packages for some vulnerable groups, delineated
geographical areas, and defined expected outputs and outcomes. Under this strategy, NGOs would be
selected through a competitive process following the Bank's Guidelines for Consultant Selection. In
addition to routine monitoring, an independent agency, such as a private firm, would monitor and
evaluate such contracts. The second strategy would put in place a mechanism to support subprojects that
are demand driven, encourage innovation, and stress flexibility to customize programs to the local
context and subcultures. Guidelines detailing the subproject cycle, as well as the criteria for selecting
small NGOs/CBOs and type of subprojects, eligible expenditures, and monitoring and evaluation
arrangements have been drafted and would be finetuned and included in the Operational Manual. Use of
a systematic approach to involving NGOs/CBOs would help increase coverage of target populations,
reduce gaps and duplications of effort, and improve monitoring and evaluation.
Building on existing institutional arrangements. At present, while technical capacity at the central
level in the Department of Health is adequate, implementation capacity, in areas such as procurement and
financial management needs strengthening. The project, therefore, would support technical assistance to
the Director General, Health Services (DGHS) who would be responsible for project management and
administration. With increased involvement of NGOs and other govemment agencies, intersectoral
coordination, supervision, and monitoring capacity would also be enhanced at NSACP and NTP.
Furthermore, the project would strengthen multisectoral agencies, other line ministries, provincial health
authorities, which has varying capacity. During project preparation, consultations with provincial
authorities and other sectors were carried out and capacity-building needs identified.
C. Project Description Summary
1. Project components (see Annex 2 for a detailed description and Annex 3 for a detailed cost
breakdown):
ComDonent 1: HIV Prevention
1.1. Targeted interventions among highly vulnerable populations. This subcomponent supports
programs for highly vulnerable populations which in Sri Lanka include female and male sex workers,
transport workers, workers in the free trade zones, migrant workers, drug users, men who have sex with
men, and armed service personnel. NGOs/CBOs, including organizations comprising of PLWHA, and
other ministries would implement these programs, as they are shown to be effective in mobilizing these
communities. These programs would promote condom use and safe injecting practices, and would
reduce the number of sexual partners and casual/commercial sex encounters, as well as promote timely
STD care. To bring about these behavioral changes, strategies would include interpersonal
communications (i.e., peer education), voluntary testing and counseling, and community mobilization,
which aims to empower the groups at risk to protect themselves and demand better FHV and STD
- 1 0 -



prevention and care services. In addition, STD services (outreach, diagnostic, and treatment) would be
strengthened and referral established.
1.2. Broad based programs foryouth and the general population. Five program areas would be
supported under this subcomponent: (i) advocacy for policy makers and opinion leaders; (ii) behavioral
change communications for youth; (iii) condoms social marketing; (iv) blood safety; and (v) prevention
of mother to child transmission.
(i) Complementing the interventions for highly vulnerable subpopulations, broad-based programs are
necessary in order to sustain political and societal support and commitment to HIV prevention, create an
enabling environment for provision of services and mobilization of highly vulnerable subpopulations, and
reduce stigma attached to HIV/AIDS and condoms, and discrimination against people living with
HIV/AIDS and communities at higher risk. These programs would include targeting advocacy to
policy-makers and opinion leaders, media personnel, law enforcement, and health personnel, through
seminars/workshops, study tours, training, internet based communications, distance learning, and high
publicity events. In addition, to help reduce discrimination against PLWHA (such as refusing to provide
services) by health workers, post-exposure prophylaxis would be made available to them.
(ii) Programs for youth would be financed under this component to promote safe sexual norms and
practices (i.e., delay in age of first sexual intercourse, abstinence, use of condoms), and to empower
young men and women in making decisions about their reproductive and sexual health. The
interventions would involve use of peer networks, interpersonal communications (i.e., peer education),
entertainment-based education, involvement of role models (e.g. athletes, pop culture celebrities),
school-based programs, radio call in shows, and telephone hotline. These activities would be undertaken
by NGOs, youth groups, and schools.
(iii) A condom social marketing campaign, which would be implemented by a private firm or NGO,
would be supported to increase availability of condoms in "high transmission" areas and to
subpopulations that are most at risk, and to reduce stigma attached to condoms.
(iv) The project would also benefit the general population by contributing to the safety of blood supply
by screening HIV and other infections. JBIC financed project which is under preparation would fund the
refurbishment of the blood bank infrastructure and support HIV screening, would be complemented by
communications and outreach programs for voluntary non-remunerative blood donations, and promotion
of rational use of blood and blood products, to be supported by the component. NBTS would be the key
agency responsible for implementation of these interventions.
(v) In addition, the project would seek to prevent HIV transmission from mother to child by supporting
capacity of health systems to manage HIV in pregnancy, undertake VCT at antenatal care clinics, and
provide care and support to HI-V positive mothers, including antiretroviral therapy. Local and
international expertise would be sought in development of guidelines and for training. NSACP, along
with provincial health authorities, would undertake these activities.
To ensure coherence and quality of communications and advocacy activities, the project would support
contracting of a full-service communications firm to undertake audience research, develop strategies,
design messages and materials, implement mass media campaign (with focused messages), and provide
technical assistance to NSACP and implementing agencies.
-11 -



Component 2: TB Control
The objective of this subcomponent is to help reverse the increasing incidence of TB, surpass the global
target for TB cure rate of 85%, and reduce defaulter rates of new and re-treatment cases from the present
13% and 26% to 5% and 15% respectively by 2007. To achieve these objectives, this component would
consist of the following two areas:
2.1 Enhancing leadership, organization andfunctions of the NTP. This involves support for advocacy
and communications programs, updating technical norms, manuals, and guidelines, training to upgrade
skills of program managers and staff, and building the capacity of the central program unit to better
address TB and HIV, conduct outreach, supervision, monitoring and evaluation. In so doing, the Central
Reference Laboratory and Teaching Chest Hospital will be strengthened and conditions of TB wards and
chest clinics improved, as well as the logistics for enhanced supervision at the provincial and district
levels. With support from local and international expertise, NTP would be the key executing agency for
these activities.
2.2. Improving coverage and quality of DOTS and researchfor adapting and enhancing DOTS. This
component aims to expand DOTS services from 10 districts to 25 districts by training key staff in DOTS
implementations, involving community groups and leaders, and advancing the information system. In
addition, the component would support research on approaches to reduce defaulter rates, especially in
urban areas, and to develop pilot drug-resistant TB treatment projects and protocols for testing models
for effective care in Sri Lanka. NTP, along with provincial health authorities and community-based
organizations, would be responsible for implementation of this subcomponent.
Component 3: Institutional Strenathenina
3.1. Enhancing capacity of agencies involved in the national response, specifically the (i) Office of the
Director General Health Services for program management and coordination; (ii) National STD/AIDS
control program; (iii) provincial health authorities; (iv) multisectoral agencies, such as National AIDS
Committee (NAC), and Provincial AIDS Committees (PAC); and (v) NGOs and other private/voluntary
organizations. Both human resources as well as infrastructure related to HIV/STD services would be
supported in this subcomponent. Activities include training, workshops/seminars, consultant services to
support implementation, and strengthening the STD clinic and lab infrastructure in the North and
Northeast regions through minor civil works and refurbishment.
3.2. Improving information basefor policy decisions and program management. There is a great need
for improving the information base for better decision making on HIV/AIDS related policies and
programming. To meet that need, the proposed project would support:
(i) Management Information System (MIS) which would be set up to facilitate routine monitoring of
HIV/STD and TB prevention and control activities. A well designed monitoring and evaluation (M&E)
system is needed to provide timely and coordinated feedback to the project executing agencies. DGHS
office, in collaboration with NSACP, NTP, and NBTS, would coordinate project monitoring, to be
guided by the core indicators highlighted in Annex 1. In addition, it would be responsible for compiling
and consolidating data related to input/output indicators into an implementation progress report.
Base-line surveys and impact evaluation of interventions, particularly those focusing on highly
vulnerable populations and youth, would be contracted out to external groups, such as universities.
(ii) A second-generation surveillance (behavioral and sero-surveillance systems), as well as STD
surveillance, would be designed and developed to track the trend and direction of the epidemic. The
- 12-



surveillance systems would provide information that would enable the program management to modify
project interventions to better respond to the changes in the direction of the epidemic, as well as to
provide a strong advocacy tool for strengthening political and societal commitment to prevention.
(iii) Operational research would help fill knowledge gap and guide interventions, and would be
undertaken by academic and research institutions.
DGHS would be responsible for maintaining the MIS. NSACP would oversee the functioning of the
STD and sero-surveillance, and subcontracting services to undertake independent evaluations, studies,
and behavioral surveillance.
3.3. Improving health care waste management: This subcomponent would aim to prevent pollution
and biological hazards from the health care waste generated from project activities, in particular at STD
clinics and TB chest clinics, as well as treat and dispose of clinical waste produced by hospitals in
Colombo in an environmentally acceptable manner. In addition, this subcomponent would support
creating a proper legislative environment for enforcement of an integrated clinical waste management
plan in Sri Lanka.
Indicative            Bank-      % of
Component                       Costs     % of    financing   Bank-
(US$M)    Total     (US$M)   financing
Component 1: HIV Prevention Interventions            6.64      31.8      5.81      46.3
Subcomponent 1.1: Targeted interventions/Vulnerable
populations
Subcomponent 1.2: Broadbased programs for youth and
general population*
Component 2: TB Control                              8.60      41.2      2.00      15.9
Subcomponent 2.1: Enhancing Leadership, Organization,
and Function of national TB program
Subcomponent 2.2: Improving coverage and quality of
DOTS
Component 3: Institutional Strengthening             5.63      27.0      4.74      37.8
Subcomponent 3.1: Strengthening MOH (DG office and
NSACP) and multisectoral involvement
Subcomponent 3.2: Improving information base for
STD/HIV/AIDS control
Subcomponent 3.3: Improving Health care waste
management
Total Project Costs  20.87    100.0     12.55     100.0
Total Financing Required   20.87     100.0     12.55     100.0
*Includes condom social marketing campaign, TA for communications, and mass media.
-13 -



2. Key policy and institutional reforms supported by the project:
The project supports key policy and institutional reforms in the following ways. First, it facilitates a shift
from a clinical/medical focus to community-based approaches through use of NGOs/CBOs to provide
services and mobilize highly vulnerable subpopulations. Second, it promotes a multisectoral approach,
with active involvement of other line ministries, the private sector, and civil society in project
implementation and monitoring. Third, it emphasizes behavior change outcomes, not merely awareness
raising, and reduction of stigma. Other reforms include implementation of health care waste
management guidelines and policy and formulation of clear guidelines on HIV testing based on
international ethical standards.
3. Benefits and target population:
Benefits from the project would accrue to: (i) groups at high risk of contracting and transmitting HIV,
such as female sex workers/beach boys and drug users, which account for about 35,000 and 30,000
persons, respectively; and (ii) other vulnerable groups, such as internally displaced persons, migrant
workers, and clients of sex workers, which include transportation workers, urban youth, and soldiers.
The exact size of this population is not known, although it is large according to the following estimates:
(i) about 675,000 internally displaced persons live in camps in Northern and Eastern parts of Sri Lanka,
and have experienced a breakdown in social structure and support, making women extremely vulnerable
to sexual violence and abuse; (ii) about 800,000 migrants work overseas, the majority of whom are
women, and another 296,000 internal migrants work in the factories; and (iii) clients of sex workers in
some localities have primarily been military personnel, estimated to be about 60% of 180,000 armed
forces, who are between the ages of 18-24. Several of these highly vulnerable populations are among the
poorest in society. In addition, pepple living with HIV, estimated to be about 8,500, will also benefit
from the proposed project through increased access to treatment of opportunistic infections, such as TB,
and a reduction in stigma and discrimination. HIV positive mothers would also receive antiretroviral
drugs to prevent transmission of HIV to their children.
The entire population of Sri Lanka would benefit from HIV/STD prevention and control interventions
among highly vulnerable groups, as referenced above, which most often are the first to be affected by the
epidemic. These interventions would also limit the HIV spread into the larger population. The entire
population would gain directly from project investments in such areas as communication campaigns,
blood safety, and TB control. Furthermore, the TB control would largely benefit the poorest strata of the
society, who are disproportionately affected by this disease.
- 14-



4. Institutional and implementation arrangements:
Estimated period of implementation: 5 years
The institutional and implementation arrangements supporting the project are guided by the following
assumptions:
*   Build capacity of MOH to improve procurement and financial management practices and to
collaborate and coordinate programs with other ministries, NGOs, civil society, and the private
sector.
* Facilitate management and oversight of various national programs and sources of external funds
(such as GFATM and IDA).
*   Ensure leadership, high visibility, and a multisectoral approach to HIV/AIDS prevention.
National Health Council, chaired by the Prime Minister, is an existing multisectoral mechanism,
represented by ministers from all ministries. It has effectively championed other issues that have needed
multisectoral and high level political support, which Sri Lanka has come to be known for. Its role in the
institutional set up will be to promote multisectoral involvement by ensuring that each key ministry has
developed an HIV/AIDS strategy and annual workplan and monitoring implementation.
National AIDS Committee (NAC) will function as the policy making body with the Secretary of Health
as the Chair, and represented by Secretaries and HIV/AIDS focal points of key line ministries, as well as
representatives of NGOs, including PLWHA organizations, the private sector, media, and civil society.
NAC will (i) review and approve broad priorities for action for each year of project implementation,
identify key policy measures, and develop policy options and actions (which are to be prepared by
technical committees); (ii) ensure compliance with international ethical standards in testing and working
with marginalized communities; and (iii) coordinate and support the functioning of the Provincial AIDS
Committees (PAC), which would be involved in selection and monitoring of NGOs/CBOs in their
respective provinces.
National STD and AIDS Control Program (NSACP) will be responsible for implementing NAC policy
decisions and overseeing implementation of HIV/AIDS and STD prevention and control activities.
NSACP will prepare norms and guidelines for subprojects and selection criteria, develop terms of
reference of consultant services, coordinate orientation/training for implementing entities (line
departments, NGOs and CBOs), and provide technical support, supervision and monitoring. In addition,
NSACP will manage serological and behavioral surveillance systems and be responsible for all technical
input for procurement and selection of consultants related to the HV components. In collaboration with
the health care waste management coordinator, NSACP will also ensure implementation of waste
management activities at the Central STD clinic and laboratory and STD clinics at the periphery.
Situated in the Ministry of Health, under the Directorate of Health Services, NSACP is headed by a
Director who has the responsibility for overall administration of the national program. Supporting the
Director, full time program staff will include an intersectoral coordinator, three regional facilitators, a
social/behavioral specialist, an epidemiologist, and medical officers/specialists responsible for
coordinating and overseeing technical areas, such as STD management, training, counseling, care, and
treatment.
National Tuberculosis and Respiratory Disease Control Program (NTP) will be responsible for
overseeing the implementation of the TB control activities. Unlike NSACP, NTP will largely rely upon
- 15 -



the health sector to deliver prevention and treatment services. The current setup and managerial and
technical capacity of the national program are adequate; thus, incremental project staff will only include
regional facilitators, who will assist in supervising and monitoring the activities at the provincial and
district levels. With assistance from the health care waste management coordinator, NTP will undertake
waste management activities in Central Chest Hospital and Laboratory, as well as the TB chest clinics.
National Blood Transfusion Services (NBTS), which is receiving support from JBIC to improve the
blood bank infrastructure and screening for HIV, will be responsible for implementation of the IDA
supported voluntary donor recruitment campaign and training of relevant medical and health personnel
on rational use of blood and blood products, in addition to waste management activities.
Project management. With an objective to build the in-house capacity of MOH and foster
sustainability, the project will not have a stand-alone project coordination unit. The management and
administration of the project, which will support NSACP, NTP, and NBTS, will be placed under the
authority of the Director General, Health Services (DGHS). This set-up will enable enhanced
coordination between the national programs and the various sources of funds, including IDA and
GFATM, and provide higher political visibility. DGHS office will be responsible for day-to-day
management of project, including procurement, contracting implementing agencies, disbursement,
preparation of consolidated annual work programs, budgets, quarterly and annual progress and financial
reports. In addition, it will be responsible for approving workplans and proposals by the various
implementing agencies. A management information system will help track information on project
physical progress linked financial management information. DGHS will supervise, monitor, and report
on project activities to the relevant govemment agencies and to the Bank, and will ensure that annual
audits are carried out as stipulated in the Grant Agreement and the Operational Manual. DGHS will also
liaise with external donors such as WHO, UNFPA, UNDP, UNICEF, the GFATM, and others to ensure
that all program activities are coordinated.
- 16 -



t; -r ; w~~~~~---             .  ... ,- -  - - socie -- ----
\;s- - ! - - ~~~I            Pr_i:e Mini,e'
OTHER MINISTRIES                        Cmite                          MINISTRY OF HEALTH
|~~~~~~~~~~a nDl eal.th-
,  AIDTSF o   |   .                    Xal  iI
PrS Fncial
|  Provin cial  ll,'                 Committee                          AM I lm rwri'aIvH&  l
|    departments    |
IMPLEMENTATION ARRANGEMENTS
The project has various implementing agencies, which differ in scope and capacity, and will support
three implementation mechanisms: (i) annual workplan budget support; (ii) subprojects; and (iii)
subcontracts.
Workplan budget support. Prior to drawing up workplans, each participating line ministry and Provincial
Health Authority (PHA) would receive training on the guidelines and priorities for HIV prevention, as
well as on financial management, procurement, and M&E. The annual workplans would be appraised by
a committee and approved by DGHS. A Memorandum of Understanding (MOU) will be signed between
- 17-



DGHS and the Provincial Secretary of Health to manage the funds that will be disbursed in tranches,
with verification of appropriate management of funds, and meeting the objectives. As during
preparation, regional facilitators would assist each agency with implementation issues, resolve
bottlenecks and monitor progress. The workplan cycle and processes will be detailed in the Operational
Manual.
Subprojects. The project will employ a mechanism to finance subprojects to be implemented by small
NGOs/CBOs. This type of mechanism, with each subproject not exceeding more than US$15,000, is
intended for demand driven/innovative prevention efforts by community based groups. The subproject
cycle would consist of several stages: (i) planning and promotion stage in which areas of intervention,
target beneficiaries, subproject criteria, NGO/CBO selection criteria, are defined (during project
preparation, this step has been initiated); (ii) call for proposals, in which NGOs/CBOs are invited to be
part of the program through workshops and other communications means; (iii) selection and capacity
building, in which NGOs would be classified and trained in technical and administrative fields; (iv)
trained NGOs will be requested to submit proposals using specific format; (v) appraisal of proposals by
an appraisal committee, consisting of members from NSACP, civil society, and UN agencies; and (iv)
upon approval of the proposal, a legal agreement, which would be signed between NGO and DGHS,
would establish the scope of work, expected deliverables, financial data, and other specific clauses.
Funds would be disbursed in tranches, based on verification of appropriate management of funds and
progress on meeting the proposal objectives.
Subcontracts. Activities including condom social marketing, communications strategy development and
campaign, behavioral surveillance, and operational research, will be subcontracted to NGOs and private
firms. In addition, national/large NGOs, with the scope of the work exceeding the subproject limit, will
be contracted to deliver prevention services to specified target groups or areas. Selection of NGOs under
this implementation strategy, which will be undertaken according to the World Bank procurement and
selection of consultant guidelines, will be monitored by DGHS together with the national programs. The
subcontractor would be expected to provide quarterly reports, and funds would be released according to
meeting specified indicators and deliverables.
- 18-



The table below indicates the type of mechanism to be used by each key agency.
Implementing Agency                Workplan budget        Subproject         Subcontract
support
NSACP                                     +
NTP                                       +
NBTS                                      +
Other sectors/line ministries             +                   _
Provincial Health Authorities             +
NGOs (large/national)                                         +                   +
Small NGOs/CBOs                                               +
Private Sector                                                +                   +
+ yes, - no
Financial management
Implementing Entity
The project will be implemented by the Ministry of Health (MOH) and the key agency within this
ministry will the Director General of Health Services (DGHS). Other agencies include line ministries,
government agencies (e.g., NSACP, NBTS, etc), and Provincial Health Authorities (PHAs). In the office
of the DGHS, three specialists will be recruited to advise the DG; they are a management advisor, a
financial management specialist (FMS) and a procurement specialist.
The FMS in the DGHS office will be responsible for overall financial management and disbursement of
the project. He/she will liaise with the accounting staff of line ministries, government agencies, and
PHAs, in preparing budgets, releasing imprest advances, and receiving reports. He/she will be
responsible for consolidation and timely preparation of Financial Management Reports (FMRs) for the
project and rendition of annual accounts for audit.
Funds Flow
Budgets will be prepared annually for all activities of the project. For activities to be undertaken by the
line ministries, government agencies and PHAs, the respective agency will be responsible for preparing
the budget in the requested format and forwarding them to the DGHS. The DGHS will review and
approve the consolidated budget for the project and inform the Ministry of Finance through the
Secretary/MOH, of the cashflow needs for the forthcoming fiscal year.
Project funds will be deposited in a Special Dollar Account (SDA) to be opened in the Central Bank of
Sri Lanka and operated by the DGHS. DGHS will release the initial monthly cash advances to all the
implementing agencies, based on the forecasts, using GOSL funds. Implementing agencies will open a
separate bank account for receiving the funds under this project.
On a monthly basis, all implementing agencies will report back to the DGHS' office (formats for these
reports are in the Financial Accounting Systems Manual) and renew their imprests. FMS in the DGHS'
office will consolidate this information, and claim the IDA share of these expenses from the SDA. DGHS
will be responsible for submitting withdrawal applications to the World Bank for replenishment of the
- 19 -



SDA.
For government agencies which will implement special programmes, advance will be released on the
basis of the approved proposal. These will be special purpose programmes and do not require monthly
imprests.
FLOW OF FUNDS
Ministiry of Finance                             Cnr1Bank of Sri
*                         Lan~~~~~~~~ka
(Special Account)
Ministry of Health, Nutrition and Welfare
Director General, Health Services
Project management and administration
NSACP         NP          NT
Wor-kplan
NGOs/ CBOs           Large NGOs/            Line
t   |  t  Private  | Ministries/PHA
Demand             Subcontracting         Workplan
driven
subprojects
Operational Manual
An operational manual (OM) was drafted by MOH and submitted to the Bank for review prior to
negotiations. The final version of the OM is expected to be cleared and adopted by the Government by
Board approval. The OM include conditions necessary for implementation, such as procurement and
contracting procedures, budget, disbursement, and administration of the project. Guidelines detailing the
predefined funding cycles--workplans for line ministries and PHAs and subproject for NGOs/CBOs, as
well as the selection criteria, eligible (and non-eligible) expenditures, and monitoring and evaluation
- 20 -



arrangements are delineated in the OM.
The OM will help to increase transparency and reduce implementation delays, as roles and
responsibilities, mechanisms, schedules, and accountability arrangements are delineated and will be
agreed upon by all executing agencies prior to project effectiveness. In addition, it will facilitate
review/supervision of the project by the Bank.
D. Project Rationale
1. Project alternatives considered and reasons for rejection:
Integrate/strengthen HI V/AIDS into the Health Services Project or into future health sector
development program. This alternative was rejected, as a stand alone project is required to ensure a
rapid response, a high level of political commitment from the health and other sectors, and strategic
public and private partnerships. Moreover, HIV/AIDS is an emerging issue for Sri Lanka; bringing to the
fore new challenges--novel approaches to behavioral change, addressing taboo topics, working with
marginalized communities, creating strategic partnerships with NGOs and private agencies, and tapping
into resources of private and academic institutions, such as research and social marketing. These
challenges are best tackled by a self standing project that would enable a quicker response, greater
attention, and higher visibility.
Emphasize treatment of AIDS patients. With HIV prevalence still low in Sri Lanka, it is considered
more cost effective to emphasize prevention over treatment. This does not mean, however, that they are
mutually exclusive. The project builds the capacity of the MOH to deliver support and care services and
enhances the infrastructure of voluntary counseling and testing and treatment of TB, a common
opportunistic infection for PLWHA. In addition to financing counseling and care support to mothers
who are HIV positive, the project provides flexibility and opportunities for PLWHAs to mobilize and
organize themselves to propose activities related to care, support, and prevention.
IDA and GOSL discussions have led to the decision that given that MOH does not presently have a
policy on ARVs, the project would support analytical work that is needed for policy formulation and
program interventions for-provision of antiretroviral (ARVs) through support of studies that would assess
the feasibility with respect to capacity of the health systems and financial sustainability, of providing
antiretroviral drugs to all FHV positive people. During project preparation, an initial analysis was
conducted to determine the fiscal burden of free ARV treatment, and it was determined that the annual
cost to the Government of providing such treatment would peak at about US$36 million by 2017 (the
assumption being that this is the year universal vaccination is introduced). This would represent 8-11%
of the total Ministry of Health budget in that year, assuming that this budget would grow at the rate of
3-5% per year in real terms.
Focus narrowly and exclusively on interventions targeted at groups at high risk. International
experience has shown that increasing coverage of highly vulnerable populations by prevention programs
remains a major challenge, and that exclusively targeting high risk communities can lead to furthering
stigma of HIV and of these groups, thereby the hindering access and effectiveness of programs.
Advocacy among policy makers and politicians, along with communications for the general population,
are critical to reducing stigma and developing policies that facilitate targeted interventions.
Rely exclusively on public delivery of HIVprevention services. The public sector does not have a
comparative advantage to working with high-risk groups, that are engaging in behaviors and practices,
such as sex work or drug use, which are considered illegal by the state. NGOs have been shown to be
-21 -



more trusted by these affected communities, and are more innovative and effective in reaching them and
in serving as a catalyst for mobilization. Additionally, in the area of communications private firms would
be engaged to develop strategies and implement campaigns, as they are more experienced and creative
than the public sector in working with multimedia.
Rely exclusively on the health sector to implement HI VIAIDS prevention activities. Other ministries
and departments, such as education, defense, police, women's affairs, and foreign employment, are in a
better position--through their own existing institutions and mechanisms--to reach some vulnerable
populations, such as youth, military personnel, women, and migrants. They also are instrumental in
creating an enabling environment for prevention activities. While the Ministry of Health would serve as
a central agency for coordination and provision of technical and financial support, other sectors would
implement their own proposed prevention activities for their constituencies.
2. Major related projects financed by the Bank and/or other development agencies (completed,
ongoing and planned).
Latest Supervision
Sector Issue                     Project                (PSR) Ratings
(Bank-financed projects only)
Implementation  Development
Bank-financed                                                 Progress (IP)  Objective (DO)
Health Services Project (Cr.     S            S
2928-CE) Closed June 30,
2002__                        _ _ _ _  _
Other development agencies
Global Fund                      TB and Malaria
UNICEF                           HIV/AIDS Advocacy
WHO
JBIC                             Blood safety project
IP/DO Ratings: HS (Highly Satisfactory), S (Satisfactory), U (Unsatisfactory), HU (Highly Unsatisfactory)
3. Lessons learned and reflected in the project design:
The strategy and design of the proposed project reflects the lessons learned from the past 15 years of
global experience in HIV/AIDS control, specifically:
*   Aggressive response to prevention is needed in the early stages of the epidemic.
*   Highest level of political commitment is necessary to undertake an effective HIV prevention
program, and continued advocacy is needed to promote leadership and maintain political support.
*   Governments cannot do it alone; NGOs, HIV positive groups, and other civil society organizations
need to be involved to work with vulnerable groups, promote political and societal support, and
ensure ethical standards.
*   Interventions targeted at highly vulnerable groups during a nascent epidemic are cost-effective; but
for the interventions to be effective, they require a high level of coverage and saturation.
Identification, reach, and coverage of vulnerable groups remains a major challenge.
*   Improving information base, through surveillance and MIS, is critical for effective program
monitoring and evaluation and planning, but also for advocacy to sustain political and societal
commitment
*   Targeting without an effort to address stigma has resulted in negative unintended effects.
Stigmatizing people engaged in risk behaviors leads to pushing them further underground and is
- 22 -



detrimental to program effectiveness. Therefore, a broad based advocacy and communications
campaign to reach out to the general public, in particular opinion leaders and policy makers, is
strongly needed.
*   Community mobilization and empowerment of highly vulnerable communities, which are often
marginalized, can be a powerful approach to HIV prevention (e.g., sex workers in Sonargachi, West
Bengal).
*   Knowledge and awareness are not sufficient to accomplish behavior change-there is a need for both
individual level interventions (i.e., peer education and counseling) as well as
environmental/structural interventions (e.g., 100% condom use brothels, family migrant camps).
Creating an enabling environment, such as through policy adjustments and legislation, is necessary to
facilitate behavior change.
*   Flexibility of implementation procedures is necessary to allow for innovation and responsiveness to
opportunities, as new information about the effective strategies of responding to the epidemic is
emerging.
*   Building up the information base, in particular surveillance, is critical for effective program
monitoring and evaluation.
IDA has financed stand-alone HIV/AIDS projects in India and Bangladesh. These projects offer the
following lessons:
* The central government needs to take the lead role in catalyzing the national response to HIV,
particularly when the epidemic has not produced visible effects at the local level.
*   Effective program management requires high quality, up-to-date epidemiological and management
information, and needs to be strengthened in the areas of procurement, disbursement, financial
management, surveillance, monitoring and evaluation.
The TB control component has incorporated lessons from numerous IDA assisted large-scale health
operations that include support for implementing the DOTS strategy. Among the most important are
ongoing operations in China and India, as well as in middle-incidence, middle-income countries such as
Morocco and in Eastern Europe. Lessons learned include:
*   Even in highly decentralized and integrated primary health care systems, core public health functions
to support effective and safe TB control are necessary. These include: (i) support for a central unit to
oversee and guide national policy, capacity-building, implementation, evaluation and surveillance;
(ii) effective drug supply; (iii) an adequate laboratory network to ensure early and correct case
detection and surveillance for drug resistance; and (iv) problem-solving operational research to adapt
TB control efforts to specific epidemiological and social conditions.
*   Improvements in early case detection and treatment follow-up depend heavily on ensuring easy
access by patients and attention to their economic and social profiles. High default rates can be
brought down with well-designed directly-observed treatment delivery strategies.
Implementation of the Health Services Project, which closed in June 2002, experienced delays primarily
related to procurement and management problems, which have been addressed by the proposed project
design and preparation in the following manner:
*   Technical assistance will be in place to strengthen management and procurement capacity and
planning (training of MOH staff in procurement was carried out during preparation).
*   Project management will be integrated into the Ministry to enhance coordination, ownership, and
sustainability.
*   Financial management guidelines and procurement plans and capacity building program have been
developed during project preparation.
*   Provincial authorities will be involved in implementing locally specific interventions as well as
selecting and monitoring NGOs.
- 23 -



4. Indications of recipient commitment and ownership
The government at the central level has shown considerable commitment to enhancing the national
HIV/AIDS control program. Indications of this commitment and ownership include the following:
* An external review of the national program was conducted in 2000. Based on the recommendations
of this review, a National Strategic Plan was developed with input from key stakeholders to improve
and strengthen the national response.
*   The National AIDS and STD control program was continuously supported through the IDA-financed
Health Services Project.
*   In 2001, the Minister and Secretary of Health initiated high-level advocacy events to raise and
promote the agenda of HIV/AIDS control. One example of such events involved a highly publicized
meeting, chaired by the Prime Minister, that was attended by representatives of high risk groups and
other vulnerable communities, such as commercial sex workers, drug users, and HIV positive
persons.
*   GOSL (The Office of the Prime Minister and the Ministry of Health), in conjunction with WBI,
organized a Senior Policy Seminar on Options for HIV/AIDS Interventions: Mobilizing and
Implementing an Effective Response in June 2002. The first day was attended by senior level policy
makers, Secretaries from various departments, Provincial Directors, and NGOs, and the following
three days by technical and program staff from provincial and central levels.
It is important to note that commitment among various sectors and at different levels of government is
mixed, largely due to invisibility of the disease, unfamiliarity with HIV issues, and competing demands
on limited human and financial resources. This phenomenon, however, is not uncommon with numerous
other countries where HIV prevalence remains low. This justifies the need for continued advocacy that
targets all levels of government and all sectors to sustain and promote leadership in HIV work and efforts
to empower provinces and line ministries with opportunities to finance and implement their own
activities.
5. Value added of Bank support in this project:
The Bank has provided assistance over the past decades to improve the health and nutritional status of
the Sri Lankan population through improvement in service delivery and disease control. The Bank will
bring added value to this proposed project in the following ways:
*   The Bank, as the largest financier of HIV/AIDS control projects in the world, brings to the fore
regional and global experience to assist Sri Lanka in enhancing its national response.
*   The Bank places HIV prevention in a broader context of economic growth, poverty alleviation, and
health sector development, which helps strengthen the financial, institutional, and technical
sustainability of the proposed project.
*   The Bank places emphasis on building capacity of local institutions in the public and private sectors,
and assures appropriately sequenced inputs through the careful design of institutional and
implementation arrangements.
*   The Bank builds on lessons from previous investments in Sri Lanka in the areas of health and
education, and findings from analytical work, such as the poverty assessment.
.
E. Summary Project Analysis (Detailed assessments are in the project file. see Annex 8)
1. Economic (see Annex 4):
- 24 -



* Cost benefit     NPV=US$ million: ERR = % (see Annex 4)
o Cost effectiveness
o Other (specify)
There are four main issues in the economic analysis: (i) whether the HIV/AIDS program as presented in
the PAD would be a worthwhile investment compared to other investments generally available in the
economy, as shown by a positive Net Present Value (and the related question of whether this particular
program is the one with the highest NPV of all the mutually exclusive alternative designs one could
consider); (ii) what the Net Fiscal Impact of the program would be; (iii) the economic justification for
government financing (subsidization) of the program; and (iv) poverty aspects.
(i) The Net Present Value of the program (discounted benefits less discounted costs) is estimated to be
positive (US$87 million) in the base case using a 10% annual discount rate. The program in this case
would avert about 190,000 infections over a 15 year period (equivalent to about 48% of the number of
infections that would occur in the without-program situation). Economic benefits would be in the form
of medical costs avoided and lost earnings avoided -both during the stage of full-blown AIDS. Further
details are given in Annex 4.
The most uncertain (and critical) variable in the above estimate of Net Present Value is the estimate of
the number of HIV infections averted by the program. Alternative scenarios were examined in this
regard. The number of infections averted is higher: (i) the higher the assumed rate of increase in the
annual number of new infections in the without-program situation; and (ii) the greater the difference
between the rate of increase in the annual number of new infections in the without-program situation as
compared with the rate of increase in the with-program situation.
The base case assumes that the annual number of new infections in the without-program situation would
grow at a constant 50% rate, while in the with-program situation it would decline gradually to 40% and
remain at that level thereafter (in this case, the HIIV prevalence rate in the adult population would peak at
a little over one percent in 2017 and decline thereafter). But even if the annual rate of growth of new
infections declined to only 45% in the with-program situation, the NPV of the program would still be
positive (US$42 million). The NPV becomes negative (minus US$12 million) when the rate of increase
in the annual number of new infections in the without-program situation is assumed to be only 30%, and
five percentage points less (25%) in the with-program situation. Based on these calculations (and also
taking into account that some types of benefits have been left out of the calculation, as explained in
Annex 4) it is likely that the NPV of the program would be positive.
(ii) The Net Fiscal Impact of the program (incremental tax revenues less incremental government
subsidies) is estimated to be positive in the base case (US$5 million). Details of the calculation and
assumptions are given in Annex 4.
The HIV/AIDS program presented in this report is a purely preventive program, and the above discussion
pertains to this program. The project team also made some projections of the likely fiscal burden that
would result in the hypothetical case of the introduction of antiretroviral treatment as a free service
funded by Government. It is estimated (under a set of assumptions specified in Annex 4) that the annual
cost to the Government would peak at about US$35 million by 2017 (the year universal vaccination is
assumed to be introduced). This cost would represent 8-11% of the total Ministry of Health budget in
that year, assuming that this budget grew in the range of 3-5% per year in real terms. If the savings to the
Ministry of Health budget from other medical costs avoided are taken into account, the net effect of free
ARV treatment on the Ministry of Health budget would peak at about 7-9%.
- 25 -



It should be noted that the above results concerning the fiscal burden of ARV treatment may critically
depend on the simplifying assumption that the introduction and actual provision of free ARV treatment
on demand does not affect the time path of HIV incidence. If, contrary to this assumption, the
introduction of such treatment encouraged risky behaviors, HIV incidence may well be higher than in the
no-ARV treatment scenario and the fiscal burden of providing ARV treatment correspondingly higher
than what was estimated above.
(iii) The economic justification for government financing of the HIV/AIDS program hinges on whether
the activities in the program would be financed by the private sector in the absence of government
financing. At a more advanced stage of the epidemics, it is possible that some private financing would be
available for prevention-- e.g. from firms concerned about protecting their employees against HI-V
infection. However, at the current stage of the HIV epidemics in Sri Lanka there is no substitute for
government leadership and financing in controlling this important public health threat.
(iv) While there is no evidence to suggest that HIV/AIDS infection rates are disproportionately higher for
the poor, clearly poor households are least able to bear the costs of treatment for opportunistic infections
or the loss of income resulting from sickness and death.
2. Financial (see Annex 4 and Annex 5):
NPV=US$ million; FRR = % (see Annex 4)
Fiscal Impact:
See Section (1) above.
3. Technical:
The proposed project adheres to internationally accepted best practices for HIV/AIDS response in low
prevalence settings, as advanced by UNAIDS and other technical and research experts. The main thrust
of the project lies with interventions that have been proven cost effective in preventing the spread of
HIV, especially among sub populations with higher levels of risk, as well as reducing stigma and
discrimination against PLWHA. The project would support interventions that include behavioral change
communications, condom social marketing, targeted advocacy for opinion leaders, prevention of
mother-to-child transmission, and promotion of safe blood through expansion of voluntary donor
recruitment and rational use of blood. Moreover, the project places great emphasis on improving the
information base upon which HIV/AIDS policy and programmatic decisions are made. Second
generation surveillance systems-which entails upgrading of sero-surveillance and introduction of
behavioral surveillance- would be developed, in addition to routine monitoring of project activities
(inputs and outputs) through MIS (tailored specifically to the project), and independent evaluations to
assess impact of interventions. While prevention is the crux of the project, it strengthens the institutional
capacity to provide AIDS care through better screening and diagnostic services, improving counseling
infrastructure, expansion of TB treatment, and training of medical and health personnel in managing
HIV/AIDS cases. In addition, it would support analytical and preparatory work to help policy makers
determine investment in ARVs and developing strategy for implementing the treatment agenda.
4. Institutional:
4.1 Executing agencies:
- 26 -



MOH will be the key executing agency. Within it, activities of three national programs (NSACP, NTP,
and NBTS) would be supported.
National STDIAIDS Control Program will oversee the implementation of HIV/AIDS and STD
prevention and control activities. NSACP would be responsible for all technical input, such as setting up
norms and guidelines for workplans and subprojects, developing selection criteria, coordinating and
undertaking orientation/training for implementing entities, providing technical support and supervision,
and monitoring of implementation of subprojects and workplans. In addition, NSACP would manage
serological and behavioral surveillance systems and responsible for all technical input for procurement
and selection of consultants related to the HIV components.
National TB Control Program will oversee the implementation of the TB control program, setting
technical guidelines and norms, and supervising and monitoring the work of the TB chest clinics and TB
wards, as well as civil society organizations involved in DOTS.
National Blood Transfusion Services will oversee the implementation of the campaign to oversee
voluntary donor recruitment campaign and training of relevant medical and health personnel on rational
use of blood and blood products.
With an adoption of a multisectoral approach, other line ministries are critical partners in HIV/AIDS
prevention effort, and during the first few years of the project, they include defense, labor, education, and
interior (police). Based on the approved workplans, they would receive funds from DGHS to implement
prevention programs (largely comprising of training, communications activities, and outreach) for their
own constituencies who are highly vulnerable to HIV/AIDS.
NGOs and CBOs in Sri Lanka are well immersed in working with many marginalized and vulnerable
communities through health and other programs, and thereby having created trusting relationships.
Notwithstanding the existing limitations, they are well placed to identify and respond to the needs of
these communities. They serve as powerful means for providing services and mobilizing highly
vulnerable subpopulations to demand for better services and protecting themselves. NSACP has
identified key components of a selection criteria for NGOs/CBOs to receive funding and support for
capacity building, which include years of experience working with the particular community/region or
with HIV/AIDS, a clear mission statement with objectives, committed leadership, and innovation.
Selected NGOs and CBOs would be trained in strategic planning, financial management, proposal
development and reporting, as well as HIV/AIDS prevention strategies and priority interventions, and
provided with technical assistance. They would be funded through subcontracting or subprojects
arrangements.
4.2 Project management:
It was agreed that the project would be managed within the existing institutional set-up, and not by a
stand alone project coordination or management unit, with the aim of building capacity within MOH and
fostering sustainability. Therefore, the management and administration of the project, which would
support the NSACP, NTP, and NTBS will be placed under the authority of the DGHS. This set up will
enable enhanced coordination between the national programs and between various sources of funds,
including IDA and GFATM, and provide higher political visibility. DGHS office would be responsible
for overall project implementation, including procurement, disbursement, preparation of consolidated
annual work programs, budgets, quarterly and annual progress and financial reports. In addition, it
would supervise, monitor, and report on project activities to the relevant govemment agencies and to the
- 27 -



Bank, and ensure that annual audits are carried out as stipulated in the Credit Agreement and the
Operational Manual. It would liaise with external donors such as UNDP, WHO, UNICEF, the Global
Fund, and others to ensure that all program activities are coordinated.
MOH would strengthen DGHS's office with full time staffing by a planning officer, accountant,
logistics/procurement officer, and administrative assistants. In addition, DGHS would be supported by a
team of three implementation specialists -management advisor, financial management consultant and
procurement specialist, who would be in place before Board presentation. The latter two would be
recruited for the first three years of implementation during which, in addition to carrying out routine
project work, they would mentor and train the MOH counterparts (accountant and logistics officer,
respectively). They would also train other staff in MOH. This approach was adopted because it would
strengthen the capacity of MOH in the areas of financial management and procurement and at the same
time ensure timely implementation. Trained MOH accountant and logistics officer would then assume
full responsibilities during the second half of project implementation.
4.3 Procurement issues:
GOSL has prepared guidelines on "Government Tender Procedure" in 1996 ( revised in August 1997)
under Chapter 13 of the Financial regulations. For the first time the guidelines and rules provide the
framework for all public procurement in the country including Provincial Councils(PC), and Local
Authorities, also includes a separate chapter (XM) for projects assisted by foreign funding agencies (this
chapter has been revised in December 2000 and issued as separate booklet) and hence ensuring
transparency in Procurement. GOSL have agreed for the Bank to conduct a Country Procurement
Assessment Review (CPAR). The Review has been initiated. GOSL have in position a Procurement
Support Bureau (PSB) to coordinate its recommendations
Although some of the MOH officials are somewhat conversant with the systems and procedures to be
followed for procurement under Bank financed projects, the officials implementing this project may not
necessarily be those who have been associated with the earlier Bank financed projects. Furthermore, the
nature of the project (technical assistance based) is such that some of services would be carried out by
NGOs and other private agencies.
GOSL has agreed that the management and coordination would be handled by the Director General's
(DG's) office. Procurement/logistics officer from MOH regular cadre will be assigned to the DG's office
and will continue working beyond the life of the project. An Individual Procurement consultant would
train the procurement officer initially for about three years by which time in-house capacity would be
strengthened. The Consultant would also conduct a series of workshops to develop the procurement
capacity of the MOH, NGOs/CBOs, and other implementing agencies including line ministries, such as
Labor, Education, Defense, and National Child Protection Authority, and provincial health authorities.
4.4 Financial management issues:
The project has a satisfactory financial management system. Project financial management and
disbursement arrangements are streamlined, to the extent possible, to use the existing system of the
government at the central and provincial level. However, additional financial management requirements,
in order to meet the reporting needs for sound project management, are being developed and detailed in a
Financial Accounting Systems Manual.
The project will use the transaction based disbursement from its inception. Financial Monitoring Reports
(FMRs) will be produced on a quarterly basis and submitted to the Bank. A special account will be
opened at the Central Bank of Sri Lanka and operated according to terms and conditions acceptable to the
IDA.
- 28 -



The project will operate within the GOSL's internal control framework and adopt a cash basis of
accounting as allowed for in the government accounting system. The annual external audit of project
accounts will be carried by the Auditor General, which is the supreme audit institution of Sri Lanka.
The key implementing agency for the project, MOH has previously implemented Bank financed projects.
There were financial management, disbursement, and audit issues under the Health Services Project (Cr.
2928-CE) that closed on June 30, 2002. Lessons were taken from this project in designing the financial
management and disbursement arrangements for the proposed project.
5. Environmental:                 Environmental Category: B (Partial Assessment)
5.1 Summarize the steps undertaken for environmental assessment and EMP preparation (including
consultation and disclosure) and the significant issues and their treatment emerging from this analysis.
The proposed project would produce pollution risks and biological hazards that are associated with
clinical waste. The main types of waste expected to be generated by activities under the project include:
(i) microbiological waste and items, such as needles, contaminated with blood in the STD clinics; (ii)
sputum cups in the laboratories of the TB clinics; (iii) I-HV infected blood; and (iv) HIV test kits used in
VCT centers, blood banks, and STD laboratories.
As part of project preparation, an assessment of the clinical waste management situation in Sri Lanka was
undertaken in two phases. The first phase consisted of a situational analysis of health care waste in the
entire health sector, and the second phase focused on waste generated from facilities that are included in
the project, i.e. STD clinics, TB chest clinics, and blood banks. The study involved field visits and
consultations with government officials, lab technicians, and health care personnel. The analysis
revealed that approximately 15 tons of clinical wastes are produced per day in major health facilities in
Sri Lanka, of which sharps comprise about 500 kg, and the total quantity of blood transfusion bags that
are screened to be positive to HIV, syphilis, Hepatitis B amounts to 2.7 kg. STD laboratories carry out
microbiological and blood tests that generate highly infectious waste such as contaminated blood samples
and culture plates. No chemical or autoclave disinfection is performed in most STD clinics. No proper
procedures are in place for environmentally acceptable disposal of needles and syringes. The same
situation exists for waste generated in TB clinics and in blood banks.
Based on the situation analysis and consultations with key stakeholders, the proposed project identified
the following environmental objectives: (i) to prevent pollution and biological hazards from the above
mentioned medical waste which may arise as a direct result of project financed activities; (ii) treat and
dispose of clinical waste produced by hospitals in Colombo (which accounts for 28% of the overall
production of clinical waste in the country) in an environmentally acceptable manner; and (iii) to ensure
that a proper legislative environment exists for enforcement of an integrated clinical waste management
plan in Sri Lanka.
In preparing the project, MOH, through an expert committee assisted by an international consultant,
formulated the National Policy and National Guidelines on Health Care Waste Management (HCWM),
and an action plan to manage health care waste generated by project activities, fulfilling the requirement
of OP 4.01. Cabinet has approved the National Policy and Guidelines, which have been disclosed to the
public as of August 2002.
In addition, the Government has informed the Bank that Under Part IVA, Section 23 of the National
Environmental Act (NEA) any person (institution, enterprise, industry, etc.,) who discharges, deposits, or
emits waste into the environment which will cause pollution is required to do so under the authority of a
- 29 -



licence issued by the Central Environmental Authority (CEA), in accordance with standards and other
criteria as may be prescribed under the Act. Section 23 of the NEA and associated regulations enacted
under the NEA, has gazetted discharge standards that have to be complied with in order to be issued with
the Environmental Protection Licence (EPL). Therefore, the Government has stated that Health Care
Waste is covered under the above mentioned provisions of the NEA and as such, the CEA, as the
Regulatory Agency is able to regulate management of health care waste under the existing legislation.
GOSL has stated that they do not see any point in preparing new legislation at this stage but regulate
health care waste under the NEA. The Bank's environmental specialist has reviewed the NEA and
associated legislation and is satisfied that there are adequate legislative provisions to regulate health care
waste management under the present provisions of the NEA. However, since the country has had no
health care waste management facilities, the CEA has been lax with issuing EPL's when disposal
facilities are not available. However, the CEA has agreed that if there are treatment/disposal facilities,
they will issue EPLs to the hospitals and regulate them. Since the project will be financing the
establishment of a centralized treatment facility for Colombo, the CEA has agreed that EPLs will be
issued and enforced for the hospitals (both public and private) in Colombo.
5.2 What are the main features of the EMP and are they adequate?
Health care waste management plan, to be financed by the project, consists of the following:
(i) One auto/hydroclave central system to treat clinical waste from all public and private sector hospitals
in Colombo;
(ii) Considering the very small amount of waste generated at STD and TB clinics in the periphery, the
waste will be disposed in lined deep burial pits under controlled conditions;
(iii) Needle destroyers will be provided to selected STD and TB clinics and Blood Banks;
(iv) Technical assistance for training and awareness raising on health care waste management for health
care personnel
Specific environmental assessments will be undertaken for each treatment and disposal system prior to
construction. The National Environmental Act confers the responsibility of enforcement and monitoring
to the CEA. This includes review and approval of environmental assessments as well as issuance of
EPL. The CEA's enforcement tools, the EPL implementation capacity, and EA review capacity is being
strengthened under the IDA-financed Environment Action I Project, USAID, and the Netherlands. ADB
is proposing to continue the work under EAIP when it comes to a close, therefore, CEA has adequate
funds and programs to strengthen its enforcement capacity.
5.3 For Category A and B projects, timeline and status of EA:
Date of receipt of final draft: June 2002
5.4 How have stakeholders been consulted at the stage of (a) environmental screening and (b) draft EA
report on the environmental impacts and proposed environment management plan? Describe
mechanisms of consultation that were used and which groups were consulted?
The proposed project has identified the following key stakeholders who would be involved in the
development, implementation and monitoring of the management of clinical wastes: (i) staff at TB
clinics, blood banks, STD clinics and laboratories; (ii) health workers; (iii) policy makers and
government regulators; and (iv) communities that would be affected by improper waste disposal.
Consultations through group discussions and individual interviews were conducted with stakeholders
identified above during the preparation of the situational analysis and development of national policy and
guidelines for health care waste management. Stakeholder workshops will be held for a wider audience
for consultation on the National Policy, Guidelines and the Action Plan. The Ministry will also place the
environment related documents mentioned above for public comment at the InfoShop and in-country
- 30 -



prior to finalization. The public consultation commenced as of early August 2002, meeting the
conditions for appraisal, and the requirement for Bank's public disclosure policy.
5.5 What mechanisms have been established to monitor and evaluate the impact of the project on the
environment? Do the indicators reflect the objectives and results of the EMP?
Deputy Director General, Medical Services has been appointed as the focal point for HCWM, and will
work with the program directors of NSACP, NTP, and NBTS to ensure timely implementation of waste
management activities. MOH, led by the Steering Committee on Health care waste management and in
collaboration with CEA, will monitor the implementation of the HCWM plan. In addition, an external
agency will be appointed to undertake an evaluation of the impact of the project activities on the
environment.
It has been agreed with GOSL that the CEA will issue EPL's to all hospitals in Colombo requiring then to
participate in the General Hospital waste management system to be financed under the project or
establish individual treatment plants to dispose of health care waste in accordance with the NEA and
associated regulations. The EPL issuance conditions will include implementation of the EMPs. The CEA
is required by the NEA to monitor and enforce EPL issuance conditions and withdraw the EPL if the
issuance conditions are not adhered to by the licensee.
6. Social:
6.1 Summarize key social issues relevant to the project objectives, and specify the project's social
development outcomes.
With funding from WHO, MOH undertook a social assessment during project preparation to assist in
development of need-based interventions and expansion of the program in a sustainable manner. The
social assessment covered various topics, with information on key social issues summarized below:
(a)    Identfication of vulnerable groups and factors behind their vulnerability
Social assessment identified 20 subpopulation groups as being highly vulnerable which were then
prioritized as follows: commercial sex workers (CSW), beach boys, street children, drug users, external
migrant workers, workers in free trade zones, defense personnel working in conflict zones, internally
displaced persons, prisoners, trishaw and truck drivers (see Annex 13 for detailed description of these
groups). In addition, the social assessment also identified five geographical areas that are considered to
be "hot spots" or "high transmission areas." They are (1) coastal belt tourist resorts; (2) transit camp
areas for service personnel; (3) free trade zones; (4) Colombo Municipal Council area; and (5)
Ratnapura, Gampaha, Kalutara and Kandy districts.
The project places a great emphasis on HIV/AIDS prevention activities that are focused on these highly
vulnerable communities and geographically defined high transmission areas. Mapping of vulnerable
populations and NGOs undertaken by the social assessment provided the basis on which the project
selects areas of intervention, target beneficiaries, subproject criteria, NGO selection criteria.
Several factors were identified as constraining HIV/AIDS prevention among vulnerable groups. These
are (1) inadequate knowledge and misconceptions on HIV/AIDS (2) lack of interest to practice safer sex
methods (3) lack of bargaining/negotiation skills; (4) inadequate access and privacy to practice safer sex
methods; (5) inadequacy of STD/HIV/AIDS prevention programs (in terms of coverage and
accessibility); (6) lack of alternative sources of livelihood; and (7) reluctance to attend STD clinics and
seek voluntary counseling and testing.
-31 -



(b)    Actions needed to reach and reduce vulnerabilities and change behaviors of all stakeholders:
As indicated by lessons from 20 years of HIV/AIDS prevention work, changing behavior requires a
complex array of interventions. Increasing knowledge about HIV/AIDS is insufficient to bring about
behavior change, such as use of condom. To bring about safe sexual and injecting practices,
interventions need to directly address both individual and environmental/contextual factors that influence
such a behavior. Individual factors to adopt safe sex behavior (i.e., use condoms) include personal
concerns and motivations, risk perceptions, and social pressure and support from peers and family. Even
if the intent/desire to adopt the behavior is present, other factors come into play. Individual's ability to
control and fully implement the decision to protect her/himself influenced by external factors. In the case
of condom use, impediments may include legal, economic, and social barriers to accessing condoms, lack
of skills, and unwillingness of partner.
The project recognizes that bringing about behavior change requires involvement of communities and
individuals whose behaviors are to be changed--as they themselves can identify individual and contextual
factors that need to be addressed. The project provides a fund mechanisms for NGOs/CBOs to develop
innovative demand driven interventions.
The social assessment found the following obstacles to participation in HIV/AIDS prevention activities.
These include: (1) cultural taboos and beliefs that make people uncomfortable to discuss sexual issues;
(2) negative influence of sub-cultural norms and values; (3) lack of knowledge and misconception
regarding transmission and prevention of FIV/AIDS (4) inadequate participation of government and
private sectors; (5) inadequate awareness/lack of initiative among opinion leaders; and (6) negative
attitudes and behavior of law enforcement officers and health officers.
Measures for improving community participation in HIV/A1DS prevention programs include attitudinal
changes among various segments of the community, the provision of accurate and updated knowledge on
HIV/AIDS, integration of HIV/AIDS prevention programs with on-going development programs,
mobilization of government agencies, private sector, opinion leaders, law enforcement officers, health
workers. Knowledge about HIV/AIDS cannot protect sex workers, unless two other partners in the sex
work - clients and intermediaries -- are also fully knowledgeable and agree together on protective
measures, such as condom use. The government, with community participation, would also need to
provide civil rights of vulnerable groups.
The project places great emphasis on creating an environment through targeted advocacy and reducing
stigma.
Essential to making prevention work are the social development outcomes:
* Inclusion and empowerment of highly vulnerable communities to protect themselves from HIV
infection and to create through social mobilization, an environment that reduces their vulnerability;
* Reduction in stigma and discrimination against PLWHA and communities at higher levels of risk
6.2 Participatory Approach: How are key stakeholders participating in the project?
Project preparation and implementation will follow a participatory process by involving key stakeholder
groups and fostering a sense of ownership and commitment. A social assessment was undertaken, which
detailed the participation strategy during preparation and implementation. The key participatory activities
during preparation included:
*   Advocacy workshop for central and provincial policy makers for consensus building on HIV/AIDS
- 32 -



prevention;
*   Stakeholder workshops to discuss social assessment, NGO/civil society participation, and waste
management guidelines;
*   Consultations nationwide with vulnerable groups, community health workers and NGOs using focus
group discussion to gain insights into the social, cultural, and behaviorial factors of HIV prevention.
6.3 How does the project involve consultations or collaboration with NGOs or other civil society
organizations?
NGOs are already providing HIV prevention services to key vulnerable and high risk groups.
Consultations have been undertaken with NGOs, CBOs, and academic institutions to identify HIV
prevention measures, mechanism for community participation in health promotion and behavior change
communication activities. The social assessment studied the capacity of public sector and NGOs to
deliver HIV prevention services to vulnerable and high risk population program will be developed to
strengthen service delivery, especially to the vulnerable groups.
Summary of Findings from NGO Assessment
Assessing the capacities of NGOs to participate in the proposed HIV/AIDS prevention program and to
deliver services to vulnerable and high risk groups was an important component of the social assessment.
Although the individual capacity of NGOs working in HIV/AIDS prevention activities ranges from low
to high, overall capacity is generally limited.
There are three categories of target groups covered by NGO under H-V/AIDS prevention programs.
These are: (1) high risk groups including commercial sex workers, beach boys, street children, and
external migrant workers, (2) vulnerable groups such as adolescents, plantation workers, and school
children, and (3) facilitators and trainers engaged in HIV/ AIDS prevention activities. At present, the
outreach of NGOs to vulnerable groups is less than 2% of the estimated populations. This illustrates the
need for scaling up of NGO participation and work in HIV/AIDS prevention programs for vulnerable
groups.
The type of programs and activities conducted by NGOs include: awareness building, training,
counseling, referral for treatment, alternative development programs, and research. A majority of NGOs
are engaged in awareness building and training while the number of NGOs providing counseling and
referral services to vulnerable groups, alternative development programs, and research are relatively
small. Limited participation of NGOs in these activities can be attributed to the lack of specialized skills
and expertise required to implement such programs.
Strengths identified by the assessment of NGOs in planning and implementing HIV/AIDS prevention
activities are:
*   The linkages that NGOs have established with vulnerable groups,
*   The knowledge of and the access to information by NGOs on local situations,
*   The familiarity and the exposure of the NGOs to participatory methodologies,
*   Networks established with other NGOs,
*   Availability of committed staff to work at grassroots level.
Furthermore, the wide geographical coverage of these NGOs is an asset as well as an opportunity for the
project as they can be mobilized and strengthened to carryout prevention related activities.
Some of the weaknesses and gaps in implementing HIV/A1DS related programs are:
*   Lack of technical knowledge on HIV/AIDS and prevention-related activities,
- 33 -



*   Lack of access to information,
*   Lack of scientific approaches and methodologies to HIV/AIDS prevention activities,
*   The mutual suspicion and the distrust between NGOs and State sector institutions.
Strengthening relationships with government agencies and mobilizing their support for NGO activities
can improve the efficiency and effectiveness of NGO activities. Finally, resources available for NGOs to
implement programs appear to be significantly limited.
6.4 What institutional arrangements have been provided to ensure the project achieves its social
development outcomes'?
The project emphasizes key institutional initiatives that will facilitate improved health and social
development outcomes. These include:
*   Institutionalization of social assessment processes to complement behavioral surveillance, to identify
changes in vulnerability and response to interventions by different groups and ensure flexibility of
interventions;
*   Enhanced community, NGO, and civil society participation in policy making body, National AIDS
Committee, as well as through establishment of an NGO committee which would constitute both
governmental and private organizations to discuss concerns of NGOs and mechanism for conflict
management. NGO participation would help ensure privacy, freedom from discrimination, and
access to information and services to vulnerable groups;
*   Multisectoral involvement- different ministries, such as education, justice, women and youth affairs,
defense, police, foreign employment -- would ensure that HIV/AIDS prevention is approached in a
holistic manner, incorporating social development goals;
*   Capacity of NGOs and CBOs would also be enhanced by the project so that they are better able to
provide need-based services and to mobilize highly vulnerable communities.
6.5 How will the project monitor performance in terms of social development outcomes?
A base line survey will be conducted during the first year of implementation of the project, which will be
continued before mid-term and closure. During project implementation, phased social assessments on
specific groups and areas will be conducted to monitor progress according to agreed upon indicators and
to improve strategies for HIV prevention. This effort would complement behavioral and sero-
surveillance systems that would track changes in HIV prevalence and behavior patterns.
7. Safeguard Policies:
7.1 Do any of the following safeguard policies apply to the project?
Policy                                   Applicability
Environmental Assessment (OP 4.01, BP 4.01, GP 4.01)         * Yes ) No
Natural Habitats (OP 4.04, BP 4.04, GP 4.04)                 U Yes * No
Forestry (OP 4.36, GP 4.36)                                  0 Yes * No
Pest Management (OP 4.09)                                    _ Yes * No
Cultural Property (OPN 11.03)                                ( ) Yes * No
Indigenous Peoples (OD 4.20)                                 (9Yes@ No
Involuntary Resettlement (OP/BP 4.12)                        (9) Yes * No
Safety of Dams (OP 4.37, BP 4.37)                            (9 Yes * No
Projects in International Waters (OP 7.50, BP 7.50, GP 7.50)  ( Yes * No
Projects in Disputed Areas (OP 7.60, BP 7.60, GP 7.60)*      C Yes 0 No
- 34 -



7.2 Describe provisions made by the project to ensure compliance with applicable safeguard policies.
OP 4.01 Environmental Assessment. Please see Section 6.
O.D. 4.20 Indigenous Peoples. This proposed project will not trigger indigenous peoples OD 4.20. A
social assessment, undertaken during project preparation, found that the Veddas are not a high risk group.
They are by and large assimilated into the local population and speak and understand Sinhala. Their risk
of contracting HIV is not greater than the rest of the general public. The interventions for high risk
groups, therefore, will not include them. However, the project will support culturally specific
communications activities in local languages/dialects that are directed at the population at large.
Other Safeguard Policies
The project will not involve forestry, natural habitats, pest management, dams, land acquisition, or
displacement of people. The remaining safeguard policies are, therefore, not triggered.
F. Sustainability and Risks
1. Sustainability:
Social/political, implementation, and financial dimensions of sustainability are addressed by the project
in the following manner:
Social and political sustainability. High level political commitment would be sustained and fostered by
advocacy programs that sensitize key policy makers, opinion leaders, and selected groups of people, such
as media personnel, health professionals, and lawyers. These groups are perceived to be influential in
setting the social norms and creating an environment that would facilitate HIV prevention interventions.
In addition, National Health Council and NAC would function as high level multisectoral agencies that
would ensure visibility of HIV/AIDS in both social and political arenas.
Implementation sustainability. The program would be implemented through existing institutional
arrangements in the country and would promote implementation sustainability by: (i) placing project
management and coordination under the authority of the Directorate General; (ii) increasing MOH
financial management and procurement (in particular with regards to services) capacity; and (iii) building
capacity and training for key personnel from health, other key ministries, NGOs, and the private sector on
implementing HIV/AIDS activities.
Financial sustainabilitv. Incremental recurrent burden is expected to be limited. However, some
expansion of structures, use of technical assistance, and staffing deployment within the MOH and
Department of Health at the central and provincial levels would be needed, mainly for program
management, intersectoral coordination, procurement, and financial management. Furthermore, the
proposed project would be incorporated into the future health sector development program support. The
project also has a potential fiscal benefit from the reduced burden of HIV/AIDS.
2. Critical Risks (reflecting the failure of critical assumptions found in the fourth column of Annex 1):
Risk                   Risk Rating            Risk Mitigation Measure
From Outputs to Objective
Political commitment to HIV/AIDS           S        Sustained advocacy and communications
control is stagnant                                 efforts will be targeted at opinion leaders and
policy makers.
- 35 -



GOSL and WBI organized AIDS Leadership
program for political and opinion leaders from
all sectors. The first seminar was held in June
2002.
Public and private sector undertakes      H        GOSL complies with the UN International
repressive measures against vulnerable             Guidelines on ethical standards in HIV control.
groups and fails to maintain international
ethical standards. This results in making          National AIDS Committee will be strengthened
groups at high risk harder to reach, thus          to involve civil society to ensure compliance of
reducing the effectiveness of targeted             ethical standards and manage and resolve
interventions and increasing the                   conflicts.
likelihood of a rapid spread of HIV                Training in ethical standards in HIV prevention
will be undertaken.
Training and promoting leadership in HIV
prevention among such agencies as the police,
trade unions, and the Board of Investment, will
be conducted.
GOSL continues to only maintain clinical  M         Public health training and placement of social
and laboratory focus and fails to                   and behavioral scientists will be placed in the
implement prevention activities among               program.
high risk groups
NGOs and CBOs representing highly
vulnerable populations will be involved at the
NAC and Provincial AIDS Committees
Programs among highly vulnerable          M         Engaging NGOs and CBOs that are familiar
subpopulations are not effective                    and have trust of communities will be
supported by training and well developed
selection criteria for NGOs/CBOs will be in
place.
NGOs/CBOs will be trained in key technical
and implementation areas prior to
implementation.
Subproject mechanism allows for greater
flexibility, innovation and involvement of
communities that at higher level of risk.
Stringent screening, selection, and monitoring
mechanisms for NGOs have been considered
during project design.
Inadequate institutional and managerial    S        Implementation specialists--management
capacity                                            advisor, financial management and
procurement consultants--will be recruited to
support DGHS. They will also undertake
training of staff at central and provincial levels
- 36 -



and in other ministries.
From Components to Outputs
Key staff and managers are not in place    H         Provision at negotiations for appointment of
critical staff will be provided.
Delays in disbursement of project funds    H         Training will be undertaken by the FMS prior
because of limited prior experience of              to releasing funds to the concerned line
certain line ministries in managing Bank             ministries and agencies.
funds.
Failure to ensure timely contracting of    S         Plan and sample bid documents and contracts
consultants                                          were developed during preparation.
Overall Risk Rating                        S
Risk Rating - H (High Risk), S (Substantial Risk), M (Modest Risk), N(Negligible or Low Risk)
3. Possible Controversial Aspects:
There is still a great deal of stigma attached to HIV/AIDS, condoms, and people living with HIV
(PLWHA). The project directly aims to reduce stigma through advocacy and communication programs
and involvement of opinion leaders, media personnel, health staff, and law enforcement to actively
promote positive attitudes toward HIV prevention and PLWHA. Social marketing of condoms would
also reduce stigma attached to condoms. In addition, workshops and meetings for high level policy
makers would be organized to sustain political commitment.
G. Main GrantConditions
1. Effectiveness Condition
None
2. Other [classify according to covenant types used in the Legal Agreements.
None
H. Readiness for Implementation
D 1. a) The engineering design documents for the first year's activities are complete and ready for the
start of project implementation.
2 1. b) Not applicable.
g 2. The procurement documents for the first year's activities are complete and ready for the start of
project implementation.
1 3. The Project Implementation Plan has been appraised and found to be realistic and of satisfactory
quality.
0 4. The following items are lacking and are discussed under loan cpnditions (Section G):
- 37 -



1. Compliance with Bank Policies
1i 1. This project complies with all applicable Bank policies.
II 2. The following exceptions to Bank policies are recommended for approval. The project complies
with all other applicable Bank policies.
Hnin   in Pyne                   AnabelAbreu                       et C. Harrold
Team Leader                      Sector Manager/Director          C    try Manager/Director
- 38 -



Annex 1: Project Design Summary
SRI LANKA: National HIWAIDS Prevention Project
Key Performance           Data Collection Strategy
Hierarchy of Objectives              Indicators                                            Critical Assumptions
Sector-related CAS Goal:      Sector Indicators:            Sector/ country reports:      (from Goal to Bank Mission)
Health and nutritional status of Reductions in infant and child  Annual Health Bulletin  Improving health and
Sri Lanka's population,       mortality, malnutrition,                                    nutritional status will increase
particularly among the poor,  communicable diseases, and    DHS (GOSL)                    productivity, contributing to
women, and children, is       non-communicable diseases                                   poverty reduction.
improved
Macroeconomic situation is
stablized.
Project Development           Outcome / Impact              Project reports:              (from Objective to Goal)
Objective:                    Indicators:
To reduce the spread of       Impact Indicators                                          Investment in the health
HIV/AIDS among highly         HlV prevalence rate among: (i)  Sero surveillance reports   sector--immunization,
vulnerable subpopulations and women attending antenatal clinics                           communicable disease control,
the public at large           remains below 1%; (ii) STD                                  family welfare--continues
clinic population; and (ii) sex
workers stays below 5%.
Syphilis prevalence rate among  Report from antenatal clinics  Investment in other sectors, such
women attending antenatal clinics                           as water and sanitation, and
remains below 5%                                            education, affecting health and
nutritional status, continues
Outcome indicators
Increase in % of sex workers who Behavioral surveillance report
report condom use with most
recent client (estimated at less
10% in 2001 to 60% in 2007)
Increase in % of clients of sex
workers who report using condom
at last commercial sex (estimated
at less than 10% in 2001 to 60%
in 2007)
Increase in % of sex workers
reporting symptoms of STDs in
the last 12 months who sought
care
Increase in % of clients of sex
workers reporting symptoms of
STDs in the last 12 months who
sought care
Surpass the global target of 85%  Quarterly reports (provincial)
for the national average cure rate, WHO estimates
particularly in Colombo and
Gampaha, where in 1999 the rate
stands at 70%
-39 -



Increase from 35% of estimated
smear positive cases detected
under DOTS in 2000 to 85% by
project end
Output from each             Output Indicators:           Project reports:             (from Outputs to Objective)
Component:
1. Interventions to promote  1.1. No.of staff from NGOs and  1.1. and 1.2. Implementation  Programs among highly
safe sexual and safe injecting  line ministries trained in  progress reports from      vulnerable groups are effective
behaviors among vulnerable   HIV/AIDS (effective          DGHS/NSACP
populations implemented      interventions), subproject                                Political commitment to
management, and referral                                  HIV/AIDS control grows
1.2. No. of subprojects and
contracts awarded to NGOs/                                Public and private sector do
CBOs                                                      not undertakes repressive
measures against vulnerable
1.3. Coverage of highly      1.3. Quarterly reports from  groups and maintain ethical
vulnerable population by     NGOs/CBOs and line ministries  standards
prevention activities (including  1.3. Monitoring and evaluation
behavioral change            by external/independent agency  GOSL continues to shift to
communications) increases from                            pbi    elhapoce         n
10% to 60%                                                public health approaches and
implement prevention
1.4. Knowledge on HIV        1.4. Behavioral surveillance  activities among vulnerable
prevention increases among sex                            groups
workers, and clients of sex
workers to 75% by project end
1.5. Condoms distributed in "high 1.5. Social marketing campaign
transmission areas"          reports
1.6. No. of health/STD camps set 1.6. Quarterly STD clinic repons
up in "hot spots"
1.7. No. of medical officers in  1.7. NSACP progress repon
STD clinics with training to work
with vulnerable groups
2. Communication and         2.1. Communications strategy  2.1. NSACP progress report
advocacy campaigns and       developed for general        (Communications firm
interventions to raise       population and key selected  updates)
awareness and reduce stigma  groups
in the general population and
key partners (e.g., media,   2.2. No. of advocacy activities 2.2. Provincial Health
health personnel, and police)  for policy makers (Study tours quarterly reports
developed and successfully   and senior level seminars and  2.2. NSACP progress report
implemented                  workshops)
2.3. No. of youth peer       2.3. NSACP pregress report
educators trained
2.4. Knowledge of HIV        2.4. Knowledge, Attitude,
(identification of prevention  Practice, and Behavior
methods and modes of         (KAPB) surveys
transmission) among youth,
- 40 -



underserved communities
(estates), and in the North and
Northeast post conflict areas
2.5. No. of media pieces   2.5. Comnmunications firm
developed to promote positive updates
attitudes towards PLWHA
articles
2.6. Proportion of sex workers 2.6. Behavioral surveillance
who report harassment
declines by 50 percentage
points
2.7. Increase in % of people  2.7. KAPB surveys
expressing accepting attitudes
towards people with HIV
3. Blood safety program    3.1. Proportion of voluntary  3.1. Annual blood bank
strengthened and expanded  non-paid donors increases  reviews and reports
from 80% in 2000 to 95% in
2007
3.2. Proportion of medical  3.2. NBTS progress report
staff trained in rational use of
drugs increases to 95%
3.3. Over 95% of blood     3.3. Survey on rational use of
transfusions are administered  blood
for essential purposes
4. Mother to Child         4.1. Protocol developed for  4.1. NSACP progress report
transmission prevention    management of IRV in
program strengthened       pregnancy
4.2. No. of antenatal clinics  4.2.-4.4. Quarterly reports of
offering VCT and PMTCT     antenatal clinics/Site visits
4.3. Proportion of pregnant
mothers receiving VCT
reaches 70%
4.4. No. of IRV positive
mothers attending antenatal
clinics receive anti-retroviral
therapy
5. Prevention and treatment of 5. 1L DOTs coverage increases 5.1. NTP annual report
TB improved               from 10 districts to all 25
districts
5.2-. -No. of chest clinics and  5.2. and 5.3. Quarterly reports
TB wards refurbished       from chest clinics and TB
wards and Site visits
5.3. No. of microscopy labs
- 41 -



established
5.3. Proportion of health  5.3. NTP progress report
personnel in TB program and
HIV program trained in
management of TB in
PLWHA
6. Capacity of GOSL to     6.1. DGHS office fully    6.1. DGHS progress report
manage, implement, monitor,  operational and staffed with
and evaluate a multisectoral  management advisor,
HIV prevention program     procurement and financial
strengthened               management specialists
6.2. NSACP fully operational 6.2. and 6.3. NSACP progress
staffed in the areas of M&E,  report
surveillance, behavioral and
social scientist, intersectoral
coordinator and regional
facilitators
6.3. Behavioral and
sero-surveillance system in
place by Year 2
6.4. Management information 6.4. DGHS Project progress
system in place            report
6.5. Proportion of Provincial 6.5. Provincial annual reports
AIDS councils meeting
regularly and with full
representation from key
sectors and civil society
representations
6.6 No. of health personnel  6.6. DGHS Progress report
trained in universal precaution
and health care waste
management
6.7. No. of STD clinics, TB  6.7 Progress report from
chest clinics, and blood banks NSACP, NTP, and NBTS
with waste management
activities
- 42 -



Key Performance       Data Collection Strategy
Hierarchy of Objectives         Indicators                                    Critical Assumptions
Project Components /      Inputs: (budget for each  Project reports:         (from Components to
Sub-components:           component)                                         Outputs)
Component 1: Developing   US$ 6.6 million (IDA- US$5.8                       Key staff and managers are in
HIV Prevention Interventions  million)                                       place and retained for
sufficient time
Cmponent 2: TB Control    US$ 8.6 million (IDA- US$                          Funds are made available and
2.0 million)                                       on time to other sectors and
NGOs/CBOs
Component 3: Institutional  US$ 5.6 million (IDA-US$ 4.7                     Capacity of NGOs/CBOs, line
Strengthening             million)                                           ministries, and PHAs is
strengthened to implement
subprojects and workplans
- 43 -



Annex 2: Detailed Project Description
SRI LANKA: National HIV/AIDS Prevention Project
The project would consist of the following three main components. The expected outputs and outcomes
are detailed in Annex I (project logframe).
By Component:
Project Component 1 - US$6.64 million
HIV Prevention Programs
1.1: Targeted interventions among highly vulnerable populations.
This subcomponent would support HIV prevention programs for highly vulnerable populations in Sri
Lanka which include female and male sex workers (including beach boys), transport workers, workers in
the free trade zones, migrants, drug users, men who have sex with men, armed service personnel. The
programs would promote condom use and safe injecting practices, reduce the number of sexual partners
and casual/ commercial sex encounters, promote timely STD care. To bring about these behavioral
changes, the following types of interventions would be included: behavioral change communications,
condom promotion, voluntary testing and counseling and referral, STD services and referral, and
community mobilization and empowerment. These interventions would be implemented by NGOs/CBOs
and line ministries.
1.2. Broad based programs foryouth and the general population
Five program areas would be supported under this subcomponent: (i) advocacy for policy makers and
opinion leaders; (ii) behavioral change communications for youth; (iii) condoms social marketing; (iv)
blood safety; and (v) prevention of mother to child transmission.
Complementing the interventions for highly vulnerable subpopulations, broad-based communications and
advocacy programs are necessary in order to sustain political and societal support and commitment to
HIV prevention, create an enabling environment for provision of services and mobilization of highly
vulnerable subpopulations, and reduce stigma and discrimination against to people living with
HIV/AIDS.
1. Selective groups for advocacy. This subcomponent would support efforts to sustain political and
societal support and commitment to H1V prevention, create an enabling environment for provision of
services and mobilization of highly vulnerable subpopulations, who are difficult to reach, as they often
engage in illicit behaviors, such as selling sex, buying sex, and using drugs, and reduce stigma and
discrimination against to people living with HIV/AIDS and highly vulnerable subpopulations.
(i) Opinion leaders and decision makers. As HIV evokes issues of sexuality and drug use that are
considered taboo, the objective of this set of activities would be to increase political and societal support
for FHV prevention. To minimize cultural and social resistance to HIV prevention and to protect highly
vulnerable groups and people living with FHV/AIDS, advocacy activities would be directed at policy
makers, police, religious leaders, employers, unions, and other opinion leaders. These activities would
include seminars, workshops, internet based communications, and high publicity events.
- 44 -



(ii) Media Personnel. Journalists and other media personnel play a critical role in promoting a positive
environment for HIV/AIDS prevention and care. Stories and messages through newspaper, TV, and
radio can help reduce stigma and fear that is often associated with HIV and promote positive attitudes
towards people living with HIV. Interventions that would be supported include distance learning
programs, workshops, and internet-based communications.
(iii) Law Enforcement. Many barriers impede H1V/AIDS prevention activities in reaching sex workers
and their clients, injecting drug users, and men who have sex with men, whose behaviors that place them
at risk for HIV also make them vulnerable to harassment by police, driving the behaviors (and the people
engaged in them) underground making access difficult. To create an enabling environment for
prevention interventions for these subpopulations require that police understand the importance of
working with these vulnerable groups.
(iv) Health Personnel. Health workers are instrumental in shaping attitudes and norms of the general
public towards HIV prevention and PLWHA, as they are the first contact with those who infected and
affected by the infection, and are often highly regarded by society at large for their opinions on health
and medical matters. Fear and discrimination against PLWHA expressed by health personnel would only
deepen fear and stigma. The project would support training and workshops targeted at this particular
group. In addition, to help reduce discrimination by health workers, post-exposure prophylaxis would be
made available to them.
2. Youth. This subcomponent would also support interventions aimed at protecting youth from
HIV/AIDS, as youth are especially primed for risky behaviors as well as critical for preparing for
establishing healthy behaviors and attitudes through out the adult life. The objective of this set of
activities is promote safe sex norms,and practices (i.e., delay in age of first sexual intercourse,
abstinence, use of condoms) and to empower young men and women in making decisions about their
reproductive and sexual health. Interventions, including use of peer networks, interpersonal
communications (i.e., peer education), entertainment-based education, involvement of role models,
school-based programs, and telephone hotline, would be largely implemented by youth groups, NGOs,
schools, and Department of Education.
3. A condom social marketing campaign, which would be implemented by a private firm or NGO, would
be supported to increase availability of condoms in "high transmission" areas and to subpopulations that
are most at risk, and to reduce stigma attached to condoms.
4. Blood Safety. The subcomponent would complement JBIC's support of the National Blood
Transfusion Service (NBTS) in improving the physical infrastructure of blood banks, screening
transfusions for HIV, Hepatitis C, and other STDs and'improving quality assurance. The proposed
project would support NBTS to help increase voluntary non-remunerative blood donations through
communications and outreach programs, and promote rational use of blood and blood products through
development of guidelines and training. NBTS would coordinate and collaborate with managers and
staff of blood banks and provincial directors of health services in implementing these activities.
5. Prevention of mother-to-child transmission. The subcomponent would support development of
protocol in managing HIV in pregnancy, pilot interventions that link antenatal care with voluntary
counseling and testing (VCT) services and that provide care and support, including antiretroviral therapy
for pregnant women with HIV. These interventions would be implemented largely by NSACP and
provincial health authorities.
Project Component 2 - US$8.60 million
- 45 -



The objective of the subcomponent is to reduce the risk of an emerging HIV-associated TB epidemic
among the HIV infected and the non-infected. It aims to reverse the increasing incidence of TB, increase
the TB cure rate, and reduce defaulter rates of new and re-treatment cases. To achieve these objectives,
this component would consist of the following two areas:
2.1 Enhancing leadership, and organization andfunctions of the National TB Control Program. This
involves support for advocacy and communications programs, updating technical norms, manuals and
guidelines, training to upgrade skills of program managers and staff, building the capacity of the central
program unit to improve outreach, supervision, monitoring and evaluation, strengthening the Central
Reference Laboratory and Chest Hospital, and improving the conditions of TB wards and chest clinics
and logistics for enhanced supervision at the provincial and district levels.
2.2. Improving coverage and quality of DOTS and research for adapting and enhancing DOTS. This
component aims to expand DOTS services from 10 districts to 25 districts by training key staff in DOTS
implementations, involving community groups and leaders, and advancing the information system. In
addition, the component would support research on approaches to reduce defaulter rates, especially in
urban areas, and to develop pilot drug-resistant TB treatment projects and protocol for testing models for
effective care in Sri Lanka.
Project Component 3 - US$ 5.63 million
3.1. Enhancing capacity of agencies involved in the national response, including (i) Office of the
Director General Health Services for program management and coordination; (ii) National STD/AIDS
control program; (iii) provincial health authorities; (iv) multisectoral agencies, such as National AIDS
Committee (NAC), and Provincial AIDS Committees (PAC); and (v) NGOs and other private/voluntary
organizations. Both human resources as well as infrastructure related to HIV/STD services would be
supported in this subcomponent. Activities include training, workshops/seminars, consultant services to
support implementation, and strengthening the STD clinic and lab infrastructure in the North and
Northeast regions through minor civil works and refurbishment.
3.2. Improving information base for policy decisions and program management. There is a great need
for improving the information base for better decision making on HIV/AlDS related policies and
programming. To meet that need, the proposed project would support:
(i) Management Information System which would be set up to facilitate routine monitoring of HIV/STD
and TB prevention and control activities. A well designed M&E system is needed to provide timely and
coordinated feedback to the project executing agencies. DGHS office, in collaboration with NSACP,
NTP, and NBTS, would coordinate project monitoring, to be guided by the core indicators highlighted in
Annex 1. In addition, it would be responsible for compiling and consolidating data related to
input/output indicators into an implementation progress report. Base-line surveys and impact evaluation
of interventions, particularly those focusing on highly vulnerable populations and youth, would be
contracted out to external groups, such as universities.
(ii) A second-generation surveillance (behavioral and sero-surveillance systems), as well as STD
surveillance, would be designed and developed to track the trend and direction of the epidemic. The
surveillance systems would provide information that would enable the program management to modify
project interventions to better respond to the changes in the direction of the epidemic, as well as to
provide a strong advocacy tool for strengthening political and societal commitment to prevention.
-46 -



(iii) Operational research would help fill knowledge gap and guide interventions, and would be
undertaken by academic and research institutions.
NSACP would be responsible for maintaining the MIS and functioning of the STI and sero-surveillance,
and for subcontracting services to undertake independent evaluations, studies, and behavioral
surveillance.
3.3. Improving health care waste management: This subcomponent would aim to prevent pollution
and biological hazards from the health care waste generated from project activities, in particular at STD
clinics and TB chest clinics, as well as treat and dispose of clinical waste produced by hospitals in
Colombo in an environmentally acceptable manner. In addition, this subcomponent would support
creating a proper legislative environment for enforcement of an integrated clinical waste management
plan in Sri Lanka.
- 47 -



Annex 3: Estimated Project Costs
SRI LANKA: National HIV/AIDS Prevention Project
Local        Foreign       Total
Project Cost By Component                US $million   US $million  US $million
Component 1: HIV/AIDS Prevention                           2.62         3.56          6.18
Component 2: TB Control*                                   5.25         2.80          8.05
Component 3: Institutional Strengthening                   3.34          1.94         5.28
0.00         0.00
Total Baseline Cost                                       11.21         8.30         19.51
Physical Contingencies                                    0.13         0.15          0.28
Price Contingencies                                       0.67         0.41         -1.08
Total Project Costs'             12.01          8.86        20.87
Total Financing Required              12.01         8.86         20.87
Local        Foreign       Total
Project Cost By Category                US $million  ' US $million  US $million
Civil Works                                                  1.57          0.00          1.57
Goods and Equipment                                          0.53          5.57         6.10
Consultant services                                          4.90          2.90          7.80
Training                                                     3.50          0.39          3.89
Subprojects                                                  0.48          0.00          0.48
Recurrent                                                    1.03          0.00          1.03
Total Project Costs      12.01          8.86        20.87
Total Financing Required      12.01          8.86        20.87
*Global Fund will finance US$6.36 million for TB control from 2002 to 2006.
Identifiable taxes and duties are 0 (lJS$m) and the total protect cost, net of taxes. is 20.87 (US$m). Therefore, the project cost sharing ratio is 0% of
total project cost net of taxes.
-48 -



Annex 4: Cost Benefit Analysis Summary
SRI LANKA: National HIV/AIDS Prevention Project
[For projects with benefits that are measured in monetary terms]
Present Value of Flows                      Fiscal Impact
Economic      Financial Analysis'
Analysis                              Taxes          Subsidies
Benefits:
Medical costs                   44                                                   (22)
avoided (US$M)
Taxes on Lost                   69                                   9
earnings avoided
(US$M)                         113
Total benefits
(US$M)
Costs:                          26                                                     26
HIV/AIDS Program
(US$M)
Net Benefits:                   87                                   9                  4
IRR:
If the difference between the present value of financial and economic flows is large and cannot be explained by
taxes and subsidies, a brief explanation of the difference is warranted, e.g. "The value of financial benefits is less
than that of economic benefits because of controls on electricity tariffs."
Summary of Benefits and Costs:
In order to arrive at an estimate of the costs and benefits of the program, it should first be noted that
there are three main types of benefits arising from an FHV/AIDS prevention program such as the one
discussed in this report: (i) medical costs avoided on account of treatment of opportunistic infections and
other secondary illnesses associated with full-blown AIDS; (ii) AIDS patients' lost earnings avoided; and
(iii) the value of years of life lost avoided. In the present cost-benefit calculations, only (i) and (ii) have
been included. All three types of benefits arise from the stream of new HIV infections avoided as a
consequence of the program.
In addition to the main types of program benefits listed above, promoting safer sexual practices should
have an effect not only in reducing the spread of HIV/AIDS but also of other sexually transmitted
diseases such as syphilis and gonorrhea. As with IV/AIDS, the economic benefits in all of these cases
would consist of a combination of medical costs avoided and earnings lost avoided. These benefits have
not been included in the cost-benefit calculations. Benefits arising from the TB component have also
been excluded in the calculations.
Costs included in the calculations are the estimated costs for the entire program, regardless of source of
financing (i.e., a baseline cost of US$20.87 million; see Annex 3).
- 49 -



Costs pertain to the period 2003-17 (15 years), while benefits would start in 2011 and continue until 2023
(because of the lags involved, benefits from the program would be forthcoming for another six years after
discontinuation of the program, falling to zero thereafter). The program in its present form is assumed to
be discontinued after 2017 (with the strategy shifting at that time to universal vaccination against HIV).
As indicated in the table above, the calculations in the base case yield a positive net present value for the
program of US$87 million (using a 10% annual discount rate). About 60% of the benefits are in the form
of foregone earnings avoided --which pertain to the stage of full-blown ADS-- and the remaining 40% in
the form of medical treatment costs avoided pertaining to the same stage.
The table also presents an estimate of the fiscal impact of the program in the 2003-23 period. The net
estimated fiscal impact (i.e., incremental taxes minus incremental subsidies) is positive in the base case
(US$5 million). This is obtained by adding the value of incremental tax revenues that would accrue to
the Government on account of taxation on lost earnings avoided (US$9 million, assuming an average rate
of mostly indirect taxation on households of 13%) to the fiscal savings in the form of medical costs
avoided that would have been incurred by government health facilities (assumed to be one-half of total
medical costs, or US$22 million), and then subtracting the present value of program costs (US$26
million).
Cost-effectiveness Analysis
It is possible that while the HIV/AIDS program presented in the PAD would have a positive NPV, there
may be some other program design or mix of interventions to combat HIV/AIDS that would have a
higher NPV, and on economic efficiency grounds would thus be preferable. Alternative, mutually
exclusive program designs would in general all have different total costs and different total benefits (in
present value).
A recent report from UNAIDS entitled "Effective Prevention Strategies in Low HIV Prevalence Settings"
attempts to summarize what has been learnt so far about prevention at the early stage of the epidemics.
The report makes the point that extensive epidemiological evidence and modeling work both clearly
show that the most efficient means for reducing epidemic spread is to reduce HIV transmission among
those with higher rates of partner change --either sexual of needle-sharing. Transmission must be
interrupted early among those sub-groups at higher risk. In the proposed program this class of
intervention would be an important element. And indeed if the program only had very limited resources
at its disposal, targeted interventions for vulnerable groups would have to be the top priority, if
cost-effectiveness were the only criterion used to select interventions for inclusion.
As the resource envelope of the program expands, however (and assuming that capacity constraints or
sharply rising marginal costs make greater spending on targeted interventions for vulnerable groups
impossible or undesirable), it is less clear what the ranking of the remaining interventions would be. A
recent optimization exercise in Honduras, for example, found that blood safety interventions only
become part of the optimal package for HIV prevention at high levels of the resource envelope (although
it should be taken into account that the investments that would be made on blood safety would have
benefits beyond HIV prevention). The same was true, to a lesser extent, of prevention of mother-to-child
transmission. Of course, the conditions in Honduras are likely to be different from those in Sri Lanka,
and the list of interventions examined are not exactly the same, so the results for Honduras are not
directly applicable.
- 50 -



Main Assumptions:
In the base case, it is assumed that in the absence of the program the annual number of new HIV
infections would increase by 50% per year throughout the projection period. With the program, the
annual rate of increase in new infections is assumed to slow down to 45% in Year 4 and to 40% in Year
5, remaining at that level thereafter. The number of new infections in Year 1 of the projection (2003) is
assumed to be 450. With these assumptions, the number of new HIV infections that would be prevented
in the 2003-17 period would be about 190,000, which would be equivalent to about 47% of the total
number of cases in the without-program situation --in other words, the program would permit to avert
almost one-half of all cases.
It is assumed that an effective vaccine would be available by 2017 (i.e., 15 years after the start of the
program), which would prompt adoption of a different design of the HIV prevention program, probably
based on universal vaccination.
Other assumptions for the cost-benefit calculation are:
*   Average number of years between infection and the onset of full-blown AIDS: 5.
*   Average number of years between the onset of full-blown AIDS and death: 2.
*   Average annual cost per patient of medical treatment of opportunistic infections and other related
illnesses during the full-blown AIDS stage (including both costs borne by the Government and
by the patient): US$650. This estimate does not include the cost of anti-retroviral therapy.
*   Average annual number of days of work lost per patient during the full-blown AIDS stage: 130.
*   Average earnings per worker (patient) per day: US$4.50 in 2002 and increasing by 3% per year
in real terms thereafter. [The $4.50 number was obtained by using the formula { [ (US$860 x
0.80) / 260 days ] /0.41 } x 0.701, where US$860 is the per capita income in 2002; 0.80 is the
percentage of national income paid out to labor; 0.41 is the proportion of the population in the
labor force; and 0.70 is the proportion of those whose HIV infections would be averted who
would actually be employed].
*   Discount rate: 10% per year.
In addition to the above, assumptions for the estimate offiscal impact are:
*   About one-half of the costs of medical treatment of opportunistic infections and other
HIV-related illnesses are borne by the Government.
*   The tax rate on foregone earnings avoided is 13% (mostly consisting of indirect taxes).
Sensitivity analysis / Switching values of critical items:
The most uncertain (and critical) variable in the above estimate of Net Present Value is the estimate of
the number of HIV infections averted by the program. Alternative scenarios were examined in this
regard. The number of infections averted is higher: (i) the higher the assumed rate of increase in the
annual number of new infections in the without-program situation; and (ii) the greater the difference
between the rate of increase in the annual number of new infections in the without-program situation as
compared with the rate of increase in the with-project situation.
As noted above, the base case assumes that the annual number of new infections in the without-project
situation would grow at a constant 50% rate, while in the with-project situation the rate of increase would
decline gradually to 40% and remain at that level thereafter. But even if the annual rate of increase of
new infections declined to only 45% in the with-project situation, the NPV of the program would still be
positive (US$42 million). The NPV becomes negative (minus US$12 million) when the rate of increase
in the annual number of new infections in the without-program situation is assumed to be only 30%, and
- 51 -



five percentage points less (25%) in the with-program situation. Based on these calculations (and also
taking into account that some types of benefits have been left out of the calculation, as explained above)
it is likely that the NPV of the program would be positive.
Fiscal Burden of the Introduction of Government-subsidized Anti-Retroviral Treatment
The above analysis refers to the HIV/AIDS program as presented in the main text of this PAD, i.e., a
purely preventive program. The project team also prepared some projections of the likely fiscal burden
that would result in the hypothetical case of the introduction of anti-retroviral treatment as a free service
funded by Government.
In addition to the assumptions that were made for the cost-benefit calculations above, the following
additional assumptions were made for the projections of the ARV-relatedfiscal burden:
* The Government offers to provide henceforth universal subsidization of ARV treatment on demand,
covering 100% of the direct costs (drugs plus cost of tests). No significant ARV treatment was
taking place before this policy is introduced. It is also assumed that ARV treatment starts to be
offered by the Government at the same time that the enhanced preventive activities outlined in this
PAD start to be implemented.
* It is assumed that the introduction of such subsidy and consequent actual ARV treatment does not
affect the number of new HIV infections per year (incidence) over the projection period, relative to
the no-ARV situation. Prevalence would be affected, however, since people who would have died of
AIDS remain alive (but still infected) for many more years because of ARV treatment.
* The number of new HIV infections per year is assumed to grow as in the base-case of the
with-project situation --i.e., the annual rate of growth of new infections is 50% initially, falling to
45% in Year 4 and to 40% in Year 5, and remaining at that level thereafter. The baseline figure for
incidence is assumed to be 450 cases, while baseline prevalence is assumed to be 3,800 cases.
* HIV patients receiving ARV treatment all survive up to the end of the projection period (20 years
from the time the treatment starts to be offered).
* ARV treatment is initiated for those patients exhibiting the following characteristics: (i)
symptomatic; (ii) CD4 cell count less than 350; (iii) plasma HIV-RNA levels exceeding 30,000.
These guidelines for ARV treatment would result in about 16% of all HIV patients at a point in time
being eligible for subsidized ARV treatment. It is also assumed that only 80% of those eligible
actually avail themselves of the treatment.
* The cost of ARV drugs to the GOSL is assumed to be US$1,000/patient/year. In addition, the GOSL
bears the cost of associated tests, assumed to be $300/patient/year.
* On the other hand, the GOSL is assumed to save US$325 per HIV patient treated with ARV per year,
in the form of medical costs averted for the treatment of opportunistic infections during the
full-blown AIDS stage that did not materialize (this amounts to one-half of total medical costs
averted, with the rest accruing as savings to the patients).
* GOSL also achieves some tax revenue gains from its provision of free ARV treatment, in the form of
taxes collected on wages from the extra work the treatment enables HIV patients to perform after
full-blown AIDS has set in. The tax rate on these incremental wages is assumed to be 13%
(consisting mostly of indirect taxes). [Note: no tax gains have been included in the calculations
which derive from the work performed by patients treated with ARV during the years when they
would have been dead in the absence of the treatment. In order to calculate the net effect such tax
gains should be reduced by the extra government spending that would have been incurred for any
purpose or service of any kind, on account of the fact that the persons in question are alive rather
than dead, which would be difficult to estimate].
With the above assumptions, the annual cost to the Government of providing free ARV treatment would
- 52 -



peak at about US$35 million by 2017 (the year universal vaccination is introduced). This would
represent 8-11% of the total Ministry of Health budget in that year, assuming that this budget would
grow in the range of 3-5% per year in real terms. If the savings to the Ministry of Health budget from
other medical costs avoided are taken into account, the net effect of free ARV treatment on the Ministry
of Health budget would peak at about 7-9%.
It should be noted that the above results may critically depend on the second assumption above, namely,
that the introduction and actual provision of free ARV treatment on demand does not affect the time path
of HIV incidence. If, contrary to this assumption, the introduction of such treatment encouraged risky
behaviors, HIV incidence would be higher than in the no-ARV treatment scenario and the fiscal burden
would be correspondingly higher.
- 53 -



Annex 5: Financial Summary
SRI LANKA: National HIV/AIDS Prevention Project
Years Ending
2003-2007
| IMPLEMENTATIQNPRERIOD -,
Year 1    Year 2    Year 3    Year 4  | Year 5    Year 6    Year 7
Total Financing Required
Project Costs
Investment Costs          2.3        5.2       6.8       4.7       0.9       0.0      0.0
Recurrent Costs           0.1        0.3       0.3       0.3       0.0       0.0       0.0
Total Project Costs         2.4       5.5       7.1       5.0       0.9        0.0      0.0
,Total Financing            2.4        5.5       7.1       5.0       0.9       0.0       0.0
Financing
IBRD/IDA                  1.1       2.9       4.7       3.2       0.7       0.0       0.0
Government                0.3       0.7       0.5       0.4       0.1       0.0       0.0
Central                0.0       0.0       0.0       0.0       0.0       0.0       0.0
Provincial            0.0        0.0       0.0       0.0       0.0       0.0       0.0
Co-financiers                                                               0.0       0.0
User Fees/Beneficiaries     0.0       0.0       0.0        0.0                0.0       0.0
GFATM                       1.0       1.9       1.9        1.4       0.1      0.0       0.0
Total Project Financing    2.4       5.5       7.1        5.0       0.9      0.0       0.0
Main assumptions:
- 54 -



Annex 6: Procurement and Disbursement Arrangements
SRI LANKA: National HIWAIDS Prevention Project
Procurement
The Ministry of Health, Government of Sri Lanka has executed two Bank financed projects and is also
currently executing a number of projects, financed by several other international donor agencies.
Although some of the MOH officials are somewhat conversant with the systems and procedures to be
followed for procurement under Bank financed projects, the officials implementing this project may not
necessarily be those who have been associated with the earlier Bank financed projects. Furthermore,
the nature of the project (technical assistance based) is such that some of services would be carried out
by NGOs and other private agencies. In that light, during project preparation a procurement consulting
firm was recruited to develop a procurement plan and sample documents, which have been reviewed
and found to be of sufficient quality. The consulting firm also carried out procurement training for key
relevant MOH staff to familiarize with them with Bank guidelines and procedures.
DGHS, overseeing project management and administration, would be responsible for procurement. A
procurement/logistics officer from MOH regular cadre will be assigned to the DG's office and will
continue working beyond the life of the project. In addition, an Individual Procurement consultant will
be recruited to the DGHS and will train the procurement officer initially for about three years by which
time in-house capacity would be strengthened. The consultant would conduct a series of workshops to
develop the procurement capacity of the MOH and other implementing agencies including Ministry of
Defense, Ministry of Labor, Ministry of Education, Foreign Employment Bureau, National Child
Protection Authority, National Youth Council, and provincial health authorities.
Procurement Risk: There is a potential risk in the subproject component having a large number of
contracting done through NGOs and other private organizations. The major procurement, however, will
be done through government agencies who have some experience in bank procurement. As the contracts
are mostly of small value (around US$100,000) and the project supported by procurement consultants,
there should not be any great risk in the remaining activities. In addition, regional facilitators will be
trained by the procurement consultant, to assist line ministries, NGOs and other implementing agencies.
The proposed project has detailed a monitoring mechanism which includes performance monitoring
with reasonably accurate base line data and implementation based on a participatory monitoring
approach; institutional tracking that includes self assessment by NGOs; internal learning, and above all,
evaluation that includes a development audit and project impact assessment. TOR for the audit will be
finalized and reviewed by the Bank prior to negotiations.
Disbursement Profile: For the first year, disbursement is expected to be low, at about 10%, because
the initial year could consist largely of capacity building of key implementing agencies and orientation
to familiarize with workplans, subproject cycle, strategy formulation for communications activities,
development of training materials, and initiation of procurement of goods and equipment, as well as
minor civil works. Disbursement will pick up at year 2 at about 15% and at year 3 at about 25%, as
minor civil works and procurement of vehicles and equipment are expected to be completed and large
portion of the subprojects implemented.
Procurement methods (Table A)
All project activities to be financed under the Credit would be procured in accordance with the Bank
- 55 -



Guidelines for Procurement of Goods, Works and Consultancy Guidelines for hiring Consulting Services
(including NGO services) to be financed under the Credit. All civil works, goods and services would be
procured using specific Bank's model documents as well as the formats of the community contracts
specifically approved for the Project. Specific procurement arrangements summarized in Table A are as
follows:
The project would consist of the following three main components:
Component 1: HIV Prevention
Subcomponent 1.1. This subcomponent, which aims to reduce HIV infection among highly vulnerable
populations, would finance: (i) interventions for communities engaging in high risk behaviors, as
subprojects that are largely to be implemented by NGOs/CBOs; (ii) subcontracting of NGOs to deliver
services (treated as consultant services); (iii) consultant services to develop materials (such as on peer
education, behavioral change communications, and community mobilizing), and to undertake
independent monitoring and evaluation of subprojects; (iv) training of NGOs, line departments, and
other agencies which are implementing targeted interventions, in work plans for subprojects, accounting
and procurement guidelines and requirements, as well as in programmatic areas, such as BCC, and STD
and VCT referral; (v) training and outreach (BCC, counseling, and STD referral) programs by line
ministries for their constituencies; and (vi) purchasing of condoms and printing of IEC materials.
Subcomponent 1.2. This subcomponent would finance: (i) consultant services for condom social
marketing, development of communications strategies and materials, voluntary blood donor
communications campaign, and provision of technical assistance to implementing agencies, and
development of curriculum and training materials for schools and rational use of blood products, and
protocols for prevention of MTCT; (ii) training for "influential" groups, such as policy makers, health
personnel, police, and media/journalists, as well as for peer educators and counselors and for health
personnel on the rational use of blood, VCT, and management of HIV+ pregnant women; (iii)
communications and advocacy activities through workshops/seminars, to be implemented by Provincial
Health Authorities (PHAs); (iv) printing of manuals and educational materials; and (iii) purchasing of
anti-retroviral drugs.
Component 2: TB control
Subcomponent 2.1. This subcomponent would finance: (i) consultant services to develop training
manuals and guidelines for DOTS and to prepare strategy for communications campaign, as well as
architect services; (ii) minor civil works to refurbish the program's office and major and minor repairs of
TB wards and chest clinics; (iii) office and laboratory equipment andfurniture for refurbishment of
Program office, TB hospital and Central Lab; (iv) training of program staff on TB, universal precautions,
and HIV; and (v) vehicles for site visits, drug distribution and logistics and ambulance.
Subcomponent 2.2. This subcomponent would finance: (i) equipment, including hardware and software
for information systems; (ii) consultant services to develop information systems (IS) and to conduct
studies and evaluations; and (iii) training of staff on IS.
Component 3: Strengthening institutions and multisectoral involvement for HIV prevention
Subcomponent 3.1. This subcomponent would finance: (i) consultant services in management,
procurement and financial management to support project management in the DG office and to provide
- 56 -



inter-sectoral coordination and other technical assistance at NSACP and to produce
architectural/construction design and web-design; (ii) purchasing of office equipment, including
computers, andfurniture; (iii) minor civil works in refurbishing 4 STD clinics, central
training/exhibition center; (iv) lab equipment andfurniture; (iv) training of private practitioners and
medical officers at the primary health care centers on STD syndromic management; and (v) vehicles for
supervision and site visits.
Subcomponent 3.2. This subcomponent would finance: (i) consultant services to develop and implement
second-generation surveillance systems, MIS, and to conduct studies; (ii) training on surveillance and
MIS; (iii) computer hardware and software for MIS; and (iv) workshops and seminars to review
operational research priorities and evaluation.
Subcomponent 3.3. This component would finance: (i) consultant services to support initial
implementation phase of the health care waste management; (ii) equipment, including auto/hydroclaves,
supplies, and vehicles for collection of waste; (iii) minor civil works to install steam treatment; (iv)
training of health personnel on health care waste management and universal precautions.
Procurement of Works: (US$ 1.57 million): Works procured under the project would include
construction of four new STD/AIDS Clinics, major/minor repairs to twenty six chest clinics,
refurbishment of ten TB wards, refurbishment of the central training and the exhibition unit of
STD/AIDS program and contract for the installation of the steam treatment plant under the Health
Clinical waste Management Program. To the extent practicable the contract packages would be grouped
in to bid packages of US$ 50,000 equivalent per contract and would be procured on the basis of NCB
procedures in accordance with the provisions of para 3.3 and 3.4 of the Guidelines. There will be around
15 contract packages - all above $50,000.None of the other contracts will exceed $10,000. Minor repairs
and refurbishment work estimated to less than US$ 10,000 per contract (approximately 12 contracts) up
to an aggregate value of US$ 70,000 would be awarded on the basis of quotations obtained from three
contractors registered with the Central/Provincial Ministry of Health/ Department of Health Services in
response to a written invitation, by direct contracting as per the provisions of paragraph 3.7 of the
Guidelines, or by force account procedures in accordance with para 3.8 of the Guidelines as a last resort.
Goods and Equipment: (US$ 6.10 million): The project supports the procurement of general medicine,
anti-retroviral drugs, reagents, condoms, HIV testing kits, laboratory equipment, office and
communication equipment (including computers), furniture, audio-visual equipment, media equipment,
inspection and transport vehicles, books and periodicals, printing of educational and campaign
publications etc. The requirement is spread over eight provincial councils and over the project period.
There is a non-Bank financed amount of US$ 2.27 million. The following procurement procedures
would be adopted.
(i) International Competitive Bidding (ICB) (US$ 2.74 million): Packages of vehicles, general
medicine, anti-retroviral drugs, reagents, condoms, HIV test kits, laboratory equipment, computers, and
waste management treatment system (one auto/hydroclave). To the extent possible, contracts for goods
and equipment will be grouped in to bid packages of US $ 100,000 equivalent or more and would be
procured following ICB procedures in accordance with the Bank's Procurement Guidelines. There would
be 12 contracts.
(ii) National Competitive Bidding (NCB) (US$ 0.87 million): Packages of laboratory equipment,
drugs, health clinical waste management supplies (e.g. bins, gloves), office and communication
equipment and printing of educational and campaign publications estimated to less than US$ 100,000 per
- 57 -



contract would be procured on the basis of NCB procedures in accordance with the provisions of para
3.3 and 3.4 of the Guidelines. The number of such contracts would be about 20.
(iii) National ShoDDing (NS) (US$ 0.21 million): Packages of Goods and Equipment including
estimated to cost less than US$30,000 per contract up to an aggregate amount not to exceed the
equivalent of US$ 0.2lMillion would be procured under contracts awarded on the basis of National
Shopping procedures in accordance with the provisions of para 3.5 and 3.6 of the Guidelines. There
would be 15 contracts.
(iii) Direct Contracting (US$ 0.012 million): Proprietary equipment and spares, books, periodicals,
software, training material (video, audio, etc.) up to an aggregate of US$ 0.012 million would be
procured following Direct Contracting procedures in accordance with para 3.7 of the Guidelines.
Materials and small equipment costing less than of US$100 per contract up to an aggregate value of US$
10,000 could be procured through Direct Contracting procedures. There would be 100 contracts.
Subprojects (US$ 0.48 million): The project would support subprojects to prevent HIV infection
among highly vulnerable populations and to reduce stigma attached to people living with HIV/AIDS.
The subprojects will be implemented by community-based organizations and NGOs. Each subproject
will not exceed US$ 15,000. Procurement in these subprojects will be limited to small purchases of
supplies, videotapes, and materials that are available in the local market through local shopping.
Condoms will be procured centrally by DGHS and distributed to NGOs and other subproject
implementing agencies. In addition, contracting technical assistance in each subproject is expected to be
minimal; technical assistance, such as in the areas of behavioral change communications, voluntary
counseling and testing, STD management, will be provided by NSACP and consultants contracted by
NSACP, through workshops, training, and close supervision.
DGHS will sign a legal agreement with NGOs/CBOs, whose proposals have been selected for funding.
The contract will define the deliverables expected from NGOs/CBOs, and funds would be disbursed in
tranches after verification of appropriate use of funds and reporting.
Technical Assistance. Studies. Training and Workshops (US$ 11.69 Million): Technical assistance
and consultancy services would be required for management support, implementation assistance, condom
social marketing, design and supervision of civil works, communications strategy design and
development, special studies, development of training materials, capacity building for the implementing
staff of NGOs, line department staff, and PHAs, and health care waste management. Large NGOs also
would be subcontracted to deliver services in clearly defined geographical areas for specific target
audience. Consultants would be selected following Quality Based Selection (QBS), Quality and
Cost-Based Selection (QCBS), Single Source Selection (SSS), and Selection based on Consultants
Qualification (CQ) methods. Where appropriate, Individual Consultants would also be hired.
Key areas of technical assistance and consulting services include:
Management and implementation support to the DG office- individual consultants in the area of
management, procurement, and financial management would be recruited to assist in implementing the
project, as well as to build capacity of MOH staff. TORs have been finalized and agreed with the Bank.
Subcontracting NGOs. Draft request for proposal has been prepared and NGO selection criteria
developed. This will be further finetuned and included in the Operational Manual.
- 58 -



Condom social marketing. To increase availability, accessibility, and use of condoms and to reduce
stigma attached to condoms, an NGO/private firm will be selected based on Quality and Cost Based
Selection to carry out social marketing of condoms. A draft TOR has been prepared and will be included
in the Operational Manual.
Communications. Promoting safe sex and injecting behaviors and attitudes require innovative
communications strategies and approaches. A full-service communications firm will be selected based
on Quality and Cost Based Selection (QCBS) to develop communication strategies, design materials and
messages, conduct campaigns, train implementing agencies in the area of BCC. A draft TOR has been
prepared and will be included in the Operational Manual.
Second-generation surveillance system. While serologic surveillance will be undertaken by the staff of
NSACP, in collaboration with STD clinics, PHAs, NGOs, and private practitioners, behavioral
surveillance will be implemented by an academic institution or NGO, with extensive experience in
behavioral and social science research, which will be selected based on QCBS. TOR will be prepared
and included in the Operational Manual.
All NCB contracts to be financed from the proceeds of the Credit shall follow the following procedure:
(a) Only the model bidding documents for NCB agreed with the Association (and as amended from to
time) shall be used for bidding;
(b) Invitations to bid shall be advertised in at least one widely circulated national daily newspaper, at
least thirty days prior to the deadline for the submission of the bids;
(c) Bid documents shall be made available by mail or in person, to all who are willing to pay the
required fees;
(d) Qualification criteria (incase prequalification was not carried out) shall be stated in the bidding
documents, and, if a registration process is required a foreign firm declared as the lowest evaluated
responsive bidder shall be given a reasonable opportunity of registering, without let or hindrance;
(e) No special preference will be accorded to any bidder when competing with foreign bidders,
state-owned enterprises, or small-scale enterprises;
(f) Bid shall be opened in public in one location, immediately after the deadline for submission of bids;
(g) Bids shall not be rejected merely on the basis of a comparison with an official estimate without prior
concurrence of the Association;
(h) Contracts shall be awarded to the lowest evaluated responsive bidders;
(i) Except with the prior concurrence of the Bank, there shall be no negotiation of price with the
bidders, even with the lowest evaluated bidder.
(j) Re-bidding shall not be carried out without prior concurrence of the Bank.
(k) Except in cases of force majeure and/or situations beyond the control of the project states, extension
of bid validity shall not be allowed without the prior concurrence of the Bank (a) for the first request
of extension if it is longer than eight weeks; and (b) for all subsequent requests for extension
irrespective of the period.
(I) All bidders/contractors shall provide bid/performance security as indicated in the bidding documents;
(m) Evaluation of bids shall be made in strict adherence to the criteria disclosed in the bidding
documents, in a format and specified period agreed by the Association;
(n) A bidder's bid security shall apply only to the specific bid, and a contractors performance security
shall apply only to the specific contract under which it was furnished;
(o) Bids shall not be invited on the basis of percentage premium or discount over the estimated cost; and
(p) There shall not be any restrictions on the means of delivery of the bids
- 59 -



B.    Assessment of Borrowers Readiness to Implement the Proiect
The Project is proposed to be designed and implemented through interventions by Ministry of Health,
other line ministries, provincial health authorities, and NGOs/CBOs.
Terms of reference for the implementation team (consisting of three specialists) to aid DGHS,
consultants for NSACP have been finalized and agreed with the Bank.
A Procurement consultancy firm appointed during project preparation has assisted the Ministry in
preparing a procurement plan, model bidding documents for procurement of civil works, condoms,
vehicles, computers and accessories. A Procurement Plan has been prepared for the goods and
equipment to be procured in the project showing the method of procurement. Some of the major
consultancies to be undertaken under the project have been identified and tentative selection plan has
been prepared. A tentative Training Plan will be prepared prior to negotiations, identifying the areas of
training, number and type of participants to be trained, and the names of the institutions and resource
organizations /persons. In addition, an Operational Manual is expected to be drafted by negotiations and
finalized by Board approval. It may thus be seen that satisfactory steps have been taken to ensure
expeditious start up of the project.
Table A: Project Costs by Procurement Arrangements
(US$ million equivalent)
Procurement Method
Expenditure Category            ICB             NCB          Other'       N.B.F.    Total Cost
1. Works                            0.00            1.50          0.07          0.00        1.57
(0.00)          (1.28)        (0.06)       (0.00)      (1.34)
2. Goods                            2.74            0.87          0.22          2.27        6.10
(2.74)          (0.85)        (0.18)       (0.00)      (3.77)
3. Services                         0.00            0.00          5.25          2.55        7.80
(0.00)          (0.00)        (4.15)       (0.00)      (4.15)
4. Training                         0.00            0.00          2.36          1.53        3.89
(0.00)          (0.00)        (2.36)       (0.00)      (2.36)
5. Subprojects                      0.00            0.00          0.48          0.00        0.48
(0.00)          (0.00)        (0.41)       (0.00)      (0.41)
6. Recurrent Costs                  0.00            0.00           1.03         0.00        1.03
(0.00)          (0.00)        (0.52)       (0.00)      (0.52)
Total                             2.74            2.37          9.41         6.35        20.87
(2.74)          (2.13)        (7.68)        (0.00)     (12.55)
"Figures in parenthesis are the amounts to be financed by the Bank Grant. All costs include contingencies.
21 Includes civil works and goods to be procured through national shopping, consulting services, services of
contracted staff of the project management office, training, technical assistance services, and incremental
operating costs related to (i) managing the project, and (ii) re-lending project funds to local government
units.
- 60 -



Table Al: Consultant Selection Arrangements (optional)
(US$ million equivalent)
Selection Method
Consultant Services
Expenditure Category  OCBS   OBS      SFB    LCS      Co     Other   N.B.F.  Total Cost
A. Firms              3.95    0.00     0.00   0.07     0.30    0.00    2.55     6.87
(3.20)  (0.00)  (0.00)  (0.05)  (0.20)   (0.00)  (0.00)   (3.45)
B. Individuals        0.00    0.00     0.00   0.00     0.60    0.33    0.00     0.93
(0.00)  (0.00)  (0.00)  (0.00)  (0.48)   (0.22)  (0.00)   (0.70)
Total  3.95    0.00    0.00    0.07     0.90    0.33    2.55     7.80
(3.20)  (0.00)  (0.00)  (0.05)  (0.68)   (0.22)  (0.00)   (4.15)
1\ Including contingencies
Note: QCBS = Quality- and Cost-Based Selection
QBS = Quality-based Selection
SFB = Selection under a Fixed Budget
LCS = Least-Cost Selection
CQ = Selection Based on Consultants' Qualifications
Other = Selection of individual consultants (per Section V of Consultants Guidelines), Commercial
Practices, etc.
N.B.F. = Not Bank-financed
Figures in parenthesis are the amounts to be financed by the Bank Grant.
-61 -



Prior review thresholds (Table s)
Table B: Thresholds for Procurement Methods and Prior Review
Contract Value                              Contracts Subject to
Threshold             Procurement             Prior Review
Expenditure Category     (US$ thousands)            Method               (US$ millions)
1. Works               (i)Contracts of value more  (i) National competitive  First two contracts each
than US$50,000             Bidding          year and all contracts of
value more than
(ii) Contracts of value  (ii)Three quotations from  US$500,000
below US $10,000      registered contractors/
aggregate value US$   direct contracting/force
70,000           account as a last resort
2. Goods               (i) Contract of value more  (i) International  First two contracts under
than US$100,000       Competitive Bidding   ICB each year and first
two contract under NCB
(ii) Contracts of value  (ii) National Competitive  each year and all contracts
more than US$30,000;         Bidding            of value more than
total aggregate value US$                           US$250,000
0.87 million;
(iii) Contracts of value  (iii) National Shopping
less than US$30,000 total
aggregate value
US$0.21million;
(iv) Contracts of value less  (iv) Direct Contracting
than US$100 aggregate
value US$10,000.
(iv) Contracts for   (iv) Direct Contracting
procurement of
proprietary equipment and
software, books and
periodicals and training
material of aggregate value
US$0.012 million
3. Services
For Consulting firms/                        (a) Quality-and Cost Based  (a) (i) Contracts of value
NGOs                                                Selection or       more than US$100,000-
Quality Based Selection or  Full prior review
Single Source Selection or  (ii) Contracts of value
Consultant's Qualification  between US$50,000 to
or Least Cost      US$100,000 (Only TOR
and shortlist to be
For Individual                                    (b) Consultants           reviewed)
consultants                                        Qualification       (b) Contracts of value
- 62 -



more than US$50,000
4. Subprojects           Contract less than US$                        First two contracts in each
15,000                                           year
Selection consistent with
agreed selection criteria
5. Miscellaneous:              US$100             Direct Contracting       Post review only
Incremental operating
costs: expenses
incurred on salaries,
travel costs of staff,
hiring of vehicles and
miscellaneous costs
Total value of contracts subject to prior review:  US$ 3.0 million
Overall Procurement Risk Assessment
High
Frequency of procurement supervision missions proposed: One every 6 months (includes special
procurement supervision for post-review/audits)
An external consultant would be hired by the Ministry of Health. Nutrition and Welfare to carry out
ex-post reviews and asset verifications for not less than 10% ( by value and number) of the contracts.
IDA/Bank would conduct a sample ex-post audit on the consultant's review/output referred to above.
IDA/Bank will review the program as it deems necessary, either by site visits or by desk reviews of
documentation.
Thresholds generally differ by country and project. Consult OD 11.04 "Review of Procurement
Documentation" and contact the Regional Procurement Adviser for guidance.
- 63 -



Disbursement
Allocation of grant proceeds (Table C)
Table C: Allocation of Grant Proceeds
Expenditure Category        Amount In US$million        Financing Percentage
Civil Works                               1.21                        85%
Goods and Equipment                       3.38          100% of foreign expenditures; 100% of
the ex-factory cost of local
expenditures; 85% of local expenditures
Consultants (individuals)                 0.67                        75%
Consultants (firms)                       2.97                        80%
Training                                  2.25                        100%
Subprojects                               0.37                        85%
Recurrent                                 0.46                        50%
Unallocated                               1.24          _
Total Project Costs                       12.55
Total                                     12.55
Country Issues
As the DGHS will operate within the MOH, following country issues are applicable.
1.    Availability of adequate budget provision and sufficient counterpart funds - GOSL recently
initiated a system for overcoming this problem, which until recently, was significantly affecting project
disbursements.
2.     Limited classification of project expenses - present government accounting system classifies
expenses only by major disbursement categories. This issue is overcome by specifying additional
accounting requirements when recording and reporting on project transactions.
3.     Limited capacity for project financial management - the project initially finances a Financial
Management Specialist (FMS) position in the DGHS office to carryout financial management of the
project. The FMS, among his other duties, will be responsible for training concerned government
accounting staff in MOH, line ministries, and PHAs, in order to ensure that sufficient capacity is built-up
for continuing with similar programs in the future.
Strengths and Weaknesses
The project has the following strengths:
1.    Use of the existing government system for disbursing funds to line ministries and PHAs and also
for accounting and reporting on project transactions. As government staff are familiar with these
procedures, this enhances expediency and reduces risk.
2.     A Financial Accounting System Manual to spell out additional requirements (to the existing
government system) for recording and reporting on project transactions has been prepared and agreed in
substance with the MOH.
- 64 -



The project has the following weaknesses:
Significant weaknesses                   Resolution
1.    Sufficiently trained accounting staff in  MOH has taken action to recruit accountants to
NSACP and NBTS units.                   these units.
2.     Financial Management Specialist in the FMS has been recruited.
DGHS
3.     Training to accounting staff in line  Training action plan will be developed and
ministries and PHAs on the Financial    carried out by MOH
Accounting System Manual
Implementing Entity
The project will be implemented by the Ministry of Health (MOH) and the key agency within this
ministry will the Director General of Health Services (DGHS). Other agencies include line ministries,
government agencies (e.g. NSACP, NBTS, etc), and Provincial Health Authorities (PHAs). In the office
of the DGHS, three specialists will be recruited to advise the DG, they are, a management advisor, a
financial management specialist and a procurement specialist.
The FMS in the DGHS office will be responsible for overall financial management and disbursement of
the project. He/she will liaise with the accounting staff of line ministries, government agencies, and
PHAs, in preparing budgets, releasing imprest advances, and receiving reports. He/she will be
responsible for consolidation and timely preparation of FMRs for the project and rendition of annual
accounts for audit.
Funds Flow
Budgets will be prepared annually for all activities of the project. For activities to be undertaken by the
line ministries, government agencies and PHAs, the respective agency will be responsible for preparing
the budget in the requested format and forwarding them to the DGHS. The DGHS will review and
approve the consolidated budget for the project and inform the Ministry of Finance of the cashflow needs
for the forthcoming fiscal year.
Project funds will be deposited in a Special Dollar Account (SDA) to be opened in the Central Bank of
Sri Lanka and operated by the DGHS. DGHS will release the initial monthly cash advances to all the
implementing agencies, based on the forecasts, using GOSL funds. Implementing agencies will open a
separate bank account for receiving the funds under this project.
On a monthly basis, all implementing agencies will report back to the DGHS' office (formats for these
reports are in the Financial Accounting Systems Manual) and renew their imprests. FMS in the DGHS'
office will consolidate this information, and claim the IDA share of these expenses from the SDA. DGHS
will be responsible for submitting withdrawal applications to the World Bank for replenishment of the
SDA.
For government agencies which will implement special programmes, advance will be released on the
basis of the approved proposal. These will be special purpose programmes and do not require monthly
imprests.
Staffing
A financial management specialist (FMS) will be recruited to the DGHS unit. He/she will be assisted by
- 65 -



existing accountants in the MOH. Additionally, in government agencies such as NSACP, NTCP, and
NBTS, accountants will be recruited (or transferred from other divisions of the MOH) to carryout
activities of the project. In PHAs and other line ministries, existing government accounting staff will be
involved in accounting for project transactions.
This staffing arrangements is adequate to meet the financial management needs of the project. As all
government staff are familiar with the present government accounting system, they will only need
training on additional recording and reporting requirements of the project as detailed in the Financial
Accounting Systems Manual.
Accounting Policies and Procedures
The project will follow the cash basis of accounting. The present government accounting requirements
are explained in the Financial Regulations (FRs). However, FRs do not provide for adequate
classification of project expenses to extract information by project components. Further, FRs do not
provide for regular recording and reporting on physical and procurement information, as required by the
FMR guidelines of the Bank.
The Financial Accounting System Manual specifies additional books of records and reporting formats to
be maintained under the project in order to obtain component-wise expenditure information. Further, key
monitoring indicators for reviewing implementation progress too will be mentioned in the Manual.
All government accounting records will be kept in a computerized system as well as manually, as is the
requirement of the government. All additional records and reports will be maintained manually but using
an excel spreadsheet. Though this is deemed adequate for meeting the reporting requirements of the
project, the DGHS can initiate action to computerize the accounting system in subsequent years, if the
volume of work necessitates this.
Internal Audit
Line ministries, PHAs, and government units have weak internal control systems. Though this project too
will be subject to internal audit program of the government, not much reliance is being placed on internal
audit for project transactions.
External Audit
Project accounts will be audited annually by the Auditor General of Sri Lanka (AG). AG is the supreme
audit institution of Sri Lanka and has been accepted by IDA for auditing Bank financed projects.
Audit Reports
Following audit reports will be monitored in the ARCS:
Implementing Agency         Audit                      Auditor
Ministry of Health          Project/SOE                Auditor General
Ministry of Health          Special Account            Auditor General
Reporting and Monitoring
Financial Reporting Formats (FMRs) will be used for reporting to the Bank on a quarterly basis.
However, given the limited capacity, training will need to be provided to all implementing agencies on
recording transactions in such a manner that FMRs can be readily produced. The FMS in the DGHS's
office will be responsible for this activity. Information for preparing the FMRs will be gathered on a
monthly basis from the various line ministries, government agencies, and PHAs at the time of renewing
- 66 -



monthly imprests.
Information Systems
Project financial transactions will be maintained manually as well as in a computerized system. As
required by the 'Computerized Integrated Government Accounting System' (CIGAS), most of the
information will be recorded and maintained electronically in a computer database of the government.
Additional information requirements of the project will be maintained manually and in an excel
spreadsheet.
Disbursement Arrangements
Project will following the transaction based disbursements. Given the capacity limitations of the
government accounting system, it is unlikely that FMRs can be used as a basis for disbursements.
Nevertheless, FMRs will be produced starting from FMRs will be produced starting from the 1st
quarter after project effectiveness. As the capacity of the MOH is developed, report based disbursement
could be considered for the proposed Health Sector program.
Use of statements of expenditures (SOEs):
Statement of Expenditure (SOE): Statement of Expenditure (SOE): Withdrawals under the grant
may be made on the basis of Statement of Expenditure (SOE) procedure for:
*     Contracts for goods costing less than $ 250,000
*     Contracts for works costing less than $ 500,000
*     Contracts for consultancy services with individuals costing less than $ 50,000
*     Contracts for consultancy services with firms costing less than $ 100,000
*     All expenses on training, workshops and study tours
*     The first two contracts for Sub-Projects and Work Programs in each Fiscal Year
*     All incremental operating costs
Retroactive Financing
Payments made for expenditure before the date of the Grant Agreement but after July 1, 2002, in respect
of categories I through 6, can be claimed under the grant subject to an aggregate maximum of US$
800,000.
Special account:
A Special Dollar Account (SDA) will be opened at the Central Bank of Sri Lanka and operated by the
DGHS. Authorized allocation will not exceed US$ 2.5 million. SDA will be operated according to terms
and conditions acceptable to the IDA.
Action Plan
Action                             Responsible Person   Completion
Recruitment of accountant to NSACP  MOH/DGHS            December 31, 2002
Training on additional financial  DGHS, assisted by the  January 31, 2003
management requirements completed  FMS
- 67 -



Supervision Plans
From a financial management perspective, the project will need intensive supervision during the initial
years. The focus during the supervision will be to review DGHS's financial management system, and, on
a sample basis, those of the line ministries, government agencies, and PHAs.
- 68 -



Annex 7: Project Processing Schedule
SRI LANKA: National HIWAIDS Prevention Project
Project Schedule                                  Planned                    Actual
Time taken to prepare the project (months)     8                            16
First Bank mission (identification)            07/31/2001                   07/31/2001
Appraisal mission departure                    11/28/2001                   07/31/2002
Negotiations                                   02/19/2002                   10/22/2002
Planned Date of Effectiveness                  03/26/2002                   12/17/2002
Prepared by:
The Ministry of Health, Nutrition, and Welfare
Preparation assistance:
WHO for social assessment
Bank staff who worked on the project included:
Name                                    Speciality
Hnin Hnin Pyne                    Public health-HIV/AIDS
Salim J. Habayeb                  Public health
Daya Samarasinghe                 Institutional arrangements
Nancy Fee                         HIV/AIDS, surveillance
Hugo Diaz-Etchevehere             Economic and financial analysis
Sumith Pilapitiya                 Environment--health care waste management
Nilufar Ahmad                     Social development
Diana Weil                        TB control
Madhuwanthi Opatha                Multisectoral coordination and NGOs
Deepal Femando                    Implementation/procurement
Krishnan Santhanam                Procurement
Irene Julitta Rasiah              Financial management
Vikram Raghavan                   Legal
Maj-Lis Voss/Laura Kiang          Costing
Elfreda Vincent                   Consultant contracts--HQ
Addition support was provided by Christian Hurtado (implementation specialist) and Tasnim Azim
(surveillance). Peer reviewers consisted of Timothy Johnston (PCD), Phil Gowers (PCD), Chris Walker
(PAD) and Girindre Beeharry'(PAD).
- 69 -



Annex 8: Documents in the Project File*
SRI LANKA: National HIV/AIDS Prevention Project
A. Project Implementation Plan
Draft Action Plan and implementation strategy
Procurement Plan
Financial management guidelines
National Policy on Health Care Waste Management
National Guidelines on Health Care Waste Management
B. Bank Staff Assessments
C. Other
Social Assessment (Institute for Participation and Interactive Development)
*Including electronic files
- 70 -



Annex 9: Statement of Loans and Credits
SRI LANKA: National HIWAIDS Prevention Project
02-Apr-2002
Difference between expected
and actual
Original Amount in US$ Millions                         disbursements
Project ID   FY    Purpose                                   IBRD       IDA                GEF     Cancel    Undisb.     Orig  Frm Rev'd
P050738       2001 LANDTIT &RELSERV(LIL)                         000       5.00               000       000       476       036      000
P069784       2001 Distance Leaming Initiative - LIL             0.00      2 00               0 00      0 00      1 30     -0 30     0 00
P071131       2001 LK Central Bank Strengthening                 0 00     30 30               0 00      0 00     28 46      3 75     0 00
P044809       2000 LEGAL AND JUDICIAL REFORMS                    0.00     18 20               0 00      0 00     13 71     -3 53     0 00
P058070       2000 North-East trngated Agriculture Project       0.00     27.00               0 00      0 00     21 35      5 40     0 00
P035828       1998 CONS OF MEDIC PLANTS                          000       0.00               460       000       144       057      000
P034212       1998 MAHAWELIRESTRUCTURI                           000      5700                000       000      2458      1694      000
P010525       1998 GENERAL EDUCATION 11                          000      70.30               0 00      086      3812      35 38     0 00
P039965       1997 ENERGY SERV.DLVY.                             000      24.20               590       000       1 39      067      000
P010498       1997 ENERGYSERVICESDLVY                            000      2420                590       000       257       440      000
P010513       1997 ENVIRONMENTAL ACTION                          000      1480                000       000       459       554       000
P010526       1997 HEALTHSERVICESDEV                             000      1880                000       346       228       686      000
P042266       1996 TEACHER EDUCATION & TEACHER DEPLOYMENT        0 00     64 10               0 00      0 00     18 01     24 72      5 89
P010517       1996 PVTSECTINFRASDEV                              0.00     77.00               000      1502      3866      6280      3283
Total:       000     43290              1640       1934      20122     16356      3872
- 71 -



SRI LANKA
STATEMENT OF IFC's
Held and Disbursed Portfolio
Jan - 2002
In Millions US Dollars
Conmmitted                      Disbursed
IFC                            IFC
FY Approval        Company                      Loan   Equity   Quasi   Partic  Loan   Equity   Quasi  Partic
1999               Aitken Spence                0.00    2.73    0.00    0.00    0.00    2.73     0.00   0.00
1998               Apollo Lanka                 0.O0     1.11   0.00    0.00    0.00     1.11    0.00   0.00
1996/97            Asia Power                   0.00    0.00    0.00    0.00    0.00    0.00     0.00   0.00
1999               Fitch Srilanka               0.00    0.09    0.00    0.00    0.00    0.09    0.00    0.00
1997               LOFAC                         1.26   0.30    0.00    0.00    0.86    0.16     0.00   0.00
1981               Lanka Hotels                 0.00    0.64    0.00    0.00    0.00    0.64     0.00   0.00
1996               Lanka Orix Lease             0.56    0.00    0.00    0.00    0.56    0.00     0.00   0.00
1998               MLL                          0.75    0.00    0.00    0.00    0.75    0.00     0.00   0.00
2000               NDB Housing Corp              0.00    1.06    0.00    0.00    0.00    1.06    0.00    0.00
1999               Nations Trust                0.00     1.09   0.00    0.00    0.00     1.09    0.00   0.00
1997               Packages Lanka               0.00     1.11   0.00    0.00     0.00   1.11     0.00   0.00
1999               SAGT                        35.00    7.30    0.00    0.00    12.00   3.62     0.00    0.00
2000               Suntel                        0.00    7.50    0.00    0.00    0.00    7.50    0.00    0.00
1988/95            Union Assurance              0.00    0.50    0.00     0.00    0.00    0.50    0.00    0.00
Total Portfolio:       37.57   23.43     0.00    0.00    14.17  19.61     0.00   0.00
Approvals Pending Commitment
FY Approval       Company                          Loan    Equity    Quasi     Partic
Total Pending Commitment:        0.00     0.00      0.00      0.00
- 72 -



Annex 10: Country at a Glance
SRI LANKA: National HIV/AIDS Prevention Project
Lower-
POVERTY and SOCIAL                                     Sri    South    middle-
Lanka      Asia    Income      Development diamond'
2000
Population, mid-year (millions)                       19.4     1.355     2,046                 Life expectancy
GNI per capita (Atlas method, US$)                    850       460      1,140
GNI (Atlas method, US$ billions)                      16.4      617      2,327
Average annual growth, 1994-00
Population (%)                                         1.3       1.9       10 0     N
Laborforce (%)                                         2 2       2 4       1.3     GNI           7                 Gross
per           .                primary
Most recent estimate (latest year available, 1994-00)                              capita                      enrollment
Poverty (% of populatlon below national poverty hne)   25
Urban population (% of total population)               24        28        42
Life expectancy at birth (years)                       73        63        69
Infant mortality (per 1,000 live births)               15        74        32
Child malnutrition (% of children under 5)             33        47        11           Access to improved water source
Access to an improved water source (% of population)   83        87        80
Illiteracy (% of population age 15+)                    8        45        15
Gross primary enrollment (% ofschool-age population)  111       100       114               Sri Lanka
Male                                                112       110       116           -   Lower-middle-income group
Female                                              110        90       114
KEY ECONOMIC RATIOS and LONG-TERM TRENDS
1980     1990      1999      2000
Economic ratios'
GDP (US$ billions)                            4.0      8.0      15.7      16.3
Gross domestic investment/GDP                33 7     22.6      27.3      280
Exports of goods and services/GDP            32.2     29.2      35.5      39.7                    Trade
Gross domestic savings/GDP                   11.2     13.8      19.5      172
Gross national savings/GDP                   17.4     17.0      23.7      21.4
Current account balance/GDP                 -16.2     -5 6      -3.6      -6.5     Domestic                    Investment
Interest payments/GDP                         0.8      1.5       10        1.1
Total debt/GDP                               45.8     73.0      62.6      55.6     savings
Total debt service/exports                   12.0     13.5       9.9       9 5
Present value of debtGDP                                                  42 8
Present value of debt/exports                                             89.6
Indebtedness
1980-90  1990-00     1999      2000   2000.04
(average annual growth)
GDP                                  4.0      5.3      4.3       6.0       3.9         -     Sn Lanka
GDP per capita                       2.5      3.9      2.8       43        2.9        --      Lower-middle-income group
Exports of goods and services        4.7      7.0      4.0       7.2       6.1
STRUCTURE of the ECONOMY
1980     1990      1999      2000      Growth of Investment and GOP (%)
(% of GDP)
Agriculture                                  27.6     26.3      20.7      19.5    20
Industry                                     29 6     26 0      27.3      27 5     .
Manufactunng                               17.7     14.8       164       169     so;-
Services                                     42.8     47.7      52.1      53.0      s        _                  _
Private consumption                          80.3     76.5      71.5      72.4            s5    Be   97    to    99   00
General government consumption                8.5      9.8       90       10 4               -  GD.             GDP
Imports of goods and services                54 8     38.0      43.3      50 5
1980-90  1990400      1999      2000      Growth of exports and Imports (%)
(average annual growth)                                                           r
Agriculture                                   2.2      1.9       4 5       1.7    15
Industry                                      4 6      7.0       4.8       7.5    s- 
Manufacturing                               6.3      8.1       4.4       9,2
Services                                      47       6.0       4.0       6.8
Private consumption                -          4 0      3.8       5.3       4 4
General government consumption                7.3      8.8       5.3      24 4            95    96   97   9s     ss   5o
Gross domestic investment                     06       6.4       6.4       6.2                  Exports     *  Imports
Imports of goods and services                 34       8.6       7.0      12.9
Note: 2000 data are preliminary estimates.
The diamonds show four key indicators in the country (in bold) compared with its income-group average. If data are missing, the diamond will
be incomplete.
- 73 -



Sri Lanka
PRICES and GOVERNMENT FINANCE
1980    1990      1999     2000      Inflation (%)
Domestic prices
(% change)                                                                     20
Consumer prices                            26.1    21.5       4.7      7.1     15
Implicit GDP deflator                      20 0    20.1       4.2      7.1    10
Govemment finance
(% of GDP, includes current grants)                                            o,
Current revenue                            23 5    23.2      18.3     17.0            95   9G     97    98    99   00
Current budget balance                      5.0     0.9       4.4      -3 3           -G   DP deflator   e CPI
Overall surplus/deficit                   -19.2     -7.8     -6.9     -9.5
TRADE
(UJSS millions)                           1980     1990      1999     2000     Export and Import levels (USS mill.)
Total exports (fob)                       1.065    1,913    4,610     5,522    a,o
Tea                                       373     495       621       700
Other agncultural goods                   285     308       375      427     G,00D
Manufactures                              360     628      3,308    4,012
Total imports (cif)                       2,051   2,689     5,980     7,320    4,000
Food                                      379     485       662      693     2.00*
Fuel and energy                           442     310       500       901
Capital goods                             492     584      1,565    1,737       o
Export price index (1995t100)               36       57       139      151           54   55   G   97   5G   S9
Import pnce index (1995=100)                42       71       122      132                DEExports r   *lrports
Terms of trade (1995=100)                    87      80       114      115
BALANCE of PAYMENTS
(USS millions)                            1980     1990      1999     2009      Current account balance to GDP (%)
Exports of goods and services             1,296    2,346     5,578    6,475     0
Imports of goods and services             2,197    3.054     6,800    8,235
Resource balance                           -901    -708     -1.222   -1,760   -2
Net income                                  -26    -167      -254     -305
Net current transfers                      274      424       912      999      - 
Current account balance                    -652     -451     -564    -1,0t66
Financing items (net)                      371      537       413      549
Changes in net reserves                     282     -86       151      516      .
Memo:
Reserves including gold (US$ millions)       ..     435      1,639     910
Conversion rate (DEC, locaDIUSS)           16.5    40.1       70.6     77.0
EXTERNAL DEBT and RESOURCE FLOWS
1980     1990      1999     2000
(US$ millions)                                                                  Composition of 2000 debt (USS mill.)
Total debt outstanding and disbursed      1,841    5,863     9,797    9,065
IBRD                                      31       82        20       13                 G: 705 A: 13
IDA                                       98      864      1,652    1,610                             B: 1,610
Total debt service                          179     384       674      738           F. 988
IBRD                                       5       14         8        7                                   C 161
IDA                                         1       8        27       31
Composition of net resource flows
Official grants                           161     221       112      109
Official creditors                        135     307       160      159                                   D' 1,780
Private creditors                         86       10       -83       83
Foreign direct investment                 43       43       176      173            E: 3,80
Portfolio equity                           0        0         6        6
Worid Bank program
Commitments                               152     321        56       18      A-IBRO                    E - Bilateral
Disbursements                             20      128        49       47      B-IDA    D- Other multlateral  F - Private
Principal repayments                        3      10        21       24      C - IMF                   G - Short-term
Netflows                                   18     118        28       23
Interest payments                          3       13        14       14
Net transfers                              15     105        14       10
Development Economics                                                                                           4/4/02
- 74 -



Additional Annex 11: Development of Health Sector Strategy
SRI LANKA: National HIWAIDS Prevention Project
SUMMARY
The main aim of World Bank Japan-financed PHRD grant is to support the Ministry of Health to
develop a health sector strategy in Sri Lanka. The purpose of this grant is not only to draw up the sector
strategy by the end of 2002, but also to formulate a Sector Implementation Plan to deliver that strategy.
These documents would facilitate GOSL in identifying areas in need of support from the Bank and other
donors to help implement the strategy.
The Planning Department of The Ministry of Health is taking the responsible for leading this work
forward and the PHRD grant is supporting a Health Strategy Preparation Unit located within the
department. The grant has funded both local and international technical assistance. The technical
analysis is being carried out by six Technical Working Groups (TWGs) that consist of primary and
secondary stakeholders. The Secretary of the Ministry chairs the steering committee which oversees the
strategy development process.
The issues to be addressed by the strategy include the future financial requirements of the sector, how
they will be met, how the public sector will be strengthened, the future role of the private sector,
management including the role of decentralization, the provision of pharmaceuticals and human resource
issues.
A particular issue will be how to meet the increasing demands of consumers to access increasingly
expensive modern health care. Current health expenditure of approximately 2% of GDP will be
insufficient for this. Yet out of pocket expenditure for interventions such as cardiac surgery and cancer
drugs will be beyond the reach of the vast majority of the population. The providers of health care in both
the public and private sector will ensure consumers are well informed about new treatments and their will
be enormous pressure on government to meet them.
The strategy will address the needs of the country over the next 5-10 years. Doing so the strategy will
address among other issues the implications of the changing demographic situation including an aging
population, the changing burden of disease including the increase in non-communicable disease and other
conditions such as injuries and burns, the increasing availability of expensive advances in diagnosis and
treatment, the inability of even wealthy individuals to meet these by out of pocket expenditures Solutions
will almost certainly require alternative forms of financing including some form(s) of health insurance.
However the difficulties of introducing this in a country with a large informal employment sector are
well known. Difficult choices with regard to priorities and ensuring equity will have to be made. The
policy directions set out in the GOSL's Vision 2010 and PRSP documents will give clear directions.
Technical Working Groups (TWGs) covering Public Sector, the Private/NGO sector, issues common to
public and private sectors, support services, human resources, sector finance and health needs will be
expected to identify issues requiring further investigation. They will also be required to consider a
number of cross cutting issues such as equity, involving key stakeholders etc. Also the TWGs through the
planning department will commission out studies to understand further the current situation, assess future
challenges and needs and evaluate the options and opportunities to overcome these challenges. Some of
the studies that are being commissioned our include, Burden of Disease study, Macro cost projections for
the Health Sector to 2010, Feasibility study on Social Health Insurance, Rapid Assessment of HR policy
- 75 -



formulation and planning.
It will be important to develop ownership of the strategy as it emerges and the process agreed between
the planning department and the Bank allows for involvement of key technical staff including the finance
ministry as well as the health ministry. The private sector will also be involved. Once a draft strategy is
developed communication campaign will be launched to get much wider stakeholders participation.
- 76 -



Additional Annex 12: Millenium Development Goals
SRI LANKA: National HIV/AIDS Prevention Project
_   _   .__     _             ___, __,.rK7Tp_.ty_ j    ____    ___
LzI. t~ -r, ,,, _,_ .,_ . ,_ . ,.                      7_    __     _ _   -
.   .      .  .   s                  .     .   .         .  .  _   .iI  .,U  _  .  .q  . 
Click on tha indicator to-view a            -                  1-
definition       - an     '90                         1095, 9       ' ,2000
.1 Eradicate-extreaimii oyartY and         :20165FaeiOr - haiv,e 1000 St asdrI, vovr;-v and
hungir                                                malnItrjrjon rates
,Fopu lIClr, DII o.- I  I .   _   _                   ___6   _6   ._l  _ ___ l
,iPorIsriD .a5 , o  SiL.  _1                             . _,,
rP.ri- O.tjL cn,;re of ,nrGrc or c o nmin r 2  - a8-
gbv Doorest 20%       *_ n          I              Ji                 _____  J
Prevalanc6 of child mlnutritlion (% of children
un5dr                                                  32.9
Population be910w ini nimum ]eve I of dietaurY eneray  S0        50I              ,.
onsumntion17i  ,                              2 -0             2*.0
2 AchIeve universal prrrimarv educatlon'    ,             nt nwfolinen'lro;1O0,
Ndt Drimary enroll ment ratio (% of relevant aqe  .4 L     . ,     1 71
ferentacie ofcohort rechinq qrade5.ri  if      94.41 _  _i
FYoulh literacyrte 1% ages 15-24ra        _    9LI6               .i     9a 'S    . 
Rato of qirls to bovs in primarv and socondarv, ,
Ratio of young literate female@s to males (% ages                        99     '
15-24)                       _    _    4      9          . I    99.,               I
%                                                                               i
Share o  om  elo    in the .r 1I   a                       H
3sctor    ____                                   .!    30.7r    3l11   _____,Xl X
Poporti of  s neld by w6omen n neliono i               5jL  , 3
Reduc-.chi--mortai-t                   .2015 rarger feduce 1990 undea '5 'morrallry by rwo. n
,4 Reduce%chlid-moriltality                                tid     
thirds
l.nJEcr ! mortaila rar. Der I uO0,_C _  _   _       _           _    L   17:l _9Ii
,inf,n I -norli il ' ra ii ;pDr  l I   im   riris  i I  S't  t6  1
>= =r_         ,_.-~                                   - | - 
Immunization, measles (% of children under 12                    9 ' 00i  13  I 59Jo  15  -  l
~~onths)  - -  ~~~~~   -  ~~~*      80 DI   8 7.0j   9.           .,
-.S'.Improve mnitaternalihealth ' - ' . .   .' e20t,5 larse = redIce:1Q0 mdaternal mortatiiv by nhfee- 
Maternal mortality ratio (modeled ostimate, per        60.0
W000,O0           l bs1-tsh                            600;.
irtlihs ittAnded by skiiled health saff. ,of totnia 1)  ' ;io  9
,~~~~/IS 'Miliel and'J       o th e r        :-     ..                    8t 
-       DS,~ii~rIa-and-othse.    2025 ia,gei h-l.al(,and Dginforev AJDSe w
Conirnccopi,vo  rr.i,l.r,c  rija  I,'  Cl Aornor ag .:.e  -
oumber f children orphaned bvHViAIDS  -         , 7I      il  600t)l'   _        .I
id;nce of tubrculoss (e 10.00 .P                                60e.0
Tueclsscases detected underDO
'ans u re tonirnm-e.ttal .usiainabii'i,y.-  . - . 201arget =3- veno7.us 1(see  .sJ ,
l Access to an improved water source (%of  r ;
no ulation) 60V'. 1 30':Xl-
__ s_ C.__v.A J_.- 1___1 ,. ' 1
Ac8  bs tu iiniiO d  it   1  of i
Ace ssto secur'e tenure-po pula  loL P-R -a "0 L -
Souree: World D.veln-mant Indicators data base, April 2002                         j
- 77 -



Additional Annex 13: HIV Risk and Vulnerability
SRI LANKA: National HIWAIDS Prevention Project
The Ministry of Health conducted a social assessment during project preparation, which aimed to
enhance understanding of the risk factors and vulnerability to HIV/AIDS in Sri Lanka. It identified
subpopulations that are at highest risk of contracting and transmitting HIV infection, including sex
workers, external and internal migrant workers, defense personnel, and transport workers, such as trishaw
drivers, and factors that increase their vulnerability.
Significant level of sex work. There are an estimated 30,000 sex workers in Sri Lanka, working the
streets, hotels and brothels. Though brothels in Sri Lanka are illegal, it is estimated that there are 4,800
brothel based sex workers. While it is estimated that there is a concentration of street workers in
Colombo they are also present in most of the bigger towns such as Kandy, Galle and Anuradhapura. The
majority do not use condoms when they have between 2 and 8 clients per day, which puts about 0.2
million individuals at risk. Consultations with CSWs reveal their high vulnerability as a group, as they
are neither aware nor united, and believe that they cannot insist on condom use for fear of losing their
clients. In addition, the diversity of sexual activities that sex workers are compelled to engage in also
preclude their use of condoms. Male and child sex workers in tourist resorts are known as beach boys. It
is estimated that 7% of tourists come to Sri Lanka for sex. Consultations with beach boys revealed that
most engage in unprotected activities and are unaware of sexual transmitted diseases. A low rate of
condom use also results from sexual activities taking place under the influence of alcohol or drugs, non
availability of condoms when the need arises and the unwillingness of partners to use condoms, making
beach boys one of the highest risk groups. Street children, who are found mostly in Colombo, are either
orphans or are born to CSWs. They lack protection and education and are induced to engage in multiple
sexual relationships, sometimes under the influence of drugs. During interviews street children reported
instances of being abducted for sex work at night while sleeping on the pavement.
The sex industry also include agents and clients, such as trishaw drivers and truckers. With
approximately 111,000 registered trishaws operating all over the island, the community of trishaw drivers
have emerged as a vulnerable group due to the close association they maintain with the commercial sex
trade. Trishaws are frequently used to transport CSWs and their clients and also are being used for
clandestine sex activities. The trishaw drivers also function as pimps and get their fee with opportunities
to have sex with CSWs prevail. Engaging in sex trade also provides an enhanced income to these
workers. In addition, the mobility of the truck drivers makes them vulnerable. There are sex industries
building up around the areas where the truck drivers shop for the night. Dambulla ( 24 - hour vegetable
market) has seen an increase of CSWs. Often these workers are under the influence of alcohol and there
is limited condom use in these casual sex encounters. They act as a bridging population as they go back
to their families.
Low level of condom use in risky sex. Although research on sexual behaviors has been limited, a few
studies conducted in the urban areas suggest low condom use among men. For example in 1997, only 4.7
% of men between the age of 15-49 in Matale and 9.6 % of men in Colombo reported ever having had
used condoms, although about two thirds of them had heard about them. Among men who declared that
they have had sex with casual partners during the last 12 months, only 26.3% in Matale and 44.4 % in
Colombo reported using a condom.
Considerable internal and overseas migration. Migration within Sri Lanka and to neighboring
countries, where FHV prevalence is higher-is necessary for the economic survival of many households in
- 78 -



both rural and urban areas. Thousands of women and men live away from their families as migrants
abroad and as workers in the Free Trade Zones and plantations. Removal from traditional social
structures, such as family and kin, has been shown to promote unsafe sexual practices, such as engaging
in multiple sexual partners and in casual and commercial sex, as well as to increase vulnerability of
women and girls to sexual abuse.
External Migrant Workers (EMW). There were 853,000 EMWs in the year 2000. Of which 583,000 were
females and 270,000 were males. 57% both males and females fell into the age category of 25-40 years.
Of the females who were detected HIV positive 50% were migrant workers. High vulnerability of this
category results from sexual relationships with those other than their partners arising from their being
away from their families for long periods of time, and in surroundings where their identities are not
known. The women migrant workers, most of whom are domestic workers are exposed to sexual
harassment at work or travel. Some out of loneliness have taken on casual partners while abroad. Some
are pressured into sex activities by their employers. Even where they have knowledge on HIV/AIDS,
precautionary measures such as use of condoms is beyond them due to the circumstances under which
sexual relationships take place and the difficulty to access condoms. Some research indicate that a
substantial number of female migrant workers face some form of sexual harassment.
Internal Migrant Workers (IMW). Internal Migrant Workers in the Free Trade Zone number around
96,000 and in factories outside the Free Trade Zone there are about 200,000. The free trade zones in
Katunayake, Biyagama, Koggala, Awissawella, Horana and Ratmalana share the above numbers and
70% of them fall into the age category of 20-24. They migrate from remote areas and earn approximately
Rs. 5,000 ( US $ 50) per month. As regards their knowledge on HIV/AIDS different studies indicate
different levels. Inadequacy of accommodation facilities makes them vulnerable for sexual exploitation.
The low income they earn and their obligations for providing financial assistance to their families make
them seek opportunities for earning extra income. Loneliness, being away from home for long periods of
time the kind of social activities they are drawn into and unrestricted freedom they enjoy make them
highly vulnerable to sexual encounters and HIV/AIDS. Social stigma prevents them from purchasing
condoms from shops and therefore the use of condoms is low. The late working hours and having to
traverse dark streets after work to not so safe boarding houses further aggravate the high risks they
encounter.
High mobility within the country, in particular that which is related to military movement and internally
displaced.
Service Personnel. Service personnel tend to spend time at transit points specially at Anuradhapura and
Ratmalana waiting for their turn to get a flight. The time they spend at these transit points has made them
vulnerable to risky sexual escapades making them highly vulnerable to HIV/AIDS. In Anuradhapura and
Ratmalana presence of CSWs and the ready access they have to prospective clientele increases this.
Service personnel on their way to the front leaving their families are said to be in frames of mind to seek
solace in alcohol followed by CSWs. Safe sex for them under the influence of alcohol without ready
access for condoms renders them vulnerable. In certain circumstances the procedures adopted by the
Army in issue of condoms dissuades them from getting their requirements of condoms because, obtaining
these stigmatizes them. In certain studies it was revealed that the lower ranks of service personnel have
low level of awareness on IV/AIDS and prevention measures
Internally Displaced People. The conflict in the Northern and Eastern part of Sri Lanka has resulted in
about 800,000 Internally Displaced People (IDP). They are living in welfare centers and IDP Camps
scattered in a number of districts. With conventional family life destroyed, with break down in supply of
- 79 -



essential services, facing economic hardships, men women and children are compelled to live in welfare
centers with little privacy often exposed to physical abuse and sexual harassment. Their vulnerability to
diseases such as STDIHIV/AIDS within and outside the camp is a matter of concern. Due to insecurity
they face, marriages take place at very young ages and with unprotected sex these groups become highly
vulnerable. Persons from Northern and Eastern provinces who sought refuge in India on their return are
living in some of these camps. With their exposure in a high prevalence country like India, the
vulnerability of IDPs cannot be ruled out. Their knowledge and awareness on STD/HIV/AIDS is low and
availability of condoms is limited. Some IDPs belonging to the Muslim community are averse to use of
condoms due to cultural reasons.
Significant level of drug use and other substance use. Although there have been no reported cases of
HIV thus far and injecting remains limited, this group is at high risk because, as seen in other countries,
conversion to injecting is likely to increase and needle sharing is a highly efficient mode of transmission.
In addition, drug users often experience difficulty accessing information and preventive and support
services.
The estimated numbers of heroine users and cannabis users in Sri Lanka are 40,000 and 200,000
respectively (National Dangerous Drugs Control Board, 2000; Hand Book of Drug Abuse Information
1996-2000). According to the data available, the drug users are mostly males (96%) in the age category
of 15-35. They are also vulnerable due to the high incidence of sexual activities engaged in for different
purposes. Injecting drug use was 1% in 1988 and increased to 13% in 1992, of which regular uses were
only 2%. Some have resorted to injecting use in order to economize on heroin and because of the
superior effect. Research done reveal that on average these drug users engage in sex with 7 partners.,
62% were reported to have had sex with someone other than their spouse. Many in tourist areas resort to
homosexual practices to find money for drugs. Drugs are also used preceding sex to get,the urge for
sexual activities. Discussions with imprisoned drug users revealed that they entered into homosexual
relationships with other prison inmates in exchange for drugs. Studies have revealed that drug ssers lack
knowledge on methods of HIV/AIDS transmission. One such study reveals that 92% of injecting drug
users knew that use of condoms is a means of protection from HIV/AIDS. However, 77% of them could
not name any disease that could be transmitted through injecting drug use.
- 80 -



Additional Annex 14: Monitoring and Evaluation
SRI LANKA: National HIWAIDS Prevention Project
Maiiar,,i,l,L siiulliula.Jy.,ii  wimla,i wuLld be set up to facilitate routine monitoring of HIV/STD and
TB prevention and control activities. A well designed M&E system is needed to provide timely and
coordinated feedback to the project executing agencies. DGHS office, in collaboration with NSACP,
NTP, and NBTS, would coordinate project monitoring through various means. It would be responsible
for compiling and consolidating data related to input/output indicators into an implementation progress
report.
The following table indicates the type of data needed for monitoring, source of data, agency responsible
for collecting and compiling the data, frequency of reporting to DGHS, and dissemination..
NSACP
Source of     Frequency of                    Indicators                 Dissemination
Data          Reporting                                                    To Whom         Method
Sero          Annual         HIV prevalence rate among: (i) antenatal woman;  DGHS (which  Hard copy,
Surveillance                 (ii) STI clinic population; and (iii) sex workers  will then  email, media
STI           Annual          Syphilis prevalence rate among antenatal woman  submit to
surveillance                                                             MOH
Behavioral    Annual         Reported condom use among sex workers and   National
Surveillance                 army recruits                               Health Council
Reported symptoms of STI and care seeking   National AIDS
among sex workers and army recruits         Committee
Proportion of sex workers who report harassment  Media
World Bank)
KAPB          Mid-term and   Knowledge on HIV prevention and attitudes
End of project  (stigma) among (i) sex workers; (ii) army recruits;
(iii) police; and (iv) youth
Independent   Mid-term and   Coverage of highly vulnerable population by
evaluation    End of project  prevention activities
Interventions for sex workers, clients of sex
workers, and youth
Progress report Semi-annual   (i) Subprojects and contracts awarded to NGOs
and CBOs;
(ii) Training of Staff from NGOs and line
ministries in HIV/AIDS
(iii) Training of STD medical staff work with
vulnerable populations
(iv) Training of health in universal precaution and
health care management
(v) No. of STD clinics equipped for waste
management
(vi) NAC/PAC Meetings, attendance, and
representation of civil society
Progress report Quarterly
from:
STD clinics                  (i) Health/STD camps in high transmission areas;
(ii) number of patients/attendees and reported
number of STI cases
- 81 -



Antenatal                     VCT services and referral
clinics
Condom distribution in hot spots
Social
marketing                     Media pieces with positive messages
campaign
Mass media                    Condom use
BCC and outreach activities and coverage
NGOsAline                     Training of peer educations
ministries
Advocacy activities
Provincial                    Supervision of NGOs/CBOs
health
authorities
NBTS
Source of Data  Frequency of                   Indicators                   Dissemination
Reporting                                                      To Whom         Method
Blood bank     Annual         Voluntary, non-paid donors                   DGHS (which     Hard copy,
reviews and                   Training of medical staff in rational use of blood  will then  email, media
reports                                                                    submit to
Independent    Mid-term       Rational use of blood                        MOH,
study          End of project                                              National
Health
Council,
National AIDS
Committee
Media, World
Bank)
NTP
TB reporting   Quarterly      TB cure rates                                 DGHS (which    Hard copy,
reports                                                     will then       email, media
WHO            Annually       Smear positive cases detected under DOTS      submit to
estimates                                                                   MOH,
Progress       Annually       (i) DOTs coverage                             National
reports                       (ii) DOTs training                            Health
(iii) TB chest clinics equipped with waste    Council,
management                                   Media,
(iv) Training on Health staff in waste management  GFATM,
(v) Training on management of TB in people   World Bank)
_  living with HIV/AIDS
- 82 -



Additional Annex 15: Supervision Plan
SRI LANKA: National HIV/AIDS Prevention Project
The project will require intensive supervision in the first year, given a wide range of
implementing agencies at various levels (from community to national level programs) and at various
capacities, as well as diverse implementation mechanisms, such as use of workplans, subprojects, and
subcontracting. With limited experience working with CBOs, NGOs and private firms, project
management will require additional assistance and supervision on issues related to contracting.
Moreover, a systematic approach of using workplans and subprojects is relatively novel, and thorough
supervision is needed to ensure smooth implementation of the first cycle of capacity building, invitation
for proposals, appraisal and selection. The first year affords a critical opportunity to ensure that these
processes that formalize partnerships between sectors, between public and private sectors, and
communities in a transparent and accountable manner, are sustained and integrated into the workings of
program. Although the basic groundwork has been laid for timely procurement and financial
management, which, in the past, has caused implementation delays, these two areas nevertheless require
additional attention to make certain that potential problems and setbacks are identified early and quickly
resolved.
During the first year of implementation, the project will have three formal supervision missions,
in addition to ongoing implementation support by Bank staff in the Colombo office. The core
supervision team will consist of the following members: Task Team Leader, with experience in
HIV/AIDS operations; (ii)financial management specialist who will review the project's adherence to
fiduciary requirements; (iii) procurement specialists who will review and advise on issues related to
procurement, in particular selection of consultants and procurement of goods; (iv) implementation
specialist who will focus on smooth implementation by other sectors, NGOs and contractors; and (v)
environmental specialist to review implementation of the waste management action plan. In addition, the
team will rely upon various experts for their guidance in the areas of contracting NGOs, TB control,
monitoring and evaluation, surveillance, and strategic communications. The team also will draw up on
the expertise of regional UNAIDS staff on specific technical matters related to HIV/AIDS, as well as
regional WHO staff on TB control and blood safety.
The first mission will take place shortly after Board presentation and will pay particular attention
to the following areas: (i) adoption of the Operational Manual; (ii) monitoring and evaluation
arrangements; (iii) development of MIS; (iv) selection of key consultancies-such as condom social
marketing and communications; (iv) initiation of procurement of goods and works for the first year; (v)
financial management capacity- building efforts; and (v) readiness to initiate subprojects and workplans
cycles for NGOs/CBOs, and other line departments and provinces, respectively. The mission will also
follow up on the recommendations and actions agreed upon between the Bank staff and GOSL in
developing the second-generation surveillance system, so that the first round of behavioral surveillance
will be completed by the end of the first year.
The second and third missions will include field visits to the Northeast, and Central provinces, to identify
issues and challenges facing provincial governments, health officials, clinic staff, and NGOs in light of
post conflict and transition conditions related to implementing HIV prevention and TB control activities.
- 83 -



