ISDS
THE WORLD BANK GROUP                                           AWorld Frce of Poverty
InfoShop
Integrated Safeguards Data Sheet (Initial)
Date ISDS Prepared/Updated: 05/30/2002                                 24259
Section I - Basic Information                                       May 30, 2002
A. Basic Project Data
Country: SRI LANKA                              Project ID: P074730
Project: National AIDS Prevention Project       Task Team Leader: Hnin Hnin Pyne
Authorized to Appraise Date: M/lay 24, 2002     IBRD Amount ($m):
Bank Approval: October 22, 20)2                 IDA Amount ($m): 10.00
Managing Unit: SASHD                            Sector: HA - HIV/AIDS
Lending Instrument: Specific Investment Loan (SIL)  Theme: HEALTH/NUTRITION/POPULATION
Status: Lending
I.A.2. Project Objectives:
Sri Lanka presently has a window of opportunity to act vigorously to prevent a nationwide HIV/AIDS
epidemic. The objective of the proposed project is to limit the spread of HIV infection in Sri Lanka
among its highly vulnerable groups and the general population, without stigmatizing those at high risk.
I.A.3. Project Description:
GOSL's National Strategic Plan (2001-2006) provides the framework for the proposed project design.
The project would consist of the following three main components:
Component 1: Developing HIV Prevention Interventions
Subcomponent 1.1: Targeted interventions among highly vulnerable populations.
This subcomponent would support HIV prevention programs for highly vulnerable populations in Sri
Lanka, which includes female and male sex workers, transport workers, workers in the free trade zones,
migrants, armed service personnel, and police.
These programs would promote condom use and safe injecting practices, and would reduce the number
of sexual partners and casual/commercial sex encounters, as well as promote timely STD care. To briig
about these behavioral changes, interventions would include interpersonal communications (i.e., peer
education), voluntary testing and counseling, and community mobilization, which aims to empower the
groups at risk to protect themselves and demand better HIV and STD prevention and care services. In
addition, STD services (outreach, diagnostic, and treatment) would be strengthened and referral
established.
These targeted prevention interventions would largely be implemented by NGOs and other line
departments, such as defense arid Labor, that would manage and implement HIV/AIDS prevention



2
ISDS
activities for their own constituencies, with technical and financial assistance from the National
STD/AIDS Control Program.
Subcomponent 1.2: Broad basedprogramsforyout/h and generalpopulation
This subcomponent would support interventions specifically aimed at (i) policy makers and opinion
leaders, (ii) media personnel, and (iii) health personnel to reduce stigma attached to HIV/Al DS and
condoms, and to enhance political and societal committment to HIV prevention, and at (iv) youth. In
addition, it would finance condom social marketing and mass media campaigns.
Opinion leaders and decision makers. As HIV evokes issues of sexuality and drug use that are
considered taboo, the objective Df this set of activities would be to increase political and societal support
for HIV prevention. To minimize cultural and social resistance to HIV prevention and to protect highly
vulnerable groups and people living with HIV/AIDS, advocacy activities would be directed at policy
makers, police, religious leaders, employers, unions, and other opinion leaders. These activities would
include seminars, workshops, internet based communications, and high publicity events.
Media Personnel. Journalists and other media personnel play a critical role in promoting a positive
environment for HIV/AIDS prevention and care. Stories and messages through newspaper, TV, and
radio can help reduce stigma and fear that is often associated with HIV and promote positive attitudes
towards people living with HIV. Interventions that would be supported include distance learnilg
programs, workshops, and internet-based communications.
Health Personnel. Health workers are instrumental in setting attitudes and norms towards HIV
prevention and PLWHA. In many instances, discrimination against PLWHA by health personnel has
fueled greater fear and stigma. The project would support communications activities targeted at this
particular group.
Youth. The objective of this set of activities is to prevent injecting drug use and promole safe sex norms
and practices (i.e., delay in age of first sexual intercourse, abstinence, use of condoms) and to empower
young men and women in making decisions about their reproductive and sexual health. Interventions,
including use of peer networks, interpersonal communications (i.e., peer education), entertainment-based
education, involvement of role models, school-based programs, and telephone hotline, would be largely
implemented by youth groups, NGOs, schools, National Council for Child Protection, and Education
department.
Subcomponent 1.3: Prevention of HIV thtroughi Blood transfusion and otlher modes of transmission
Blood safety. The subcomponent would complement JICA's support of the National Blood Transfusion
Service (NBTS) in improving the physical infrastructure of blood banks, screening transfusions for HIV,
Hepatitis C, and other STDs and improving quality assurance. The proposed project would support
NBTS to help increase voluntary non-remunerative blood donations, and promote rational use of blood
and blood products. NBTS would coordinate and collaborate with managers and staff of blood banks and
provincial directors of health services in implementing these activities.
Mother-to-Child. The subcomponent would support development of protocol in managing HIV in
pregnancy, pilot interventions that link antenatal care with voluntary counseling and testing (VCT)
services and that provide care and support, including anti-retroviral therapy for pregnant women with
HIV.



3
ISDS
Health care settings. The subcomnponent would support training of health care workers on universal
precautions and provision of antiretroviral therapy for accidental exposure of health staff in the course of
their work. This set of activities would primarily be implemented by the Department of Health.
Through this component, the proposed project would finance consultant services and N(iOs, laboratory
equipment and supplies, waste nnanagement equipment and supplies, condoms, drugs, needles and
syringes, HIV test kits, vehicles., local training, study tours, workshops, IEC materials, operational
expenses, and incremental salarites.
Component 2: TB Control
This component aims to expand DOTs services from 10 districts to 25 districts and to raise the cure rate
from 60% to 85%. To achieve these objectives, the component would support strengthening of the
existing TB program by expanding coverage, access, and quality of DOTS, and providing drugs,
equipment, supplies, and transport to chest clinics. Furthermore, the component would support capacity
building at the central and peripheral levels to undertake DOTs and an independent monitoring and
evaluating the impact of the program.
Through this component, the proposed project would finance consultant services and NGOs, drugs, chest
clinic equipment and supplies, wvaste management equipment and supplies, vehicles, IEC materials, local
training, workshops, operational expenses, and incremental salaries.
IDA financing for this component would supplement the funds approved for TB control efforts by the
Global Fund for AIDS, TB, and Malaria (GFATM) in April 2002. It is envisioned that GFATM funds
would be used for adopting innovative approaches to expand early TB case detection and achieve
targeted cure rates through partnerships with NGOs while IDA credit would finance capital expenditures
to improve TB clinics and hospital wards, equipment, and vehicals to enable field supervision, logistics,
and training, as well as enhance quality control, referral services, and managment, planning, and M&E
capacity of the national program.
Component 3: Institutional Strengthening and Multi-Sector Involvement and Capacity Building
3.1. Enhancing capacity of agencies involved in the national response: (i) NSACP; (ii) MOH at central,
provincial, and district levels; (i(ii) Other line ministries; and (iv) NGOs/CBOs.
This subcomponent focuses on building capacity of for a multisectoral involvement and enhanciig
managerial and technical capacity at the central and provincial levels in such areas as public health
programming, planning, and management, social assessment, financial management, procurement, and
monitoring and evaluation. This would include training, workshops, study tours, conferences, and use of
internet and other information technology to link up to global and regional HIV/AIDS networks. In
addition, NGO capacity would be strengthened to undertake innovative approaches to mobilize highly
vulnerable populations.
3.2. Improving information base for policy and program management (i) Second generation surveillance
system; (ii) MIS; (iii) monitoring and evaluation; and (iv) operational research.
There is a great need for improving the information base of decision making on HIV/AIDS related
policies and programming. To meet that need, second generation surveillance (behavioral and
sero-surveillance systems), as well as STD surveillance, would be established under the project. The
surveillance systems wvould provide information that would enable the program managemenlt to modify



4
ISDS
project interventions to better respond to the changes in the direction of the epidemic, as well as to
provide strong advocacy tool for strengthening political and societal committment to prevention. In
addition, the project would support the monitoring and evaluation unit of the NSACP and finance
operational research and independent monitoring and evaluation activities, which would largely be
undertaken by academic and research institutions.
3.3. Improving health care waste management This subcomponent would aim to prevent pollution and
biological hazards from the health care waste generated from project activities, in particular at STD
clinics and TB chest clinics, as well as treat and dispose of clinical waste produced by hiospitals in
Colombo in an environmentally acceptable manner. In addition, this subcomponent would support
creating a proper legislative environment for enforcement of an integrated clinical waste management
plan in Sri Lanka.
Through this component, the proposed project would finance consultant services, local and regional
training, workshops, vehicles, eqluipment including computer hardware and software, surveys and
studies, information system technology, operational expenses, and incremental salaries.
I.A.4. Project Location: (Geographic location, information about the key environmental and social
characteristics of the area and population likely to be affected, and proximity to any protected areas, or sites
or critical natural habitats, or any other culturally or socially sensitive areas.)
The proposed project would cover the entire country of Sri Lanka, with a focus on geographical areas
and population groups that are highly vulnerable to HIV/AIDS.
B. Clheck Environmental Class.fication: B (Partial Assessment)
Comments. In addition to financing the development and implementation of health care waste management
plan for activities related to HI\' prevention and TB control, the project would support the formulation of
the national policy and guidelines of health care waste management for the entire health sector and would
assist the preparation of legislation.
C. Safeguard Policies Triggered
Policy                                Applicability
Environmental Assessment (OP/BP/GP 4.01)                    * Yes C) No     TBD
Forestry (OP/GP 4.36)                                        Yes * No     ,TBD
Natural Habitats (OP/BP 4.04)                                 Yes * No      TBD
Safety of Dams (OP/BP 4.37)                                   y Yes 0 No    TBD
Pest Management (OP 4.09)                                   C' Yes * No     T TBD
Involuntary Resettlement (OP/BP 4.12)                         Yes * No    <, TBD
Indigenous Peoples (OD 4.20)                                C Yes * No    C TBD
Cultural Property (OP 4.1 1)                                  Yes * No    Q TBD
Projects in Disputed Territories (OP/BP/GP 7.60)*           C Yes 0 No   C TBD
Projects in International Waterways (OP/BP/GP 7.50)         £ Yes * No   C TBD
*By supporting the proposed project, the Bank does not intend to prejudice the final determination of the parties' claims
on the disputed areas
Section II - Key Safeguard Issues and Their Management
D. Summary of Key Safeguard Issues. Please fill in all relevant questions. If information is not available,
describe steps to be taken to obiain necessary data.



5
ISDS
1I.D.la. Describe any safeguard issues and impacts associated with the proposed project. Identify and
describe any potential large scale, significant and/or irreversible impacts.
Environment
The proposed project would produce pollution risks and biological hazards that are associated with
clinical waste. The main types of waste expected to be generated by activities under the project include:
(i) microbiological waste and items, such as needles, contaminated with blood in the STD clinics; (ii)
sputum cups in the laboratories of the TB clinics; (iii) HIV infected blood; and (iv) HIV test kits used in
VCT centers, blood banks, and STD laboratories.
As a result, a situation analysis of the clinical waste management in Sri Lanka was undertaken as part of
project preparation. The study, which addressed health care waste issues for the entire health sector,
involved field visits and consultations with government officials, lab technicians, and health care
personnel. The analysis revealed that approximately 15 tons of clinical wastes are produced per day in
major health facilities in Sri Lanka, of which sharps comprise about 500 kg, and the total quantity of
blood transfusion bags that are screened to be positive to HIV, VDRL, Hepatitis B or MP amounts to 2.7
kg. Sexually transmitted diseases (STD) laboratories carry out microbiological and blood tests that
generate highly infectious waste such as contaminated blood samples and culture plates. No chemical or
autoclave disinfection is perforrned in most STD clinics. No proper procedures are in place for
environmentally acceptable disposal of needles and syringes. The same situation exists for waste
generated in TB clinics and in blood banks.
Based on the situation analysis and consultations with key stakeholders, the proposed project identified
the following environmental objectives: (i) to prevent pollution and biological hazards from the above
mentioned medical waste which, may arise as a direct result of project financed activities; (ii) treat and
dispose of clinical waste, including discarded and infected blood, needles, and sharps, produced by
hospitals in Colombo (which accounts for 28% of the overall production of clinical waste in the country)
in an environmentally acceptable manner; (iii) to ensure that a proper legislative environment exists for
enforcement of an integrated clinical waste management plan in Sri Lanka.
Other Safeguard Issues
This proposed project will not trigger indigenous peoples OD 4.20. A social assessment, undertaken
during project preparation, found that the Veddas are not a high risk group. They are by and large
assimilated into the local population and speak and understand Sinhala. Their risk of contracting HIV is
not greater than the rest of the general public. The interventions for high risk groups, therefore, will not
include them. However, the project will support culturally specific communications activities in local
languages/dialects that are directed at the population at large.
The project will not involve forestry, natural habitats, pest management, dams, land acquisition, or
displacement of people. The remaining safeguard policies are, therefore, not triggered.
ll.D. I b. Describe any potential cumulative impacts due to application of more than one safeguard policy or
due to multiple project component.
Since only the Environmental A.ssessment safeguard policy is triggered under the project, there are no
cumulative impacts anticipated due to the application of more than one safeguard policy and due to
multiple project components



6
ISDS
II.D.Ic Describe any potential long term impacts due to anticipated future activities in the project area.
There are no major civil works other than small scale waste management systems envisioned under this
project. Project assistance will be provided to existing health care facilities; therefore, any long term
impacts due to future activities will be beneficial for the environment and public health. Currently, the
environment as well as local communities are exposed to environmental and public health risks due to
hap hazard disposal of clinical wastes. The project will finance a comprehensive clinical waste
management system for Colombo and waste management systems for STD and TB clinics at all sites
where project activities will be undertaken. Therefore, this will result in an improvement in the
environment and public health status of the local community exposed to ad hoc disposal of clinical
wastes. This situation will exist regardless to any new developments in the local areas resulting in no
long term adverse impacts due to project activities.
Il.D.2. In light of 1, describe thc proposed treatment of alternatives (if required)
The environmental issues that arise as a result of the proposed project are with regard to clinical waste
management. The clinical wast, management plan prepared during project preparations examines
alternative options for waste treatment. Based on the option analysis, the Government has selected the
treatment option most suitable for Sri Lanka which will be financed under the project (see II.D.3).
Il.D.3. Describe arrangement for the borrower to address safeguard issues
Health care waste management plan, to be financed by the project, consists of the following:
(i) A central autoclave in Colombo to treat clinical waste from all public and private sector hospitals in
Colombo;
(ii) Two central autoclaves for the Southern (Galle) and Central Provinces (Kandy) for treatment of
waste arising from STD and TB clinics;
(iii) Considering the very small amount of waste generated at other STD and TB clinics, the waste will be
disposed in lined deep burial pits under controlled conditions;
(iv) Needle destroyers will be provided to selected STD and TB clinics and Blood Banks;
(v) Technical assistance for training and awareness raising on health care waste management for health
care personnel
Specific environmental assessments will be undertaken for each treatment and disposal system prior to
construction. The National Environmental Act confers the responsibility of enforcement and monitoring
to the Central Environmental Authority (CEA). This includes review and approval of environmental
assessments. The CEA's enforcement and EA review capacity is being strengthened under the
IDA-financed Environment Action I Project.
In addition, the Ministry of Health and Nutrition has prepared two documents, National Policy on Health
Care Waste Management and National Guidelines for Health Care Waste Management Pl'ans, based on
the situational analysis. Prior to credit negotiations, the Ministry of Health and Nutrition will obtain
approval of the Cabinet of Ministers for the National Health Care Waste Management Policy and
authorization to prepare national legislation on Health Care Waste Management. With TA provided
under the project, the Ministry will prepare national health care waste management legislation and obtain
parliamentary approval within 3 years of Credit effectiveness.
II.D.4. Identify the key stakeholders and describe the mechanisms for consultation and clisclosure on
safeguard policies, with an emphasis on potentially affected people.



7
ISDS
The proposed project has identified the following key stakeholders who would be involved in the
development, implementation and monitoring of the management of clinical wastes: (i) staff at TB
clinics, blood banks, STD clinics and laboratories; (ii) health workers; (iii) policy makers and
government regulators; and (iv) communities that would be affected by improper waste disposal.
Consultations through group discussions and individual interviews were conducted with stakeholders
identified above during the preparation of the situational analysis and development of national policy and
guidelines for health care waste management. Stakeholder workshops will be held for a wider audience
for consultation on the National Policy, Guidelines and the Action Plan. The Ministry will also place the
environment related documents mentioned above for public comment at the InfoShop and in-country
prior to finalization. The public consultation is scheduled to commence in June 2002.
E. Safeguards Classification. Category is determined by the highest impact in any policy. Or on basis of
cumulative impacts from multiple safeguards. Whenever an individual safeguard policy is triggered the
provisions of that policy apply.
[ ] SI. - Significant, cumulative and/or irreversible impacts; or significant technical and institutional risks
in management of one or more safeguard areas
[X] S2. - One or more safeguard policies are triggered, but effects are limited in their impact and are
technically and institutionally manageable
[ ] S3. - No safeguard issues
[ ] SF. - Financial intermediary projects, social development funds, community driven development or
similar projects which require a safeguard framework or programmatic approach to address
safeguard issues.
F. Disclosure Requirements
Environmental Assessment/Analysis/Management Plan:         Expected      Actual
Date of receipt by the Bank                               5/24/2002
Date of "in-country" disclosure                           6/1/2002
Date of submission to InfoShop                            5/27/2002
Date of distributing the Exec. Summary of the EA to the ED
(For category A projects)
Resettlement Action Plan/Framework:                        Expected      Actual
Date of receipt by the Bank
Date of "in-country" disclosure
Date of submission to InfoShop
Indigenous Peoples Development Plan/Framework:             Expected      Actual
Date of receipt by the Bank
Date of "in-country" disclosure
Date of submission to InfoShop
Pest Management Plan:                                      Expected      Actual
Date of receipt by the Bank
Date of "in-country" disclosure
Date of submission to InfoShop
Dam Safety Management Plan:                                Expected      Actual
Date of receipt by the Bank



8
ISDS
Date of "in-country" disclosure
Date of submission to InfoShop
If in-country disclosure of any cf the above documents is not expected, please explain why.
Signed and submitted by        Name                                         Date
Task Team Leader:             Hnin Hnin Pyne                                May 30, 2002
Project Safeguards Specialists 1:  Sumith Pilapitiya                        May 29, 2002
Project Safeguards Specialists 2.:  Nilufar Ahmad                           May 16, 2002
Project Safeguards Specialists 3:
Approved by:                  Name                                          Date
Regional Safeguards Coordinator: Warren Waters                              May 30, 2002
Sector Manager/Director:       Anabela Abreu                                May 30, 2002
For a list of World Bank news releases on projects and reports, click here
5EARCH         FEECBACK      s5TE MAP      ,SHOWCASE



