Page  1
CONFORMED COPY 
 
GRANT NUMBER H013-CE 
 
Development Grant Agreement 
 
(National HIV/AIDS Prevention Project) 
 
between 
 
DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA 
 
and 
 
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION 
 
Dated February 13, 2003 
 
Page  2
2
Page  3
GRANT NUMBER H013-CE 
 
DEVELOPMENT GRANT AGREEMENT 
 
AGREEMENT, dated February 13, 2003, between DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST 
REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA (the Recipient) and INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT 
ASSOCIATION (the Association). 
 
WHEREAS (A) the Recipient, having satisfied itself as to the feasibility and 
priority of the project described in Schedule 2 to this Agreement (the Project), has 
requested the Association to assist in financing the Project; and 
 
(B) 
the Association was authorized, under Resolution No. 549 adopted on 
September 29, 2002, by the Board of Governors of the International Bank for 
Reconstruction and Development (the “Bank”), to use the funds transferred to the 
Association out of the Bank’s fiscal year 2002 net income to provide financing in the 
form of grants and the development grant set forth in Section 2.01 of this Agreement (the 
Grant) is consistent with such policies;  
 
WHEREAS the Association has agreed, on the basis, 
inter
 
alia
,
of the foregoing, 
to extend the Grant to the Recipient upon the terms and conditions set forth in this 
Agreement; 
 
NOW, THEREFORE, the parties hereto, hereby, agree as follows: 
 
ARTICLE I 
 
General Conditions; Definitions 
 
Section 1.01. (a) The following provisions of the “General Conditions Applicable 
to Development Credit Agreements” of the Association, dated January 1, 1985 (as 
amended through October 6, 1999), with the modifications set forth in paragraphs (b) and 
(c) of this Section (the General Conditions), constitute an integral part of this Agreement: 
 
(i) Article 
I; 
 
(ii) Article 
II; 
 
(iii) Section 
3.01; 
 
(iv) 
Sections 4.01, 4.02, 4.05, and 4.06; 
 
(v) Article 
V; 
 
Page  4
-
2
-
(vi) 
Sections 6.01, 6.02, 6.03, 6.04 and 6.06; 
 
(vii) Article 
VIII; 
 
(viii) Article 
IX; 
 
(ix) Article 
X; 
 
(x) 
Article XI; and 
 
(xi) 
Sections 12.01, 12.02, 12.03 and 12.04. 
 
(b) 
The General Conditions shall be modified as follows: 
 
(i) the 
term “Borrower”, wherever used in the General Conditions, 
means “the Recipient”; 
 
(ii) 
the term “Development Credit Agreement” wherever used in the 
General Conditions, means the Development Grant Agreement; 
 
(iii) 
the term “Credit” and “credit” wherever used in the General 
Conditions means the Grant except that where used in Sections 
6.02 (a) (ii) and 6.02 (c) (i), as modified below, the term “credit” 
shall continue to read “credit”; 
 
(iv) 
the term “Credit Account”, wherever used in the General 
Conditions means the Grant Account; and 
 
(v) 
the term “Development Credit Agreement” is modified to read 
“Development Grant Agreement.” 
 
(c) 
The General Conditions shall be modified as follows: 
 
(i) 
Section 1.01 is amended to read as follows: 
 
“These General Conditions set forth certain terms and conditions 
generally applicable to development financing granted by the 
Association as a development grant to its members. They apply 
to any development grant agreement providing for any such 
development finance to the extent and subject to any 
modifications set forth in such agreement.” 
 
Page  5
-
3
-
(ii) 
Paragraph 8 of Section 2.01 is amended to read as follows: 
 
“8. “Development Grant Agreement” means the particular 
Development Grant Agreement to which these General 
Conditions apply, as such agreement may be amended from time 
to time. Development Grant Agreement includes these General 
Conditions as applied thereto, and all schedules and agreements 
supplemental to the Development Credit Agreement.” 
 
(iii) 
The following new paragraphs are added to Section 2.01: 
 
“15. 
“Grant” means the development grant provided for in the 
Development Grant Agreement.” 
 
“16. 
“Grant Account” means the account opened by the 
Association on its books in the name of the Borrower to which 
the amount of the Grant is credited.” 
 
(iv) 
The phrase “(including any development financing agreement or 
development grant agreement)” is added to Section 6.02 (a) (ii) 
after the words “any development credit agreement” and before 
the words “between the Borrower and the Association”, and to 
Section 6.02 (c) (i) after the words “any development credit 
agreement” and before the words “with the Association.” 
 
Section 1.02. Wherever used in this Agreement, unless the context otherwise 
requires, the several terms defined in the General Conditions and in the recitals to this 
Agreement have the respective meanings therein set forth and the following additional 
terms have the following meanings: 
 
(a) 
“AIDS” means the Acquired Immune Deficiency Syndrome; 
 
(b) 
“Blood Transfusion Program” means the National Blood Transfusion 
Services Program, a state health program in Sri Lanka administered by the Health 
Ministry; 
 
(c) 
“Central Reference Laboratory” means the Central Reference Laboratory 
for the Tuberculosis Central Program, an entity operating with the Health Ministry’s 
support, which conducts various medical and diagnostic tests as well as laboratory 
research;
 
(d) 
“Chest Hospital” means the Chest Hospital Welisara, a teaching hospital 
in Sri Lanka that specializes in treating respiratory diseases;  
 
Page  6
-
4
-
(e) 
“Community-Based Organization” or “CBO” means a community-based 
organization established and operating in the Recipient’s territory and under the 
Recipient’s laws, which has met the eligibility criteria set out in the Operational Manual 
and, as a result, has received or is entitled to receive a Sub-Grant for the carrying out of a 
Sub-Project; 
 
(f) 
“Deputy Director General, Medical Services” means a Deputy Director 
General of Medical Services, an official of the Recipient’s Health Ministry responsible 
for, overseeing clinical waste management in Sri Lanka;  
 
(g) 
“Director General, Health Services” means the Director General of 
Health Services, an official of the Recipient’s Health Ministry responsible for 
implementing national health programs in Sri Lanka; 
 
(h) 
“DOTS” means Directly Observed Treatment Short-course, a strategy 
promoted by the World Health Organization to control tuberculosis; 
 
(i) 
“Finance Ministry” means the Recipient’s Ministry of Finance; 
 
(j) 
“Financial Manual” means the Recipient’s Financial Accounting System 
Manual, dated October 18, 2002, as amended from time to time with the Association’s 
consent, containing administrative, accounting and financial procedures, and procurement 
and disbursement arrangements necessary for implementing the Project; 
 
(k) 
“Financial Monitoring Report” means each report prepared in accordance 
with Section 4.02 of this Agreement; 
 
(l) 
“Fiscal Year” means the Fiscal Year of the Recipient beginning on 
January 1 of a calendar year and ending on December 31 of the calendar year; 
 
(m) 
“Global Fund” means the Global Fund to Fight AIDS, Tuberculosis and 
Malaria, an independent private foundation established under the laws of Switzerland, to 
attract, manage and disburse additional resources to reduce infections, illness and deaths 
from AIDS, tuberculosis and malaria; 
 
(n) 
“Health Ministry” means the Recipient’s Ministry of Health, Nutrition 
and Welfare; 
 
(o) 
“HIV”  means the Human Immuno-Deficiency Virus; 
 
(p) 
“Line Ministries and Agencies” means the Recipient’s ministries or 
agencies participating in this project, including, among others, the Recipient’s Ministries 
of Defense, Labour, Education and Interior, and various agencies or departments within 
any of the Recipient’s ministries, such as the National Child Protection Authority, the 
Page  7
-
5
-
National Dangerous Drug Control Board, Foreign Employment Bureau, Workers 
Education, and the Youth Development Council; 
 
(q) 
“National AIDS Committee” means a committee chaired by the 
Secretary of the Health Ministry and comprising representatives from various ministries 
and agencies of the Recipient as well as NGOs and CBOs, private sector organizations, 
and the media; 
 
(r) 
“National Health Council” means a council, chaired by the Prime 
Minister and comprising ministers responsible for key ministries and agencies, which is 
responsible for, among other things, coordinating HIV/AIDS advocacy and supervision 
activities and for monitoring various sectors’ efforts in HIV/AIDS prevention; 
 
(s) 
“Non-Governmental Organization” or “NGO” means a non-
governmental organization operating in the Recipient’s territory and under the 
Recipient’s laws, which has met the eligibility criteria set out in the Operational Manual; 
 
(t) 
“Operational Manual” means the Recipient’s Project Operational Manual 
as amended from time to time with the Association’s agreement, containing, among other 
things, details regarding the categories of Sub-Projects, the Sub-Project cycle, criteria for 
selecting Community-Based Organizations and Non-Governmental Organizations for 
Project activities; terms and conditions for Sub-Grants, and criteria for monitoring and 
evaluation activities; 
 
(u) 
“Provincial AIDS Committee” means a committee established in each 
provincial council of the Recipient, chaired by the chief secretary and comprising 
representatives from various provincial ministries, departments and agencies, as the case 
may be, as well as NGOs and CBOs, private sector organizations, and the media; 
 
(v) 
“Provincial Health Authorities” means the health ministries, departments 
or agencies, as the case may be, of any of the Recipient’s provincial councils; 
 
(w) 
“Special Account” means the account referred to in Section 2.02 (b) of 
this Agreement; 
 
(x) 
“STD” means Sexually Transmitted Diseases; 
 
(y) 
“STD and AIDS Control Program” means the National STD and AIDS 
Control Program, a public health program in Sri Lanka administered by the Health 
Ministry; 
 
(z) 
“Sub-Grant” means a sub-grant made, or proposed to be made, by the 
Recipient to a Community-Based Organization or a Non-Governmental Organization to 
finance a Sub-Project; 
 
Page  8
-
6
-
(aa) 
“Sub-Grant Agreement” means a written agreement to be entered into 
between Director General, Health Services and a Community-Based Organization or a 
Non-Governmental Organization with terms and conditions satisfactory to the 
Association, including those set forth in Schedule 6 to this Agreement; 
 
(bb) 
“Sub-Project” means a specific activity or set of activities financed, or 
proposed to be financed, through a Sub-Grant made under Part A.1 (interventions for 
HIV/AIDS prevention) of the Project; 
 
(cc) 
“Tuberculosis Control Program” means the National Tuberculosis and 
Respiratory Disease Control Program, a public health program in Sri Lanka administered 
by the Health Ministry; 
 
(dd) 
“Waste Management Policy and Guidelines” means the Recipient’s 
National Policy and Guidelines for Health Care Waste Management dated 
October 31, 2001, including any amendments to such document, satisfactory to the 
Association, that shall: (i) enable the Recipient to assess, among other things, the 
Project’s environmental and social impacts; and (ii) where applicable, govern the 
preparation of environmental management plans and other appropriate mechanisms, 
satisfactory to the Association, required to mitigate and monitor any adverse impacts 
from carrying out the Project; 
 
(ee) 
“Work Program” means an annual work program of each of the Line 
Ministries and Agencies and Provincial Health Authorities relating to Project 
implementation activities under Parts A and B of the Project approved in accordance with 
the Operational Manual; and 
 
(ff) 
“Work Program MOU” means the memoranda of understanding, in form 
and content acceptable to the Association, to be entered into by the Director General, 
Health Services with each of the Line Ministries and Agencies as well as with each of the 
Provincial Health Authorities regarding project implementation. 
 
ARTICLE II 
 
The Grant 
 
Section 2.01. The Association agrees to make available to the Recipient, on the 
terms and conditions set forth or referred to in this Agreement, the Grant in an amount in 
various currencies equivalent to nine million six hundred thousand Special Drawing 
Rights (SDR 9,600,000). 
 
Section 2.02. (a) The amount of the Grant may be withdrawn from the Grant 
Account in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1 to this Agreement for 
expenditures made (or, if the Association shall so agree, to be made) in respect of the 
Page  9
-
7
-
reasonable cost of goods, works and services required for carrying out the Project and to 
be financed out of the proceeds of the Grant. 
 
(b) 
The Recipient may, for the purposes of the Project, open and maintain in 
a
special deposit account in the Central Bank of Sri Lanka on terms and conditions 
satisfactory to the Association. Deposits into, and payments out of, the Special Account 
shall be made in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 5 to this Agreement. 
 
Section 2.03. The Closing Date shall be June 30, 2008, or such later date as the 
Association shall establish. The Association shall promptly notify the Recipient of such 
later date. 
 
Section 2.04. (a) The Recipient shall pay to the Association a commitment charge 
on the principal amount of the Grant not withdrawn from time to time at a rate to be set 
by the Association as of June 30 of each year, but not to exceed the rate of one-half of 
one percent (1/2 of 1%) per annum. 
 
(b) 
The commitment charge shall accrue: (i) from the date sixty days after 
the date of this Agreement (the accrual date) to the respective dates on which amounts 
shall be withdrawn by the Recipient from the Grant Account or canceled; and (ii) at the 
rate set as of the June 30 immediately preceding the accrual date and at such other rates 
as may be set from time to time thereafter pursuant to paragraph (a) above. The rate set as 
of June 30 in each year shall be applied from the next date in that year specified in 
Section 2.05 of this Agreement. 
 
(c) 
The commitment charge shall be paid: (i) at such places as the 
Association shall reasonably request; (ii) without restrictions of any kind imposed by, or 
in the territory of, the Recipient; and (iii) in the currency specified in this Agreement for 
the purposes of Section 4.02 of the General Conditions or in such other eligible currency 
or currencies as may from time to time be designated or selected pursuant to the 
provisions of that Section. 
 
Section 2.05. Commitment charges shall be payable semiannually on June 1 and 
December 1 in each year. 
 
Section 2.06. The Secretary, Ministry of Finance and Planning, and any person 
whom he or she shall designate in writing, are designated as representative(s) of the 
Recipient for the purposes of taking any action required or permitted to be taken under 
the provisions of Section 2.02 of this Agreement and Article V of the General Conditions. 
 
Page  10
-
8
-
ARTICLE III 
 
Execution of the Project 
 
Section 3.01. (a) The Recipient declares its commitment to the objectives of the 
Project as set forth in Schedule 2 to this Agreement, and, to this end, shall carry out the 
Project, through the Health Ministry, various Line Ministries and Agencies and 
Provincial Health Authorities, with due diligence and efficiency and in conformity with 
appropriate education, environmental and social, health, sanitary, administrative, 
financial and technical practices, and shall provide, promptly as needed, the funds, 
facilities, services and other resources required for the Project. 
 
(b) 
Without limitation upon the provisions of paragraph (a) of this Section 
and except as the Recipient and the Association shall otherwise agree, the Recipient shall 
carry out the Project in accordance with the Implementation Program set forth in 
Schedule 4 to this Agreement and the Procedures, Terms and Conditions for Sub-Projects 
under Part A.1 set forth in Schedule 6 to this Agreement. 
 
Section 3.02. Except as the Association shall otherwise agree, procurement of the 
goods, works and consultants’ services required for the Project, and to be financed out of 
the proceeds of the Grant shall be governed by the provisions of Schedule 3 to this 
Agreement. 
 
Section 3.03. For the purposes of Section 9.06 of the General Conditions and 
without limitation thereto, the Recipient shall: 
 
(a) 
prepare, on the basis of guidelines acceptable to the Association, and 
furnish to the Association not later than six months after the Closing Date or such later 
date as may be agreed for this purpose between the Recipient and the Association, a plan 
for the future operation of the Project; and 
 
(b) 
afford the Association a reasonable opportunity to exchange views with 
the Recipient on said plan. 
 
ARTICLE IV 
 
Financial Covenants 
 
Section 4.01. (a) The Recipient shall establish and maintain throughout the 
period of Project implementation, a financial management system, including records and 
accounts, and prepare financial statements in a format acceptable to the Association, 
adequate to reflect the operations, resources and expenditures related to the Project. 
 
Page  11
-
9
-
(b) The 
Recipient 
shall: 
 
(i) 
have the records, accounts and financial statements referred to in 
paragraph (a) of this Section, and the records and accounts for 
the Special Account, for each Fiscal Year, audited in accordance 
with auditing standards acceptable to the Association, 
consistently applied by independent auditors acceptable to the 
Association; 
 
(ii) 
furnish to the Association as soon as available, but in any case 
not later than six (6) months after the end of each Fiscal Year, 
(A) certified copies of the financial statements referred to in 
paragraph (a) of this Section for such Fiscal Year as so audited, 
and (B) an opinion on such statements, records and accounts and 
the report of such audit, by said auditors, of such scope and in 
such detail as the Association shall have reasonably requested; 
and 
 
(iii) 
furnish to the Association such other information concerning 
such records, accounts and financial statements, and the audit 
thereof, and concerning said auditors, as the Association shall 
from time to time reasonably request. 
 
(c) 
For all expenditures with respect to which withdrawals from the Grant 
Account were made on the basis of statements of expenditure, the Recipient shall: 
 
(i) 
maintain or cause to be maintained, in accordance with 
paragraph (a) of this Section, records and separate accounts 
reflecting such expenditures; 
 
(ii) 
retain, until at least one year after the Association has received 
the audit report for the Fiscal Year in which the last withdrawal 
from the Grant Account was made, all records (contracts, orders, 
invoices, bills, receipts and other documents) evidencing such 
expenditures; 
 
(iii) 
enable the Association’s representatives to examine such 
records; and 
 
(iv) 
ensure that such records and accounts are included in the annual 
audit referred to in paragraph (b) of this Section and that the 
report of such audit contains a separate opinion by said auditors 
as to whether the statements of expenditure submitted during 
such Fiscal Year, together with the procedures and internal 
Page  12
-
10 - 
controls involved in their preparation, can be relied upon to 
support the related withdrawals. 
 
Section 4.02. 
(a) Without limitation upon the Recipient’s progress reporting 
obligations set out in paragraph B of Schedule 4 to this Agreement, the Recipient shall 
prepare and furnish to the Association a Financial Monitoring Report, in form and 
substance satisfactory to the Association, which: 
 
(i) 
sets forth sources and uses of funds for the Project, both 
cumulatively and for the period covered by said report, showing 
separately funds provided under the Grant, and explains 
variances between the actual and planned uses of such funds; 
 
(ii) 
describes physical progress in Project implementation, both 
cumulatively and for the period covered by said report, and 
explains variances between the actual
 
and planned Project 
implementation; and 
 
(iii) 
sets forth the status of procurement under the Project, as at the 
end of the period covered by said report. 
 
(b) 
The first Financial Monitoring Report shall be furnished to the 
Association not later than forty-five (45) days after the end of the first calendar quarter 
after the Effective Date, and shall cover the period from the incurrence of the first 
expenditure under the Project through the end of such first calendar quarter; thereafter, 
each Financial Monitoring Report shall be furnished to the Association not later than 
forty-five (45) days after each subsequent calendar quarter, and shall cover such calendar 
quarter. 
 
ARTICLE V 
 
Remedies of the Association 
 
Section 5.01. Pursuant to Section 6.02 (l) of the General Conditions, the 
following additional event is specified, namely, that the applicable legal or regulatory 
provisions relating to clinical waste management shall have been amended, suspended, 
abrogated, repealed or waived so as to affect materially and adversely the ability of the 
Recipient to perform any of its obligations under the Project, including the Waste 
Management Policy and Guidelines. 
Page  13
-
11 - 
 
ARTICLE VI 
 
Termination 
 
Section 6.01. The date ninety (90) days after the date of this Agreement is hereby 
specified for the purposes of Section 12.04 of the General Conditions. 
 
Section 6.02. This Agreement and all obligations of the Association and the 
Recipient thereunder shall terminate on the date twenty years after the date of this 
Agreement. 
 
ARTICLE VII 
 
Representative of the Recipient; Addresses 
 
Section 7.01. The Secretary, Ministry of Finance and Planning of the Recipient is 
designated as representative of the Recipient for the purposes of Section 11.03 of the 
General Conditions. 
 
Section 7.02. The following addresses are specified for the purposes of 
Section 11.01 of the General Conditions: 
 
For the Recipient: 
 
Ministry of Finance and Planning 
 
Government of the Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka 
The Secretariat 
 
Colombo 1, Sri Lanka 
 
Cable 
address: 
  Telex: 
  Facsimile: 
 
SECMINFIN 
  FINMIN 
21409 
 94-1-449823 
 
FORAID 21232  
94-1-447633 
 
For the Association: 
 
International Development Association 
 
1818
H
Street, N.W. 
 
Washington, D.C. 20433 
 
United States of America 
 
Page  14
-
12 - 
 
Cable 
address: 
  Telex: 
  Facsimile: 
 
INDEVAS 
 
 
248423 (MCI) or 
(202) 477-6391 
 
Washington, D.C. 
 
  64145 (MCI) 
 
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their duly 
authorized representatives, have caused this Agreement to be signed in their respective 
names in Colombo, Sri Lanka, as of the day and year first above written. 
 
DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF 
 
SRI LANKA 
 
By 
/s/ Charitha Ratwatte 
Authorized Representative 
 
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION 
 
By 
/s/ Peter Harrold 
Country Director 
Sri Lanka 
Page  15
-
13 - 
SCHEDULE 1 
 
Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the Grant
 
1. 
The table below sets forth the Categories of items to be financed out of the 
proceeds of the Grant, the allocation of the amounts of the Grant to each Category and 
the percentage of expenditures for items so to be financed in each Category: 
 
Amount of the  
% of  
 
Grant Allocated 
Expenditures 
Category
(Expressed in SDR Equivalent)
to be Financed
(1)  Civil works 
920,000 
85% 
 
(2)  Goods 
2,580,000 
100% of foreign 
 
expenditures; 
 
100%
of the ex- 
 
factory cost of local  
 
expenditures; 85% of  
 
local expenditures 
 
(3)  Consultants 
 
 
 
(a)  Individuals 
510,000 
75% 
 
(b)  Firms 
2,260,000 
80% 
 
(4)  Training, workshops 
1,710,000 
100% 
 
and study tours 
 
(5)  Sub-Grants under Part A 
280,000 
85% 
 
(interventions for  
 HIV/AIDS 
prevention) 
 
of the Project 
 
(6)  Incremental Operating Costs 
350,000 
50% of expenditures 
 
up
to June 30, 2007 
 
(7)  Unallocated 
990,000 
 
 
________
TOTAL 9,600,000
Page  16
-
14 - 
2.
 
For the purposes of this Schedule:
 
(a) 
the term “foreign expenditures” means expenditures in the currency of 
any country other than that of the Recipient for goods or services supplied from the 
territory of any country other than that of the Recipient; 
 
(b) 
the term “local expenditures” means expenditures in the currency of the 
Recipient or for goods or services supplied from the territory of the Recipient; and 
 
(c) 
the term “Incremental Operating Costs” means salaries of project staff, 
vehicle maintenance, fuel, and insurance, supervision field visits (travel and per diem), 
office supplies, utilities, and communications expenses, including Internet connections. 
 
3. 
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 above, no withdrawals shall be 
made in respect of payments made for expenditures prior to the date of this Agreement, 
except that withdrawals, in an aggregate amount not exceeding the equivalent of 
SDR 600,000, may be made in respect of Categories (1), (2), (3), (4), (5) and (6) on 
account of payments made for expenditures before that date but after July 1, 2002. 
 
4. 
The Association may require withdrawals from the Grant Account to be made on 
the basis of statements of expenditure for expenditures incurred with respect to: (i) goods 
under contracts costing less than $250,000 equivalent each, (ii) woks under contracts 
costing less than $500,000 equivalent each; (iii) services under contracts costing less than 
$100,000 equivalent each for consulting firms; (iv) for services under contracts costing 
less than $50,000 equivalent each for individual consultants; (v) any kind of training, 
workshops or study tours; (vi) the first two contracts for Sub-Projects and Work 
Programs in each Fiscal Year; and (vii) all Incremental Operating Costs, all under such 
terms and conditions as the Association shall specify by notice to the Recipient. 
 
5. 
If the Association shall have determined at any time that any payment made from 
the Grant Account was used for any expenditure not consistent with the provisions of this 
Agreement, the Recipient shall, promptly upon notice from the Association, refund to the 
Association for deposit into the Grant Account, an amount equal to the amount so used or 
the portion thereof as specified by the Association. 
 
Page  17
-
15 - 
SCHEDULE 2 
 
Description of the Project 
 
This project’s objectives are to assist the Recipient in curbing the spread of 
HIV/AIDS infection and reducing the risk of an emerging HIV-associated tuberculosis 
epidemic through the following measures: 
 
(i) 
expanding prevention programs for highly vulnerable groups and 
the general population especially the youth;  
 
(ii) 
developing programs to sustain political and societal 
commitment to HIV/AIDS prevention and to reduce stigma and 
discrimination against people living with HIV/AIDS and highly 
vulnerable sub-populations;  
 
(iii) 
improving programs to strengthen early tuberculosis detection 
and treatment and to reverse rising incidence of this disease; and 
 
(iv) 
strengthening multi-sectoral involvement and capacity. 
 
The Project consists of the following parts, subject to such modifications thereof 
as the Recipient and the Association may agree upon from time to time to achieve such 
objectives. 
 
Part A
:
Interventions to Prevent HIV/AIDS
1. 
Financing and assisting Sub-Projects and Work Programs that make targeted 
interventions among highly vulnerable sub-groups of the population. These groups 
include, among others, sex workers, transport workers, workers in the free trade zones, 
migrant workers, drug users, men who have sex with men, and armed service personnel. 
 
2. 
Supporting the following broad-based programs that will contribute to reducing 
HIV/AIDS infections. 
 
(a) 
Promoting advocacy and spreading awareness among policy makers and 
opinion leaders, the media, law enforcement and health-care providers.  
 
(b) 
Using a variety of methods to provide reliable information to young 
people on reproductive and sexual health issues. These methods include peer networks, 
interpersonal communications, entertainment-based education, using role-models, 
specially-designed programs in educational institutions, and telephone hotlines. 
 
(c) 
Supporting a social marketing program that explains the dangers of 
unprotected sex, encourages the use of condoms, and ensures the availability of condoms. 
Page  18
-
16 - 
 
(d) 
Strengthening safety and screening procedures used to ensure reliable 
blood supply and blood products. 
 
(e) 
Preventing mother-to-child transmission of HIV infection. 
 
Part B
:
Reducing the Incidence of Tuberculosis Infections
1. 
Strengthening the Tuberculosis Control Program through the following measures. 
 
(a) 
Advocacy and communication programs. 
 
(b) 
Updating technical norms, manuals and guidelines. 
 
(c) 
Training to upgrade skills of program managers and staff. 
 
(d) 
Building the central program unit’s capacity to improve outreach, 
supervision, monitoring and evaluation. 
 
(e) 
Raising standards for monitoring and evaluation activities. 
 
(f) 
Strengthening the Central Reference Laboratory and Chest Hospital. 
 
(g) 
Improving conditions at tuberculosis wards in government-run hospitals 
and chest clinics. 
 
(h) 
Enhancing supervision of the Tuberculosis Control Program at the 
provincial and district levels.  
 
2. 
Improving the coverage and quality of DOTS programs in Sri Lanka. 
 
Part C
:
Institutional Strengthening
1. 
Enhancing capacity of the following agencies involved in Sri Lanka’s response to 
HIV/AIDS. 
 
(a) 
Office of the Director General, Health Services. 
 
(b) 
STD and AIDS Control Program. 
 
(c) 
Provincial Health Authorities and Line Ministries, and Agencies. 
 
(d) 
Multi-sectoral agencies, such as, the National AIDS Committee and 
Provincial AIDS Committee. 
 
Page  19
-
17 - 
(e) 
NGOs, CBOs and other voluntary and private organizations. 
 
2. 
Improving the information base for policy decisions and program management 
by supporting the following activities. 
 
(a) 
A management information system for routine monitoring of HIV/AIDS, 
sexually transmitted diseases and tuberculosis prevention and control activities. The 
Director General for Health Services shall be responsible for maintaining this system. 
 
(b) 
A second-generation surveillance system in accordance with the 
international guidelines to track the direction and spread of HIV/AIDS infections. 
 
(c) 
Operational research to fill the knowledge gap and guide interventions. 
 
3. 
Improving health-care and clinical waste management. 
 
(a) 
Preventing pollution and biological hazards from health care waste 
generated by project activities. 
 
(b) 
 Strengthening the legislative and regulatory framework for clinical 
waste management in accordance with Sri Lanka’s constitutional and legal procedures.  
 
*
*
*
The Project is expected to be completed by December 31, 2007. 
 
Page  20
-
18 - 
SCHEDULE 3 
 
Procurement and Consultants’ Services 
 
Section I
.
Procurement of Goods and Works
Part A
:
General
Goods and works shall be procured in accordance with the provisions of 
Section 
I
of
the “Guidelines for Procurement under IBRD Loans and IDA Credits”, 
published by the World Bank in January 1995 and revised in January and August 1996, 
September 1997 and January 1999 (the Guidelines) and the provisions of the following 
Parts of this Section I. 
 
Part B
:
International Competitive Bidding
1. 
Except as otherwise provided in Part C of this Section, goods and works shall be 
procured under contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions of Section II of the 
Guidelines and paragraph 5 of Appendix 1 thereto. 
 
2. 
The following provisions shall apply to goods and works to be procured under 
contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions of paragraph 1 of this Part B. 
 
Preference for domestically manufactured goods and domestic contractors
The provisions of paragraphs 2.54 and 2.55 of the Guidelines and Appendix 2 
thereto shall apply to goods manufactured in the territory of the Recipient and works to 
be carried out by domestic contractors. 
 
Part C
:
Other Procurement Procedures
1. 
National Competitive Bidding
(a) 
Goods required for the Project estimated to cost more than $30,000 
equivalent, per contract, and less than $100,000 equivalent, per contract, up to an 
aggregate amount not to exceed $870,000 may be procured under contracts awarded on 
the basis of competitive bidding advertised nationally, in accordance with procedures 
satisfactory to the Association and the provisions of paragraphs 3.3 and 3.4 of the 
Guidelines. 
 
(b) 
Works required for the Project estimated to cost more than $50,000 
equivalent, per contract may be procured under contracts awarded on the basis of 
competitive bidding advertised nationally, in accordance with procedures satisfactory to 
the Association and the provisions of paragraphs 3.3 and 3.4 of the Guidelines.  
 
Page  21
-
19 - 
(c) 
In order to ensure economy, efficiency, transparency and broad 
consistency with the provision of Section 1 of the Guidelines: 
 
(i) 
invitations to bid shall be advertised in at least one national 
newspaper with a wide circulation, at least 30 days prior to the 
deadline for the submission of bids; 
 
(ii) 
bid documents shall be made available, by mail or in person, to 
all who are willing to pay the required fee; 
 
(iii) 
foreign bidders shall not be precluded from bidding and no 
preference of any kind shall be given to national bidders in the 
bidding process; 
 
(iv) 
qualification criteria (in case prequalification was not carried 
out) shall be stated in the bidding documents, and, if a 
registration process is required, a foreign firm declared as the 
lowest evaluated bidder shall be given a reasonable opportunity 
of registering, without let or hindrance; 
 
(v) 
bids shall be opened in public in one location, immediately after 
the deadline for submission of bids; 
 
(vi) 
bids shall not be rejected merely on the basis of a comparison 
with an official estimate without the prior concurrence of the 
Association; 
 
(vii) 
contracts shall be awarded to the lowest evaluated bidders; 
 
(viii) 
post-bidding negotiations shall not be allowed with the lowest 
evaluated or any other bidders; 
 
(ix) 
rebidding shall not be carried out without the Asso
ciation’s prior 
concurrence; 
 
(x) 
all bidders/contractors shall provide bid/performance security as 
indicated in the bidding/contract documents; 
 
(xi) 
evaluation of bids shall be made in strict adherence to the criteria 
disclosed in the bidding documents, in a format and specified 
period agreed by the Association; 
 
(xii) 
a bidder’s bid security shall apply only to a specific bid, and a 
contractor’s performance security shall apply only to the specific 
contract under which it was furnished; 
Page  22
-
20 - 
 
(xiii) 
bids shall not be invited on the basis of percentage premium or 
discount over the estimated cost; 
 
(xiv) 
extension of bid validity shall not be allowed unless justified by 
exceptional circumstances; and 
 
(xv) 
there shall not be any restrictions on the means of delivery of the 
bids. 
 
2. National 
Shopping
Goods estimated to cost less than $30,000 equivalent per contract, up to an 
aggregate amount not to exceed $210,000 equivalent, may be procured under contracts 
awarded on the basis of international or national shopping procedures in accordance with 
the provisions of paragraphs 3.5 and 3.6 of the Guidelines. 
 
3. 
Three Quotations/Direct Contracting/Force Account
(a) 
The following contracts shall be procured in accordance with the 
provisions of sub-paragraph (b) of this paragraph 3. 
 
(i) 
Goods for the Project estimated to cost less than $100 equivalent 
per contract, up to an aggregate amount not to exceed $10,000 
equivalent;  
 
(ii) 
equipment, software, books, periodicals and training material, 
estimated to cost up to an aggregate amount not to exceed 
$12,000 equivalent; and 
 
(iii) 
minor civil works under Parts B and C of the Project. 
 
(b) 
The contracts listed in sub-paragraph (a) of this paragraph 3 shall be 
procured as follows: 
 
(i) 
Lump-sum, fixed-price contracts awarded on the basis of 
quotations obtained from at least three qualified domestic 
contractors in response to a written invitation. The invitation 
shall include a detailed description of the works, including basic 
specifications, the required completion date, a basic form of 
agreement acceptable to the Association, and relevant drawings, 
where applicable. The award shall be made to the contractor who 
offers the lowest price quotation for the required work, and who 
has the experience and resources to complete the contract 
successfully. 
Page  23
-
21 - 
 
(ii) 
With the Association’s prior agreement, under direct contracting 
in accordance with the provisions of paragraph 3.7 of the 
Guidelines. 
 
(iii) 
As a last resort and, if the proposed contracts meet the 
requirements of paragraph 3.8 of the Guidelines, they may be 
carried out, with the Association’s prior agreement, by force 
account in accordance with the provisions of said paragraph of 
the Guidelines. 
 
4. Sub-Projects
Goods, equipment and services required for a Sub-Project under Part A of the 
Project (interventions for HIV/AIDS prevention) estimated to cost less than $15,000 
equivalent, per Sub-Project, may be procured on the basis of procedures acceptable to the 
Association. 
 
Part D
:
Review by the Association of Procurement Decisions
1. Procurement 
Planning
Prior to the issuance of any invitations to prequalify for bidding or to bid for 
contracts, the proposed procurement plan for the Project shall be furnished to the 
Association for its review and approval, in accordance with the provisions of paragraph 1 
in the Appendix 1 to the Guidelines. Procurement of all goods and works shall be 
undertaken in accordance with a procurement plan approved by the Association, and with 
the provisions of paragraph 1, mentioned above. The procurement plan shall be updated 
every three months during the execution of the Project, and each updated plan shall be 
furnished to the Association for its review and approval. Selection of all consultants’ 
services shall be undertaken in accordance with selection plan, updated from time to 
time, as approved by the Association. 
 
2. Prior 
Review
The procedures set forth in paragraphs 2 and 3 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines 
shall apply to:  
 
(a) 
the first two contracts awarded in each of the following categories during 
each Fiscal Year following the Effective Date of the Project commencing with the Fiscal 
Year 2003-04: 
Page  24
-
22 - 
(i) 
contracts for goods procured through international 
competitive bidding; 
 
(ii) 
contracts for works procured through national 
competitive bidding; and  
 
(iii) 
contracts for goods procured through national 
competitive bidding; 
 
(b) 
each contract for goods estimated to cost $250,000 equivalent or more; 
and 
 
(c) 
each contract for works estimated to cost $500,000 equivalent or more. 
 
3. Post 
Review
With respect to each contract not governed by paragraph 2 of this Part, the 
procedure set forth in paragraph 4 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines shall apply. 
 
Section II
.
Employment of Consultants
Part A
:
General
Consultants’ services shall be procured in accordance with the provisions of 
Sections I and IV of the “Guidelines: Selection and Employment of Consultants by 
World Bank Borrowers” published by the World Bank in January 1997 and revised in 
September 1997, January 1999 and May 2002 (the Consultant Guidelines), paragraph 1 
of Appendix 1 thereto, Appendix 2 thereto, and the following provisions of this Section. 
 
Part B
:
Quality-and Cost-based Selection
1. 
Except as otherwise provided in Part C of this Section, consultants’ services shall 
be procured under contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions of Section II of 
the Consultant Guidelines, and the provisions of paragraphs 3.13 through 3.18 thereof 
applicable to quality- and cost-based selection of consultants. 
 
2. 
The following provision shall apply to consultants’ services to be procured under 
contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions of the preceding paragraph: the short 
list of consultants for services under Part C (institutional strengthening) of the Project, 
estimated to cost less than $200,000 equivalent per contract, may comprise entirely 
national consultants in accordance with the provisions of paragraph 2.7 and footnote 8 of 
the Consultant Guidelines. 
 
Page  25
-
23 - 
Part C
:
Other Procedures for the Selection of Consultants
1. 
Selection Based on Consultants’ Qualifications
Contracts for consulting services estimated to cost less than $50,000 equivalent 
per contract shall be procured under contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions 
of paragraphs 3.1 and 3.7 of the Consultant Guidelines. 
 
2. Individual 
Consultants
Services for tasks that meet the requirements set forth in paragraph 5.1 of the 
Consultant Guidelines shall be procured under contracts awarded to individual 
consultants in accordance with the provisions of paragraphs 5.1 through 5.4 of the 
Consultant Guidelines. 
 
3. Least-cost 
Selection
Services estimated to cost less than $100,000 equivalent per contract may be 
procured under contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions of paragraphs 3.1 
and 3.6 of the Consultant Guidelines. 
 
Part D
:
Review by the Association of the Selection of Consultants
1. Selection 
Planning
A
plan for the selection of consultants, which shall include contract cost 
estimates, contract packaging, and applicable selection criteria and procedures, shall be 
furnished to the Association, for its review and approval, prior to the issuance to 
consultants of any requests for proposals. The plan shall be updated every three months 
during the execution of the Project, and each updated plan shall be furnished to the 
Association for its review and approval. Selection of all consultants’ services shall be 
undertaken in accordance with selection plan, updated from time to time, as approved by 
the Association. 
 
2. Prior 
Review
(a) 
With respect to each contract for the employment of consulting firms 
estimated to cost the equivalent of $100,000 or more, the procedures set forth in 
paragraphs 2, 3 and 5 of Appendix 1 to the Consultant Guidelines shall apply. 
 
(b) 
With respect to each contract for the employment of individual 
consultants estimated to cost the equivalent of $50,000 or more, the report on the 
comparison of the qualifications and experience of candidates, the qualifications, 
experience and the terms of reference and terms of employment of the consultants shall 
be furnished to the Association for its prior review and approval. The contract shall be 
Page  26
-
24 - 
awarded only after the said approval shall have been given. The provisions of 
paragraph 3 of Appendix 1 to the Consultant Guidelines shall also apply to such 
contracts. 
 
3. Post 
Review
With respect to each contract not governed by paragraph 2 of this Part, the 
procedures set forth in paragraph 4 of Appendix 1 to the Consultant Guidelines shall 
apply.
 
Page  27
-
25 - 
SCHEDULE 4 
 
Implementation Program 
 
A. 
Overall Project Implementation and Coordination
1. 
The Recipient shall vest responsibility for supervising and coordinating project 
implementation with the Director General, Health Services. 
 
2. 
Until a completion report referred to in Section 9.06 (c) of the General 
Conditions has been furnished to the Association, the Recipient shall maintain, or shall 
cause its ministries, departments or administrative units to maintain, such staffing, 
organization and personnel, which the Association believes are necessary to satisfactorily 
carry out the Project. 
 
3. 
The Recipient shall appoint, by no later than October 31, 2002, and maintain, 
until a completion report referred to in Section 9.06 (c) of the General Conditions has 
been furnished to the Association, (i) a management advisor, (ii) a financial management 
specialist, and (iii) a procurement specialist, each with terms of reference, qualifications 
and experience satisfactory to the Association. 
 
4. 
The Recipient shall, or shall cause its Line Ministries and Agencies and the 
Provincial Health Authorities, to implement the Project in accordance with the Waste 
Management Policy and Guidelines and the provisions of applicable law. 
 
5. 
In consultation with the Association and in accordance with its constitutional and 
legal procedures, the Recipient shall take necessary measures to strengthen the legal and 
regulatory framework for clinical waste management. 
 
B. 
Progress Reports and Mid-Term Review
The Recipient shall: 
 
(i) 
maintain policies and procedures adequate to enable it to monitor 
and evaluate on an ongoing basis, in accordance with the 
indicators set forth in Schedule 6 to this Agreement, the carrying 
out of the Project and the achievement of the objectives thereof; 
 
(ii) 
prepare, under terms of reference satisfactory to the Association, 
and furnish to the Association: (a) on a quarterly basis, 
commencing June 30, 2003, a report on the progress achieved in 
the implementation of the Project, including the Sub Projects and 
Work Programs, and the achievement of the objectives thereof; 
and (b) on or about April 30, 2005, a report, to constitute the 
basis upon which the mid-term review shall take place, 
Page  28
-
26 - 
integrating the results of the monitoring and evaluation activities 
performed pursuant to paragraph (i) of this paragraph and 
consolidating the results of the reports referred to under sub-
paragraph (ii) (a) of this paragraph, on the progress achieved in 
the carrying out of the Project during the period preceding the 
date of said report and setting out the measures recommended to 
ensure the efficient carrying out of the Project and the 
achievement of the objectives thereof during the period 
following such date; and 
 
(iii) 
review with the Association, by June 30, 2005, or such later date 
as the Association shall request, the report referred to in 
subparagraph (ii) (b) of this paragraph, and, thereafter, take all 
measures required to ensure the efficient completion of the 
Project and the achievement of the objectives thereof, based on 
the conclusions and recommendations of the said report and the 
Association’s views on the matter. 
 
Page  29
-
27 - 
SCHEDULE 5 
 
Special Account 
 
1. 
For the purposes of this Schedule: 
 
(a) 
the term “eligible Categories” means Categories (1), (2), (3), (4), (5) 
and (6) set forth in the table in paragraph 1 of Schedule 1 to this Agreement in respect of 
the Project; 
 
(b) 
the term “eligible expenditures” means expenditures in respect of the 
reasonable cost of goods and services required for the Project and to be financed out of 
the proceeds of the Grant allocated from time to time to the eligible Categories in 
accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1 to this Agreement; and 
 
(c) 
the term “Authorized Allocation” means an amount equivalent to one 
million two hundred thousand dollars ($1,200,000) to be withdrawn from the Grant 
Account and deposited into the Special Account pursuant to paragraph 3 (a) of this 
Schedule, provided, however, that unless the Association shall otherwise agree, the 
Authorized Allocation shall be limited to an amount equivalent to $500,000 until the 
aggregate amount of withdrawals from the Grant Account plus the amount of all 
outstanding special commitments entered into by the Association pursuant to 
Section 5.02 of the General Conditions shall be equal to or exceed the equivalent of 
SDR 800,000.  
 
2. 
Payments out of the Special Account shall be made exclusively for eligible 
expenditures in accordance with the provisions of this Schedule. 
 
3. 
After the Association has received evidence satisfactory to it that the Special 
Account has been duly opened, withdrawals of the Authorized Allocation and subsequent 
withdrawals to replenish the Special Account shall be made as follows: 
 
(a) 
For withdrawals of the Authorized Allocation, the Recipient shall furnish 
to the Association a request or requests for deposit into the Special Account of an amount 
or amounts which do not exceed the aggregate amount of the Authorized Allocation. On 
the basis of such request or requests, the Association shall, on behalf of the Recipient, 
withdraw from the Grant Account and deposit into the Special Account such amount or 
amounts as the Recipient shall have requested. 
 
(b) 
(i) 
For replenishment of the Special Account, the Recipient shall 
furnish to the Association requests for deposits into the Special 
Account at such intervals as the Association shall specify. 
 
(ii) 
Prior to or at the time of each such request, the Recipient shall 
furnish to the Association the documents and other evidence 
Page  30
-
28 - 
required pursuant to paragraph 4 of this Schedule for the 
payment or payments in respect of which replenishment is 
requested. On the basis of each such request, the Association 
shall, on behalf of the Recipient, withdraw from the Grant 
Account and deposit into the Special Account such amount as 
the Recipient shall have requested and as shall have been shown 
by said documents and other evidence to have been paid out of 
the Special Account for eligible expenditures. All such deposits 
shall be withdrawn by the Association from the Grant Account 
under the respective eligible Categories, and in the respective 
equivalent amounts, as shall have been justified by said 
documents and other evidence. 
 
4. 
For each payment made by the Recipient out of the Special Account, the 
Recipient shall, at such time as the Association shall reasonably request, furnish to the 
Association such documents and other evidence showing that such payment was made 
exclusively for eligible expenditures. 
 
5. 
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 3 of this Schedule, the Association 
shall not be required to make further deposits into the Special Account: 
 
(a) 
if, at any time, the Association shall have determined that all further 
withdrawals should be made by the Recipient directly from the Grant Account in 
accordance with the provisions of Article V of the General Conditions and paragraph (a) 
of Section 2.02 of this Agreement; 
 
(b) 
if the Recipient shall have failed to furnish to the Association, within the 
period of time specified in Section 4.01 (b) (ii) of this Agreement, any of the audit reports 
required to be furnished to the Association pursuant to said Section in respect of the audit 
of the records and accounts for the Special Account; 
 
(c) 
if, at any time, the Association shall have notified the Recipient of its 
intention to suspend in whole or in part the right of the Recipient to make withdrawals 
from the Grant Account pursuant to the provisions of Section 6.02 of the General 
Conditions; or 
 
(d) 
once the total unwithdrawn amount of the Grant allocated to the eligible 
Categories for the Special Account, minus the total amount of all outstanding special 
commitments entered into by the Association pursuant to Section 5.02 of the General 
Conditions with respect to the Project, shall equal the equivalent of twice the amount of 
the Authorized Allocation. Thereafter, withdrawal from the Grant Account of the 
remaining unwithdrawn amount of the Grant allocated to the eligible Categories shall 
follow such procedures as the Association shall specify by notice to the Recipient. Such 
further withdrawals shall be made only after and to the extent that the Association shall 
Page  31
-
29 - 
have been satisfied that all such amounts remaining on deposit in the Special Account as 
of the date of such notice will be utilized in making payments for eligible expenditures. 
 
6. 
(a) 
If the Association shall have determined at any time that any payment 
out of the Special Account: (i) was made for an expenditure or in an amount not eligible 
pursuant to paragraph 2 of this Schedule; or (ii) was not justified by the evidence 
furnished to the Association, the Recipient shall, promptly upon notice from the 
Association: (A) provide such additional evidence as the Association may request; or 
(B) deposit into the Special Account (or, if the Association shall so request, refund to the 
Association) an amount equal to the amount of such payment or the portion thereof not so 
eligible or justified. Unless the Association shall otherwise agree, no further deposit by 
the Association into the Special Account shall be made until the Recipient has provided 
such evidence or made such deposit or refund, as the case may be. 
 
(b) 
If the Association shall have determined at any time that any amount 
outstanding in the Special Account will not be required to cover further payments for 
eligible expenditures, the Recipient shall, promptly upon notice from the Association, 
refund to the Association such outstanding amount. 
 
(c) 
The Recipient may, upon notice to the Association, refund to the 
Association all or any portion of the funds on deposit in the Special Account. 
 
(d) 
Refunds to the Association made pursuant to paragraphs 6 (a), (b) and (c) 
of this Schedule shall be credited to the Grant Account for subsequent withdrawal or for 
cancellation in accordance with the relevant provisions of this Agreement, including the 
General Conditions. 
 
Page  32
-
30 - 
SCHEDULE 6
 
Procedures, Terms and Conditions for Sub-Projects and Work Programs 
 
Sub-Projects 
 
1. 
A Sub-Grant for each Sub-Project to be made under Part A (interventions for 
HIV/AIDS prevention) of the Project shall be made by the Recipient, through the 
Director General, Health Services, only: 
 
(a) 
to a Community-Based Organization or a Non-Government Organization 
if that entity has established, to the satisfaction of the Director General, Health Services, 
and on the basis of guidelines acceptable to the Association, that it has the organization, 
management, staffing and other resources required for the efficient carrying out of the 
Sub-Project, and has prepared an acceptable plan for the carrying out of said Sub-Project; 
and 
 
(b) 
for Sub-Projects that are (i) technically feasible and cost effective, and 
designed in accordance with appropriate environmental and health standards; and 
(ii) reviewed and approved by the Association. 
 
2. 
All Sub-Grants shall be made only upon such terms and conditions under which 
Director General, Health Services, shall obtain, through a Sub-Grant Agreement, rights 
adequate and appropriate to protect the interests of the Association and the Recipient. 
These rights shall include among other things: 
 
(a) 
require the Non-Governmental Organization or the Community-Based 
Organization, which receives a Sub-Grant, to carry out and operate the Sub-project with 
due diligence and efficiency, in accordance with sound educational, technical, financial 
and managerial standards, and pursuant to the environmental, social and other principles, 
measures, procedures and guidelines set out in the Operational Manual and, where 
applicable, the Environmental and Social Assessment Framework; 
 
(b) 
require the Non-Governmental Organization or the Community-Based 
Organization to maintain policies, procedures and records adequate to enable the entity to 
monitor and evaluate on an ongoing basis, in accordance with indicators satisfactory to 
the Association, the carrying out of the Sub-Project and the achievement of the objectives 
thereof; 
 
(c) 
require that: (i) the goods, works and services to be financed out of the 
proceeds of the Grant shall be procured in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 3 
to this Agreement; and (ii) such goods, works and services shall be used exclusively in 
the carrying out of the Sub-Project; 
 
Page  33
-
31 - 
 
(d) 
require that the Non-Governmental Organization or the Community-
Based Organization shall insure or make adequate provision for the insurance of the 
goods financed out of the proceeds of the Grant against hazards incident to the 
acquisition, transportation and delivery thereof to the place of use or installation; 
 
(e) 
obtain all such information as the Association and/or the Recipient shall 
reasonably request relating to the foregoing and to the benefits to be derived from the 
Sub-Project; 
 
(f) 
inspect, by itself or jointly with representatives of the Association, if the 
Association shall so request, the goods and works financed under the Sub-Project, the 
operation thereof, and any relevant records and documents related thereto; and 
 
(g) 
suspend or terminate the right of the Non-Governmental Organization or 
the Community-Based Organization to the use of the proceeds of the Grant upon failure 
by the Non-Governmental Organization or the Community-Based Organization to 
perform its obligations under its agreement with Director-General, Health Services 
providing for the Sub-Grant. 
 
Work Programs 
 
3. 
In connection with each Work Program to be implemented under this Project, the 
Director General, Health Services shall enter into a Work Program MOU with each of the 
relevant Line Ministries and Agencies or the Provincial Health Authorities. 
 
4. 
The terms and conditions of a Work Program MOU shall be satisfactory to the 
Association, which shall include the following: 
 
(a) 
a clear enumeration of the various obligations of the relevant ministry, 
agency, department, authority or entity to: (i) carry out the Work Program with due 
diligence and efficiency and in accordance with sound technical, financial, environmental 
and managerial standards; and (ii) maintain adequate records to reflect, in accordance 
with sound accounting practices, the operations, resources and expenditures relating to 
the Work Program; 
 
(b) 
a requirement that all goods, works and services financed out of a Work 
Program’s proceeds shall: (i) be procured in accordance with procedures ensuring 
efficiency and economy and in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 3 to this 
Agreement; and (ii) be used exclusively in the carrying out of the Work Program; 
 
(c) 
a requirement that expenditures incurred in connection with a Work 
Program shall be used only for approved training programs, consultants’ services and 
goods; and 
 
Page  34
-
32 - 
(d) 
an express recital of the rights of the Director General, Health Services 
or any authorized representative of the Director General, Health Services, to: 
 
(i) 
inspect separately or jointly with the Association (if the 
Association shall so request), the goods, works, sites, plants and 
construction included in the Work Program, the operations 
thereof and any relevant records and documents; 
 
(ii) 
obtain all information as the Recipient or the Association shall 
reasonably request regarding the administration, operation and 
financial conditions of the relevant ministry, agency, department, 
authority or entity; and 
 
(iii) 
suspend or terminate the right of the relevant ministry, agency, 
department, authority or entity to use the proceeds of the Project 
upon the failure by ministry, agency, department, authority or 
entity to perform any of its obligations under the applicable 
Work Program MOU. 
 
5. 
When presenting a Sub-Project or a Work Program to the Association for review 
and approval, the Recipient, through Director General, Health Services, shall furnish to 
the Association a draft Sub-Grant agreement or Work Program MOU, as the case may be, 
in form and substance satisfactory to the Association, together with a description of the 
Sub-Project or Work Program, including a description of the expenditures proposed to be 
financed out of the proceeds of the Grant, and such other information as the Association 
shall reasonably request.
 
