                               Document of
                             The World Bank




                                                 Report No: ICR00001002




          IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION AND RESULTS REPORT
                              (IDA-H0130)




                                 ON A

                                 GRANT

                   IN THE AMOUNT OF SDR 9.6 MILLION
                     (US$12.6 MILLION EQUIVALENT)

                                 TO THE

             DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA

                                 FOR A

                 NATIONAL HIV/AIDS PREVENTION PROJECT




                            December 19, 2008




Human Development Unit
South Asia Region

          CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS

     (Exchange Rate Effective August 22, 2008)

         Currency Unit = Sri Lanka Rupee
                 1.00 = US$ 0.009
        US$ 1.00 = Sri Lanka Rupee 107.7

                 FISCAL YEAR
            January 1 ­ December 31

      ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS

AIDS      Acquired Immune Deficiency Syndrome
AM        Aide Memoire
ART       Anti-retroviral Therapy
BCC       Behavior Change Communication
BSS       Behavior Surveillance Survey
CAS       Country Assistance Strategy
CBO       Community-Based Organization
DfID      Department for International Development
DGHS      Director General of Health Services
DOTS      Directly Observed Therapy Short-course
DU        Drug User(s)
FSW       Female Sex Worker(s)
GFATM     Global Fund to fight AIDS, Tuberculosis and Malaria
GOSL      Government of Sri Lanka
HCWM      Health Care Waste Management
HIV       Human Immuno-deficiency Virus
HSDP      Health Sector Development Project
IDA       International Development Association
IDU       Injecting Drug User(s)
IP        Implementation Progress
ISR       Implementation Status and Results Report
MARPS     Most-at-risk Populations
M&E       Monitoring and Evaluation
MOHN      Ministry of Health care and Nutrition
MSM       Men having Sex with Men
MSW       Male Sex Worker(s)
MTR       Mid-Term Review
NBTS      National Blood Transfusion Service
NGO       Non-Government Organization
NHAPP     National HIV/AIDS Prevention Project
NSACP     National STD/AIDS Control Program
NSP       National Strategic Plan
NTP       National Tuberculosis Program
PAD       Project Appraisal Document
PDO       Project Development Objective
PIP       Project Implementation Plan
PLWHA     People Living with HIV/AIDS

PMS        Project Management Specialist
PMTCT      Prevention of Mother to Child Transmission
PSR        Project Status Report
SS         Sentinel Surveillance
STD        Sexually Transmitted Disease
STI        Sexually Transmitted Infections
TA         Technical Assistance
TI         Targeted Intervention
UN         United Nations
UNAIDS     Joint United Nations Program on HIV/AIDS
VCT        Voluntary Counseling and Testing
WHO        World Health Organization


           Vice President:   Isabel M. Guerrero

         Country Director:   Naoko Ishii

          Sector Manager:    Julie McLaughlin

      Project Team Leader:   Sandra Rosenhouse

        ICR Team Leader:     Sundararajan S. Gopalan

                                            SRI LANKA
                 NATIONAL HIV/AIDS PREVENTION PROJECT

                                            CONTENTS




Data Sheet
   A. Basic Information
   B. Key Dates
   C. Ratings Summary
   D. Sector and Theme Codes
   E. Bank Staff
   F. Results Framework Analysis
   G. Ratings of Project Performance in ISRs
   H. Restructuring
   I. Disbursement Graph


 1. Project Context, Development Objectives and Design...............................................1
 2. Key Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcomes...............................................3
 3. Assessment of Outcomes ............................................................................................8
 4. Assessment of Risk to Development Outcome.........................................................12
 5. Assessment of Bank and Borrower Performance......................................................14
 6. Lessons Learned........................................................................................................17
 7. Comments on Issues Raised by Borrower/Implementing Agencies/Partners...........18
 Annex 1. Project Costs and Financing..........................................................................19
 Annex 2. Outputs by Component..................................................................................21
 Annex 3. Economic and Financial Analysis .................................................................26
 Annex 4. Bank Lending and Implementation Support/Supervision Processes.............28
 Annex 5. Beneficiary Survey Results ...........................................................................30
 Annex 6. Stakeholder Workshop Report and Results...................................................31
 Annex 7. Summary of Borrower's ICR and/or Comments on Draft ICR .....................32
 Annex 8. Comments of Cofinanciers and Other Partners/Stakeholders .......................48
 Annex 9. List of Supporting Documents.......................................................................49
 MAP

A. Basic Information

                                                                    National HIV/AIDS
Country:               Sri Lanka              Project Name:
                                                                    Prevention Project
Project ID:            P074730                L/C/TF Number(s):     IDA-H0130
ICR Date:              12/30/2008             ICR Type:             Core ICR
                                                                    GOVERNMENT OF
Lending Instrument:    SIL                    Borrower:
                                                                    SRI LANKA
Original Total
                       XDR 9.6M               Disbursed Amount:     XDR 6.2M
Commitment:
Environmental Category: B
Implementing Agencies:
Ministry of Health Care and Nutrition
Sri Lanka Foreign Employment Bureau
Sri Lanka Prisons Department
Sri Lanka Air Force
Sri Lanka Navy
Sri Lanka Army
National Youth Services Council
Provincial Health Authorities
Ministry of Fisheries
Ministry of Labor, Dept of Worker Education
Cofinanciers and Other External Partners:


B. Key Dates

     Process             Date             Process         Original Date  Revised / Actual
                                                                             Date(s)
Concept Review:       01/24/2002     Effectiveness:       04/08/2003        04/08/2003
Appraisal:            03/25/2002     Restructuring(s):
Approval:             05/30/2002     Mid-term Review:     05/01/2006        03/31/2006
                                     Closing:             06/30/2008        06/30/2008


C. Ratings Summary
C.1 Performance Rating by ICR
Outcomes:                                     Satisfactory
Risk to Development Outcome:                  Moderate
Bank Performance:                             Moderately Unsatisfactory
Borrower Performance:                         Moderately Unsatisfactory




                                              i

C.2 Detailed Ratings of Bank and Borrower Performance (by ICR)
         Bank                   Ratings            Borrower                Ratings
Quality at Entry:       Satisfactory         Government:            Unsatisfactory

Quality of Supervision: Unsatisfactory       Implementing
                                             Agency/Agencies:       Moderately Satisfactory

Overall Bank            Moderately           Overall Borrower       Moderately
Performance:            Unsatisfactory       Performance:           Unsatisfactory


C.3 Quality at Entry and Implementation Performance Indicators
    Implementation                            QAG Assessments
      Performance               Indicators         (if any)                Rating

Potential Problem Project No                 Quality at Entry
                                                                   None
at any time (Yes/No):                        (QEA):
Problem Project at any                       Quality of
                          Yes                                      None
time (Yes/No):                               Supervision (QSA):
DO rating before          Moderately
Closing/Inactive status:  Unsatisfactory


D. Sector and Theme Codes
                                                            Original           Actual
Sector Code (as % of total Bank financing)
Central government administration                             25                 20
Health                                                        50                 50
Media                                                         10                 10
Other industry                                                15                 10
Other social services                                                            10


Theme Code (Primary/Secondary)
Gender                                                      Secondary
HIV/AIDS                                                     Primary           Primary
Other communicable diseases                                  Primary         Secondary
Other public sector governance                               Primary         Secondary
Vulnerability assessment and monitoring                      Primary         Secondary


E. Bank Staff
         Positions                     At ICR                       At Approval
Vice President:           Isabel M. Guerrero              Mieko Nishimizu
Country Director:         Naoko Ishii                     Peter C. Harrold
Sector Manager:           Julie McLaughlin                Anabela Abreu
Project Team Leader:      Sandra Rosenhouse               Hnin Hnin Pyne



                                            ii

ICR Team Leader:           Sundararajan Srinivasa Gopalan
ICR Primary Author:        Shreelata Rao Seshadri
                           Sundararajan Srinivasa Gopalan



F. Results Framework Analysis

Project Development Objectives (from Project Appraisal Document)
To reduce the spread of HIV/AIDS among highly vulnerable subpopulations and the
public at large.

Revised Project Development Objectives (as approved by original approving authority)




(a) PDO Indicator(s)

                                            Original Target      Formally        Actual Value

   Indicator         Baseline Value          Values (from        Revised          Achieved at
                                                approval          Target         Completion or
                                              documents)          Values         Target Years

Indicator 1 :   HIV prevalence rate remains below 1% among the general population (i.e.
                women attending antenatal clinics and blood donors)
Value
quantitative or <1%                       <1%                                 0.03%
Qualitative)
Date achieved 12/31/2002                  12/31/2007                          12/31/2007

Comments        The target achieved. Attribution to the project debatable; but since intermediate

(incl. %        outcomes have been achieved and no other significant HIV prevention

achievement)    intervention was implemented in Sri Lanka at the same time, plausible results
                chain.
Indicator 2 :   HIV prevalence rate remains below 5% among sex workers
Value
quantitative or <1%                       <5%                                 0.4%
Qualitative)
Date achieved 12/31/2002                  12/31/2007                          06/30/2008
Comments        Despite low coverage of NGO-implemented interventions for the sex workers,
(incl. %        the prevalence is very low even among this group. The substantial increase in
achievement)    condom use is the likely explanation, though further improvements are needed.
Indicator 3 :   National average TB treatment success rate surpasses global target of 85%
Value
quantitative or 70%                       85%                                 87%
Qualitative)
Date achieved 12/31/2002                  12/31/2007                          12/31/2006
Comments        The Government's already strong TB Control Program, supported by the project
(incl. %        inputs, was able to achieve this target. HIV-TB co-infection is not a significant
achievement)    threat in Sri Lanka



                                                iii

(b) Intermediate Outcome Indicator(s)

                                           Original Target      Formally      Actual Value

   Indicator       Baseline Value           Values (from                      Achieved at
                                              approval          Revised      Completion or
                                             documents)       Target Values  Target Years
Indicator 1 :  Condom use among sex workers increased
                                                                           62.9% in brothels
                                                                           70.4% in massage
Value                                                                      parlors
(quantitative  <10% (estimated)           60%                              81.9% in street-
or Qualitative)                                                            based SW
                                                                           62.5% in Karaoke
                                                                           parlors
Date achieved 12/31/2002                  12/31/2007                       03/31/2007
Comments
(incl. %       The above rates of condom use are in sex work with paying clients.
achievement)
Indicator 2 :  DOTS coverage increased
Value
(quantitative  35% (2001) 74% in 2003     95%                              97.5%
or Qualitative)when the project began

Date achieved 12/31/2001                  12/31/2007                       12/31/2005
Comments
(incl. %       DOTS coverage has exceeded the target of 95%, which reflects the very effective

achievement)   program implementation.

Indicator 3 :  Voluntary blood donation increased
Value
(quantitative  86% Colombo District,      100% Colombo,                    95% in Colombo,

or Qualitative)27% islandwide             90% nation-wide                  81% nationwide

Date achieved 12/31/2003                  12/31/2007                       06/30/2008
Comments
(incl. %       Perhaps 100% target for voluntary blood donation in Colombo was a bit

achievement)   unrealistic. 95% is a pretty good achievement.

Indicator 4 :  The % of HIV patients receiving ART out of those who need it (measured
               against an estimated denominator of 500 persons needing ART)

Value          23 patients began through

(quantitative  a Rapid Results Initiative 60% (or 300                      30% (150 patients

or Qualitative)in December 2004. (i.e     patients)                        on ART)
               .005%)
Date achieved 12/01/2004                  06/30/2008                       06/30/2008
Comments       With the continued low prevalence being shown from sentinel surveillance, the
(incl. %       estimate of number of patients requiring ART needs to be reviewed / confirmed.
achievement)   Thus, the denominator of this target is questionable.

Indicator 5 :  The % of HIV patients receiving ART of those who need it as determined by
               government estimates.
Value          2004: 610 adults need      60%                              25% (150 patients



                                               iv

(quantitative  ART, coverage 4%                                             on ART)
or Qualitative)
Date achieved 12/31/2004                  06/30/2008                        06/30/2008
Comments
(incl. %       Once againi, the indicator and target may be of questionable value, given that the

achievement)   denominator is an estimated number.

Indicator 6 :  Proportion of NGO-implemented subprojects targeting most at risk populations
               (sex workers, men-having-sex-with-men, and intravenous drug users).
Value
(quantitative  0                          100%                              100%
or Qualitative)
Date achieved 01/01/2004                  06/30/2008                        06/30/2008
Comments       Under the project, there are no NGO implemented subprojects other than those
(incl. %       that target MARPs. However, the coverage of such interventions is very low,
achievement)   due to capacity constraints and procurement delays.


G. Ratings of Project Performance in ISRs

                                                                                  Actual
 No.     Date ISR
         Archived               DO                         IP                Disbursements
                                                                             (USD millions)
  1     06/23/2003          Satisfactory               Satisfactory                      0.00
  2     11/25/2003          Satisfactory               Satisfactory                      0.50
  3     06/16/2004          Satisfactory             Unsatisfactory                      0.50
  4     12/30/2004          Satisfactory             Unsatisfactory                      0.95
  5     06/10/2005          Satisfactory         Moderately Satisfactory                 2.31
  6     12/23/2005     Moderately Satisfactory Moderately Satisfactory                   3.49
  7     06/22/2006          Satisfactory         Moderately Satisfactory                 4.72
  8     12/20/2006     Moderately Satisfactory       Unsatisfactory                      5.77

  9     06/19/2007          Moderately                 Moderately
                           Unsatisfactory            Unsatisfactory                      6.41

  10    09/13/2007          Moderately
                           Unsatisfactory            Unsatisfactory                      6.95

  11    03/29/2008          Moderately
                           Unsatisfactory            Unsatisfactory                      7.84

  12    06/27/2008          Moderately
                           Unsatisfactory            Unsatisfactory                      8.02



H. Restructuring (if any)
Not Applicable




                                               v

I. Disbursement Profile




                           vi

1. Project Context, Development Objectives and Design

1.1 Context at Appraisal
Context at Appraisal: As of December 2000, Sri Lanka had an estimated 8,500 people infected with the
Human Immunodeficiency Virus (HIV) and a prevalence rate among adults of 0.07%. Between 1986 and
2000, 415 cases of HIV infection had been reported. Despite this low prevalence rate, Sri Lanka needed
to respond vigorously to the threat for several reasons: (i) under-reporting was likely due to limited
amount of testing, with widespread stigma and associated fear of being identified as HIV +ve; (ii) Sri
Lanka's neighbors, such as India and Nepal, already faced serious and growing HIV epidemics; (iii) risk
and vulnerability were estimated to be high, with significant levels of male and female sex work, low
levels of condom use, significant levels of drug abuse (albeit with low levels of injecting), internal and
overseas migration, conflict and low levels of awareness of HIV among underserved communities ­ 40%
of women in tea estates had heard of HIV or Acquired Immune Deficiency Syndrome (AIDS). The
concern was that the low prevalence of HIV could change quickly. Available data were too scant to
predict the trajectory of the epidemic. Lessons from other countries indicated that denial, complacence
and apathy were common in the initial stages of an epidemic. A prevention program was therefore
deemed necessary, strategic and cost-effective at that critical epidemiological juncture. The National
HIV/AIDS Prevention Project (NHAPP) was appraised in July 2002 and became effective in March 2003.

Government Strategy: In 1992, Government of Sri Lanka (GOSL) initiated HIV prevention and control
efforts through the National STD and AIDS Control Program (NSACP). The program was managed by
the Directorate of Health Services in the Ministry of Health Care and Nutrition (MOHN), and
implemented in collaboration with provincial health services and the National Blood Transfusion Service
(NBTS). IDA had provided US$1 million each year to NSACP through the Health Services Project
(1997-2002), largely to support the strengthening of Sexually Transmitted Disease (STD) clinics. While
NSACP had made some progress in terms of setting up a network of STD services, there were several
shortcomings: (i) services were largely clinically focused; (ii) stigma was not addressed effectively; and
(iii) the program was highly centralized under NSACP, a program built around a group of competent but
narrowly-focused venereologists with limited capacity at the provincial and district levels and negligible
engagement of the civil society. In addition to the management of Sexually Transmitted Infections (STI),
the primary strategy was advocacy and awareness building. GOSL reasoned that (a) before taking up
culturally sensitive interventions targeting Most At Risk Population groups (MARPS), there was a need to
build a platform of acceptance of such interventions by sensitizing political, religious and other leadership
and the general population; and (b) as the prevalence was low even among the MARPS, and the data on
some of these population groups was scant, identifying them was a challenge and targeting them was not
immediately feasible on a large scale. GOSL's draft National Strategic Plan (NSP; 2001-2006) called for
a multi-sectoral response, and partnership with private sector, including Community-Based Organizations
(CBOs) and Non-Government Organizations (NGOs), prioritized Targeted Interventions (TIs) among
MARPS.

GOSL revised the national tuberculosis (TB) strategy and adopted in 1996, the Directly Observed
Therapy Short-course (DOTS) protocol, recommended by the World Health Organization (WHO).
Recognizing the risk of HIV/TB co-infection, GOSL adopted a strategic plan for DOTS expansion (2002-
2007) which was aimed at: (i) improving case detection to 80-90%; (ii) reducing treatment default rates
for new and re-treated cases; and (iii) integrating prevention and care of HIV/TB co-infected persons.

At the time, GOSL was receiving substantial technical support and limited financial support from the
WHO and other agencies of the United Nations (UN). While the project was being prepared, in 2002, Sri
Lanka was awarded by the Global Fund to fight against AIDS, TB and Malaria (GFATM), US$6 million



                                                      1

for TB control and US$8 million for malaria control (this GFATM assistance is being shown in the
Project Appraisal Document as part of the project's financing, though it is implemented in parallel as a
distinct project and is still under implementation due to significant start-up delays). But there was no
other large financier of a comprehensive HIV prevention effort.

Bank's Country Assistance Strategy (CAS; Document number: IDA/R99-190; date of last CAS
discussion: 01/19/99): The project was in line with the CAS objective of building up and protecting
human capital in Sri Lanka. The CAS, as well as the progress report of 1998, had highlighted the
potential threat of HIV/AIDS, and the possible resurgence of TB, to human development outcomes in Sri
Lanka. In September 2002, IDA 13, the Board allowed 100% grant funding for HIV/AIDS projects for
IDA-only countries; this project qualified for such grant.

The expected value-added of IDA support: The Bank not only had a long-term engagement in health
sector development in Sri Lanka, but was also one of the largest financier of HIV/AIDS prevention
projects globally. This was expected to enable the Bank to bring regional and global expertise to assist
Sri Lanka in its national response to HIV/AIDS.


1.2 Original Project Development Objectives (PDO) and Key Indicators (as approved)
The PDO was to assist GOSL in curbing the spread of HIV infection among highly vulnerable
populations and the public. The project also aimed to expand the TB-control program to reduce the risk
of an emerging HIV-related TB epidemic, and strengthen capacity for early TB case detection and
treatment.


1.3 Revised PDO (as approved by original approving authority) and Key Indicators, and
reasons/justification
N/A

1.4 Main Beneficiaries,
The main beneficiaries of the project were: vulnerable groups at high risk of contracting and transmitting
HIV, such as: (i) female sex workers (FSW) and beach boys or male sex workers (MSW) ­ estimated at
35,000; (ii) drug users (estimated at 30,000); and (ii) internally displaced persons (675,000 in the north
and east), migrant workers (800,000 overseas and 296,000 internal), and clients of sex workers, who
included transportation workers, urban youth, and soldiers (estimated 60% of 180,000). Most of the risk
groups were also from among the poorest in society. In addition, the project was to benefit an estimated
8,500 people living with HIV or AIDS (PLWHA) through increased access to treatment of opportunistic
infections and interventions to reduce stigma and discrimination; and HIV+ mothers were to receive anti-
retroviral treatment (ART) for the prevention of mother-to-child transmission (PMTCT). The whole
population of Sri Lanka, particularly the poorest, would benefit from the implementation of a program to
limit the spread of HIV into the general population, as well as improved blood safety and TB control.


1.5 Original Components (as approved)
Component 1: HIV Prevention Interventions (US$5.81Million; 46.3% of Grant), including
Subcomponent 1.1: Interventions Targeted to Vulnerable populations such as FSW and MSW, workers in
free trade zones, migrant workers, transport workers, drug users (DU), men having sex with men (MSM),
the prison population, and armed services personnel (subsequently, the MARPS were redefined more
narrowly to include only FSW, MSW, MSM and DU). The programs would promote condom use, safe
sex practices, and support behavior change communications (BCC), voluntary counseling and testing
(VCT), community mobilization, and strengthening of STD services; and Subcomponent 1.2: Broad
based programs for youth and general populations, covering (i) advocacy for policy makers and opinion
leaders; (ii) BCC for youth; (iii) condom social marketing; (iv) blood safety; and (v) PMTCT.



                                                     2

Component 2: TB Control (US2.0 Million; 15.9% of Grant) including Subcomponent 2.1: Enhancing
leadership, organization and function of the National TB Program, through updating technical norms and
guidelines, training program managers and staff, improved logistics for provincial and district level
supervision and strengthening of the Central Reference Laboratory and Teaching Chest Hospital, as well
as TB wards and chest clinics; and Subcomponent 2.2: Improving coverage and quality of DOTS, by
expanding DOTS services from 10 districts to 25, and training key staff in DOTS implementation.

Component 3: Institutional Strengthening (US$4.74 Million; 37.8% of Grant), including
Subcomponent 3.1: Strengthening MOHN ­ DHS and NSACP, and multi-sectoral involvement, with both
additional human resources and infrastructure; Subcomponent 3.2: Improving information base for
STD/HIV/AIDS control, by setting up a Management Information System (MIS) for routine monitoring,
second generation surveillance (behavioral and sero-surveillance systems) as well as STD surveillance to
track the trend of the epidemic, and operation research to fill the knowledge gap and guide interventions;
and Subcomponent 3.3: Improving health care waste management (HCWM), aimed at preventing related
biological hazards, and creating the legislative environment for sustained integrated HCWM.

Key policy and institutional reforms supported by the project included: (i) a shift from a clinical/medical
focus to community-based approaches, using NGOs/CBOs to mobilize and provide services to MARPS;
(ii) promoting a multi-sectoral approach, involving non-health ministries, private sector and civil society;
and (iii) a shift in emphasis from awareness raising to behavior change and stigma reduction.


1.6 Revised Components
There was no revision of components or restructuring of the project. However, a mission in May 2004,
concurring with a proposal made by the NSACP, agreed to include a care and support program for
PLWHA, to both prolong life and improve the quality of life of PLWHA. IDA informed Ministry of
Finance of the inclusion of this sub-component by letter dated September 14, 2004.


1.7 Other significant changes
(in design, scope and scale, implementation arrangements and schedule, and funding
allocations)
In order to boost implementation progress, the responsibility for implementing project activities was
shifted from the office of the Director General of Health Services (DGHS) to a specially established
Project Management Unit (PMU) in December 2004. Notionally this PMU was to report to NSACP,
though the reality was different (see Section 2.2 below).

The total disbursement claims submitted and accounted by IDA as of December 17, 2008 amount to SDR
6.19 Million (US$9.24 Million equivalent). This represents 73.62% of the original PAD-estimated Grant
amount of US$12.55 and 64% of the final total Grant amount of US$14.33 Million (the increase in the
final grant amount is due to exchange rate variation between the US Dollar and Special Drawing Rights).
Total cancellations amount to SDR 3.41 Million (US$5.09 million equivalent or 36% of the total Grant).


2. Key Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcomes

2.1 Project Preparation, Design and Quality at Entry
Project Preparation and Project Design: Taking into account the low prevalence of HIV in Sri Lanka as
well as lessons learned through global experience of HIV prevention, project design made the following
strategic choices to: (i) focus on highly vulnerable groups complemented by advocacy and awareness
building to enhance political commitment and reduce stigma; (ii) shift from a medical focus to a public
health approach; (iii) engage non-health sector ministries to implement HIV prevention programs, led by



                                                      3

MOHN; (iv) involve NGOs to reach out to vulnerable populations; and (v) build on existing institutional
arrangements, through the DGHS, NSACP, NTP and provincial authorities, with technical assistance in
key areas which required strengthening, e.g., procurement and financial management.

Assessment of Risk: Mitigation measures for risks rated as "high" were incorporated in project design,
such as greater civil society involvement in the National AIDS Committee and training in ethical
standards for the police and other agencies; agreeing at Negotiations on key project staff, and their
training in Bank procedures. Provision was made for the recruitment of additional staff to strengthen
management capacity, particularly for procurement and financial management.              Mechanisms were
developed to screen NGOs. Since NGO capacity was limited (as shown by the NGO assessment during
preparation), a flexible option was to use small sub-contracts. One risk that was not adequately addressed
was limited experience in contract management, a new area for a government not used to partnering with
NGOs.

Participatory Processes: The project was prepared with the active participation of stakeholders, including
UN and bi-lateral agencies involved in HIV/AIDS prevention and control activities. Key participatory
activities included: (i) advocacy workshop for central and provincial policy makers; (ii) stakeholder
workshops on the Social Assessment (SA), NGO/civil society participation and waste management
guidelines; and (iii) nationwide consultations with vulnerable groups, community health workers and
NGOs to gain insights into the social, cultural, and behavioral aspects of HIV prevention.


2.2 Implementation

Several factors affected project implementation progress (IP) - rated Unsatisfactory:

On the positive side, one must note the strong efforts on advocacy and awareness-raising ­ for which
most Government officials credited the Minister's personal commitment and leadership; effective
mobilization of and coordination with non-health sector ministries and departments; excellent
performance of selected components such as blood safety TB control, and clinical management of
sexually transmitted infections. Project activities were fast-tracked by the Rapid Results Initiative (RRI),
a management tool geared to achieve results within 100 days. Between July 2004 and February 2006,
three rounds of RRI were conducted, with a positive impact on all components.

However, the following factors appear to have had a negative effect on project implementation:

Slow start-up: Perhaps the first reason for the slow start-up might have been the time taken to build the
political commitment to and ownership of the project within the Government, given the low prevalence of
HIV in Sri Lanka. Further delays are attributable to the placement of project management - including the
Management Support Team and area coordinators ­ directly under the DGHS who had the whole health
sector under its purview. To resolve this issue, a Project Director (PD) was appointed in 2004-05, in
effect establishing a separate project management unit (PMU), which was notionally under the national
program but functioned quite independently.

Institutional Arrangements: However, the creation of a PMU, which effectively separated the project
from the program had its own problems: (i) the differential terms of service, primarily the 50% salary top-
up received by project staff, creating disparities in conditions of service between the project and the
program; (ii) the unclear line of command between the program and the project, and the inability of the
program to exercise its oversight over the project, which was better resourced and (iii) lack of
coordination on critical issues such as monitoring. Attempts to alleviate these issues (the appointment of
a Program Coordinator to liaise between the project and program staff, and subsequently, the appointment
of the Program Director also to the position of the Project Director) did not last and were largely futile.




                                                     4

Failure to establish effective systems to guide project implementation and quality assurance: The lack of
a coherent communication strategy, a care & treatment strategy, and a functioning monitoring system
impacted on the effectiveness of the project interventions.

Inability to recruit and retain key staff: The project was without a qualified Procurement Specialist from
March 2006 to January 2007, and without a dedicated Financial Management Specialist (FMS) from
February 2007 to project closing. The key post of Project Management Specialist (PMS) was filled at the
start and when it fell vacant, no replacement was put in place till the end of the project.

Frequent changes in leadership at NHAPP [4 Project Directors in the 2 years after the Mid-Term Review
(MTR)]. This resulted in: (a) repeated learning curves of new Project Directors, leading to inconsistent
compliance with Bank guidelines; (b) difficulties in building a strong working relationship with the
program; and (c) disruptions to team-work in the PMU. Overall, project leadership was ineffective with
the exception of a few short periods.

Poor contract management: Severe delays in awarding contracts, modification of contracts without prior
concurrence of the Bank, payments made without getting the necessary outputs based on agreed TORs,
and cost overruns in civil works all negatively impacted implementation.

A fundamental difference between the Bank and the Government on the HIV control strategy: The lack
of sufficiently scaled up Targeted Interventions contributed in significant measure to the Bank's poor
rating of project performance ­ in the Implementation Status and Results reports (ISR) as well as Aide-
Memoires (A-M). Underlying this issue was a strategic difference between the Bank which promoted a
focus on TIs for MARPS, and the Government which prioritize multi-sectoral actions or broad-based
advocacy efforts and awareness programs. In fact this may be a false dichotomy, as stigma reduction and
sensitization are indeed essential enablers for TIs to be effective. Interventions by the Ministry of
Education, for instance, may have a positive impact on stigma reduction. Non-health sector action does
not necessarily run counter to TIs. Rather, TIs themselves need the involvement of non-health sectors for
reaching MARPS, who are generally not users of health services.

Delays in agreeing on the Project Implementation Plan (PIP): After the MTR, a new PIP, in line with
agreements reached during the MTR, was to be cleared by IDA. After several rounds of revisions and
comments, the Bank granted the approval for a final revised PIP only in April 2007 (about one year prior
to project closing). The different versions of PIP, without clarity on their approval status, caused
confusion on activities that could be carried out; at various times, the project team was proceeding with a
certain version of PIP, only to realize that it was not the approved version. On this issue, the Bank team
and the Government team had opposite views on responsiblities for such confusion.

Delayed fund-flow to critical components: With the late approval of a final PIP and the Procurement Plan
(approved in July 2007), delays in processing the recruitment of NGOs, and with no extension granted to
the project, the NGOs who were to implement TIs received their funds in early 2008 for the first time ­
with too short a time remaining for interventions to make a real impact.

Delays / difficulties in obtaining Bank clearances: Several instances of delays in obtaining the Bank's no
objection were noted; the Bank's view and the borrower's view differed on the reasons for these delays.

Mid-Term Review (MTR) and Reprogramming: The MTR was positive, acknowledging the marked
progress since the previous mission (including a jump in disbursements from 14 to 28%), improved
coordination between the project and NSACP and noted that "an HIV program involving medical and
non-medical approaches has now been solidly established". The key issue raised during the MTR was the
need to shift emphasis from general population towards MARPS, which had a low coverage. MTR



                                                      5

recommended: (i) significant increase in coverage of MARPS within the available budget; (ii) fast-
tracking a computerized monitoring system and a Monitoring and Evaluation (M&E) Unit; (iii) strengthen
management and planning functions; (iv) speed up the awarding of service contracts for HIV prevention
among MARPS; and (v) prepare a National Communications and Advocacy Strategy and Plan. The
mission urged the Government to "review and adjust the budget for 2006, and for the remaining project
period, and cap activities that are over-funded (as per the PIP)" (MTR A-M; March 2006).

Concerns remain as to (i) why the MTR exercise was not used more proactively to resolve the issue of
scaling up TIs; or (ii) why delays in issuing no objections could not have been resolved, particularly for
critical activities such as contracting of NGOs. The project was in "problem" status for over two years,
and thus did not satisfy the Bank's norm for pro-activity within one year.


2.3 Monitoring and Evaluation (M&E) Design, Implementation and Utilization

Project Monitoring Indicators: The PAD chose the following indicators and targets to measure PDO:
(i) HIV prevalence (a) among women (aged 15-24) attending ANC remains below 1%; (b) among STD
clinic population stays below 5%; and (c) among sex workers stays below 5%; (ii) syphilis prevalence
among women (aged 15-24) attending ANC remains below 5%; and (iii) smear positive TB case
notification rate remains under 20/100,000.

Surveillance: Sentinel sero-surveillance (SS) for HIV and Syphilis has been conducted annually in Sri
Lanka since 1993. It covered important groups of the population, i.e., clients of antenatal clinics and STD
clinics, transport workers, TB patients, army recruits, and people tested prior to employment in the
Middle East. It also included MARPS, such as MSM, FSW, MSW, DU, albeit not a representative
sample. Very large numbers have been tested in all ­ 348,895 in 2007 alone.

The first round of a Behavioral Surveillance Survey (BSS) was completed after significant delays, and the
final report was issued in August 2007 (Section 3.2 for findings). The Bank recommended that the 2nd
Round be delayed until 2009, since behavior change is a slow process. NSACP was urged to a) document
the BSS methodology and instruments; b) develop a second generation surveillance methodology for
integrated bio-behavioral surveillance based on international guidelines; c) improve sampling design
though size estimates and mapping (including Respondent Driven Sampling); and d) design and
implement qualitative research to triangulate BSS findings.

Monitoring and Evaluation (M&E): The development and deployment of a project M&E system was
seriously delayed, partly due to delays in procuring hardware; in the earlier years, difficulties in getting
agreement between the project and the program on the monitoring framework. Final approval of the
system was further delayed due to the incorporation of a Patient Management Information System, which
did not meet with Bank approval, as it was not part of the original Terms of Reference. The M&E system
has eventually materialized at the end of the project and has been installed for use by NSACP.

Several efforts at producing a set of indicators for both the project and the program have been undertaken,
without much success, due to lack of agreement between NSACP and NHAPP. A new set of national
level indicators for the program is being developed by NSACP, with support from UNAIDS (ASAP) as
part of the National Strategic Planning exercise.

Use of data: Overall, use of data as a guide for strategic planning was poor. With no systematic program
of evaluation of on-going interventions, the first round of NGO interventions was not evaluated to learn
lessons before launching the second round. Data from the BSS are yet to be used as the basis for
decisions locating interventions and choosing MARPS. No clear set of indicators was identified, with
baseline values, to measure the impact of project inputs on outcomes at project closure.


                                                      6

2.4 Safeguard and Fiduciary Compliance

Environmental Issues (Environmental Category: B (partial assessment): The project sought to: (i)
prevent biological hazard due to project funded activities; (ii) treat and dispose of clinical waste generated
by hospitals in Colombo (about 28% of national quantum) in an environmentally acceptable manner; and
(iii) ensure a proper legislative environment for integrated clinical waste management in Sri Lanka.

HCWM in Sri Lanka was in its infancy prior to NHAPP. The Project supported the preparation of the
National Policy and Guidelines for HCWM. MOHN also supported the Central Environmental Authority
in introducing HCWM regulations made effective from February 1, 2008, for all health care facilities. A
5-year National Action Plan for HCWM prepared by MOHN is under implementation. NHAPP financed
training and provided the required equipment and supplies for a HCWM program for STD and TB clinics
in Central and Western provinces. A Training Manual on HCWM in STD and TB clinics was developed.
The ongoing Health Sector Development Project (HSDP) is building on HCWM supported by NHAPP.

Considerable institutional strengthening has taken place for HCWM. A National HCWM Steering
Committee, chaired by the Secretary, MOHN, provides guidance. Negotiations are underway between
MOHN, University of Moratuwa and Indira Gandhi National Open University to develop a Distance
Learning Program in HCWM. A HCWM Resource Center has been established.

Procurement: Borrower's Procurement performance was unsatisfactory. Updated / Annual Procurement
Plans were not sent to the Bank for clearance, despite repeated clarification by the Bank that only items
included in the Procurement Plan would be eligible for reimbursement. A post-review in 2006, concluded
that the irregularities found did not warrant declaration of mis-procurement, but did point to poor
planning and management of procurement under the project. Examples included: (i) poor record keeping
and (ii) poor contract management, including contracts modified without Bank clearance, payments made
without delivery of the outputs agreed in the TOR, significant cost overruns in civil works, and delays in
payments to contractors. Of the five large consultant contracts, two were terminated before completion.
A post review (2008) of procurement under the non-health sector interventions under NHAPP also
revealed deficiencies in documentation and record-keeping.

There were inordinate delays in processing large value NGO contracts, seriously curtailing the
implementation period. The Bank's team provided extensive guidance on contracting the NGOs, but the
absence of the anticipated counterpart staff on a continuous basis proved to be a serious constraint.

Status of Civil Works: Works have been completed at 18 Chest Clinics, 9 TB wards, 3 STD clinics and 2
other refurbishment works. The Bank's "No Objection" was not obtained for cost over-runs, that ranged
from 5% to 700%. Other irregularities were: (i) significant increase in the scope of work after signing
the contract; (ii) changes in specifications or in quantities effectively rendered the original bidding
irrelevant; and (iii) payment of cost escalation even under fixed price contracts.

An asset verification by internal auditors of MOHN, and subsequently by IDA auditors, found some items
missing; later to be found in a different location. This still means that the furniture/equipment was not
being used for the purpose intended. This was particularly the case with HCWM equipment.

Financial Management (FM) under the project suffered several shortcomings due largely to shortage of
qualified staff. There was no FM specialist in the project for long periods and towards the end, the Chief
Accounts Officer of MOHN was appointed as acting FM Specialist, which was not a satisfactory
arrangement given his larger responsibilities. Though he received the top-up salary for this assignment,
he was unable to function as the FM specialist effectively. In effect, it was the Project Accountant who
bore the brunt of the responsibilities despite limited training / skills in FM. Examples of FM problems



                                                      7

include: (i) withdrawal applications for expenditures for items not included in the Procurement Plan; (ii)
misclassification of items in terms of disbursement categories; and (iii) delays in submission of
withdrawal applications, FM reports and fund-flow. To minimize fiduciary risk, the Bank gave greater
attention to FM issues, but was hampered by the lack of appropriate counterpart staff from time to time.


Internal Controls: A Bank-financed review of project internal controls found that there were recurrent
issues with regard to the advances given to sectors and Provincial Health Authorities: (i) irregular/delayed
reporting; (ii) lack of project-specific dedicated bank accounts for some entities; (iii) delay in obtaining
specimen signatures of signatories involved in payment approvals; (iv) delayed reconciliation of advances
received from the project office; (v) errors in contract values in SOEs; and (vi) lack of management
procedures to track project-financed equipment.


2.5 Post-completion Operation/Next Phase

GOSL is committed to continuing HIV control activities under NSACP (see Section 4). Skills and
systems transferred from the project to NSACP and capacity built by the project in civil society will help
in implementing future interventions. Routine budget allocations will continue to be made to NSACP,
including the maintenance of assets financed under the project, such as refurbished STD clinics.
Activities are also ongoing with financing from GFATM (6th Round) - US$1.9 million allocated largely
for ART. An application is being put together for the GFATM 9th Round to further support prevention
activities; realistically, no other sources of funds appear to be available for HIV/AIDS prevention in Sri
Lanka. The Bank's engagement after the closure of NHAPP has been limited to a few interventions in the
transport sector to target long-distance transport workers, in the education sector as part of school health,
and to some support provided under the Development Marketplace for stigma reduction. Following a
visit to Sri Lanka by the Regional HIV/AIDS coordinator, it has been decided that the Bank would also
support the following selected priority activities: (a) a social mapping exercise to help build the evidence
base for priority setting, to be financed from the Regional funds; (b) integrated bio-behavioral
surveillance system to be financed under the Health Sector Development Project; (c) the further
development of the national strategic action plan into a fully costed operational plan ­ to be financed by
the AIDS Strategic Action Plan (ASAP) funds of UNAIDS, managed by the Bank; and (d) a global
knowledge event to share the experiences gained and lessons learnt on stigma reduction, from the projects
supported by the Development Marketplace across the South Asia Region.


3. Assessment of Outcomes

3.1 Relevance of Objectives, Design and Implementation

Objectives: The objective of preventing the spread of HIV among high risk groups, and within the
general population, was and continues to be relevant to Sri Lanka. Notwithstanding the low HIV
prevalence, the significant presence of behavioral risk factors, as revealed by the BSS, warrants the
maintenance of Sri Lankan efforts to prevent an epidemic. This is also in line with Sri Lanka's
commitment to the Millennium Development Goals that include halting and reversing the spread of HIV.

Design: The design of the program, with a mix of TIs among high risk groups as well as the general
population and advocacy to reduce stigma, was in keeping with internationally accepted norms for HIV
prevention for low prevalence settings. The components of BCC and capacity building were meant to
support those core components, and were also appropriate. The strengthening of blood safety and the TB
control which were already working well, enhanced their technical rigor, and laid the foundation for a
HIV/TB co-infection strategy. The project design was built upon existing programs, and did not add to
the NSACP's burden. However, project design underestimated the challenges to NGO contracting, such



                                                      8

as limited availability of competent NGOs, and government's reluctance for NGO contracting, given its
long tradition on relying on public sector service delivery mechanisms.

The lack of absorption of about 40% of the original allocation combined with the maintenance of the low
prevalence has, in hindsight, raised the question whether the project was overfunded. But the level of
investment appeared justified at the time based on perceived risk of a rapidly expanding epidemic. With
more effective implementation, all funds might have been utilized, to further scale-up interventions.

Implementation: Implementation modalities were largely appropriate: decentralizing implementation
through provincial and district health authorities; building partnerships with non-health sector agencies
while retaining MOHN leadership; implementing blood safety and TB control through existing programs;
and mediating TIs through NGOs given their strategic advantage in dealing with the MARPS. At the
central level neither the original modality of vesting the responsibility with the DGHS, nor the subsequent
idea of creating a separate PMU seems to have worked (see Section 2.2). Perhaps mainstreaming project
implementation into the NSACP with dedicated inputs and responsibilities but no separate structure might
have been a better solution.


3.2 Achievement of Project Development Objectives

Judging this achievement of Project Development Objectives (PDO) is a challenge. The specified targets
for PDO indicators (including intermediate outcomes), have been achieved (see below).                  For a
combination of reasons, HIV prevalence continues to be low in Sri Lanka even among MARPS.
However, the extent to which this outcome can be attributed to project interventions is debatable, given
the implementation difficulties and the lack of significant scale-up of targeted interventions. However,
since intermediate outcomes were also achieved, a reasonable result chain can be identified; and during
the project period, there was not much else by way of HIV interventions in Sri Lanka suggesting that the
project plausibly made some contribution. Also, significant parts of the project were implemented
effectively (advocacy, awareness-building targeted to the youth to prevent them from falling into risky
behaviors in the first place, non-health sector actions targeted to vulnerable populations such as the armed
forces, prison inmates, external migrant labor, TB control, STI management and blood safety).

The UNAIDS/WHO External Review (2007) concludes that high literacy, low gender inequality and good
access to health care have played an important role in containing the epidemic; other protective factors
might be extremely low injecting drug use, very limited sexual networking and the reduction in tourists
due to the conflict. But low prevalence could not be maintained purely based on these factors alone,
given the level of risky behaviors.       The awareness-raising, advocacy and stigma reduction efforts
supported by the project must have contributed to the continued low prevalence of HIV, along with blood
safety, STI management and non-health sector efforts, all of which did work fairly well under the project.
While stigma continues to exist, there is now a broader-based support for HIV prevention at the political
level and at the individual level among health care providers. HIV is no more a taboo subject in Sri
Lanka, and even the most conservative quarters of the society do not oppose HIV/AIDS programming.

TIs for MARPS were not scaled up in Sri Lanka to a level that would suggest an impact on the prevalence
of HIV/AIDS (though the condom use among sex workers also reached targeted levels). However, (a) the
project contributed to building an enabling environment through political leadership ­ which was
provided by the Health Minister's personal interest in promoting this program; (b) it is not easy in Sri
Lanka to identify or target some of the high risk groups (e.g., clients of sex workers are from all walks of
the society, MSM are not identifiably congregated in special locales, but rather an integral part of the
general population) and being a small country, targeting the general population might be easier and more
effective; and (c) the low HIV prevalence even among MARPS reduces the benefits of TIs; and (d) the




                                                      9

definition of MARPS has been changing during the course of the project. Now that the enabling
environment has been built, scaling up TIs should now be a priority      .

The Aide Memoire of September 2007 states: "Given the lack of specificity of project objectives, it is
difficult to assess the project's contribution to low prevalence of HIV in Sri Lanka". The objective and
indicators as stated were specific enough; and the task-team did not have them revised, leaving no option
but to base PDO achievement on the 3 indicators identified by the PAD.

PDO Indicator 1: HIV prevalence rate remains below 1% among the general population (i.e.
women attending ante-natal clinics and blood donors): The target for this indicator was achieved.
Sentinel Sero-surveillance (SS) has been conducted in Sri Lanka annually since 1993, amongst different
populations (including STD patients, TB patients, blood donors, pre-employment testing, armed service
personnel, antenatal clinic attendees and some priority groups, such as sex workers and some drug users
(not necessarily injecting). Out of a total of 7,079 cases tested in 2007, only 7 tested positive (0.09%).
Most of the HIV+ cases for 2006 and 2007 were found amongst STD clinic attendees. As of June 2008,
973 persons HIV +ve were reported in Sri Lanka (though the estimated numbers of HIV positive adults
and children are 4,000 and 50 respectively). About 150 AIDS patients are on ART. Male to female ratio
of HIV cases is 1.4: 1.

PDO Indicator 2: HIV prevalence rate remains below 5% among sex workers: The target for this
indicator was achieved. In the low prevalence context of Sri Lanka, it is important to monitor changes
in prevalence amongst MARPS as changes in the general population are very difficult to detect. SS has
generally included sizeable numbers of FSWs; in 2006, HIV prevalence among FSWs was 0.4%.

PDO Indicator 3: National average TB treatment success rate surpasses global target of 85%. The
target for this indicator was exceeded (with treatment success rate reaching 87% in 2006). While the
Government already had a strong TB program, the Project has contributed significantly to improving
treatment success rates and expanding DOTS. Incidence of TB declined from 45.6 per 100,000 in 2003 to
41.9 in 2007. During that period, detection rates of new sputum positive cases rose from 80 to 90 percent
and default rates have declined from 10.6 percent to 6.7 percent. DOTS coverage has reached 97.5
percent since 2005 (from 74 percent in 2003) ­ above the target of 95%. In 2005 only 0.07% of TB
patients were HIV positive. The UNAIDS/WHO External Review (2007) concluded that "HIV/TB co-
infection is currently not a significant health issue in Sri Lanka".

Intermediate Outcomes

The first round of BSS (October 2006 to March 2007), provides data on risk behaviors amongst MARPS.
The lack of strictly comparable baseline data poses a challenge; but there are some studies which do give
an indication of the level of condom usage prior to project start-up. The ICR for the Sri Lanka Health
Services Project (Report No. 25097; December 2002) cites condom use of 25-38% in high risk sex. The
beneficiary assessment at the beginning of the project noted very low condom use in risky sex. A 1997
study in Matale and Colombo found that only 4.7% and 6% of men had ever used a condom; even in
casual sex, only 26.3% and 44.4% had used condoms.

The end-of-project target for the agreed intermediate outcome indicator for condom use among FSWs was
60%. The BSS (2007) indicates that that in all categories of FSWs except casino workers, condom use
was greater than 60% (62% among brothel-based FSW, 70.4% in massage parlors, 81.9% among street-
based FSW, and 62.5% in Karaoke bars). Condom use among MSM was 36 % among non-regular
female partners and is at around 46.5% with non-regular male partners (anal intercourse). For the beach-
boys (the most common term used for male sex-workers), condom use was 47.2% during vaginal sex and




                                                       10

45.9% during anal intercourse ­ both with non-regular partners Among drug users, condom use was 18%
with casual partners and 47% with FSWs.

The BSS indicates that most respondents were aware that HIV is sexually transmitted, and about two-
thirds were aware of the protective value of condoms.          But over 50% incorrectly thought it was
transmitted through mosquito bites. Negative attitudes towards persons with HIV/AIDS persist, with over
50% stating that they would not work or live in the same house with a HIV+ person, and a third did not
think HIV+ children should be allowed in school ­ pointing to the need to do more on stigma reduction.


3.3 Efficiency
A detailed economic analysis was undertaken during project preparation. The conclusions of this analysis
are presented in annex 3 of this ICR. The Net Present Value (NPV) of the program (discounted benefits
less the discounted costs) were estimated to be positive (US$87 million) in the base case using an annual
10% discount rate. The Net Fiscal Impact of the program as a purely preventive program was estimated
to be positive in the base case (US$5 million). Calculations were also made of the likely fiscal burden
that would result from the introduction of antiretroviral treatment (ART) as a free public service. It
was estimated that the annual cost to the government would peak at about US$35 million by 2017.

All the above calculations entail a host of estimations and assumptions which are impossible to verify.
The ICR team did not have the data to recalculate the NPV or the other indicators of efficiency.


3.4 Justification of Overall Outcome Rating

Rating: Satisfactory
Although it appears inconsistent with the ratings on implementation and performance, as all PDO targets
were met or exceeded, the end results on outcomes were satisfactory. HIV prevalence both in the general
population and among MARPS continues to be low. Outcomes of the TB program have surpassed
targets. Despite the lack of strictly comparable baseline, there are indications of improvement in condom
use. (Section 3.2)

The blood safety program has also performed well. The target on voluntary blood donation has been
largely achieved: the proportion of voluntary donations nationally increased from 55 percent in 2004 to
81 percent by the end of 2007 (target: 90%) and from 86 percent to 95 percent in Colombo during the
same period (target: 100%). Blood collection has increased by 35 percent since 2004.

The following points are made to explain the divergence of this ICR's rating of the PDO from the ISRs:

(a) ISR ratings appear to be heavily influenced by the lack of progress on TIs among MARPS. While this
was a critical intervention, it is a relatively small component of the project; and many other components,
such as advocacy, blood safety, TB control, decentralization and multi-sectoral activities were relatively
well implemented. Due recognition does not appear to have been given to these achievements in the
ratings. Moreover, it is not appropriate to under-rate PDO achievement based purely on poor IP when the
PDO targets have been met. Discordance between the IP and PDO rating in ISRs should be explained.

(b) Given that Sri Lanka did not have any other major HIV control effort during the project's life, at least
some credit for the outcomes must be given to the project, several components of which were
implemented well.

(c) Originally the PDO of assisting GOSL in curbing the spread of HIV infections was broken down into
two specific objectives: to reduce HIV/AIDS transmission and to reduce TB transmission; with key



                                                       11

indicators focusing on these two areas. In April 2008 a third PDO was introduced: Prolong the survival
and improve the quality of life for PLWHA through the establishment of a Care and Treatment program.
But the project was never formally restructured nor was the PDO formally revised.

(d) Changes in ISR ratings appear unfounded: for example, the performance of the TB component of the
project. The indicator for this, as stated in the ISR, is "National average TB treatment success rate
surpasses global target of 85%" ­ which was exceeded. The Bank re-stated this indicator as "Objective
2: Reduce the risk of an HIV-associated TB epidemic" and downgraded performance from Satisfactory to
Moderately Satisfactory on the grounds that an HIV/TB co-infection program had not been established (a
PDO downgrade based on a problem with implementation rather than the outcome). Sri Lanka is not
imminently facing an epidemic of HIV/TB co-infection (UNAIDS/WHO External Review; 2007). While
the establishment of a HIV-TB co-infection program is desirable, it is not reasonable to downgrade this
component's performance for this reason.


3.5 Overarching Themes, Other Outcomes and Impacts

(a) Poverty Impacts, Gender Aspects, and Social Development
See 3.6 below.

(b) Institutional Change/Strengthening

Considerable capacity has been built for conducting on-going sero- and behavioral surveillance; and a
beginning has been made on program monitoring with a new MIS (project-financed) to track activities
regularly. Capacity has been built for undertaking prevention activities, which have been internalized in
several sectors.   Notably, uniformed forces including the police have established prevention and
diagnostic services; the Sri Lanka Foreign Labor Employment Bureau is now funding their own HIV
prevention program for emigrating workers; and the interventions for prison inmates are continuing.
Provincial and District Health Departments have gained experience in planning and implementing HIV
prevention programs, including advocacy / communications programs and interventions through NGOs.
Through their exposure to HIV prevention interventions in the sub-projects and targeted interventions,
NGO capacity has been strengthened. ART, introduced under the project, has strengthened capacity for
clinical management of HIV/AIDS. The NBTS which was already functioning well, has enhanced its
capacity for increasing blood collection through voluntary donation; and clinical use of blood has
improved, with only 5 percent of physicians using whole blood. The infrastructure and technical capacity
of the TB program have been strengthened, and it has been able to expand DOTS and improve treatment
success. The foundation for HCWM has been laid, with policy, strategy and systems in place.


(c) Other Unintended Outcomes and Impacts (positive or negative)
None


3.6 Summary of Findings of Beneficiary Survey and/or Stakeholder Workshops

No beneficiary survey or stakeholder workshop was conducted for this core ICR.


4. Assessment of Risk to Development Outcome

Rating: Moderate

Financial. NSACP will continue its recurrent activities and expenditures, including staff salaries and
maintenance with GOSL financing.        However, these resources do not finance Integrated Bio and



                                                   12

Behavioral Surveillance and targeted HIV interventions among MARPS. The closure of a significant
project such as NHAPP is bound to result in a dip in the resources available. For this, GOSL is looking
for donors, e.g., GFATM, from which it already has limited funding. Success in these efforts would be
essential to avoid the risk of disrupting critical activities.

Institutional. HIV prevention is the responsibility of NSACP. The absence of a separate PMU will
allow for a simpler and smoother organizational set-up; and the senior officials of the Ministry are aware
of the problems created by the "project" mode. Most project staff having been absorbed into NSACP, the
capacity and understanding of HIV-related issues built during the project period is retained. However, the
program will now have to face the challenge of scaling up TIs among MARPS, and continue
implementation of the other aspects of HIV prevention. This will require further capacity-building,
especially in the area of NGO-contracting and contract management. The Functional Task Analysis for
the NSACP has been completed, and its recommendations appropriately implemented. Low NGO
capacity remains an issue.

Technical. The technical paradigm established by the NHAPP, now to be taken forward by NSACP, is
sound and globally accepted. Annual sentinel surveillance will be continued, for which there is sufficient
technical capacity within the program. The first round of the BSS has been completed; this needs to be
repeated at regular intervals, and the agency that conducted the first round has committed to building
capacity within the program to do so. However, comprehensive mapping to estimate the denominators
for various MARPS is only now underway. NSACP should move towards second generation surveillance
systems, using the more current methodology of integrated bio-behavioral surveillance.

Social. A joint WHO-UNAIDS review of the National Response to Sexually Transmitted Infections and
HIV/AIDS in Sri Lanka (UNAIDS/WHO, 2007) found that nearly two decades after the first case of HIV
infection was reported in Sri Lanka, it remains one of the few low prevalence countries in the region.
Apparently some important vulnerability factors are either absent or operating at a very low level in Sri
Lanka. High literacy rates, relatively high status of women and good access to health care could all serve
to protect individuals and communities from HIV infection. However, conflict, high mobility of the
military and IDPs, and overseas employment create conditions of high vulnerability, while the partial
protection offered by male circumcision applies only to a small minority of the population.


Political. The NSP (2002-2006) provided a broad framework for program activities, although the
emphasis has been on reaching general populations through advocacy and awareness building rather than
on "hard-to-reach" communities. At the time, the logic was that in a traditional society with low HIV
prevalence, it would be difficult to mount a strong program of targeted interventions without the extensive
advocacy, awareness-building and anti-stigma efforts to build broad support among political, religious
and community leaders for HIV prevention. This has now been done and the time is ripe to scale up
interventions targeted to MARPS. A National Policy on HIV/AIDS has been approved, and a new NSP
(2007-2011) is under discussion; despite some hurdles, it is expected that it will be approved shortly. A
National AIDS Council, chaired by the President, has been established and meets once a year; and a
National AIDS Committee has been convened. Provincial and district AIDS Committees are also
functional, with the participation of NGOs, but they need to be strengthened with guidelines and
procedures that NSACP could develop.




                                                       13

5. Assessment of Bank and Borrower Performance

5.1 Bank Performance
(a) Bank Performance in Ensuring Quality at Entry
Rating: Satisfactory
At Appraisal, a Project Implementation Plan had been completed as well as procurement documents for
the first year of implementation. An appropriate mix of technical assistance was provided by the Bank to
assist GOSL to complete the preparation process. A Social Assessment as well as an NGO Assessment
had been completed, and findings incorporated into project design. The HCWM Plan was complete, and
incorporated into the project. A detailed economic analysis was undertaken for the project. Institutional
structures and implementation arrangements had been agreed with GOSL. Risks had been identified and
some mitigation measures incorporated, although the risk of failure of NGO-contracting was perhaps
underestimated / inadequately addressed. The preparation process could have been leveraged to have the
proposed NGO management agency on board soon after Effectiveness; as it was, it was finally contracted
after the MTR, negatively impacting the quality and effectiveness of a key project intervention. Lessons
learned from HIV prevention projects globally as well as IDA operations in the region had been
incorporated. In fact, the ICR of the Health Services Project commends the design of the (at the time)
"recently negotiated" NHAPP for addressing procurement and management problems in a proactive
manner, taking into account lessons learned in these areas.


(b) Quality of Supervision
Rating: Unsatisfactory
The Bank did try to provide (i) a strategic direction for the project; and (ii) guidance on ways to bring
implementation back on track. The RRI was initiated by the Bank, significantly enhancing the pace of
implementation. In the first half of the project, the relationship between the Bank and the government
was conducive, and staff at the country office provided on-going technical and implementation support to
the project. However, during the latter period of project implementation there were delays in responding
to the borrower, and many of the factors identified in section 2.2 as having adversely affected project
implementation are equally attributable to the Bank as to the Government.

·   In December 2006, the project officially became a "Problem Project" and continued with an
    unsatisfactory rating until the end of the project, i.e., June 2008; the project had already been rated
    unsatisfactory in 2004 for a one-year period. Overall six of the twelve ISRs had rated IP as
    unsatisfactory, while only two had rated IP as satisfactory, with the rest having rated it either MS or
    MU.     Despite these poor performance ratings, contrary to the proactive and intensive support
    expected of the Bank, mission frequency declined in 2007. At the same time the Bank centralized all
    correspondence and clearances to Washington, adding to the delays and difficulties in
    communication. Efforts made by the task-team to bring the project back on track were not sufficient
    to ensure satisfactory performance, and the Bank Management allowed the project to continue in
    problem status for over 18 months, i.e., until project closing.

·   When MOHN decided to separate the Project from the Program by establishing a project management
    unit, with its own Project Director, the Bank went along with this decision though it ran counter to the
    original design of mainstreaming the project into the national program. This turned out to be a
    critical factor in creating implementation problems.

·   Despite the Bank team's strongly held view that the project should shift emphasis towards TIs among
    MARPS, the MTR and subsequent actions were not used to ensure this programmatic shift. The
    prolonged debate with the Government on this issue was not productive and resulted in delays in
    implementation rather than the desired shift in emphasis. If the Bank Management decided that such
    a shift was not possible due to the fundamental difference with the Government on strategy, then the



                                                     14

    Bank should have made a choice between accepting the Government strategy or terminating the
    project, rather than letting the controversy fester, which ended up hurting implementation.

·   Delays in issuing no objections, protracted process of agreeing on a post-MTR PIP and consequent
    delays in fund release for NGO interventions were critical factors impinging on implementation.

·   ISR PDO ratings in the second half were not clearly justified, and were shared with the client
    resulting in reduced morale of project personnel. The ICR rating of PDO diverges from the last ISR,
    as explained in section 3.4. The government requested an extension of the project, given the large
    undisbursed balance, but the Bank rejected this request based on performance.           This decision
    prevented the project from scaling up TIs, just when the NGO contracts were about to begin, and
    resulted in a loss of the unused grant funds to the program. This undermined the already strained
    relationship between the Bank and the Government ­ both of whom had very different views about
    the reasons for the project's implementation problems.

·   Though the risk of failure of NGO contracting was identified at the stage of preparation, and this was
    a very new design feature in the Sri Lankan context, which has a strong culture of providing services
    through the public sector, the Bank did not take sufficient measures to address it during
    implementation.

·   The failure to establish effective systems to guide project implementation and quality assurance,
    which was one of the factors that impacted on poor implementation ­ was not effectively addressed
    by the Bank.

(c) Justification of Rating for Overall Bank Performance

Rating: Moderately Unsatisfactory

Since quality at entry and development outcomes are Satisfactory, and Implementation Support
Unsatisfactory, the overall rating for Bank performance is rated Moderately Unsatisfactory.


5.2 Borrower Performance
(a) Government Performance
Rating: Unsatisfactory
MOHN was successful in the following: (i) the advocacy program, under strong leadership provided by
the Minister of Health was able to engage political, religious and community leaders, and reduce the
stigma associated with HIV/AIDS; (ii) the program was able to garner substantial support from other
sectors such as the armed forces, labor department, the prisons and the like; (iii) implementation was
decentralized, and significant capacity was built for implementation of HIV prevention activities at the
provincial and district levels; (iv) several new programs, such as for HCWM and care and support of
PLWHA, have been institutionalized; (v) several important policy initiatives, such as the National Policy
on HIV/AIDS, were cleared; (vi) NSACP has developed the expertise to be able to put together proposals
to garner additional support from international agencies such as the GFATM; and (vii) a program that was
essentially centered around STD clinics and venereologists has been transformed into a broader and
mutli-sectoral HIV/AIDS control program ­ largely thanks to the project.

However, the following reasons lead to an unsatisfactory rating of Government performance.
·   Project start-up was slow, largely due to lack of commitment and focus to HIV prevention activities.
·   With the establishment of a separate PMU, the situation worsened after an initial improvement, for
    reasons detailed in Section 2.2.
·   Frequent changes in leadership, and unfilled or inappropriately filled key posts such as PMS, FMS
    and procurement specialist resulted in serious implementation problems.



                                                      15

·   Contract management was weak, and appropriate skills were not brought on board to rectify this
    problem.
·   Project MIS was seriously delayed; and as a result, there was a paucity of data for decision-making.
    Moreover, there was room for improvement in the use of data (Section 2.3).
·   More emphasis could have been placed on scaling up TIs for MARPs, with a greater openness to the
    use of NGO services

(b) Implementing Agency or Agencies Performance
Rating: Moderately Satisfactory
Implementing agencies included the NTP, NBTS, non-health sector agencies, provincial health authorities
and NGOs. These were coordinated by NHAPP. Details of the achievements of each of these entities are
provided in Annex 2.

Both the NTP and NBTS were successful operational programs in the MOHN, and were involved in the
implementation of specific components of the project. Both programs achieved the targets set; and were
able to enhance the technical quality of their programs with project inputs.

Undoubtedly the health sector and several other government sectors, provincial and district authorities,
service providers and civil society organizations were able to take on an increasing role in the national
response to the epidemic.      For example, a broad range of stakeholders was able to contribute
meaningfully to the development of the National Strategic Plan 2007-11. Overall, sectoral programs
reached a broad spectrum of people and HIV prevention has been internalized / mainstreamed into several
ministries ­ within their regular programs, e.g., in the SLFEB, Colombo Prisons, Sri Lanka Armed
Forces, and Ministry of Fisheries. Therefore this activity will be ongoing and sustainable. The Ministry
of Education has also had an active program, albeit outside the support of this project. Provincial health
authorities recognized the need to address HIV prevention and care within the health sector, and to work
with the community, particularly to reach more vulnerable groups. Their active participation helped to
make a success of RRI that jumpstarted project implementation; and all provinces and 23 districts have
implemented activities such as setting up AIDS committees, improving STD management, VCT services,
and awareness meetings with community leaders and health workers. The provincial health authorities
have incorporated HIV/AIDS into their agenda, and the Medical Officers of STD Clinics have established
themselves as technical resources for supporting local responses, and as liaison with the NSACP.

The project supported NGOs through smaller subprojects and larger contracts for services to implement
TIs among MARPS. Project support included project planning and proposal development workshops for
NGOs to apply for subprojects. About 47 small NGOs were recruited in the first round, and 24 in the
second round of funding. This experience has helped to build some capacity within the NGO sector for
HIV prevention. As compared with the pre-project period, there is more engagement and capacity within
civil society, including PLWHA groups, in the national response. However, Government-NGO relations
continue to be a challenge, and will need to be addressed proactively when the program is scaled-up.
Moreover, since no evaluation was done of NGO interventions, it is not possible to properly judge their
impact.

(c) Justification of Rating for Overall Borrower Performance
Rating: Moderately Unsatisfactory
The HIV prevention program has been institutionalized within government. Satisfactory areas were:
advocacy and awareness building, TB and blood safety components, engagement with non-health sectors,
and decentralized program implementation. However, poor management, including procurement and
financial management, significantly impeded progress, also reflected in the low absorption of allocated
funds; activities were not evaluated to gauge their effectiveness and impact; available evidence was not



                                                     16

fully utilized as a basis for decision-making; and the project was unable to scale-up engagement with
NGOs, without which coverage of MARPS with TI has remained very low.


6. Lessons Learned

During Preparation

Political will and enabling environment are necessary pre-requisites to HIV/AIDS programming. In a low
prevalence setting such as Sri Lanka, it is common to meet with denial of the epidemic. Building up
political will, and engaging with civil society at all levels, are essential to the response. Reducing stigma
and discrimination against MARPS is an essential enabler to successful programming amongst them.
Despite differences with the Bank on the choice of strategic interventions, Sri Lanka did respond
positively to the Bank's push for a large enough response in the form of NHAPP and seems to have been
successful, at least in part due to the political leadership that focused on building the enabling
environment, thus overcoming the initial resistances.

Ensure that implementation of core components can commence immediately after Effectiveness. The
preparation process should be leveraged to ensure that critical decisions are taken well in advance. For
example, advanced procurement actions should have been completed with regard to the contracting of the
NGO management agency during preparation so as to avoid the foreseeable delays that occurred later.

Ensure that adequate measures have been incorporated into project design to address identified risks. For
example, having identified the capacity needs of the implementing entity, an initial period of intense
handholding should have been built into project design to overcome this initial hurdle.

Project design needs to be firmly grounded in the country reality. In this case, the country was not quite
ready for some of the implementation modalities (e.g., utilization of NGOs, while few competent NGOs
were available at the time and GOSL was reluctant to use NGOs). A phased approach could have been
used while capacity for NGO contracting / NGO service delivery skills were being built up.

During Implementation

Institutional arrangements are key to implementation success. Neither vesting project management with
DGHS nor creating a separate PMU was appropriate. The third alternative of placing the project within
the program (NSACP), i.e., full-time staff dedicated to project implementation but reporting to the
Program Director (instead of a separate Project Director) might have been the solution.

Ensure that the project staff are all fully oriented in project design and content, as well as operational
aspects. The fact the most of the project staff did not have any familiarity with the project appraisal
document or the project implementation plan might indicate a lower level of commitment as well.

Contracting of NGO services is a weak link.           Government is not familiar with NGO contracting
mechanisms; is not favorably disposed towards engaging with the private sector in any case; and the
capacity for NGO contracting is weak. This requires either that the contracting function is outsourced to a
competent agency, selected during the preparation period itself, or that specialized staff are hired for this
purpose (this cannot be assumed to be part of the routine functions of the Procurement Specialist).

The need for pro-active actions in a timely manner. When a project is not moving in the right direction,
mid-course corrections should be applied in a timely manner. The Bank's policy of pro-activity within a
year should be followed more diligently.



                                                      17

Use existing Bank resources effectively and efficiently. Fuller, more effective and inclusive use of the
team member based in country could make the Bank's implementation support more readily available.

Minimize staff turn-over, ensure leadership continuity and provide refresher training, especially on Bank
procedures. Despite the project launch workshop, even officials with the project from its start expressed a
lack of knowledge on the Bank procedures or even basic documentation like the PAD.


7. Comments on Issues Raised by Borrower/Implementing Agencies/Partners

(a) Borrower/implementing agencies
Annex 7 contains the full text of the borrower's contribution to this ICR. The following two
points are made by the Bank's ICR team, with respect to the Government's contribution:

·   It is encouraging to note the Government's candid recognition of factors affecting
    implementation, not only on the part of the Bank but also on its own part: the problems
    created by the establishment of a separate Project Management Unit outside the regular
    program under the Ministry, the decision to pay extra salary top-ups, the frequent turn-over /
    absence of key staff, and too many changes of leadership. We do hope that while designing
    and implementing future programs and projects, the lessons learnt from this experience
    would be taken seriously ­ by both the Government and the Bank.
·   The Government report strongly argues the importance of advocacy and awareness-building
    efforts, political commitment and multi-sector efforts in the Sri Lankan context. The ICR
    team acknowledges the value of such actions in responding to the HIV threat, by building the
    necessary enabling environment and reducing stigma and discrimination. However, the
    value of interventions targeted to most-at-risk-population groups (MARPS) should also be
    recognized. These can be complementary prongs of a coherent strategy.

(b) Cofinanciers
Not applicable.

(c) Other partners and stakeholders
Not applicable




                                                  18

Annex 1. Project Costs and Financing

(a) Project Cost by Component (in USD Million equivalent)
                                                         Actual/Latest
                                  Appraisal Estimate                         Percentage of
            Components                                   Estimate (USD
                                    (USD millions)                              Appraisal
                                                           millions)
COMPONENT 1: HIV
PREVENTION
INTERVENTIONSSUBCOMPONE
NT 1.1: TARGETED                           6.18                7.10               115
INTERVENTIONS/VULNERABLE
POPULATIONSSUBCOMPONENT
1.2: BROADBA
COMPONENT 2: TB
CONTROLSUBCOMPONENT 2.1:
ENHANCING LEADERSHIP,
ORGANIZATION, AND                          8.05                1.60                20
FUNCTION OF NATIONAL TB
PROGRAMSUBCOMPONENT
2.2: I
COMPONENT 3:
INSTITUTIONAL
STRENGTHENINGSUBCOMPON
ENT 3.1: STRENGTHENING                     5.28                4.30                81
MOH (DG OFFICE AND NSACP)
AND MULTISECTORAL
INVOLVE MENTSUB


               Total Baseline Cost       19.51                13.00                66

Physical Contingencies
                                           0.28                0.00              0.00

Price Contingencies
                                           1.08                0.00              0.00
               Total Project Costs       20.87                13.00              62.2
Front-end fee PPF                          0.00                0.00               .00
Front-end fee IBRD                         0.00                0.00               .00
        Total Financing Required         20.87                13.00



(b) Financing
                                                      Appraisal    Actual/Latest
                                       Type of                                  Percentage of
            Source of Funds                           Estimate       Estimate
                                      Cofinancing                                 Appraisal
                                                   (USD millions)(USD millions)
Borrower                                           1.96           1.86          94
The Global Fund to Fight AIDS,
                                                   6.36           1.9           29.87
Tuberculosis & Malaria
IDA GRANT FOR HIV/AIDS                             12.55          9.24          73.62



                                              19

20

Annex 2. Outputs by Component
Component 1: HIV Prevention Programs

Subcomponent 1.1: Targeted interventions among MARPS.              This subcomponent was to support
comprehensive targeted interventions for groups at most risk, including (female and male) SW, DU, and
MSM. Behavior change interventions included interpersonal communication, condom programming,
health services and/or referral for STD management and VCT, and community mobilization. These
interventions were to be implemented through small NGOs/CBOs, large NGOs with a track record
working with these populations, and some line ministries.

NGO Interventions:

              Number          Target        Number reached         Expenditure    Impact
              funded          Group
NGO Sub-      1st. Round:     1st. Round:   1st. Round:            1st. Round:    ·  MARPS not
projects      47 small        8 of 42                              US$419,000        targeted
              NGOs/CBOs       NGOs          2nd. Round:            2nd. Round:       adequately
              in 2004/05      targeted      368,668 of which       US$198,561     ·  NGO
              2nd. Round:     SW, DU,       5,000 MARPS.                             management
              sub-set of 24   MSM,                                                   firm not
              NGOs in         prison                                                 contracted in
              2006            inmates.                                               time, so TA to
              3rd. Round:     2nd. Round:                                            NGOs was poor
              Not             2 of 24                                             ·  Intervention
              implemented     NGOs                                                   design not
                              targeted                                               evidence-based
                              SW.
Large NGO     4 NGOs ­        1 for SW in   225 (of 400) SW;       US$35,000      ·  Implemented for
contracts     contracts       Colombo; 1    2,000 factory                            too short a
for TI        signed in       for DU in     workers; 605 (of                         period to have
among         March 2007      Galle and     7,000) DU in                             an impact
MARPS         and later       Kandy; 1      Kandy/Galle; and                      ·  Coverage of
                              for DU in     2,250 (of >10,000)                       MARPS very
                              Gampaha       DU in                                    low
                              and           Colombo/Gampaha                       ·  Did not target
                              Colombo; 1                                             MSM
                              for factory
                              workers in
                              Biyagama
                              and Kogalla

Sectoral responses for high-risk populations:

Department      Period of         Number         Number           Expenditure    Impact
                implementation trained           reached          (US$)
Prisons         2005 - 2008       465 Prison     30,000           35,000         ·   Overall, sectoral
                                  Welfare        prisoners        (81% of            programs
                                  Officers                        allocation)        reached a broad



                                                  21

Armed            2004 - 2008                                        147,000               reached a broad
Forces                                                              (56% of               spectrum of
                                                                    allocation)           people
SLFEB            2004 - 2008       135 training     45,000          78,000           ·    HIV prevention
                                   instructors      annually        (57% of               internalized into
                                                                    allocation)           many ministries
Fisheries        2004 - 2008                                        41,000
                                                                    (50% of
                                                                    allocation)
Labor            2004 - 2008       4,000            50,000          46,000
                                   managers                         (63% of
                                                                    allocation)

Subcomponent 1.2. : Broad based programs for youth and the general population
Advocacy. This subcomponent was to complement targeted interventions for MARPS through broad
communication and advocacy to sustain political and societal support to an enabling environment for HIV
services and mobilization of highly vulnerable subpopulations, and to reduce stigma and discrimination
against PLWHA and MARPS. Target audiences were to include (i) policy makers, police, religious
leaders, employers, unions, and other opinion leaders; (ii) media personnel; (iii) law enforcement officers;
and (iv) health personnel. The Project supported numerous advocacy activities from 2004 onwards,
targeting a variety of local leaders, sectoral policy makers and health workers. All sectoral responses
included an advocacy component, as did all the provincial workplans. The 2006 mid-term review
recommended that a needs-based strategy be developed for advocacy activities; however, this was not
prepared. In 2007, a UNFPA consultant drafted an overarching communication strategy, that included an
advocacy component, but the strategy needs to be finalized.

HIV prevention for youth. The Project aimed to support sexual health interventions targeting youth, to
be implemented by NGOs and relevant government sectors. Ten NGO subprojects of the 2004 round, and
four of the 2006 round, targeted students or out-of-school youth; however, these were not evaluated, and
their impact was never measured. The project also supported 2004 workplans of the National Child
Protection Authority; the National Youth Services Council, the National Institute of Education and the
Vocational Training Authority for interventions targeting young people. The 2006 External Review
carried out by NSACP and external partners, indicated that youth interventions did not reach most-at-risk
adolescents.    The National Strategic Plan 2007-2011 therefore emphasizes targeting most-at-risk
populations instead. Life skills education though the education sector is currently supported through the
GFATM Round 6 proposal and will be scaled up with ADB support.

Condom social marketing (and Communications) campaign. Condom marketing and logistics was to
be contracted, as part of a broader communication strategy, through a communication firm. This activity
aimed to increase demand and availability of condoms in "high transmission" areas and to subpopulations
that are most at risk, and to reduce stigma attached to condoms. In 2005 Young Asia TV was contracted
as the overall communication firm, but they failed to develop either a condom social marketing strategy,
or a broader HIV communication strategy. Since discontinuation of the YATV contract, the Project has
not actively pursued condom programming, other than inclusion of condom distribution through
interventions. The NSACP procured over 5 million condoms with project support in the period 2002-7
for distribution through the armed forces (39 percent), STD clinics (37 percent) and NGOs (24 percent).
Annual distribution through NSACP did not increase over the project period.




                                                    22

          Condom use for vaginal intercourse every time in the previous 12 months: FSWs
                                  Paying clients "used a condom       Non-paying partners "used a
                                            every time"                    condom every time"
Brothel                                        62.9                                 9.8
Massage Parlor                                 70.4                                 4.2
Street-based                                   81.9                                11.7
Karaoke                                        62.5                                 2.4
Casino                                         39.4                                 4.8

Blood Safety.     This subcomponent supported the National Blood Transfusion Service (NBTS) in
improving the physical infrastructure of blood banks, screening transfusions for HIV, Hepatitis C, and
other STDs and improving quality assurance. Blood safety was implemented through three RRIs (for a
total of US$250,000), a mass publicity and donor awareness campaign and communications contract in
the amount of US$250,000, training, development of guidelines, technical assistance and some equipment
(for about US$210,000 for all four inputs). The NBTS has been very successful. While the National
Blood Transfusion Service was already well functioning prior to the project, it has significantly increased
the proportion of voluntary donations nationally from 55 percent in 2004 to 81 percent by the end of 2007
and from 86 percent to 95 percent in Colombo during the same period. Blood collection has increased by
35 percent since 2004. Only 5 percent of physicians use whole blood, the lowest percentage in South
Asia.

Prevention of mother-to-child transmission. The Project was to support NSACP to develop and pilot
PMTCT strategies and protocols. A National PMTCT working group with membership of NSACP,
Family Health Bureau and UN technical agencies, NGOs and PLWHA developed and piloted a PMTCT
strategy and protocols. Medical specialists and staff of the pilot sites received training in Thailand. As of
April 2008, two HIV positive women have delivered, and are under supervision. NSACP plans to finalize
the national strategy and guidelines with international TA, and print them before Project closure. The
Family Health Bureau has taken responsibility for integrating VCT into antenatal services.

Subcomponent 1.3: Comprehensive care and treatment of PLWHA
The Project launched a comprehensive care and treatment program through a Rapid Results Initiative,
with 23 patients starting ART. The NSACP clinical care team developed treatment guidelines, and
managed HIV and AIDS patients on an outpatient basis, with referral linkages for inpatient or specialist
care. As of April 2008, 423 patients were registered at the Central STD Clinic, of whom 113 are
currently on ART. Assuming 500 people5 with advanced HIV disease, that means 20% coverage of ART.
Around 100 patients are managed at the Infectious Diseases Hospital OPD (some of whom receive their
medication from the Central STD Clinic). Several patients reportedly seek treatment in the private sector
or abroad. Medical care for PLWHA is well established, but there is little psychosocial care service to
complement this. The quality of VCT services needs improvement. There is as yet not a comprehensive
care and support strategy in line with the National Strategic Plan 2007-2011.

Provision of Drugs, Equipment and Training for Care and Treatment of PLWHA. The Project
provided CD4 cell count monitoring equipment and reagents, drugs to treat opportunistic infections (OI)
and antiretrovirals (ARV), and provided international and local training for care and treatment teams.
The project also provided TA to develop national treatment guidelines. CD4 cell count monitoring has
been carried out since January 2005, with test volume increasing from 188 tests in 2005 to a similar
number in the first quarter of 2008. ARVs have been procured for a total cost of US$ 194,000. The cost
of ART was found to be much higher than the regional average; at the mission's recommendation, GOSL
engaged the Clinton Foundation to negotiate lower prices. The Project has supported both international
and local training on clinical management of ART; however, the effectiveness of the training has not been



                                                    23

assessed. The Project was to contract with NGOs to assist in the provision of psychosocial support for
PLWHA; unfortunately this was not done.

Testing and VCT services. The project was to strengthen VCT services at the comprehensive care and
treatment team regional sites and the 26 district STD clinics, and strengthen counseling services among
NGOs. To this end it financed testing equipment and test kits for VCT, PPTCT and sero surveillance, and
training for counselors; however, no NGOs were trained to provide counseling. The Project supported the
establishment of a VCT center at NSACP and HIV diagnostic services at most of the 26 STD clinics
throughout the country. HIV testing was also made available in most public hospitals (about 20). Uptake
of VCT continues to be low: only 400 people per year visit the NSACP VCT center. A comprehensive
VCT policy is needed and should be adequately disseminated to make the public aware of the availability
of VCT services.

Component 2: TB Control
The project was designed to complement the support from the GFATM by expanding DOTS and to
improving TB control infrastructure.

Subcomponent 2.1 Enhancing leadership, organization and functions of the NPTCCD
A total of 20 Chest Clinics, 9 TB wards, and the Central Laboratory were refurbished under this
component. There was significant cost escalation due to increase in prices of raw materials; the cost of
works on completion is estimated to be about LKR.182.97 million, an increase of about 32 percent from
the original contract value of about LKR.139.01 million. Considering that 85% of the total amount will
be funded from the project, about LKR 155.52 million will be required for civil works against an
allocation of about LKR 134.0 million (USD 1.34 million) in the PAD. The works as implemented under
the project will be generally useful for the country. Care needs to be taken that all utilities are made
available so as to make these institutions fully functional. HIV/TB co-infection treatment guidelines have
been prepared, and need to be finalized.

Subcomponent 2.2 Improving coverage and quality of DOTS
DOTS training materials were prepared, and training of medical officers and PHC personnel in DOTS
was carried out. The RRI approach was adopted to reduce default rate in Colombo district during the first
round of RRI which was completed in December 2004. While supporting the Colombo district to sustain
the results achieved in December 2004 another RRI round was carried out in Gampaha district in
February 2005. These two districts have the highest default rates in the country.

Component 3: Institutional Strengthening
Subcomponent 3.1: Enhancing the capacities of agencies involved in the national response
As of 2008, undoubtedly the health sector and several other government sectors, provincial and district
authorities, service providers and civil society organizations are stronger players in the national response.
For example, a broad range of stakeholders was able to contribute meaningfully to the development of the
National Strategic Plan 2007-11. Several meaningful capacity building activities were supported by the
project, but most were ad hoc and reactive, rather than strategic, reducing the impact training could have.

Project management support. For a discussion on issues concerning the PMU, see Sections 2.2, 3.5(b)
and 5.5(b).

NSACP. The Project was to strengthen NSACP in its dual function of 1) leadership for a
multisectoral national response, and 2) as the center for management for STD and HIV. The
Project has mainly benefited NSACP in the latter function. The Central STD Clinic and 26 peripheral
STD clinics have strengthened STD management services and established themselves as HIV treatment
centers. However, the primary role of NSACP, to coordinate and provide technical leadership to the



                                                     24

national response, developed less. An External Review of the National Response was carried out in 2006
and a National Strategic Plan 2007-11 for HIV based on that review was prepared in early 2007, both
with some project financing. But there was little progress on development of strategies, systems and tools
for national program management. NSACP has established itself as a strong vertical programme for STD
control and HIV management; however, it's capacity to coordinate a national response to HIV will be
tested in the post-project phase.

Provincial health authorities and non-health sector agencies have built considerable capacity for
putting together a coordinated response based experience gained during project implementation (see
Components 1.1 and 1.2 above). A total of US$402,000 has been spent on provincial workplans out of a
total allocation of US$546,000. NGOs and civil society similarly gained significant experience in the
implementation of targeted interventions, which will be useful when scaling-up the response in time to
come (see Component 1.1 above).

Subcomponent 3.2: Improving information base for policy decisions and program
management
See Section 2.2.

Subcomponent 3.3: Improving health care waste management
See Section 2.4.




                                                    25

Annex 3. Economic and Financial Analysis

A detailed economic analysis was undertaken during project preparation. These are presented in Section
5.1 of the PAD, with details in Annex 4. The analysis addressed the following issues:

·   Whether the HIV/AIDS program as presented in the PAD would be a worthwhile investment, as
    demonstrated by its Net Present Value (NPV), and whether the particular project design presented had
    the highest NPV as compared to other alternative designs: In order to arrive at the costs and benefits
    of the program, 3 types of main benefits were seen to be arising from the project: (i) medical costs
    avoided on account of treatment of opportunistic infections and other secondary illnesses arising from
    AIDS; (ii) AIDS patients lost earning avoided; and (iii) value of years of life lost avoided. Only (i)
    and (ii) above were included in the analysis. Other unquantifiable benefits of the program included
    preventing the spread of other STDs, and thereby avoiding medical costs and lost earnings in those
    cases. The benefits from the TB component were not included. Costs pertain to the period 2003-
    2017 (15 years), while benefits were assumed to start from 2011 and continue till 2023 (benefits were
    assumed to continue for 6 years after the program was discontinued, falling to zero thereafter). The
    present program was assumed to continue until 2017, after which it was assumed that the strategy
    would shift to universal vaccination against HIV.

    The NPV of the program (discounted benefits less the discounted costs) was estimated to be positive
    (US$87 million) in the base case using an annual 10% discount rate. The program in this case was to
    avert about 19,000 infections over a 15 year period (equivalent to about 48% of the infections that
    would occur in the without-program scenario). The base case assumed that the annual number of new
    infections in the without-program scenario would grow at a constant rate of 50%, while in the with-
    program scenario it would gradually decline to 40% and remain at that level thereafter ­ as a result,
    the HIV prevalence in the adult population would peak at 1% in the adult population and decline
    thereafter. Even if these rates differed marginally, NPV would continue to be positive; only if the
    growth in annual number of new infections in the without program scenario was assumed to be only
    30%, and 5 percentage points less in the with-program scenario (25%), would the NPV become
    negative. Even so, since certain benefits were not factored in, the likelihood was that NPV would be
    positive.

·   What the Net Fiscal Impact of the program would be: The Net Fiscal Impact of the program as a
    purely preventive program was estimated to be positive in the base case (US$5 million). This was
    obtained by adding the value of incremental tax revenues that would accrue to the government on
    account of taxation on lost earnings avoided (US$9 million, assuming an average rate of mostly
    indirect taxation on households of 13%) to the fiscal savings in the form of medical costs avoided that
    would have been incurred by government facilities (assumed to be one half of total medical costs, or
    US$22 million), and then subtracting the present value of program costs (US$26 million).

    Calculations were also made of the likely fiscal burden that would result from the introduction of
    antiretroviral treatment (ART) as a free public service. It was estimated that the annual cost to the
    government would peak at about US$35 million by 2017 ­ this cost would represent about 8-11% of
    the MOHN budget that year, assuming that the budget grew at the rate of 3-5% annually in real terms.
    Factoring in the savings to MOHN of other medical costs associated with HIV/AIDS averted due to
    the introduction of ART, the net effect of free ART on the MOHN budget would peak at 7-9%.

    During implementation, a special mission was fielded to assist GOSL to formulate an implementation
    plan for a comprehensive ART program (May 2004). Based on initial identification of activities, the
    costs of implementing an ART program for the remaining project period was calculated as follows: (i)



                                                    26

    mobilize political commitment to create an enabling environment ­ ~US$30,000; (ii) improve access
    to voluntary counseling and testing - ~US$85,000; (iii) improve access to quality care and treatment
    for PLWHA ­ US$870,000. The total estimated cost was ~US$985,000.

·   Cost-effectiveness Analysis: The particular mix of interventions was studied, to examine whether
    there was an alternative that had a higher NPV than that presented in the PAD. The analysis
    concluded that, based on the best evidence available (as presented in a recent UNAIDS document
    titled "Effective Prevention Strategies in Low HIV Prevalence Settings"), the most efficient means of
    reducing epidemics in their early stages is through reducing HIV transmission among those with
    higher rates of partner exchange ­ either sexual or needle-sharing. Indeed, in programs with limited
    resources, targeted interventions for such vulnerable groups would have top priority, if cost-
    effectiveness was the only criterion used to select interventions. As the resource envelope grew, it
    became less clear what the mix of interventions ought to be ­ for example, a study in Honduras found
    both blood safety and PMTCT were found to be effective at high levels of resource availability.

·   Poverty impacts: The economic analysis concluded that there was no evidence to suggest that
    HIV/AIDS infection rates are disproportionately higher among the poor; but agreed that poor
    households would be more negatively impacted in the event of sickness or death of an earning family
    member. This finding is somewhat contrary to the findings of the SA, which identified mainly lower
    socio-economic groups as being highly vulnerable to HIV infection, such as sex workers, truckers,
    migrant labor, orphaned children and the like.

Economic justification for government financing (subsidization) of the program: At the current stage of
the epidemic in Sri Lanka, it was felt that there was no substitute to government financing to curb further
spread.




                                                    27

Annex 4. Bank Lending and Implementation Support/Supervision Processes


(a) Task Team members
                                                                       Responsibility/
              Names                         Title              Unit
                                                                          Specialty
Lending
Hnin Hnin Pyne             Senior Public Health Specialist   SASHD Task-Team Leader
Salim J. Habayeb           Lead Health Specialist            SASHD Public Health
                                                                    Institutional
Daya Samarasinghe          Consultant                        SASHD
                                                                    arrangements
                                                                    HIV/AIDS,
Nance Fee                  HIV/AIDS Specialist               SASHD
                                                                    surveillance
                                                                    Economic and
Hugo diaz-Etchevehere      Lead Health Economist             SASHD
                                                                    Financial Analysis
                                                                    Environment, and
Sumith Pilapitiya          Senior Environmental Specialist    SASDI health care waste
                                                                    management
                                                                    Gender and social
Nilufar Ahmad              Senior Gender Specialist           SDV
                                                                    development
Diana Weil                 Senior Public Health Specialist   SASHD TB Control
                                                                    Multi-sectoral
Madhuwanthi Opatha         Consultant                        SASHD coordination and
                                                                    NGOs
Deepal Fernando            Senior Procurement Specialist      SARPS Procurement
Krishnan Santhanam         Consultant                        SASHD Procurement
                           Senior Financial Management              Financial
Irene Julitta Rasiah                                         SARFM
                           Specialist                               Management
Vikram Raghavan            Senior Counsel                     LEGES Legal
Maj-Lis Voss               Operations Officer                SASHD Costing
Laura Kiang                Operations Officer                SASHD Costing
Elfreda Vincent            Program Assistant                 SASHD Consultant contracts

Supervision/ICR
Rajiv Aggarwal             Consultant                        ECSHD
Nazmul Chaudhury           Senior Economist                  SASHD Economic analysis
Samath Dhamminda
                           Consultant                        SASHD Public Health
Dharmaratne
Brigitte Duces             Consultant                         QAG   Operations quality
Deepal Fernando            Senior Procurement Specialist      SARPS Procurement
Paul Lijnst Janssen        Consultant                        HDNGA HIV/AIDS
Nirupi Marini Leanage      Consultant                        SASHD
                                                                    Operations,
Janet L. Leno              Senior Operations Officer         SASHD
                                                                    HIV/AIDS
Joan M. MacNeil            Senior HIV/AIDS Specialist        HDNGA HIV/AIDS
Kumari Vinodhani Navaratne Public Health Spec.               SASHD Public health
Naoko Ohno                 E T Consultant                    SASHD Operations


                                            28

                                                                         Monitoring and
Aakanksha Pande            Junior Professional Associate         SASHD
                                                                         Evaluation
Corinne Perera             Team Assistant                        SACSL
                                                                         Environment, and
Sumith Pilapitiya          Lead Environmental Specialist         SASDI health care waste
                                                                         management
Sandra Rosenhouse          Sr Population & Health Spec.          SASHD Task-Team Leader
Daya Dharmaji Samarasinghe Consultant                            SASHD Public Health
Tikiri Kumari Seneviratne  Operations Officer                    SASHD Operations
                                                                         Financial
Jiwanka B. Wickramasinghe  Sr Financial Management Specia        SARFM
                                                                         Management
Miriam Witana              Procurement Specialist                SARPS Procurement



(b) Staff Time and Cost
                                            Staff Time and Cost (Bank Budget Only)
Stage of Project Cycle                                           USD Thousands (including
                                        No. of staff weeks
                                                                 travel and consultant costs)
Lending
  FY02                                         25                         187.45
  FY03                                         14                           78.10
  FY04                                                                       0.00
  FY05                                                                       0.00
  FY06                                                                       0.00
  FY07                                                                       0.00
  FY08                                                                       0.00

                           Total:              39                         265.55
Supervision/ICR
  FY02                                                                       0.00
  FY03                                          5                           58.90
  FY04                                         35                         103.42
  FY05                                         41                         118.74
  FY06                                         43                         108.70
  FY07                                         38                           92.04
  FY08                                         23                         206.36
  FY09                                          6                            0.00

                           Total:            191                          688.16




                                            29

Annex 5. Beneficiary Survey Results
(if any)
Not done.




                                     30

Annex 6. Stakeholder Workshop Report and Results
(if any)
Not conducted for this core ICR




                                      31

Annex 7. Summary of Borrower's ICR and/or Comments on Draft ICR
1. Introduction
1.1 Sri Lanka is an island in the Indian Ocean situated South-East of the tip of India with a land area of
    about 65 600 km2, of which about 870 km2 is covered by inland waters. Its multiethnic and
    multireligious population is about 21 million, comprising about 74.8% ethnic Sinhalese, 9.5% ethnic
    Tamils, and 8.2% ethnic Sri Lankan Moors. By religion about 69.1% are Buddhist, 7.6% Muslim,
    7.2% Hindu, and 6.2% Christian. About 65 ­ 70% of the people live in rural areas. Literacy rate
    (those over 15 years, who can read and write one language) is 92.3% for females and 90.7% for
    males. Sri Lankan society is deeply traditional, with moral value systems deriving from its ancient
    cultural roots, and in general, abhors sexual promiscuity. The pattern of sexual behaviours is very
    different from that in Western or sub-Saharan African societies where sexual promiscuity is a way of
    life, and often admired.

    Sri Lankan's State healthcare system has a strong emphasis on Primary Health Care (PHC), with
    health institutions distributed island-wide providing easy access, that deliver curative, preventive,
    promotive and other services (including tertiary care in the 16 General Hospitals), free of charge at
    the point of delivery to all citizens. Hence, Sri Lanka enjoys extremely gratifying national health
    indices such as low infant mortality (13 per 1000 live births), low maternal mortality (3.8 per 1000
    live births), low under-five mortality, and high life expectancy (over 73 years) for both women and
    men.

1.2 It is essential to grasp Sri Lankan society's multiethnic and multireligious character, its moral value
    systems and traditional ways, its very high literacy rate, its accessible and free State health service,
    and its political system when trying to assess the appropriateness and impact of interventions in
    regard to health matters, particularly culturally and politically sensitive matters such as sexually
    transmitted disease (STD) and condom promotion. Lessons learnt from the USA, Europe, sub-
    Saharan Africa etc, are not necessarily applicable, appropriate or feasible in Sri Lanka.

1.3 The first seropositive case of HIV infection in a native Sri Lankan was detected in 1987, and the
    early cases attracted much hostile publicity from the print media, overt discrimination from the
    general public, and even from health professionals. As a result of the multisectoral and broad-based
    awareness programs launched by the Ministry of Health, stigma and discrimination have been
    markedly reduced, and the print and electronic media approach has changed from event-based to
    message-based publications. Unlike in the early period, there have not been any breaches of
    confidentiality or sensationalist reports on HIV/AIDS since the year 2004.

2   The National HIV/AIDS Prevention Project (NHAPP) H 013 ­ CE
2.1 The Development Grant Agreement (No: H 013 ­ CE) between the Government of Sri Lanka (GOSL)
    and the World Bank, having received Board Approval on 17 December 2002, was signed on 13
    February 2003, and became effective on 24 March 2003. The NHAPP concluded on 30 June 2008.

    The two original project development objectives (PDO) of the Development Grant Agreement were
    to:
    ·    Curb the spread of HIV infection, and
    ·    Reduce the risk of an emerging HIV ­ associated tuberculosis epidemic
A third specific objective was added in May 2004 at the request of the National STD/AIDS Control
Program (NSACP), with concurrence of the World Bank Review Mission:

    ·    To support a care and treatment program to prolong survival and improve the quality of life of
         people living with HIV/AIDS (PLWHA).



                                                    32

2.2 The total amount of the IDA grant extended under the project was SDR 9 600 000         (USD      12.6
    million). The GOSL contribution was USD 2.1 million.
2.3 Components of the Project. The PDOs of the project were to be achieved operationally under 3
    distinct components, with specific strategies developed under each. These components were:
2.3.1 (i) Targeted intervention among highly vulnerable groups
      (ii) Broad-based programs for youth and the general population.

2.3.2 Improving programs to strengthen early detection of tuberculosis (TB) and its treatment, and to
      reverse the rising incidence of TB.
2.3.3 (i) Enhancing capacity of agencies involved in the national response to HIV/AIDS viz. (a)      The
      Ministry of Health(MoH), (b) Provincial health authorities (PHA) and other sectors such as the
      Armed Forces, Prisons, Sri Lanka Foreign Employment Bureau (SLFEB),              (c) Multisectoral
      agencies such as the National AIDS Committee (NAC) and Provincial AIDS Committees (PAC),
      and (d) Non-Governmental Organisations (NGOs) and other Community Based Organisations
      (CBOs)
2.3.3. (ii) Improving the information base for policy decisions and program management
2.3.3 (iii) Improving healthcare waste management (HCWM).
2.4   Specific strategies under each component
Objective 1. Curbing the spread of HIV infection
Components 2.3.1 (i) and (ii) Expanding prevention programs for the general population especially the
youth, and for highly vulnerable groups.
Six strategic sub-components were supported by the NHAPP under components (i) and (ii) :
(a)   awareness and advocacy programs for policy makers and community opinion leaders : and
      developing programs to sustain political and societal commitment, so as to reduce stigma and
      discrimination against PLWHA and against vulnerable sub-populations.
(b)   awareness and behavioural change communications for youth
(c)   social marketing of condoms
(d)    ensuring blood safety
(e)    prevention of mother to child HIV transmission (PMTCT), and
(f)    targetted interventions among highly vulnerable populations

(a)   Awareness and advocacy programs for policy makers and community opinion leaders
In accordance with a decision taken at the highest political levels (namely, the National AIDS Council
chaired by His Excellency the President, and comprising all relevant Cabinet Ministers and their
secretaries; and the National AIDS Committee [NAC] comprising NSACP, Provincial Health Directors,
other sectoral partners, NGOs, CBOs and PLWHA), a vigorous island-wide awareness raising ,
sensitising and advocacy campaign was implemented in 2004 ­ 2006 to achieve the following objectives:

·        To obtain non-partisan support of all political parties for HIV/AIDS prevention activities of the
         GOSL, including programs for youth and schools, and condom distribution and social marketing
·        To obtain the concurrence of all religious denominations to extend their tolerance and support
         for HIV/AIDS prevention activities of the GOSL, and to PLWHA
·        To raise awareness and knowledge regarding HIV/AIDS among all other relevant opinion
         leaders in the community, so that they will accept the need for HIV/AIDS prevention activities of
         the GOSL, and for abolishing stigma and discrimination against PLWHA.

A large number of sensitising, awareness and advocacy programs were conducted jointly by the NHAPP
and the NSACP during this period, with the majority of them personally addressed by the Minister of
Healthcare and Nutrition. Over 250 key political leaders from Central Government and Provincial



                                                    33

Councils, over 850 political leaders from Pradeshiya Sabhas, and over 700 CBO leaders have attended
these programs, from all the Districts.

Key political and religious leaders and media people were sent to Thailand for sensitisation and
awareness raising study tours, to observe at first-hand how another predominantly Buddhist and deeply
traditional country that had a serious HIV/AIDS problem has succeeded in curbing its spread and
minimised societal prejudice, stigma and discrimination against PLWHA and vulnerable sub-populations.

As a result of these strategic interventions, there has not been a single sensationalist or event-based
publication on HIV/AIDS in the print or electronic media since year 2004 (whereas there frequently were
before 2003), and not a whimper of public protest or dissent from any political party or any religious
group regarding HIV/AIDS programs of the GOSL. Such salutary outcomes do not drop spontaneously
"as the gentle rain from heaven".

Much the greater part of the GOSL's success in curbing the spread of HIV infection is attributable to the
robust commitment of the highest level political leadership, as evidenced by the extensive, inclusive and
island-wide programs for the most powerful opinion leaders in the local context namely, political,
religious and CBO leaders, and schoolteachers, which acted as a facilitatory springboard for all other
promotive and preventive activities.

No further evidence in support of this affirmation of a cause-and-effect relationship need be adduced
except the UN Resolution (60/262 Political Declaration on HIV/AIDS) adopted by the General
Assembly on 2 June 2006, and the background document on the 2008 High Level Meeting on AIDS at
the UN General Assembly, 10 -11 June 2008, which puts the matter explicitly thus:

"Improving national political leadership and coordination. Countries that have made good progress
have demonstrated strong leadership and coordination of the HIV response and fostered linkages with
other development issues. Clear political direction from the very highest levels enables a comprehensive,
multisectoral and decentralised HIV response. This also encourages development partners to align closely
with the national priorities. However, few countries have been able to put all these elements in place
......."[Emphasis in italics added].

The GOSL has been able to put "all these elements in place", and focus "clear political direction from the
very highest levels" starting 2004, two years before the UN Resolution 60/262 and four years before
the UN High Level Meeting on AIDS in June 2008.
(b)      Awareness and behavioural change communications for youth.
Initially (starting 2004) awareness programs conducted by the Ministry of Health (MoH) through
collaboration with the Ministry of Education, and with NHAPP support and NSACP participation,
covered an estimated 1600 schoolteachers, school principals and Educational Zonal Directors from 12
Districts. Awareness programs for youth leaders were attended by an estimated 3000 youth of both sexes
from these 12 Districts. Informal feedback obtained from those who attended the programs has been
positive.

Ten NHAPP funded NGO subprojects in the first round, and 4 of them again in 2006, targeted students
and out-of-school youth. These subprojects reached about 18 000 beneficiaries, and evaluation showed
that 3 subprojects were satisfactory, and another 4 were moderately satisfactory.

The NHAPP also supported workplans for youth of the National Child Protection Authority (NCPA),
National Youth Services Council (NYSC), National Institute of Education (NIE) and Vocational Training
Authority (VTA). The NYSC trained about 160 youth leaders, and over 16 000 of its youth club
members were reached by its programs. The NIE developed a life-skills based curriculum for schools



                                                    34

with NHAPP support during 2004 ­ 2006. The VTA trained 25 trainers, and about 120 youth participated
in 2004 ­ 2005 in VTA advocacy programs.

The school curriculum developed by the National Institute of Education (NIE), and the other targeted
interventions for youth focused principally on empowering youth (both male and female) in making
decisions about their reproductive and sexual health, promoting safe sexual behaviours (eg. abstinence,
delaying first sexual intercourse, avoiding drug use, use of condoms), and basic knowledge regarding
STD including HIV/AIDS.

The NIE also had 3 -day training programs for 916 students as peer educators, 2 -day training programs
for 765 schoolteachers, 2 -day awareness programs for 28 Education Administrators and 273 school
principals, and an island-wide school poster competition on World HIV/AIDS day in 2005, with
presentation of many awards. After each training program students organised a campaign walk wearing
T-shirts with a HIV/AIDS prevention message.

Schoolchildren and out-of-school youth have also had awareness programs, peer-leader training programs
and behavioural change programs through the 9 PHAs. Estimated beneficiaries number over 16 000.

There is evidence obtained from new entrants (academic year 2007) to University (n = 2408, from all
Provinces, including all religious and ethnic groups, from 7 Faculties), and from schoolchildren (n= 1628,
Grades 11 and 12, from 3 Districts, of which 2 are predominantly rural, and including all religious and
ethnic groups), pointing to a very good basic knowledge of STDs including HIV/AIDS, advantages of
condom use, and a refreshing freedom from stigma and discrimination against PLWHA.

(c) Social marketing of condoms
The importance of using condoms correctly and consistently during high risk sexual behaviours has been
stressed during all awareness programs supported by the NHAPP as described above, for all programs
targetted for youth, for all NHAPP supported programs for Sri Lanka Army, Navy, and Air Force and
their spouses, (pages       9,10), workers leaving the country for foreign employment via the SLFEB (
page 10) and their spouses, all staff and inmates of Sri Lanka Prisons (page 10), and all advocacy
programs conducted by PHAs (pages 8,9).

The Family Planning Association of Sri Lanka ( an NGO) has had several NHAPP supported programs
for vulnerable groups and peer-leaders during which condom promotion has been an important element.
They have distributed 20 condom dispensers, 8000 keytags with condoms in situ (which can be replaced).
They have also distributed 25 000 condoms. (The Family Planning Association of Sri Lanka also sells
about 7 million condoms annually to its clients. This is not a Project supported activity).

The NHAPP directly purchased 6.95 million condoms for distribution by the 3 Armed Forces and through
STD Clinics in Colombo and the Provinces. In addition several publications by the NSACP and PHAs
have stressed the message of appropriate and correct condom use, and all of them have used illustrations
to clarify the message. In sum, around 2.55 million individuals, including youth and vulnerable
populations, have received the message of appropriate condom use, some of them receiving it several
times over.

(d)     Ensuring blood safety
Sri Lanka has one of the world's safest blood transfusion services. Only one case of HIV transmission has
occurred since 1990, although several million units of blood or blood products have been collected and
transfused.




                                                    35

During the Project's duration, blood collection has increased 38%, and the percentage of voluntary
donations has increased from 55% to 83% island-wide and from 86% to 97% in Colombo. Whole blood is
used in less than 1% of transfusions, the rest being transfusions of blood products. All donors are
screened before collection, and all blood for HIV before transfusion.

(e)      Prevention of Mother to Child Transmission (PMTCT)
Mother to child transmission rate of HIV is very low in Sri Lanka. Up to the end of the second quarter of
2008 the cumulative total of vertical transmission is only 31. Nevertheless significant steps have been
taken to prevent PMTCT and treat children who have developed HIV infection by vertical transmission.

They include the following;
·      A national PMTCT working group comprising members of NSACP and NHAPP, Family Health
       Bureau (FHB), UN technical agencies, NGOs and PLWHAs developed and piloted a PMTCT
       strategy and protocols.
·      Medical specialists and relevant staff of piloting sites received training in Thailand about PMTCT,
       supported by the NHAPP.
·      FHB has taken responsibility for, and is now implementing, the integration of voluntary counselling
       and treatment (VCT) into antenatal services.
·      Antenatal services in the State healthcare system includes universal screening for HIV among
       pregnant women (with the `opt out' option available to them), and counselling and close
       supervision for HIV positive individuals, by trained specialists.
·      Utilising the consultant services of an expert supported by the NHAPP, a national strategy and
       guidelines have been developed for PMTCT and fine-tuned after discussing with local experts and
       all stake-holders. The final report has been given to NSACP for implementation.

(f)    Targetted interventions among the more vulnerable populations
In the early period of the NHAPP the more vulnerable populations identified included (i) youth (ii)
Armed Forces transport workers (iv) beach boys (v) unskilled or semiskilled workers emigrating for
foreign employment (principally to Korea and Middle East countries) (vi) commercial sex workers
(CSW) (vii) prisoners (viii) men who have sex with men (MSM) and (ix) intravenous drug users (DU).
All these groups were reached by the awareness and advocacy programs supported by the NHAPP as
described above viz., programs for CBO leaders, for schoolteachers, school principals and education
administrators, for schoolchildren and youth, launched by PHAs, and targetted programs for migrant
workers by SLFEB, and targetted programs for the Sri Lanka Army, Air Force, Navy, and Sri Lanka
Prisons.

Subsequently, in light of the almost negligible HIV seropositivity rates among the categories (i), (ii),
(iii), (v) and (vii), the following were regarded as most at risk populations (MARPs): CSW, MSM and
DU.

The following assertions are irrefutable: MARPs are derived from the general population; for both female
and male CSWs and for beach boys, clients are from the general population; intravenous drug users (only
1.2% of estimated 40 000 heroin users) are derived from the general population, usually youth; MSM are
also part and parcel      of the general population. Hence it cannot be plausibly contended that the
comprehensive, extensive and multisectoral awareness programs that focused on the modes of acquiring
HIV infection (including injecting drugs), and the various options available for prevention ( eg. single
partner, postponing first full sexual intercourse, correct use of condoms in appropriate situations) have
had only insignificant beneficial effects. In fact, even among female CSWs, HIV positivity rates for STD
Clinic attenders are extremely low: for years 2003-2007, it is 0.12% (8/6502).




                                                      36

The NHAPP signed large contracts with 4 NGOs to implement HIV prevention for MARPs ­ one for
CSW in Colombo, one for DU in Galle and Kandy, one for DU in Colombo and Gampaha, and one for
garment factory workers in Biyagama (Gampaha) and Koggala (in Galle). By end of May 2008, outreach
educators had reached 250 CSW, 2400 factory workers, and 3050 DU in Colombo, Gampaha, Kandy and
Galle.

In addition, it must be noted that all attenders at 30 STD clinics in General Hospitals and Base Hospitals
in Colombo and the Provinces are reached, counselled and tested by Medical Officers and other health
professionals.

In sentinel surveillance (SS) performed in 2006, out of a sample of over 7000, only 12 (0.17%) tested
HIV positive. In 2007 in a sample of similar size, SS found only 7 (0.1%) positive cases. The 2006 and
2007 SS studies included STD clinic attenders, CSW, DU, Armed Forces, TB patients, and people
undergoing pre-employment testing. Of about 40 000 heroin users only about 1.2% inject. The NHAPP
and NSACP have kept the issues regarding MARPs in proper contextual perspective, while maintaining
satisfactory SS and vigilance over seropositivity trends among MARPs, purists' lamentations and
grumbles notwithstanding.

2.4 Specific strategies under each component
Objective 1. Curbing the spread of HIV infection
Component 2.3.2 Improving programs to strengthen early TB detection and treatment, and to reverse
rising incidence of the disease.

Two strategic sub-components were supported by the NHAPP under component 2.3.2
(a)      Enhancing leadership, organization and functions of the National Program for Tuberculosis
         Control and Chest Diseases (NPTCCD).
(b)      Improving coverage and quality of DOTS and adopting DOTS for local requirements.

The achievements of the NPTCCD with Project support are highly significant. It decreased the incidence
of TB from 45.6 in year 2003 to 41.9 per 100 000 in 2007. During this period detection rates of sputum
positive cases rose from 80 to 90%, and the treatment success of sputum positive cases increased from
80.4% to 88%, which is higher than the global and national target of 85%. Default rates fell from 10.6%
to 6.7%, and DOTS coverage reached a very high level of 97.5% (from 74%). The multi-drug resistant
cases of TB decreased by 50% from 17% in 2003 to 8% in 2007.

Infrastructure development of the NPTCCD included full refurbishment of the Central Office, 19 Chest
Clinics, the Central Laboratory, and 9 TB Wards, and provision of 17 vehicles. 17 of the Chest Clinics
refurbished were in outstations, and 13 of the vehicles were for outstation Chest Clinic use.

Institutional strengthening took the form of developing a Management Information System (MIS), and
provision of several computers and accessories, laboratory equipment and office equipment. Leadership
qualities and human resource development were supported by the NHAPP for the development of training
modules for all staff, consultations on guidelines for the management of TB-HIV co-infection, for
upgrading the general manual and laboratory manual, and for many training workshops, for all categories
of staff.

2.4      Specific strategies under each component
Objective 1. Curbing the spread of HIV infection
Component 2.3.3 (i) Enhancing capacity of agencies involved in the national response to HIV/ AIDS.




                                                     37

The NHAPP has supported the strengthening of multisectoral involvement and capacity island-wide in
ample measure. These will be described under the following sub-components. (a) PHAs, (b) Air Force,
(c)Army and Navy, (d) Sri Lanka Prisons, (e) NIE, (f) SLFEB, (g) NYSC (h) Ministry of Labour,
Department of Worker Education (MoL/DWE) (i) Ministry of Fisheries (MoF) and (ii) Ministry of
Health/ NSACP.

(a) Provincial Health Authorities (PHA)

All 9 PHAs participated enthusiastically and meaningfully in a wide variety of HIV/AIDS prevention
activities. The 9 Provinces developed workplans that totalled 23 District workplans. The NHAPP
supported these activities through two Regional Coordinators who worked with STD Medical Officers to
support planning and implementation. The NSACP and Provincial STD Medical Officers have led the
capacity building, training and advocacy programs.

Awareness programs have been conducted by all 9 PHAs for various categories including CBO leaders,
political leaders, State officials from many sectors, school principals and teachers, factory workers, tea
estate workers, prison staff and inmates, 3-wheel drivers, media personnel, hotel owners and staff, out-of-
school youth, school children, heavy vehicle drivers, trade union leaders, families of Middle East
employees, health volunteers, health sector workers (eg nurses, public health inspectors, public health
nurses, dental therapists, physiotherapists and minor staff), internally displaced persons, fishermen and
other segments of the public. The total number of beneficiaries of these awareness programs is estimated
at around 225 000.

Advocacy and awareness programs have been conducted by PHAs for Provincial political leaders, policy
makers and senior administration staff, Police, NGO staff, hotel owners and senior hotel staff, Education
Directors, school principals, community leaders, Grama Sewa Niladharis and Prisons staff. The
beneficiaries of these advocacy and awareness programs is estimated at around 25 000.

Targetted training programs have also been conducted by PHAs for all hospital staff (eg. Consultants,
Dental Surgeons, medical officers, nursing staff, laboratory staff and minor staff) in areas such as
operating theatre, laboratory and labour room procedures, universal precautions, and infection control.
Programs have also focused on minimising stigma and discrimination against PLWHA.

World AIDS Day activities of PHAs have included walks, bicycle parades, open-air musical shows, street
dramas, poster competitions, oratory contests and public meetings. Participation at these events by the
general public, Police, schoolteachers and students has been excellent, and enormous numbers of people
have received the relevant preventive health messages. PHAs have also produced leaflets, booklets,
compact discs, banners, stickers and other innovative IEC materials, with NHAPP support.

A few Provincial workplans have reached DUs and CSWs, but the importance of having targetted
programs for MARPs and programs focused to reduce stigma and discrimination against PLWHA has
been internalised.

Most of the activities of the PHAs supported by NHAPP have been internalised, and are sustainable
within PHA budgets, with leadership being given by NSACP and STD Medical Officers, and
implementation being led by their counterparts in the Provincial Health Directorates.

(b) Sri Lanka Air Force (SLAF)
The SLAF has achieved the following with NHAPP support, and their training programs have reached all
members of the SLAF and ancillary support staff. (i) Fourteen advocacy programs for high level and
middle level officers, 70 awareness programs, 7 outreach programs for spouses, 3 focus group



                                                   38

discussions, and 50 condom promotion programs.           (ii) Fifteen TOT programs, 3 infection control
programs, 9 healthcare worker training programs (dental clinic and laboratory staff) and 9 peer-leader and
counsellor training programs. (iii) Twenty volunteer counselling and testing (VCT) centres have been
established and over 10 100 have sought their services. (iv) The existing laboratory facilities have been
upgraded, with purchase of test kits, vacutainer tubes, blood collection apparatus, 50 sharps bins etc. (v)
140 condom dispensers have been sited at strategic points (eg washrooms, telephone booths, messes etc),
penis models have been distributed to Bases/Units for condom demonstration purposes, and nearly
600,000 condoms have been distributed free of charge. (vi) Waste disposal has been upgraded and
enhanced with expert advice. (vii) Audio-visual and IEC materials have been introduced for quality
improvement of training programs (eg colour television sets with DVD, equipment for power-point
presentation, compact discs). (viii) Training manuals have been developed for new recruits (with a
module on HIV/AIDS), TOT programs, management courses, and the Staff College course.

Nearly all of the above achievements/ programs have been internalised, and are sustainable within the
SLAF budget.

(c ) The Sri Lanka Army (SL Army) and Sri Lanka Navy (SLN)

With NHAPP support the SL Army and SLN have achieved the following: (i) Advocacy programs for
middle-level officers. (ii) 65 awareness programs and workshops for soldiers. (iii) Awareness programs
for spouses and pregnant mothers. (iv) Facilities for VCT for pregnant mothers, located at Colombo,
Panagoda, Palaly, Anuradhapura and Diyathalawa etc with necessary audio-visual equipment. (v) Peer-
leader training programs for medical laboratory technologists and healthcare workers, including all dental
clinic staff. (vi) Development, printing and distribution of 4000 copies of 8 training modules, 60 000
leaflets and 10 000 booklets on HIV/AIDS. (vii) Laboratory facilities were enhanced and upgraded with
a wide range of equipment and apparatus (eg test kits, centrifuges, refrigerators, needle burners,
vacutainers, centrifuges, sharps bins, computers, photocopy machine, and other routine equipment). (viii)
A film on HIV/AIDS and its prevention (Mindada Gangawa) was produced and extensively shown to all
categories of staff and spouses. (ix) 1700 condom dispensing boxes were distributed at strategic places
(eg washrooms, messes, telephone booths) and over 500 000 condoms have been issued by the
SL Army and over 300 000 by the SLN, free of charge. (x) IEC and BCC materials have been developed
for UN Peace-Keeping Forces. (xi) Reproductive health programs (including HIV/AIDS, STD, gender
issues, maternity and child care) were conducted for spouses.

(d )  Sri Lanka Prisons (SLP)
NHAPP supported HIV/ AIDS prevention activities conducted by SLP include the following: (i)A
baseline survey was completed among staff and 1000 inmates (ii) Establishment of an STD clinic,
training its healthcare staff, and refurbishing it with necessary furniture and clinical and laboratory
equipment. (iii) Training of 800 inmate peer-leaders and development and printing of a training module
for this purpose. (Their activities minimised unprotected sexual activity, now complaints of non-
consensual sex acts is     zero). (iv)   Training of 465 Prison Welfare Officers. (v) Orientation and
introductory programs for all new inmates, and development of a module for these programs. (vi)
Enhancement and upgrading of the Prison's training facility with a laptop computer, multimedia projector
and a 90" x 95" screen. (vii) For World AIDS Day 2007, organising a poster competition for all inmates;
developing a theme song; producing a stage play. These activities reached 30 000 inmates in Sri Lanka
Prisons island-wide.

Nearly all the above activities have been internalised and are sustainable, with GOSL funds.

(e)   National Institute of Education
This has been described earlier (see page 5 ).



                                                     39

(f)     Sri Lanka Foreign Employment Bureau (SLFEB)
With NHAPP support the SLFEB has implemented the following; (i) A one-day module developed by the
Project on sexual health promotion was included in the regular 13 ­day pre-departure training for 45 000
women workers going to the Middle East, and 6000 male workers going to Korea and Japan each year,
selected from those registering with the SLFEB annually. The SLFEB has now mainstreamed this scheme
and extended it to larger numbers of migrant workers. (ii) Developed 4 tele-films of about 30 minutes
each on healthy life-styles, life-skills, occupational health, and HIV/AIDS and STD to be shown during
the pre-departure training. (iii) 400 copies (compact discs) of the 4 tele-films mentioned above have been
distributed to resource persons and instructors for training purposes. (iv) The NHAPP trained 135 training
instructors and welfare officers for pre-departure and post-return interventions. (v) The NHAPP also
undertook several advocacy programs for migrant worker recruitment agencies, immigration officials and
welfare officers stationed in recipient countries.

These interventions are sustainable, now mainstreamed, and SLFEB will conduct them with their own
resources.

(g) National Youth Services Council (NYSC)

The youth population of Sri Lanka is estimated at about 2 600 000, and the number of youth clubs is
about 4990 with about 171 000 members. The NYSC implemented the following NHAPP supported
interventions/ activities. (i)Awareness and sensitisation programs for NYSC managerial staff in all 9
Provinces (10 programs, 680 beneficiaries), and training program for counsellors (26 counsellors trained
from the 9 Provinces) .(ii) Training program for youth leaders/ training of trainers. (6 programs, 150
youth leaders from 14 Districts trained); distribution of 70 000 information leaflets on HIV/ AIDS. (iii)
Outreach activities for youth including small group discussions, role-play, correct condom use
demonstrations, video clips on HIV/AIDS, discussion of case scenarios and distribution of leaflets/
booklets on HIV/AIDS. (held in 11 Districts, 104 programs, about 4600 beneficiaries).
(iv)Life-skills based island-wide HIV/AIDS prevention programs. (294 programs of 50 participants each
in 17 Districts; 16 160 beneficiaries). (vi) Developed IEC materials, training modules for TOT, life-skills
based HIV/AIDS prevention module for outreach programs, case study scenarios for small group
discussions and leaflets on HIV/ AIDS prevention.

(h ) Ministry of Labour, Department of Worker Education (MoL/DWE)
The MoL/DWE trained 4000 Managers and reached over 55 000 garment factory workers in the
Investment Promotion Zones(IPZ) through NHAPP supported work plans (2004 ­ 2008), including
awareness/ advocacy programs on STD and HIV/AIDS, programs on proper use of condoms, and life-
skills training programs focused on empowering youth on decision-making regarding reproductive health,
and prevention of HIV/AIDS.

(i) Ministry of Fisheries (MoF)
The MoF undertook the following activities (2004 ­ 2008) with NHAPP support: (i) Two capacity
building programs for 46 senior management (ii) 12 advocacy / awareness programs for 960 staff (iii) 18
district-wise peer-leader training programs for 715 workers (iv) District-wise and village-based 130
programs for fishermen and their families, with over 14 000 participating (v) A base-line survey of over
1500 fishermen and family members in 2007 (vi) A short film on STD and HIV/ AIDS, of which 100
copies on CD and DVD were distributed to Fisheries Cooperatives island-wide. The NHAPP also
supported procurement of one laptop computer, one power-point projector, and one digital camera, and
the printing of 15 000 leaflets and 5000 posters on HIV/AIDS prevention. Over 400 000 condoms were
also distributed free by the MoF.




                                                      40

Most of the MoF workplans were implemented through the active island-wide network of Fishermen's
Cooperatives established by its Social Development Division. They have been fully mainstreamed and are
sustainable within the MoF budget.

(j) Ministry of Health (MoH) and NSACP

In regard to governance of the national response the NHAPP has supported meetings of the NAC, and the
Country Coordinating Mechanism (CCM) secretariat's operational costs. The NHAPP also supported
substantially the MoH operational costs of the highly successful 8th ICAAP (International Congress on
AIDS in Asia and the Pacific), and along with the NSACP, its organisational mechanism by providing
professional expertise to the MoH.

The NHAPP has supported the NSACP throughout to achieve its two key functions as a strong vertical
program for STD and HIV/AIDS control and management, and its leadership role in the national
response. Two senior Coordinators of the NHAPP have now joined the Policy Planning Unit of the MoH,
and all the others have been transferred to the NSACP, so the plaintive wail in the WB Review Mission
team's report of May 2008, that their expertise and functions "will be lost (to the national response) after
Project end" has proved to be churlish and premature.

Many training programs, both foreign and local, for Consultants Venereologists, Physicians, Surgeons,
Obstetrician-Gynaecologists and Dental Surgeons of MoH, STD Medical Officers, and healthcare staff of
the MoH, in the areas of HIV/AIDS control and treatment have been supported by the NHAPP.

An External Review of the National Response (in 2006), and the National Strategic Plan 2007 ­ 2011
were financed by the NHAPP, and strategies and systems based on the plan for national program
management are in the process of development as of 30 June 2008. Technical strategies have been
developed for clinical management of HIV/AIDS and MTCT of HIV infection.

The NHAPP also supported the following consultancy services for the NSACP: (i) Consultancy for
designing a Program Management Information System (PMIS) (ii) Consultancy for a Behavioural
Surveillance System (iii) Consultancy Services Communication Agency to Strengthen Communication
Activities (iv) Consultancy for Developing a User Manual for PMIS (v) Consultancy for promotion of
safe sexual behaviour among CSWs in Colombo (vi) Consultancy to complete the M and E Plan (vii)
Consultancies for developing HIV/AIDS Service Packages for DUs in the Districts of Colombo,
Gampaha, Galle and Mahanuwara (viii) Consultancies for developing HIV/AIDS Service Packages for
workers in the IPZ of Koggala (Galle) and Biyagama (Gampaha)         (ix) Fifty sub-contracts for NGO (x)
Consultancy for PMTCT (xi) Consultancy for Functional Task Analysis of the NSACP (xii) Consultancy
for Size Estimation of Vulnerable Groups. (xiii) Consultancy for Strategic Information Management
(SIM) Unit of the NSACP.

As infrastructure strengthening the NHAPP supported the NSACP by (a) the consultancy services
mentioned above (b) upgrading of the NSACP computer system and networking for the SIM unit and
PMIS (c) construction of new STD clinics in Mannar, Ampara, Jaffna and Ratnapura (d) refurbishing the
NSACP building and its training centre, its Central Laboratory and many peripheral laboratories (e)
purchasing and supplying 7 double-cabs for peripheral STD clinics in Kegalle, Badulla, Balapitiya,
Ragama, Kalutara, Galle and Kalubowila (f) purchasing and supplying to the NSACP an Exhibition
Vehicle, one mini-bus, one passenger van and one light lorry (g) purchasing and supplying 20 binocular
microscopes; test kits and laboratory reagents; an Elisa machine and laboratory equipment; one 100 KVA
diesel-powered generator for the central laboratory (h) laptop and notebook computers, multimedia
projector and accessories, digital cameras, one DVD player, one photocopy machine (i) a refrigerator,
filing cabinets and furniture (j) ARV and STD drugs (k) journals, text-books and resource manuals (l)



                                                   41

health education equipment and printing of numerous IEC materials (m) 6.95 million condoms for STD
Clinics and penis models for demonstration of correct condom use.

The NSACP is firmly established as the national centre for the clinical management of HIV/ AIDS, and is
well positioned to take over the leadership of the multisectoral national response to HIV/ AIDS.

2.4 Specific strategies under each component
Objective 1. Curbing the spread of HIV infection
Component 2.3.3 (ii) Improving the information base for policy decisions and program management

(A)      Surveillance System. The NHAPP contracted UNSW Global (formerly NewSouth Global), in
association with National Centre for HIV Social Research (NCHSR) of the University of New South
Wales (UNSW), and local partners (MG Consultants), to design and collect data for the Behavioural
Surveillance System (BSS) as part of a national second generation surveillance system. The GOSL
second generation system (2008) comprises for following: (a) HIV screening of blood donors (b) annual
HIV sentinel surveillance among MARPs and STD attenders (c) biannual BSS among MARPs (d)
screening for syphilis among antenatal clinic attenders.

The printed final report of NCHSR/ UNSW contract was launched and discussed at a well attended
function of all stake-holders, and the report has been widely disseminated, and well received. With its
dissemination BSS methodology has been placed on a firm foundation for future behavioural surveillance
activity, which the GOSL will implement with GFATM support, on schedule.

(B) Management Information System (MIS) The NHAPP contracted a firm to develop a system and
software for MIS of the national response. Although there was some disagreement early on between
NHAPP and NSACP on a set of indicators, this has been resolved and the MIS is now installed and
functioning, and the NSACP will use it for monitoring the NSP and as part and parcel of the national M
and E system.

2.4 Specific strategies under each component
Objective 1. Curbing the spread of HIV infection
Component 2.3.3. (iii) Improving health care waste management (HCWM)

As a concept and as a critical issue in healthcare, HCWM was rudimentary at the time NHAPP started.
The first major activity supported by the NHAPP was the preparation of a "National Policy and
Guidelines for Healthcare Waste Management", and piloting it with MoH concurrence and blessing to the
level of national policy.

As a priority a baseline survey and needs assessment was undertaken for STD and TB clinics in the
Western and Central Provinces. Based on its findings the NHAPP supported training, and provided
equipment and supplies, for implementing a HCWM program for STD and TB clinics in the 2 Provinces.
The NHAPP proceeded to make a baseline survey and needs assessment of the other Provinces (except
the Northern and Eastern, for security reasons). The NHAPP also supported the development of a
"Manual on HCWM in STD and TB Clinics". The Central Environmental Authority has approved 2
steam sterilisers for the two centralised waste disposal systems at the National Hospital and the Castle
Street Hospital, and the MoH is processing procurement, supported by the Health Sector Development
Project.

The MoH has established a cell under the Deputy Director General (Medical Services) to take leadership
for HCWM island-wide. A Concept Paper for this, including staffing and job responsibilities, has been
prepared. The MoH is committed to establish this unit and recruit staff for it.



                                                    42

The MoH has also established a National HCWM Steering Committee, chaired by the Secretary MoH, to
strengthen island-wide HCWM activities. The MoH has signalled its firm commitment to HCWM by
including a specific allocation for HCWM in its annual budget.

As for capacity building and training, a HCWM Resource Centre has been established at the Department
of Community Medicine, Faculty of Medicine, University of Colombo; and the Post-Graduate Institute of
Science of the University of Peradeniya has introduced HCWM into their Environmental Certificate
courses, the Public Health Inspectors Training program and relevant manuals.

In spite of the many achievements and activities detailed above, the WB Review Mission of April 2008
refused to fund a collaborative Distance Learning Program in HCWM (at both undergraduates and
postgraduate levels) between the MoH, Unversity of Moratuwa and the Indira Gandhi National Open
University in India, citing "time constraints" as the reason for refusal.

The April 2008 WB Review Mission refused also to fund procurement of equipment and supplies
identified by a detailed Needs Assessment Report of HCWM for STD and TB Clinics, prepared by the
College of Microbiologists, basing its refusal on new terms and conditions articulated for the first time in
the Mission Report dated 30 May 2008 (which reached the NHAPP on or about 4 June), with a "deadline"
imposed for implementing them as 31 May 2008, that proved to be impossible to achieve in the short time
given.

2.5 Objective 2. Reducing the risk of an emerging HIV ­ associated TB epidemic.

The major achievements of the NPTCCD are summarised on pages 7 and 8. With clear evidence of
reduction in TB incidence, increased TB detection rates, rising treatment success rates, DOTS coverage
reaching 97.5%, falling default rates, and falling multidrug resistance rates, risk of a HIV-TB co-infection
epidemic has been reduced.

Guidelines for the management of HIV-TB co-infection have been discussed and formulated, the general
and laboratory manuals upgraded, relevant medical and laboratory staff given initial training, and
workshops have been conducted in order to develop a comprehensive HIV-TB co-infection program. The
latter was hampered by the World Bank revoking in 2007 the previously given "no objection" to
recruiting a Project Management Specialist (PMS), after a suitably qualified, experienced and committed
specialist was selected for the post by an independent and competent selection board, and in spite of a
joint entreaty made by Director NSACP and Project Director NHAPP. Revoking abruptly the "no
objection" given in the last Project Implementation Plan for foreign training, although unexpended
financial allocation was available for it, also hindered progress in this area.

2.6 Objective 3 Supporting a care and treatment program to prolong and improve the quality of life of
PLWHA.
The NHAPP has supported the establishment of clinical care services for HIV patients, and ARV and
other necessary drugs are given to them free of charge. By June 2008 out of 452 patients being followed
up in the Central STD Clinic, 124 were receiving ARV treatment. The reasons why only about 10% of
HIV patients access STD clinics include, seeking treatment at the Infections Diseases Hospital, from local
or foreign private sector sources, from practitioners of indigenous systems, and strong reluctance to
come forward for STD Clinic attendance.

All Central STD Clinic attenders are counselled by Consultants as well as by other STD Medical Officers
and trained staff, and appropriate psychological referral is made when indicated. Patients' nutritional
needs are considerably supported by the World Food Program, and GOSL and NGO welfare programmes.



                                                      43

Scaling up the VCT program, and developing a program to establish a continuum of care, after a proper
needs assessment, remains a priority for the holistic care of PLWHA.

2.7 Civil works
The NHAPP has completed the construction of 4 new STD clinics in peripheral Districts, and refurbished
19 Chest Clinics and 9 TB Wards, including water supply and electricity at all sites. The Project also
completed renovation of the NSACP second floor, and refurbished its exhibition and training centre. One
TB ward and one Chest Clinic could not be completed due to issues pertaining to local health staff,
unrelated to the NHAPP performance.

2.8 Training
A very large number of targetted training programs, both foreign and local, consultative meetings, and
workshops have been supported by the NHAPP. The participants have included the full range of
healthcare staff including Consultants, STD Medical Officers, doctors, Dental Surgeons, nursing staff,
laboratory technologists, and pharmacists. Guidelines have been developed for many of these training
programs.

The Armed Forces, PHAs, Prisons and SLFEB have also conducted their own training courses for various
categories of staff as part of their workplans, with NHAPP support.

3.    Project Achievements
3.1      Sri Lanka continues to hold her low prevalence and low transmission HIV status. The adult (> 15
years) prevalence remains at less than 0.1%. The all-island HIV seropositivity rate (2007) is 0.03% (119/
348 895 tests), the reported cumulative total up to June 2008 for vertical transmission 31, and the all-
island cumulative HIV seropositivity total up to June 2008, 996. The reported mean seropositivity for
each quarter in 2007 was 29.8, whereas for the first two quarters of 2008 the mean has fallen to 20.
Sentinel surveillance in 2006 and 2007 in a total sample of about 14 000, including STD clinic attenders,
CSW, DU, TB patients, Armed Forces and pre-employment people is exceedingly low (0.13%). Among
CSW STD Clinic attenders the HIV seropositivity (2003-2007) is 0.12% (8/6502).

3.2      Commitment and active participation at the highest political level to HIV/AIDS prevention has
resulted in a massive island-wide awareness/ advocacy campaign. This has achieved non-partisan support
of all political parties, all religious groups, and all CBO and non-CBO opinion leaders for GOSL
HIV/AIDS prevention programs, greatly facilitating the national response, particularly in regard to
culturally sensitive programs.

3.3      The incidence of TB has decreased; case detection, treatment success, and DOTS coverage have
increased; and default rates and multidrug resistance rates have decreased. The risk of a HIV-TB co-
infection epidemic has been reduced. Consultative workshops to formulate a HIV- TB co-infection
programs have been completed.

3.4      The capacity for clinical management of PLWHA has been strengthened, free ARV treatment is
being provided, counselling of patients is done by Consultants, STD Medical Officers and other trained
staff of the central
and peripheral STD Clinics, and psychiatric referrals are provided as appropriate. A program for a
continuum of more holistic care for PLWHA is in the initial stage of development. (see also 4.7, page 16).

3.5 The capacity of the NSACP (and hence MoH) as the national centre for clinical management of
HIV/AIDS, and for the leadership of the multisectoral national response has been enhanced by provision
of many consultancy services, a SIM unit and PMIS, training, vehicles, civil works, ARV and STD drugs,



                                                     44

and equipment. The NHAPP's senior Medical Officers have been absorbed into the NSACP and MoH.
(pages 11 and 12).

3.6 Blood safety has been ensured. Voluntary donations have increased and transfusions of whole blood
fallen to below 1%. Donor screening and testing of donated blood for HIV is universal. Only one case of
HIV transmission through transfusion has occurred out of millions of units transfused (page 6 ).

3.7 Major initiatives have been taken by the NHAPP and MoH to establish a foundation for national
policy, an institutional framework, and strategy development for HCWM. The awareness and practices of
all PHAs, MoH healthcare institutions and Armed Forces regarding HCWM have visibly improved (see
also 4.7, page 16).

3.8 The NHAPP has successfully garnered, highly productive, and increasingly innovative participation
towards the national response from the PHAs (pages 8, 9) and other sectoral partners. The activities and
achievements of the Armed Forces (pages 9, 10), Prisons Department (page 10), SLFEB (page 10), MoL
/DWE (page 11) and MoF (page 11) have reached a very large number and wide range of beneficiaries.
Most of the sectoral activities have been mainstreamed and are sustainable from their annual budgets. The
culture of being active partners in the national response has clearly permeated the PHAs and sectors.

3.9     The contract for the Sri Lanka NHAPP Behavioural Surveillance Survey has been completed, the
draft
report discussed with stake-holders, and the published report officially launched and widely distributed.
Pre-launch workshops for all stake-holders (including NSACP, NHAPP, sectors, Academia, NGOs and
UNAIDS) focused on how to use the findings and methodology in the Survey for planning interventions
for MARPs, and the proceeds of these workshops were shared with NSACP for future action, with MoH
and GFATM support.

4. Major Factors Affecting Project Implementation
4.1 The Project was designed initially to be implemented by the Director General of Health Services
(DGHS) to ensure coordination between the Project, NSACP, NBTS and NPTCCD, and provide
leadership that would transcend the individual institutional directorships. But this arrangement was
changed towards the end of 2004, when a Project Management Unit (ie.NHAPP) was established outside
the Ministry, comprising      the   Project Management Support Team of the DGHS's office and the
Coordinators. This separation distanced the Project from the NSACP and diffused the leadership among
the 3 institutions viz. NSACP, NBTS and NPTCCD.

The decision to pay extra salary top-ups to NHAPP Coordinators widened this alienation, and introduced
an element of simmering discontent among some senior medical officers of the other 3 institutions.

4.2     The NHAPP (and its predecessor unit) have had 5 Project Directors during its lifetime, and these
frequent changes resulted in a breach of continuity in implementation accountability and responsibility,
and lack of time to establish any meaningful leadership.

4.3     The NHAPP was without core management staff for long periods, eg. it had no appropriately
qualified Procurement Specialist from March 2006 to January 2007; no dedicated Financial Management
Specialist from February 2007 up to now(end September 2008); and no project management specialist
since 31.3.2006.

4.4     There were frequent and unacceptable delays in getting "no objection" from the World Bank for
Project activities, specific TORs, procurements, appointments etc. Apparently,        every little activity




                                                     45

change or change of workplan of sectors and PHAs, had to receive sanction from of the Bank before work
could proceed, and so delays were inevitable in regard to nearly all operations and activities.

4.5      There was a frustrating and soul-destroying delay when the Project Implementation Plan (PIP),
already approved by the World Bank in 2006, was peremptorily revoked in its entirety in early 2007; and
the NHAPP and NSACP staff had to seek approval anew, piecemeal, for each segment/ activity of the
PIP, responding meanwhile to a series of questions (asked one at a time) by the World Bank. The process
set back implementation by at least 6 months.

4.6 Several proposed activities in the final version of the 2007 PIP were again deleted by the Health
Specialist unilaterally, in spite of earnest appeals by the NHAPP (based on the considered opinions of
Coordinators and relevant local subject specialists), on the grounds that they were unachievable (which
they were not), much to the dismay of our partners in the PHAs and sectors.

4.7      The revoking of the World Bank "no objection" given earlier to the appointment of a Program
Management Specialist (PMS) (page 14 ) and a Communication Specialist were serious setbacks to
implementation in the final 8 months, as the NHAPP had by July 2007 earmarked several interventions
for particular attention by the new PMS (eg. HCWM, PLWHA, HIV-TB coinfection program).

4.8      There seemed to be in 2007-2008 a focus on the presumably immutable authority, coupled with a
penchant for micromanagement, on the part of the World Bank Health Specialist, but on specific issues
there was considerable variance between her opinions and those of the World Bank's local office
personnel charged with procurement and fiduciary duties, often causing long delays before decisions
could be taken.

5.       Lessons
5.1      In Sri Lanka, at least as far as IDA grants or loans are concerned, converting its operations to a
"project mode" distanced from the direct authority of a senior administrator of the Ministry , will not
conduce to satisfactory management and implementation, particularly when 3 or more equipotent
institutions must work in close coordination and collaboration. This presumes, of course, that the Ministry
authority will provide effective leadership and regular supervision.

5.2      To expect "leadership" (as the 2007 and 2008 Review Missions have done) from the Project
Director (PD) acting solo, over the NHAPP itself as well as over 3 other decentralised vertical programs
in the MoH, each having its own Director, when a leadership role has not been assigned to the PD de
facto or de jure, seems in hindsight to be wishful thinking. To expect that ideal kind of leadership from a
non-medical PD, when the other 3 Directors are senior medical officers, is to float in cloud-cuckoo land.

5.3      PDs should be selected with greater care; and they should have security of tenure and more direct
ownership and support from Ministry authorities to equip the PDs for leadership.

5.4      The Project's functions were hampered by vacancies in core staff for long periods, and by
frequent changes of core staff.

5.5      A system needs to be put in place to provide the Project's core staff with targetted training to
strengthen management and technical capacities at appropriate intervals during the Project.

6   Sustainability
Sustainability has been dealt with at relevant points in this Report.




                                                     46

7. World Bank's Performance
The GOSL thanks the World Bank for extending SDR 9 600 000 (USD 12.6 million) under this project as
an outright grant.

The initial Project design was good, but the subsequent changes to it made by local higher authorities
complicated matters. By and large, the Review Missions provided useful advice and indicated remedial
measures, but certain decisions taken in 2007 and 2008 by the Missions tended to be authoritarian and
sometimes counter-productive. A reasonably independent appeals system to resolve serious conflicts of
opinion arising between World Bank Health Specialists (Mission Team Leaders) and the Project, would
be a welcome change.

Overall, the World Bank's contribution has been valuable




                                                  47

Annex 8. Comments of Cofinanciers and Other Partners/Stakeholders
There were no co-financiers. No written comments received so far from NGOs or other
stakeholders. Verbal comments provided to the ICR team have been taken account of in the
main text of the ICR.




                                          48

Annex 9. List of Supporting Documents

Sri Lanka National HIV/AIDS Prevention Project. Project Appraisal Document. Report No.
25107-CE of the World Bank, dated November 14, 2002.

Implementation Status and Results Reports available on the Bank's Operations Portal.

Aide-memoires of review missions

HIV/AIDS Situation and Response Analysis. Update in 2006 financed by the AIDS Strategic
Action Plan funds (review team: NSACP, WHO, UNAIDS, WB)

Sri Lanka Behavioral Surveillance Survey Report. Ministry of Healthcare and Nutrition, August
2007

Joint United Nations Implementation Support Plan, 2008

Country Report for Sri Lanka, on the follow-up to the Declaration on the Commitment on
HIV/AIDS, January 2006 ­ December 2007, UNGASS.

Sri Lanka National HIV/AIDS Strategic Plan 2007-2011. National STD and AIDS Control
Program




                                              49

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                IBRD 33485

                                                            80°E                                                                            81°E

INDIA                                                                                                                                                                                               SRI LANKA

10°N                                                                                                                                                                  10°N                              SELECTED CITIES AND TOWNS

                        St r a it                                                                                                                                                                       PROVINCE CAPITALS

                                                                           Point Pedro                                                                                                                  NATIONAL CAPITAL

                  Palk                                                                                                                                                                                  RIVERS

                                                     Jaffna                                                                                                                                             MAIN ROADS

                             Delft                                                           Elephant Pass                                                                                              RAILROADS
                            Island                                                                                                                                                                      PROVINCE BOUNDARIES

                                P a l k B a y                           Killinochchi
                                                                        Killinochchi                                                                                                                    INTERNATIONAL BOUNDARIES

                                                                                               IranamaduIranamadu
                                                                                               Tank
                                                                                                ank                         Mullaittivu

                             Ferry
                    Adam's               Talaimannar                     Manakulam
                                                                         Manakulam
                             Bridge
9°N                                  Mannar                             N O R T H E R N
                                        Island          Mannar
                                                                                                                                                 Pulmoddai



                                                             AruviAru          Vavuniya avuniya


                                                                                                                                                                                                  SRI LANKA
                                                                                                                                                                      Trincomalee
  G u l f o f                    Karaitivu                           N O R T H C E N T R A L
                                    Island                                                        Rambewa
                                                                                                  Rambewa                                                                Mutur
 M a n n a r                                                       Anuradhapura
                                                                   Anuradhapura

                                                                                                  Galkulama
                                                                                                  Galkulama          ya
                                Kalpitiya                                                                           OnaY
                                                                  KalaOya                                                            Kaudulla       Oya
                                                                                                                                                                                                    B a y o f B e n g a l
                                      Puttalan
8°N                                                                                                 Habarane
                                                                                                    Habarane                                                                                                                           8°N

                                                       N O R T H                                                                                                   Oya
                                                     W E S T E R N
                                                                               Maho
                                                                               Maho
                                                                                                                                                                                                     Batticaloa
                                                        Deduru  Oya                                                                                             arudaM




                                     Chilaw                                                                                                                     Madura Oya
                                                                                                                                                                Madura Oya
                                                                    KurunegalaKurunegala                                                 eliGanga                                                       Kattankudi
                                                                                                                                                                          E A S T E R N

                                                                                                                                       wahaM                           ReservoirReservoir

                                                                                                                                                                                                             Kalmunai
                                                                                                   C E N T R A L
                                                          Maha  Oya                                                                                                                           Ampara
                                                                                                                                                                                              Ampara

                                    Negombo                                                             Kandy
                                                                                                        Kandy                                                                                       GalOya
                                                                                KegallaKegalla
                                                                                                       Victoria Falls
                                                                                                        ictoria Falls
                                                                                                         ReservoirReservoir                          U V A
                                                 WESTERNWESTERN                                                   PidurutalagalaPidurutalagala                            SenanayakeSenanayake
                                                                                                                  (2,524 m)
                                                                                                                  (2,524 m)                                                 SamudraSamudra
7°N                                                                                                                                              BadullaBadulla                                                                        7°N
                               COLOMBO                     Kelan  Gang

                     Sri Jayewardenepura Kotte                                                                                                                                                               Pottuvil
                                                                                                                                                                            Monaragala
                                                                                                                                                                            Monaragala
                                       Moratuwa
                                                                                           Ratnapura
                                                                                           Ratnapura
                                                                    Kalu                                                                              Wellawaya
                                                                                                                                                       Kirindi
                                                                                                                                                           ellawaya
                                                                              SABARAGAMUW
                                                                              SABARAGAMUWA
                                               Kalutara

                                                                                                                             W                           ayO                                           Kumana
  Laccadive                                                                                                                                                                 Kataragama
                                                                                                                                                                            Kataragama
                                                                                                                                                                                                                 INDIAN
         Sea                                                                                                                  alawe Ganga                                                                        OCEAN
                                                                                              S O U T H E R N
                                                                         GalleGalle                                                                    Hambantota

6°N                                                                                                                        Tangalla
                                                                                                  MataraMatara                                                                                 0      20       40       60 Kilometers  6°N

This map was produced by the Map Design Unit of The World Bank.
The boundaries, colors, denominations and any other information                                      Dondra Head
shown on this map do not imply, on the part of The World Bank                                                                                                                                  0    10      20       30  40 Miles
Group, any judgment on the legal status of any territory, or any
endorsement or acceptance of such boundaries.               80°E                                                                            81°E                                                                   82°E

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                SEPTEMBER 2004

