Page  1
PROGRAM INFORMATION DOCUMENT (PID) 
 
Report No.:  AB4851 
Operation Name 
Belarus DPL 
Region 
EUROPE AND CENTRAL ASIA 
Sector 
General industry and trade sector (40%); General energy sector 
(25%);Other social services (25%);General finance sector (10%) 
Project ID 
P115700 
Borrower(s) 
GOVERNMENT OF BELARUS 
Implementing Agency 
 GOVERNMENT OF BELARUS 
Coordination Agency: Ministry of Economy 
11 Sovetskaya Street, Minsk 
Belarus 
220010 
Tel:  (375-17) 222-6161 
Fax:  (375-17) 222-6665 
 contact@government.by 
Date PID Prepared 
September 30, 2009 
Estimated Date of 
Appraisal Authorization 
September 30, 2009 
Estimated Date of Board 
Approval 
November 19, 2009 
1.  Key development issues and rationale for Bank involvement 
 
The reforms supported by this operation aim at strengthening social assistance programs to function 
better as a cushion to protect the poorest and those vulnerable to fall into poverty due to the economic 
slowdown and future reforms. Moreover, this operation supports a significant structural reform agenda 
aimed at unlocking new sources of recovery and medium term growth, particularly through further price 
liberalization, reducing the costs of entry for new businesses, reducing regulatory and administrative 
costs of operation for the private sector, and reducing subsidies whilst eliminating inefficient taxes.  At 
the same time, it supports initial steps in setting the legal and institutional basis for an adequate and 
transparent privatization process.  Given the strong inter-linkages between macroeconomic and 
structural reforms, particularly in the case of Belarus, the authorities also sought World Bank assistance 
to support its structural reform agenda that would run parallel to the macroeconomic stabilization efforts 
supported by the IMF Stand-By-Agreement
 
2. Proposed objective(s) 
 
The proposed DPL supports the Government’s socioeconomic reform program to mitigate the impact of 
the recession and promote a stronger recovery. The Government’s reform program aims to mitigate the 
impact of the crisis and post-crisis restructuring on vulnerable groups by strengthening social safety nets 
with a particular emphasis on scaling up better-targeted social assistance programs.  The program also 
encourages resource reallocation in the economy by reducing the cost of entry (through lower 
regulatory, operating, and administrative barriers and costs). With the increased scarcity of fiscal 
resources, the Government has hardened budget constraints on the enterprise sector, directing fewer 
resources towards less competitive sectors of the economy.   
 
3. Preliminary description 
Page  2
The proposed DPL is envisaged as a single-tranche loan supporting reforms under two policy areas:  (i) 
addressing the social impact of the economic slowdown and structural reforms by strengthening the 
system of social protection to enable budget resources to be better targeted at the poor; and (ii) laying 
the foundations for economic recovery and sustainable growth by enabling private sector entry and 
competitiveness through liberalization and financial discipline.   
 
4. Environment Aspects 
Specific actions under the proposed DPL operation are not expected to have any significant negative 
effect on the environment. 
 
5. Tentative financing 
Source: ($m.) 
Borrower 0 
International Bank for Reconstruction and Development 
200 
Total 200 
 
6. Contact point 
Contact: Pablo Saavedra  
Title: Sr. Country Economist 
Tel: (380 440 490-66-70 
Fax:  
Email: psaavedra@worldbank.org
 
