Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
èA/   3Z: 2 1 /- U                                Report No. 8435-UR
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
URUGUAY
POWER MODERNIZAT ION PROJECT
MAY 7, 1990
Infrastructure and Energy Operations Divi.sion
Country Department IV
Latin America and the Caribbean Regional Office
This document has a restticted distribution and may be used by recipients only In the pertfomance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
Currency Unit - Uruguayan New Peso (NUr$)
US$1 - NUr$805.00 (December 31, 1989)
Fiscal Year
January 1 to December 31
MEASURES AND EQUIVALENTS
TOE = Ton Oil Equivalent (10.415 million kcal)
kW   = kilowatt (1.34 horsepower)
kWh = kilowatt hour (860.42 kcal)
bbl = barrel (159 liters)
km   = kilometer (0.62 mile)
kg   - Kilogram (2.206 pounds)
kcal = Kilocalorie (3.968 Btu; 4,186.8 Joules)
k (kilo) = thousand
M (mega) = million
G (Giga) = billion
PRINCIPAL ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
ANCAP         Administracion Nacional de Combustibiles, Alcohol y Portland
(National Fuel, Alcohol and Cement Company)
ANTEL         Administracion Nacional de Telecomunicaciones (National
Telecomunications Company)
COMIPAL       Comision Mixta de Palmar
CTM           Comision Tecnica Mixta de Salto Grande
DNE           Direccion Nacional de Energia (National Energy Office)
IDB           Inter-American Development Bank
IDP           Institutional Development Program
MIE           Ministerio de Industria y Energia (Ministry of Industry and
Energy)
NEL           National Electricity Law
OPP           Oficina de Planeamiento y Presupuesto (Planning and Budget
Office)
UTE           Administracion Nacional de Usinas y Trasmisiones Electricas
(National Power Company)
EXIMBANK      Export-Import Bank of the US



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONL1
URUGUAY
POWER MODERNIZATION PROJECT
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
Table of Contents
LOAN AND PROJECT SUMMARY
1.       THE ENERGY SECTOR AND THE POWER SUBSECTOR
A. The Energy Sector
The Sector and the Economy ................................ 1
Energy Resources and Consumption ........................... 2
Energy Sector Policies ..................................... 2
Energy Sector Organization ................................. 2
B. Power Subsector
Institutional Characteristics .............................. 3
Power Sector Background, Policies and Constraints .......... 3
Electricity Pricing ........................................ 4
Power Market ............................................... 5
Losses.                  ............                                       5
Power Balance ...........                                                   5
Bank Participation in the Sector ........................... 6
II.     THE PROJECT ENTITY (UTE)
UTE's Organization and Management .......................... 7
Insurance .............................................                      8
Accounting and Auditing .................................... B
UTE's Past Financial Performance ........................... 9
Investment Program ........................................ 11
III.    THE PROJECT
Project Origin ............................................ 11
Rationale for Bank Involvement ............................. 11
Project Objectives ................................                       12
Project Description ................................                        12
Project Execution and Management .......................... 12
Status of Project Preparation ............................. 13
Project Cost ................................                              13
Project Financing .......... .............................. 14
Procurenment ................                                              15
Disbursements ................                                             16
UTE's Future Financial Performance ........................ 17
Operational Performance and Monitoring .................... 18
Reporting and Auditing .................................... 18
Economic Analysis .......................................  19
Environmental Factors ....................                             . 20
Risks ....................                                                 20
This report is based on the findings of an appraisal mission consisting
of Messrs. Armando Araujo, Mission Leader, and Julius Wilberg,
Financial Analyst, who visited Uruguay in December 1989. Mr. William
Mayville also assisted in report preparation. Mme. Elizabeth N. Vargas
assisted in the production of the report.
This dorument has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance
of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



IV.     AGREEMENTS REACHED AND RECOMMENDATIONS ........................ 21
ANNEXES
1.      Energy Consumption                                                         .23
2.  UTE's Organization Chart                            .... 27
3.  Institutional overview of UTE                          . . .. 28
4.   Evolution of Debt with Central Bank                      ....30
5. Power Market                             ....31
6.   Existing Power Generating Facilities                      ....                    37
7.  Power Balance                               ....38
8.  Investment Program                          ....47
9.   Project Description and Costs                             ....51
10.  Project Implementation Schedule                      ....54
11.     Estimated Disbursement Schedule .            .     ............................. 55
12. UTE's Finances                                .           ...56
13.     Economic Analysis .            . .................................... 62
14. Supervision Plan                           ....68
15. Procurement Plan                           ....70
16. Project File .71
HAP:    IBRD No. 19541



- iii -
URUGUAY
POWER MODERNIZATION PROJECT
LOAN AND PROJECT SUMMARY
Borrower:     Administracion Nacional de Usinas y Trasmisiones
Electricas (UTE).
Amounts       US$6Z.5 million equivalent.
Terms:        Repayment in 15 years, including 5 years of grace, at the Bank's
standard variable interest rate.
Project
Objectivest   The proposed project aims to ensure suitable electricity service
at least cost and to modernize UTE's management to improve
efficiency. Project objectives includes (i) improving the
reliability of meeting short- to medium-term electricity demand by
installing new thermal generating units to help face droughts; and
(ii) improving sector efficiency by improving UTE's managerial
capability and reducing losses.
Project
Description:  The proposed project is part of UTE's investment program for
1990-97 and would include: (a) installation of a new thermal plant
(powered by two gas turbines of 113.5 MW each), including spare
parts, control house, substation, interconnection to the existing
transmission system, fuel pipeline and fuel tanks. This would
reduce the high risk of electricity deficiency the Uruguayan power
system will face in the 1990s (49Z of base cost); (b) improvements
in the Montevideo power distribution network consisting of
rehabilitation of the medium and low voltage system to increase
the reliability of service to customers as well as reduce the
actual level of technical losses (20Z of base cost); and (c)
implementation of an Institutional Development Program (IDP)
consisting of: (i) technical assistance for developing adequate
procedures, management training and transfer of software and
computational systems through a corporate twinning contractual
arrangement that would emphasize improved commercial and
operational practices, increased labor productivity and the
improvement of administrative systems required to support the
above, such as, personnel, procurement, inventories, and
information systems; (ii) purchasing and setting-up equipment to
support the above; and (iii) a training program including the
rehabilitation of UTE's training center for technicians and
skilled workers (31Z of base cost).



- iv-
Project
Benefits:     The proposed project would enable UTE to provide a more reliable
power supply and help overcome the limited energy storage capacity
in the hydroelectric system to offset drought conditions. It
would also help the Government implement its program of public
sector reforms aimed at providing essential inputs to the economy
more efficiently.
Risks and
Safeguards:   The main risk is the possible opposition by UTE's staff to changes
in management procedures and working practices under the project's
institutional development component. This should be reduced by
the training program and technical assistance from the twinned
power utility. Moreover, the probability of success is reasonable
given the strategy adopted by UTE's management for project
implementation, which includes close consultation with the union
and UTE's staff as well as a gradualist approach to reform. Under
this approach UTE plans to achieve the reduction of the number of
employees through attrition and not through layoffs. So fa. UTE
has implemented the IDP without labor problems. The project poses
no special technical risks.   No environmental problems are
expected to result from the project since equipment specifications
and installation design took into consideration adequate
environmental standards. The new environmental unit, to be
created in UTE's organization structure, would supervise the
project to ensure that it would be executed with due regard to
environmental considerations.



Estimated Project Cost and Financing Plan
(In Millions of Current US Dollars)
ComponEnts                       Local     Foreign        Totel        U            U
Cost       Cost          Cost    Foreign    Base Cost
New Thermal Plant                 4.0        75.0          79.0         96           49
Montevideo Distribution Network  28.0        iC.0          8a.0         80           20
Institutional Development Program 8.4        42.8          51.2         94          81
TOTAL BASE COST o/            86.4       127.6         168.2         78         0oo
Physical Contingencies            8.4         9.0          12.4         72            8
Price Contingencles              11.1        21.1          82.2         66           19
Total Project Cost               49.9       157.9         207.8         76          127
Interest During Construction      ---        32.0          32.0        100          20
TOTAL FINANCING REqUIRED      49.9       189.9         239.8         79          147
Financing Plan:
(US8 Million)
Local          Foreign          TOt
UTE                      49.9              76.2            126.1
Book                      -                62.5             62.5
Eximbank                  -                61.2             51.2
Total                    49.9             189.9            280.8
Estimated Olsbursements
(US8 Million)
Bank FY                1991  1992  1998  1994  1995   1996  1997
Annual                  1.9   6.2  11.8  14.8  10.7   8.7    9.4
Cumulative              1.9   8.1  19.4  88.7  44.4  65.1  62.5
Estimated Rate of Return: 13.56  (based on UTE*s Investment Program).
a' At January 1990 price levels. The local costs Include taxes and other
duties estimated at USSIs million.



I. THE ENERGY SECTOR AND THE POWER SUBSECTOR
A. THE ENERGY SECTOR
The Sector and the Economy
1.01     Since 1985, the Government of Uruguay has carried out a medium-term
economic program to put the economy on a self-sustained, long-term growth
path. This entails adhering to a policy framework that concentrates on
export expansion and a quickening of structural reforms to sustain recent
efforts that have infused the economy with enough vigor to restore more
satisfactory levels of growth. The Government has also made a significant
effort to stabilize the economy by improving public finances, maintaining
fiscal and monetary discipline, and addressing Financial Sector problems.
Results of the salutary macro policy during 1986-89 can be seen in: (i) an
excellent export performance with an annual increase of 162 in dollar terms;
(ii) a 302 drop in unemployment; (iii) an increase of more than 132 in real
wages; and (iv) a lowering of the public-sector deficit from 9.22 of GDP in
1984 to 4.52 in 1988, but with a setback to about 6% in 1989.
1.02     As a result of the economic program, Uruguay recovered from the deep
recession of 1982-85; GDP grew at an annual rate of 6.72 in 1986-87.
However, economic growth deteriorated in 1988-89 to about 1% a year, despite
the excellent export performance. The lower GDP growth is explained by: the
contractionary spillover effect of demand-management actions taken late in
1987; protracted labor disputes in some important sectors; a severe drought;
and adverse developments in neighboring countries. These developments also
contributed to an acceleration of the rate of inflation to about 89% in 1989
after it had declined to 572 in 1987 as a result of a stabilization program.
.ndertaken with IMF support.
1.03     Uruguay was one of the Latin American countries hardest hit by the
oil crisis of the 1970s. To counteract this effect, investments were
concentrated in the construction of hydroelectric projects and adequate
pricing for oil derivatives was implemented. Because of this price
adjustment, additional conservation efforts and substitution of wood and
hydroelectricity for fuel, demand for oil products dropped significantly
(declining from 75% of total energy consumption in the 19709 to less than 552
in recent years); by contrast, electricity consumption rose at a pace close
to 4.3% per year in the same period.
1.04     Between 1975-79 and again between 1980-83, public investment
represented 6.5Z and 5.52 of GDP, respectively, due to the investments made
in hydroelectric projects in response to the world oil crisis. Public
investment has traditionally represented a low share of GDP, averaging 2.5%
in the early 19709 and 3X after 1983. Presently, the public investment level
is back to its more traditional share of GDP and is concentrated on
rehabilitating and modernizing the somewhat outdated basic infrastructure and
expansion of selected service facilities while relying on private-sector
initiative in the productive sectors. The power sector investment program in
the proposed project complements this approach.



- 2-
Energy Resources and Consumption
1.05     Uruguay has no known oil or gas reserves, small reserves of coal
(with a high ash content and low calorific value), and small deposits of oil
shale and peat. Hydropower resources are, by and large, already in use with
the remaining potential new hydro capacity not economical to develop at
present fuel prices. Within the last decade two large hydroprojects became
operational: Salto Grande and Palmar. Salto Grande (1,890 MW) is a
binational project shared between Argentina and Uruguay. Located on the Rio
Uruguay, it began commercial operations in 1979.  Uruguay is presently
entitled to 540 MW of Salto Grande's output with a gradual increase of this
share to 945 MW by 1995. El Palmar (330 MW), located on the Rio Negro, began
operation in late 1982 and has been in full operation since early 1983. The
total present installed capacity in Uruguay is 1,476 MW of which 1,106 MW are
generated by hydro resources and 370 MW by thermal resources.
1.06     During 1976-88, the energy efficiency--measured by the ratio of
total energy consumed in the country to GDP--improved from 65 TOE/million
NUr$ in 1976 to 54 TOE/million NUr$ in 1988. This was brought about by
strong energy conservation measures and policies implemented in the energy
sector.   That changed the structure of energy consumption and resulted in
strong substitution of indigenous resources (wood and hydroelectricity) for
petroleum. Annex 1 shows the energy consunmption data for 1976-88.
Energy Sector Policies
1.07     The Ministry of Industry and Energy (MIE) is responsible for long-
range planning.  After the worldwide 1973 oil price increase, the MIE created
the Direccion Nacional de Energia (DNE) to deal with sector policies. DNE is
now undertaking a national survey on energy use to form the data base for
future Government policy formulation. So far the Government's key objective
in the sector has been to reduce Uruguay's dependence on imported fuel. To
achieve that--taking into consideration that the economically feasible
hydroplants under current conditions are already constructed--policies and
actions will focus on continued conservation of energy, adequate pricing,
improvement in UTE's operation of the electric system, reduction of power
losses, and possible use of firewood in future power plants. An ongoing
feasibility study for assessing the use of firewood in future power plants to
meet electricity demand (para. 1.11) and the improvement of UTE's efficiency
and institutional capacity included in the proposed project (para. 2.03)
would help address these priorities.
Energy Sector Organization
1.08     Uruguay's energy sector is st'.te controlled.  The most important
operating entities arm the National PeL-oleum Company (Administracion
Nacional de Combustibiles, Alcohol y Portland - ANCAP) and the National Power
Company (Administracion Nacional de Usinas y Trasmisiones Electricas - UTE).
Electric power policies are determined by the Government through UTE.
Electricity rates and oil prices are approved by Presidential decree, and the
Ministry of Economy and Finance and the Planning and Budgeting Office
(Oficina de Planeamiento y Presupuesto - OPP), intervene in their
determination, with primary decision-making powers vested in the latter. The



- 3 -
organization of the energy sector is adequate for current sector requirements
and has allowed the implementation of adequate sector policies. The energy
pricing system has been in line with the energy sector policies. However,
tariff increases are sometimes influenced by the Government's inflation
control policy.
B. POWER SUBSECTOR
Institutional Characteristics
1.09     UTE was established in 1912 as the sole entity responsible for power
generation, transmission, and retail distribution of electricity in the
country. In 1931, telephone service was added to its responsibilities, which
remained under its jurisdiction until 1974, when telecommunications were put
under a state-owned telecommunications company (ANTEL). The scope of UTE's
services is prescribed in the National Electricity Law (NEL) and UTE's
organic law. The NEL regulates the generation, distribution, exports, and
imports of electrical energy. It directs that public electricity service be
provided by UTE, which is also responsible for pJ=_ning and construction
works to fulfill efficiently this responsibility. Although UTE is an
autonomous public entity (its Board of Directors is appointed by the
Govcrnment), it is subject to various state legal and administrative
reqtrictions. UTE's budget is approved by the Planning and Budgeting Office
which imposes ceilings on investments and expenditures. The Government
Auditing Agency (Tribunal de Cuentas) is responsible for ensuring that UTE
complies with budget and procurement legislation.
1.10     In addition to the energy generated in its own power plants, UTE
buys electricity from Comision Tecnica Mixta de Salto Grande (CTH), a
binational entity governed by a Board of four Argentine and four Uruguayan
members, all appointed by their respective governments. CTM has built the
Salto Grande hydroplant on the Rio Uruguay and is responsible for its
operation. The plant is interconnected to UTE's system and to Argentina's
power network using 500 kV lines. As defined in the binational agreement,
CTM's bulk rates for electricity are based on its financial requirements.
The actual price is 2.2 US cents/kWh which is UTE's cheapest source of
energy.
Power Sector Zackground, Policies and Constraints
1.11     Before the worldwide increase in petroleum prices in the mid-1970s,
UTE's generating facilities were predominantly thermoelectric. Since then,
the beginning of operation of Salto Grande (1890 MW) and El Palmar (330 MW)
hydroelectric plants considerably reduced the dependence on thermal
generation. However, it increased the risk of supply deficits during dry
periods because neither hydroplant has enough regulating storage capacity,
reflecting a sector-wide problem (para. 1.17). Under the Salto Grande
Agreement with Argentina, Uruguay is presently entitled to 33.3% of the total
energy generation of the power plant, but can increase its participation
until it reaches 502 in 1995. El Palmar was constructed by Comision Mixta de
El Palmar (COMIPAL), specifically created in 1973 to build the power plant.
After its completion, El Palmar was transferred to UTE and COMIPAL was
dissolved in January 1985. To plan for future power generation through the
year 2000, a study was performed by UTE with the help of independent



- 4 -
consultants fina.aced under Loan 1779-UR. It recommended that future power
generation be based on thermal plants, since none of the hydroprojects
identified could compete economically with thermal plants given present and
projected fuel prices. In this connection, and to advance further its
efforts to decrease dependence on imported fuel, UTE _9 carrying out a
feasibility study for assessin the use of firewood in future power plants
under a technical cooperation Irogram with Sweden, which includes an
environmental impact assessment. The terms of reference of this study were
discussed during appraisal and found satisfactory to the Bank. During
negotiations UTE agreed to discuss the findings of the study with the Bank
and only to include this possible firewood thermal plant in the investment
program after agreement with the Bank.
1.12     Historically, UTE has operated and maintained its facilities
adequately; however, since the distribution system of Montev'deo is very old,
its present reliability is low and losses are high. This issue was initially
addressed in previous Bank-financed projects. Loan 1779-UR financed
investments in the high voltage system, while Loan 2484-UR financed the
necessary studies to improve distribution system reliability and reduce
losses. These recently completed studies will provide the basis for the
investments in the distribution system under the proposed project (para.
3.04).
Electricity Pricing
1.13     The National Electricity Law of 1977 defines the tariff regime in
Uruguay (based on agreements with the Bank in connection with the Fifth Power
Project - Loan 1779-UR). It provides that UTE's tariffs be set on the basis
of a target rate of return (not lower than 6Z) on a rate base consisting of
average revalued net assets in operation plus a provision for working
capital. It also permits UTE from time to time to obtain tariff adjustments
to account for changes in operating, and particularly fuel costs. As defined
in the law, the tariff structure also reflects the cost of supplying
electricity to customers at different consumption levels. The present
average tariff level approximates 7 US cents/kWh. This is in line with the
expected long-range marginal cost as determined by an independent study
(financed under Loan 1779-UR) completed in 1982 and recently updated by UTE.
UTE is also implementing a plan of action (agreed with the Bank under Loan
2484-UR) to have the largest customers metered with multiple tariff meters to
apply marginal tariffs. Although in the last three years the Government has
allowed tariff increases in line with the cost of living index, tariff
adjustments to account for a change in fuel expenses have not been applied in
a timely fashion. Last year (1989) was extremely dry obliging UTE to use all
of its thermogenerating capacity. This resulted in fuel expenses much higher
than forecast in tariff studies, which lowered UTE's earnings in 1989 (para.
2.06). Decree No. 384/1989 authorized UTE to apply a thermal surcharge to
all consumers. This surcharge started in July 1989 by adding a flat 7Z to
all bills; in November the surcharge was reduced to 3.5Z. Although the
applied thermal surcharge level did not fully recover UTE's fuel expenses, it
represented an effort to improve financial revenues. The creation of this
surcharge was in response to the Bank's suggestion during the preparation of
this project. To encourage a more responsive tariff adjustment and send a
cautionary signal to customers to use electricity more efficiently, at
negotiations, the Government agreed to make this thermal surcharge permanent
and to adjust it on a timely basis and at satisfactory levels to meet UTE's
fuel expenses needs (para. 3.21).



-5-
Power Market
1.14     Total sales of electricity in Uruguay in 1988 were 7.3Z higher than
in 1987, and amounted to 3,683 GWb, of which 582 in Montevideo and 42%
elsewhere in the country. Sales to residential customers represented 462 of
total sales; sales to the industrial sector represented 362; to commerce 16%
of total sales; with the remaining 22 for public lighting. Electricity
consumption increased in the last ten years at a 4.4Z average annual growth
rate. Past evolution of electricity consumption has varied considerably
reflecting the economic environment of the country and the substitution of
electricity for oil derivatives (para. 1.06). Thus, a very high average
annual growth rate was observed during the period 1975-80 followed by a sharp
reduction in growth during the 1980-85 recession. In the last three years,
there has been an increasing trend of electricity cor.sumption with high
annual growth rates reflecting the recent economic upturn (see Annex 5). In
1989, the data show a reduction in sales but this was due to lack of supply
capacity and not to market regression. This reflects the curtailment of
electricity supply due to the dro'ight in 1989 as well as to the limited
thermal generation capacity.
1.15     With the assistance of consultants, UTE has developed adequate
methodologies to forecast electricity demand based on trends and on
regression analysis techniques. The load and energy demand forecasts shown
in Annex 5 are based on studies prepared by UTE using these methodologies.
The three main consumer categories--residential, industrial, and commercial-
-were analyzed and correlated assuming an expected population growth of 0.5%
a year, the same rate as the previous decade; a coverage increase from the
present 85% to 90% by the year 2000; the historic growth for consumption per
residential customer (2.7% per year); and a GDP growth rate of 3.0%. The
market study forecasts that sales would increase from 3,683 GWh in 1988 to
5,508 GWh in 1998, indicating an average annual increase of 4.1%. These
figures are consistent with past experience and with the assumptions made for
the future evolution of the economy and electricity use.
Losses
1.16     Presently, the total loss level is high (23%) due to high technical
losses in the distribution system and inadequate commercial procedures. The
high technical losses in the Montevideo distribution network result from
inadequacies of old installations. The high nontechnical losses result from
inadequate commercial and customer-related procedures. The billing process,
management of installed electricity meters, collection of bills, illegal and
irregular connections, and other commercial and customer-related activities
need to be greatly improved and modernized. During negotiations UTE agreee
to implement the necessary improvements in the distribution system to reduce
technical losses and in the commercial area to reduce the nontechnical losses
aiming to achieve adequate total power loss level (15?) in the country by
1996 (para. 2.03).
Power Balance
1.17     Annex 6 shows details of UTE's existing power generating facilities.
Its actual installed generating capacity is 1,476 MW, of which 75? is
hydroelectric and the balance oil-fired thermal plants. Hydrogeneration is



-6-
supplied by three power plants in the Rio Negro (Gabriel Terra, Baygorria,
and El Palmar) and by the Salto Grande binational hydroplant in the Rio
Uruguay. Thermal generation is supplied by Batlle y Ordones steam
thermoplant in Montevideo using relatively old units (two from 1954, and two
others installed in 1970 and 1975, respectively), three gas turbines circa
1965, 1969, and 1982, also located in Montevideo, and small diesel units
dispersed throughout the country. The hydroelectric system in Uruguay is
vulnerable to hydrological conditions due to its small water storage
capacity. The only reservoir with regulating storage capacity is Gabriel
Terra in the Rio Negro, with the equivalent of 4.5 months of that
hydroplant's generating capacity. The Salto Grande hydroplant has only two
weeks' storage capacity and strongly depends on water inflow. The range of
hydrological conditions varies greatly. Years of average inflow provides
2,365 GWh/year on the Rio Negro and UTE's share at Salto Grande (on the Rio
Uruguay) is 3,400 GWh/year; however, during dry years these levels fall to an
average of 523 and 770 GWh/year, respectively, or a 782 reducticn in
hydrogeneration. UTE's power balance studies show that in the event of such
dry conditions, Uruguay's thermal generating capacity is insufficient to
compensate to meet the expected load, with deficits that could reach 35? of
demand in the period 1990-94. No economy can afford to sustain this level of
risk. This causes concern because the study also indicates that UTE would
face supply restrictions in 25 out of the 78 recorded years, i.e., a 32%
probability in 1990 that would increase to 50? in 1994. The extremely dry
year of 1989 confirmed these predictions, obliging UTE to impose restrictions
on the use of electricity in the country during the whole year and to curtail
the load for five hours per day during the three months of peak load. The
proposed installation of two gas turbines in 1991/92 would reduce the deficit
risk to 8? in 1991, 9% in 1992, 13? in 1993 and 12? in 1994. In the long
term, there will be a need to install a new thermoplant for base load
generation by 1998. Details of the study are provided in Annex 7.
Bank Participation in the Sector
1.18     The Bank has made seven loans to Uruguay's power sectors the first
five are fully disbursed and the projects satisfactorily completed. The
Project Performance Audit Report for the Fourth Power Project (SecM78-867 of
November 29, 1978) indicates that progress towards meeting the institutional
objectives the Bank had when making the loan was slow and generally
disappointing. The project implementation coincided with a period of severe
political conflicts and general economic turmoil that led to a deterioration
both of the operations and overall financial position of the power sector.
This contributed to a nine-year hiatus in Bank lending to the sector between
the fourth and fifth power projects bacause of difficulties in reaching an
agreement with the Government on measures to restore the sector to a sound
institutional and financial position. Restoration of the power sector took
place under a key Bank intervention through the Fifth Power Project (Loan
1779-UR). The Project Completion Report for Loan 1779-UR (dated July 14,
1987) indicated that under the Fifth Power Project the Bank recommended
measures to strengthen the sector and improve the performance of UTE. As a
consequence, the Government passed a new National Electricity Law and
supporting regulations, approved bylaws, and relieved UTE of its
responsibility for telephone service. More recently, the Bank approved a
Power Engineering Loan (2484-UR, in 1984) and a Power Sector Rehabilitation
Project (2622-UR, in 1985) to help renabilitate Gabriel Terra HydLc Power



- 7 -
Station. The studies financed under Loan 2484-UR have been carried out and
the project is near completion, with a closing date of June 30, 1990.
Through Loan 2622-UR, the Bank also helped Uruguay obtain voluntary lending
(B-Loan) from external sources to help refinance the power sector external
debt. The project is now progressing satisfactorily after a delay in
starting. The delay in project start was due to the 18 month period of
negotiatiPns between the Government and the international banking community
on the .__cheduling of Uruguay's external debt associated with the B-Loan.
The complex procurement of the rehabilitation of Gabriel Terra Hydroplant
services (representing about 80% of the Loan amount) also caused additional
delays. All these issues have been resolved and the contract for the
rehabilitation works should be awarded shortly; the services should begin
chis year and last for five years. This implementation period is a technical
and operational requirement, since the rehabilitation would be performed
without interfering with the operation of the downstream plants. This
requires that only one generating unit per year can be rehabilitated while
the other remain in operation to release the necessary water flow for
downstream power plants.
II. THE PROJECT ENTITY (UTE)
UTE's Organization and Matndgement
2.01     The Administracion Nacional de Usinas y Trasmisiones Electricas
(UTE), the proposed borrower, is governed by a full-time, five-member Board
of Directors and by a General Manager and other senior staff who are career
civil servants. The president of the Board is the company's chief executive
officer. The Board and the top management include qualified professionals
with substantial experience in the power sector, as well as in other public
and private-sector activities. The organizational structure of the Company
is shown in Annex 2.
2.02     The concentration of UTE's efforts in the provision of electricity
services since the 1970's, when the telecommunications services were
entrusted to a different entity (para. 1.09), has been highly beneficial for
UTE's development. UTE has been able to manage the largely expanded
electricity generation capacity (para. 1.17) and to provide high service
coverage (Annex 5). Despite these accomplishments, it is clear that there is
substantial room for improvement in UTE's managerial, commercial and
operational practices aimed at further improving the quality of customer
services and the overall efficiency of its operations. In 1988, the
awareness of these requirements led UTE's Board and Management to undertake
an Institutional Development Program (IDP) designed to achieve the necessary
improvements. As a first step, UTE entered into a twinning contractual
agreement with a Spanish power utility (Union Electrica Fenosa) to gain
access to the commercial, administrative and engineering technology of a more
developed utility. The IDP consists of two phases: (a) a diagnostic stage,
completed in March 1989 under Spanish technical cooperation; and (b) an
implementation stage, underway and included as part of the proposed project,
and estimated to last until 1994. The diagnostic study identified the main
institutional issues in UTE and recommended a program of actions to be
followed at the implementation stage. This report was analyzed during
appraisal and found adequate. UTE has already begun the second phase. As



- 8 -
initial steps, a new organizational structure was implemented (see Annex 2)
and a new economic/financial information system is under implementation.
Other information systems are also under development. UTE lacks adequate
capability in the environmental field within the company and is relying on
consultant services for specific projects. This, however, is not adequate
since no permanent staff is responsible for a consistent and continuous work
in this field in the company. As a result of the discussion of the
environmental issues during preparation of this project, UTE also agreed to
include in its new organization (resulting from the IDP) an environmental
unit to serve as nucleus for the creation of adequate capability in the
environmental field within the company.  This unit would be created before
October 31, 1990 and its work program for the period 1991-95 would be
submitted for Bank comments promptly thereafter.
2.03     The IDP is aimed at the more pressing issues affecting UTE, which
include: (a) slow accounting procedures using very old office technology; (b)
low staff productivity (11,600 employees serving about 946,000 connections,
or 82 connections per employee compared to about 140 in a well-managed
company); (c) high power losses (23Z compared to a potential 152 in a well-
managed company); (d) inadequate procurement and inventory procedures that
result in an excessive amount of financial resources tied up in inventories,
in lack of parts and materials stock required for adequate system
maintenance, and high costs arising from insufficient standardization and
from poorly planned purchases; and (e) commercial practices without
sufficient attention to customer needs, lengthy meter reading, bill delivery,
and collection processes, and insufficient control of meter readings and
illegal connections. The proposed project supports the implementation of the
recommendations of the IDP's diagnostic report. These recommendations were
discussed during appraisal and agreement was reached on targets to be -
achieved during project implementation (para. 3.21); these agreements were
confirmed during negotiation of the proposed loan. Annex 3 contains an
institutional overview of UTE.
Insurance
2.04     Under Uruguayan law, UTE has to insure its assets at the state-owned
insurance bank (Banco de Seguros del Estado). Its main assets are insured at
book value, i.e., below their replacement cost. Insured assets include the
thermal generating stations with all equipment, UTE's many buildings in
Montevideo and in the interior, and hydro plants, which are insured against
fire, explosion, and flooding. For cost reasons, UTE decided not to include
transmission lines and substation equipment in the policy, instead creating
an internal reserve fund. This fund now seems insufficient for a
satisfactory coverage of all equipment. UTE is revising its insurance policy
and has agreed to submit a satisfactory plan of action resulting from this
revision to the Bank by end 1990.
Accounting and Auditing
2.05     UTE's accounts are maintained in accordance with generally accepted
accounting principles but improvements in accounting and internal auditing
procedures are needed. UTE's accounting is generally adequate to record and
report its financial transactions, including those related to the proposed



-9-
project. The usefulness of the accounting system is, however, constrained by
cumbersome procedures that contribute to a long timelag in issuing
comprehensive financial statements and by a lack of short and specialized
reports on selected financial operations: moreover, inventory management
control is poor and there is no computerized management system. Both these
issues are adequately addressed as part of the IDP (para 2.03). The new
economic/financial information system under development as part of the IDP
will allow UTE to evalucte with better precision the costs of its non
operational related activities. UTE applies the straight-line method for
depreciation, and uses differential rates for each type of assets. Although
this procedure is generally adequate, the resulting yearly average
depreciation rate has been around 2.22, which seems insufficient for a
utility like UTE. It was agreed that, prior to December 31, 1990, UTE would
submit to the Bank a satisfactory plan of action for changing its
depreciation rates.
2.06     UTE's 1987 financial statements were audited by a private firm,
acceptable to the Bank, which expressed an unqualified opinion. Since 1988,
the external auditors are from the Comptroller of Uruguay (Tribunal de
Cuentas) who maintains a permanent staff at UTE's offices since the
Comptroller is also responsible for internal and administrative control of
public enterprises. The 1988 financial statements were issued with a delay
of about 6 months because of UTE's accounting problems mentioned in paragraph
2.05, but for the 1989 statements, UTE would benefit from the implementation
of the new economic/financial information system (para 2.02) and the audited
financial statements would be issued in June 1990. UTE agreed to continue
using qualified external auditors to review yearly its accounts, as well as
the Special Account, the statements of expenditures and compliance with the
covenants of the proposed project.
UTE's Past Financial Performance
2.07     A major accomplishment of the Government and UTE's Management in
recent years was the successful rescheduling of the entity's external debt,
which was a condition under Loan 2622-UR. Under this rescheduling, completed
in early 1988, UTE was able to service satisfactorily its external debts in
1988. However, the entity's performance in other financial areas has been
less satisfactory and, in any event, insufficient to allow UTE to meet the
revenue and accounts receivable covenants under Loans 2484-UR and 2622-UR.
The less-than-satisfactory performance for 1989 also resulted in a
significant reversal of UTE's ability to service its debt with the Central
Bank, the evolution of which is shown in Annex 4. A satisfactory plan of
action submitted as condition for negotiations includes UTE's resolution to
pay its future financial obligations with the Central Bank and with Comision
Tecnica Mixta de Salto Grande. In addition the Government informed that
before December 31, 1990, an agreement will be signed between UTE and the
Central Bank fixing the conditions of payment of past debt.
2.08     The rate of return achieved was 5.62 in 1987 and 4.6Z in 1988,
versus a 62 agreed under previous loans. UTE's less-than-satisfactory
performance during these years was the net result of two major factors:
tariff policy and UTE's inefficiency, further complicated in 1988 by a
drought that reduced hydro generation. The tariff policy, which included
adjustments three times a year, was based on the need to compensate for the
effect of inflation on UTE's costs. As a result of this policy, the average
revenue per kWh sold to domestic consumers increased from US$0.068/kWh in
1987 and 1988 to a more satisfactory US$0.073/kWh in 1989 (average tariffs



- 10 -
for energy exports to Argentina were US$0.034IkWh in 1987 and US$0.0321kWh in
1988). The tariff adjustments were, however, more than offset by lack of
progress in improving UTE's efficiency and thus in containing costs and in
increasing revenues through more efficient commercial practices. This lack
of progress is reflected in the cost of energy sold, which increased from
US$O.046/kWh in 1987 to US$0.0501kWh in 1988 as a direct result of higher
costs in areas that have potential for significant improvement. Those areas
include: personnel (para. 2.03), energy losses (para. 1.16), and the system
for recovery of the cost of fuel used for thermal generation (para. 1.13).
The low rate of return (4.62) is to a large extent attributable to high fuel
costs incurred to satisfy about 15Z of the energy demand with thermal rather
than hydroelectric generation. Without those extra costs (about US$51
million), the rate of return would have been well above the covenanted 62.
2.09     UTE's performance in collecting accounts receivable has been
satisfactory for private customers (account receivables amounted to 60, 63
and 67 billing days at the end of the years 1987, 1988, and 1989,
respectively). However, in the case of the Government, the public
enterprises and the Municipality of Montevideo performances were poor: 213,
256 and 379 billing days at the end of years 1987, 1988 and 1989,
respectively. UTE's poor record in collecting bills from public-sector
customers has made it impossible to meet the covenanted targets under Loans
2684-UR (75 days by the end of the year 1987). The Government and public
entities' delays in paying their bills represent significant financial losses
for UTE, since these bills amount to-about 152 of total billing and are not
indexed or subject to penalties (the delinquent accounts of private customers
are subject to interest charges and other sanctions, including the shutoff of
services). To ensure a more adequate performance of UTE in this area, the
Government and UTE agreed on new procedures for promptly billing for services
provided to public entitied and for collecting the corresponding accounts
receivable within the 75 days. During negotiations, it was agreed that
before July 1, 1990 the Government would create a 'clearing house system* by
means of which, in a monthly basis, the Government agencies and public
entities would compensate owed balances between the participants of the
system with subsequent payment of any existing balance. In addition to that
the same covenant on collection of accounts receivables under Loan 2484-UR
and 2622-UR would be maintained for this operation in an effort to maintain
financial discipline in the public sector (para. 3.21'.
2.10     In 1989, UTE had a particularly difficult year.  As a result of the
drought that started in 1988, the depletion of hydraulic resources forced UTE
to schedule electricity curtailments in Montevideo, since the installed
thermal generation was not sufficient to replace fully the missing hydro
energy. Sales to domestic customers were down to 3500 GWh, 52 less that in
1988. No sales to the Argentine system were made, resulting in total sales
(domestic and export) almost 19 lower than in 1988; consequently, total
revenues were 52 below the 1988 level. On the expenditure side, fuel
accounted for a substantial US$62 million, about 202 more than in the
previous year. Tariff increases were not sufficient but UTE implemented a
fuel surcharge on all electricity bills in July (para. 1.13). Although the
amounts collected were insufficient to cover fully the increased fuel costs,
the rationale for this surcharge is correct and it should be maintained.
With decreased sales and insufficient tariffs, UTE's rate of return in 1989
was around 12, with a negative internal cash generation, since the debt
service was greater than the depreciation. As a consequence, the Central
Bank had to service a substantial part of UTE's debt and provide the bulk of



- 11 -
the funds for the yearly investment program, since very little external
financing is available. Annex 12 shows UTE'S income statements, flow of
funds and balance sheets for 1987, 1988 and 1989.
Investment Program
2.11     Annex 8 details UTE's investment program for 1990-98.  It is
designed to meet the forecast of energy demand growth within acceptable
levels of reliability and at least cost. The investment plan includes: (i)
Gabriel Terra Hydroplant rehabilitation, which is in its initial stage,
financed under Loan 2622-UR; (ii) installation of the thermal plant, included
in the proposed project; (iii) a new thermal plant possibly using wood as
fuel, to begin operation by 1998; (iv) extension of a 500-kV transmission
system to the eastern part of the country and to Montevideo, financed under
Loan 2622-UR; (v) rehabilitation of the Montevideo distribution network; (vi)
special ongoing rural electrification programs financed by the
Inter-American Development Bank (IDB) and the Overseas Economic Cooperation
Fund of Japan (OECF); and (vii) extension of Montevideo and interior
distribution systems to supply normal load growth.
III. THE PROJECT
Project Origin
3.01     In 1987 the Government asked for Bank assistance to help improve the
reliability of electricity supply and to increase the managerial proficiency
of UTE.  The project, identified by a Bank mission in 1987, was prepared by
UTE's planning division based on existing studies carried out with the help
of consultants and on computer programs developed by consultants under Loan
2484-UR. It was appraised in December 1989.
Rationale for Bank Involvement
3.02       The Bank's strategy aims at supporting Uruguay's long-term
structural changes in the productive sectors. The proposed project is in
harmony with the targets of the Bank-supported structural adjustment program,
which places high priority on improving public sector efficiency. SAL II
supports the adjustments in macroeconomic policies and targets on global
public sector reforms included in the program. The proposed project would
complement it by aiming at specific efficiency improvement targets for the
power sector. The project forms an integral part of Uruguay's power sector
strategy as part of the public investment program supported by the Bank.
IBRD involvement in the project would help in: (a) ensuring that the
institutional framework for project implementation is sound; (b) serving as
a catalyst for the participation of other donors through cofinancing (para.
3.10); and, (c) strengthening the sector policies and procedures on
environmental safeguards in the construction and operation of power projects.
Previous Bank loans to UTE have played a key role in advancing necessary
policy and institutional reforms designed to help reduce Uruguay's dependence
on imported fuel. Continued Bank involvement would advance the reforms
required to bring UTE's managerial and operational capabilities to adequate
levels of efficiency as part of the effort to contain public sector
expenditures.



- 12 -
Project Objectives
3.03     The proposed project aims to ensure suitable electricity service at
economic costs. Project objectives comprise: (a) improving the reliability
of meeting short-to-medium-term electricity demand by installing new thermal
generating units to help face droughts; and (b) improving sector efficiency
by improving UTE's managerial capability and reducing losses.
Project Description
3.04     The project would include three components:
(a)   installation of a new thermal plant (powered by two gas turbines
burning diesel fuel, each of 113.5 MW), including spare parts,
control house, substation, interconnection to the existing
transmission system, fuel pipeline and fuel tanks. The new
thermal plant will be located at the same site as the 'LO
substation in Montevideo, and the fuel tanks will be located in La
Tablada refinery, two miles away from the plant. This would
reduce the high risk of electricity deficiency the Uruguayan power
system will face in the 1990s;
(b)   improvements in Montevideo power distribution network consisting
of rehabilitation of medium and low voltage system to increase the
reliability of service to customers as well as reduce the actual
level of technical losses; and
(c)   an Institutional Development Program (IDP) consisting oft (i)
technical assistance for developing adequate procedures,
management training and transfer of software and computational
systems through a corporate twinning contractual arrangement that
would emphasize improved commercial and operational practices,
increased labor productivity, and the improvement of
administrative systems required to support the above, such as,
personnel, procurement, inventories, and information systems; (ii)
purchasing and setting-up equipment to support the above; and
(iii) a training program including the rehabilitation of UTE's
training center for technicians and skilled workers.
Project Execution and Management
3.05     The project would be coordinated within UTE by a project
coordinator (the Manager of UTE's Planning and Control Area), with the help
of a full-time project unit. Project directors for each project component
(thermal plant, Montevideo distribution, and institutional development),
whose qualifications are considered satisfactory, were also designated
during appraisal. The project coordinator and the project directors would
work within the framework of UTE's organization with the assistance of the
project unit and of the procurement, construction, finances, and engineering
units. The coordinator would be responsible for ensuring timely and orderly
project execution. UTE agreed to keep the project unit in place during
project implementation and also agreed that the project coordinator and the
project directors would be qualified professionals who would not be subject
to replacement without consultation with the Bank. These agreements would
be confirmed during negotiations of the proposed loan.



- 13 -
3.06     The IDP would be implemented by UTE with the assistance of a
foreign power utility (Union Electrica Fenosa from Spain) following the
program proposed in the diagnostic report, as agreed during appraisal. The
quality of services carried out up to now by Union Electrica Fenosa is
considered adequate and UTE decided to keep this foreign utility for the
technical assistance of the second phase of IDP, which is acceptable to the
Bank. Based on past project experience, it is recommended that supervision
by Bank staff be more intense during the initial phase of the project.
Annex 14 gives details of the supervision plan agreed during appraisal. The
proposed project would begin in June 1990 and would be completed by June
1997 (Annex 10).
Status of Project Preparation
3.07     Project preparation is well advanced.  The load forecast study is
completed as is the feasibility study for the new thermal plant and the
corresponding location study. The land for the installation of the new
thermoplant has been acquired. In agreement with the Bank and following
Bank guidelines for procurement, UTE has advanced procurement actions for
the thermal plant and has already analyzed bids received in an International
Competitive Bidding (ICB) process. The consultants for the distribution
study have completed their report, which was reviewed during appraisal and
found adequate. Based on the conclusions of this report, UTE would
implement a rehabilitation program for the Montevideo distribution system
satisfactory to the Bank and agreed during appraisal (Annex 9). The
management and computational support required by UTE to implement the
institutional development program was assessed by Union Electrica Fenosa and
discussed during appraisal, along with an agreed Plan of Action defining the
specific targets to be achieved by the IDP and the corresponding investments
(para. 3.21). Based on lessons learned in previous power projects, a draft
standard bidding document for goods to be procured under the proposed
project was discussed during appraisal so that a final version was agreed
during negotiations. This is expected to reduce the possibility of
implementation delays.
Project Cost
3.08     The total project cost, excluding interest during construction, is
estimated at US$207.8 million, of which US$157.9 million would be foreign
cost (Annex 9 ). Costs are given in January 1990 prices and are based on
experience with similar projects in the country and abroad. Physical
contingencies are lO of base cost, except for the Gas Turbines for which 5S
was used, since firm bids for a turnkey installation have already been
received. Price contingencies assume: (i) a project execution period of
about seven years (Bank standard disbursement schedule for power projects in
Latin America); and (ii) escalation rates to base c:sts and physical
contingencies of 4.9% in 1990-97. Variations of the exchange rate would
compensate for the difference between the local and international inflation
rates.
3.09     The cost estimate for the project is summarized in the following
table:



- 14 -
?roiect Elements                              Local      Foreign       Total
(in USS million)
(a) New Thermal Plant                         4.0         75.0        79.0
(b) Montevideo Distribution Network          23.0         10.0        33.0
(c) Instituti nal Development Program
1.  Technical Assistance & Software        8.0         26.8        34.8
2.  Equipment                              0.0         13.0        13.0
3.  Training program                       0.4          3.0         3.4
Total Base Cost a/                        35.4        127.8      163.2
Physical Contingencies                        3.4          9.0        12.4
Price Contingencies                          11.1         21.1        32.2
Total Project Cost                       49.9        157.9      207.8
Interest During Construction                  -           32.0        32.0
Total Financing Required                     49.9        189.9       239.8
a/ Includes taxes and duties estimated to amount to US$18 million.
Proiect Financing
3.10     Joint financing with Export-Import Bank of USA (EXIMBANK) is
proposed for the thermoplant component of the project. Due to the drought
in 1989, UTE requested the Bank to advance procurement of the thermoplant
through an ICB following Bank guidelines but askir.; bidders to offer
financing proposals as an option. This procedure, which is in accordance
with the Bank's operational policies, allowed UTE to receive very
competitive price offers for the thermoplant and four financing offers (out
of five bidders). The procurement followed Bank guidelines and bids were
evaluated on a cash basis without taking into account the offered credit
terms. The lowest evaluated bidder presented a financing offer from
EXIMBANK. UTE then negotiated the financing terms with EXIMBANK, agreeing
to a financing of US$51.2 million in two parts: (i) 35Z in the form of a
grant from the TVS Government; and (ii) 652 in the form of a commercial Loan,
with a 6 month grace period and 10 year maturity. The very competitive
prices obtained and the excellent cofinancing offered were only possible due
to the Bank's participation in the project and the flexibility shown by the
Bank during the preparation of the project. As a condition of
effectiveness, a loan agreement between UTE and EXIMBANK for financing the
thermal plant should be executed.
3.11     The financing scheme for the proposed project, therefore, would
include:
(a) Export credit from EXIMBANK (USA) to cover the major part of the
foreign component of the installation of the new thermoplant;
(b) A Bank loan to finance the balance of the foreign component of the
installation of the new thermoplant; the foreign component of the



- 15 -
distribution network improvements; the equipment, materials, new
computer facilities, and the training program associated with the
IDP; and
(c)  UTE's own internal cash generation to finance the local component
of the project, part of the technical assistance and the software
associated to the IDP not covered by bilateral sources, and
interest during construction;
The project financing plan would be as follows:
Local         Foreign         Total
(US$ million)
UTE                                      49.9            76.2          126.1
Bank                                      -              62.5           62.5
EXIMBANK (Loan & Grant)                   -              51.2           51.2
Total Financing Required                 49.9           189.9          239.8
The plan is contingent upon: (a) UTE's sufficient internal generation, which
depends on both government action to grant adequate tariffs and on UTE's
improved operational efficiency; (b) the proposed Bank financing; and (c) the
cofinancing contributions from US EXIMBANK.
Procurement
3.12     The following table summarizes procurement arrangements:
Procurement Method
(US$ million)
Project Element                             ICB       LCB    Other        Total
(a) New Thermal Plant                          87.5                          87.5
(29.3)                       (29.3)
(b) Montevideo Distribution Network            15.0      37.4                52.4
(15.0)    (0.0)              (15.0)
(c) Institutional Development Program
1. Technical Assistance & Software                           49.4        49.4
(0.0)      (0.0)
2. Equipment                               14.5               0.5        15.0
(14.5)             (0.5)     (15.0)
3. Training Program                                   0.8     2.7         3.5
(0.5)   (2.7)       (3.2)
Total                                       117.0      38.2    52.6       207.8
(58.8)    (0.5)   (3.2)      (62.5)
ICB - International Competitive Bidding
LCB - Local Competitive Bidding
Notet  Figures in parentheses are the amounts to be financed by the Bank.



- 16 -
3.13     The thermoplant using gas turbines was procured through a turnkey
contract under ICB in accordance with Bank's "Guidelines for Procurement-.
Due to the drought that Uruguay faced in 1989, UTE, in agreement with the
Bank, decided to advance procurement actions for the thermal plant. Bidding
documents were submitted to the Bank for comments and bids were called in
June and received on October 27, 1989. Bidders were also encouraged to
present financing offers to the thermal plant, although bid comparison would
be made on a cash-price basis. The lowest evaliated bid presented a very
good financing proposal that UTE accepted for 'inancing the equivalent of
642 of the total contract cost. Therefore, thi Bank would finance the
remaining foreign expenditures of this contract, which represents the
equivalent of 312 of the total contract cost (pera. 3.10). UTE has already
submitted to the Bank a satisfactory evaluation report and has accordingly
aw*rded the contract to the lowest evaluated bidder. Procurement actions
will stop short of entering into a contract to awoid committing the borrower
before Bank funding for the operation is vsiured.
3.14     The equipment for the distribution improvement program, the
equipment, materials and new computer facilities associated with the IDP
would be procured by ICB following Bank Guidelines for Procurement, except
for smaller contracts costing less than US$20,000, which would be procured
under international shopping up to an aggregate amount of US$500,000. Local
manufacturers will receive a margin of preference of 15% or the applicable
import duties, whichever is lower, for bid evaluation. A draft Standard
Bidding Document to be used in all ICBs was discussed during appraisal and
the final ver"ion was agreed during negotiations.
3.15     The implementation of the IDP would require technical assistance
from the twinning power utility under terms of reference agreed during
appraisal, and the required software in accordance with IDP's detailed
programming agreed during appraisal as well. These services would continue
being provided by Union Electrica Fenosa.
3.16     Procurement documents for all bidding packages financed under the
proposed loan and to be procured under ICB, would be subject to the Bank's
prior review. Contracts for the rehabilitation of UTE's training center
would be procured under LCB subject to the Bank's prior review of the
bidding documents. Contracts funded with local funds will be procured under
LCB. To expedite procurement, UTE divided the procurement into a small
number of packages as discussed during appraisal. Annex 15 gives details of
the agreed procurement plan
Disbursements
3.17     The proceeds of the proposed loan are expected to be disbursed over
seven years. The disbursement schedule reflects the Bank's sector standard
profile for Latin America. The proposed loan would be disbLrsed against:
(a)   31' of the cost of the turnkey contract for the gas turbine
the.moplant and related works, which is the estimated foreign
currency component of that installation not covered by export
credits;
(b)   1002 of foreign currency expenditures for goods for the
distribution improvements in Montevideo, and for equipment,
materials, and computer facilities associated with the IDP; and



- 17 -
(c)   1002 of expenditures for the training program including equipment
and facilities for the new training center.
3.18     To expedite disbursements, a special account would be established
in the Central Bank of Uruguay with a maximum deposit of approximately
US$2.8 million estimated to cover four months of average expenditures of the
project. The account would be replenished by the Bank in accordance with
agreed procedures. Disbursements against contracts or purchase orders of
US$500,000 equivalent or less would be made against statement of
expenditures (SOEs) prepared and certified by UTE. Non contract
expenditures (such as training) would also be made against SOEs.
Documentation for these expenditures would not be submitted to the Bank, but
would be retained by UTE for periodic inspection by Bank staff and for audit
purposes. All other disbursements would be made against full documentation.
The closing date would be December 30, 1997, six months after the estimated
completion of the project. Details of the disbursement schedule appear in
Annex 11.
UTE's Future Financial Performance
3.19     The detailed financial projections for UTE are included in Annex
12. A summary of the 1990-97 flow of funds is shown below:
Financial requirements               US$ millions              2
(constant Jan 90 Prices)
Investment Program                          884                98
Working Capital Changes                      18                 2
Total Requirements                          902               100
Financial resources
Net consumer-based funding                  488                54
Borrowings                                  414                46
Total Financial Sources                     902               100
3.20     UTE's operational and financial plans for 1990-97 are based on
projected improvements in commercial and operational efficiency resulting
from the IDP. Key elements for this ares (a) timely and adequate
adjustments in tariffs (para. 1.13); (b) increased electricity sales by
expansion of service and more effective commercial practices (para. 2.03);
(c) reduction of power losses (para. 1.16); (d) reduction of inventories
(para. 2.03) and personnel costs (para. 3.21). Under these circumstances,
UTE's working ratio (cash operating expenses as a percentage of operating
revenues) would remain close to 50? from 1991 on, with a sufficient
provision to cover UTE's considerable debt service. The rate of return
would be situated above 61 during the projection period and no Government
contributions would be necessary. The funding mix is adequate, with a
reasonable level of indebtedness. Some additional borrowing will be
necessary for ongoing projects and for the foreign cost component of future
projects. The internal net generation shows an increasing trend from 1990



- 18 -
on, with a healthy contribution to investment. Annex 12 gives details of
the above assumptions. The resulting working ratio and the contribution of
internal generation to UTE's investment are shown in the table below:
1990   199,   1992   1993   1994   1995
Working ratio (7)                     54     48      47     47      48     49
Contribution to investment (Z)    43.9   43.3   51.3   55.2   46.3   50.3
Operational Performance and Monitoring
3.21     Since the proposed operation is based on the assumption that the
electricity pricing system based on marginal costs and on a legally
established rate of return will be preserved (para. 1.13), it has not been
deemed necessary to include a covenant related to UTE's rate of return.
Instead, to safeguard the financial soundness of the institution and to
assess the improving trend in UTE's operational and financial efficiency, we
would monitor the cash operating ratio and the contribution to investment
from internal sources. During negotiations it was agreed that:
(a) the Government and UTE would take action, including any necessary
tariff adjustments, to allow UTE to reach a working ratio not above
50Z in any single year; and a contribution to investment which
would not be lower that 401 in any single year, starting in 1991.
(b) The Government and UTE would take the necessary measures for
collecting bills issued within 75 days of the issuance thereof (as
covenanted under the ongoing loans 2484-UR and 2622-UR); and
(c) UTE would take the necessary actions to use attrition to increase
staff productivity by not replacing 50Z of the annual attrition.
A set of operational and financial indicators that incorporate key variables
that must be properly managed to incrwase technical and staff efficiency,
and to promote financial viability are presented in Annex 12.
Report and Auditing
3.22    UTE, under the project, would submit to the Bank the following
reports as part of the planning and monitoring of its operational and
financial performance: (a) annual operational and financial plans due on
October 31 of the previous year; (b) periodic progress reports in accordance
with the supervision plan (Annex 14); (c) annual audited financial
statements due April 30 of each year; and (d) project completion report due
six months after the closing date of the Bank Loan. The annual operational
and financial plans would include the actions to be taken under the IDP to
increase personnel efficiency and to reach the key performance targets, as
well as financial projections for three years. Semi-annual progress reports
would cover project implementation and achievement of key performance
targets. The annual audit reports would include separate opinions on: (i)
UTE's overall financial statements (ii) the project accounts; (iii) the
Special Account; and (iv) the statement of expenditures; and (v) UTE's
compliance with the loan covenants and performance targets.



- 19 -
Economic Analysis
3.23    UTE's generation, transmission and distribution expaLnsion plan was
prepared on an average annual expected load growth of 4.1? for the next ten
years, which is considered appropriate. The feasibility study of the new
thermal plant using gas turbines shows that it represents the least cost
solution for the required reliability of the generating system. This thermal
plant and the other investments included in the investment program
constitute the least-cost expansion plan (para. 1.17). The assumptions
used, methodologies, and results were reviewed and found satisfactory.
3.24    The proposed project includes investments in three different areas:
(i) thermal units to reduce risks of energy deficit; (ii) institutional
improvement program; and (iii) distribution network improvements. It is
extremely difficult to separate accurately the benefits resulting from each
of these investments from the general benefits resulting from the investment
program. A conservative approach was therefore utilized in the economic
analysis of the project, as detailed in Annex 13. Under this approach two
economic rate of return were calculated: first, for the thermoplant
isolated, as this is a large discrete investment; and second, for the entire
investment program for the period 1990-97.
3.25    On these assumptions, the rate of return of the installation of the
thermal plant is 43?. The details of the calculation appear in Annex 13.
The cost stream comprises the capital cost of the thermoplant, the
incremental operation and maintenance costs for the condition with and
without the thermal units, and the incremental fuel costs based on the
expected fuel consumption with and without the new thermal units. The
benefits were measured by the difference of the expected cost of power
deficit with and without the new thermal units. The expected deficits were
divided in four groups: (i) annual energy deficits smaller than 5? of total
demand, with an attributed cost of 14 US cents/kWh (twice the actual average
tariff); (ii) annual deficits between 5? and 12.5? of total demand, with an
attributed cost of 40 US centslkWh; (iii) annual deficits between 12.5? and
20? of total demand, with an attributed cost of US$1.20/kWh; and (iv) annual
deficit larger than 2CZ of total demand, with an attributed cost of
US$2.0/kWh.
3.26    Separate analyses of the Montevideo distribution network improvement
and the implementation of the institutional development program were not
carried out because their benefits are difficult to isolate from the
benefits accruing from the other investments. Instead, the internal rate of
return for UTE's overall investment program for the period 1990-97 was
computed at a discount rate equalizing the present value of the stream of
costs and benefits associated with it. The cost stream, in 1990 constant
prices, comprises the capital cost of the development program for
generation, transmission, and distribution and the associated incremental
operational and maintenance costs. Revenues derived from incremental sales
were used as a proxy for benefits.   The benefits stream represents revenues
generated by the investment program using average tariffs, also in constant
prices, and assuming that these benefits are attributed to the program at
10? of the increase of sales in 1990, 202 in 1991, 40X in 1992, 602 in 1993,
80? in 1994, and 1002 from 1995 on. Other benefits to the society and the
economy of the country--such as those derived from improvement of service
quality to customers and availability of energy--were not included in this



- 20 -
analysis of the investment program. On these assumptions, the internal rate
of return for the program is 13.52 (Annex 13). If social benefits were
included, the rate of return would be higher.
3.27    Standard sensitivity analyses were carried out to evaluate the
impact on the base case internal rate of return as a result of variations in
the key parameters. The results of these analyses were:
Internal Rate of Return (2)
Scenario                           Investment          Gas
Program         Turbines
1. Base Case                               13.52            43.5
2. Investments 102 higher                  12.4?            39.72
3. Benefits    1OZ lower                   11.3?            39.12
4. Benefits    102 higher                  15.5?            47.6?
5. Benefits    10% lower &
Investments 102 higher                  10.3?            35.52
6. Fuel Costs  30? higher                  11.7?            43.0?
7. Fuel Costs  30? lower                   15.3Z            43.9?
8. Attributed Cost of Deficit 50? lower   -                 17.32
9. Attributed Cost of Deficit 50? higher  -                 62.0?
Environmental Factors
3.28     No environmental problems are expected to result from the project.
The Institutional Development Program is screened as a component of the
project, where environmental analysis is not necessary. Concerning the gas
turbine thermal plant, during project preparation, UTE hired a consultant
(Fichtner from Germany) to review the thermal plant specifications,
particularly with respect to environmental effects. The consultant issued a
report indicating that the specifications of the equipment and the design of
the installations took into consideration adequate environmental standards
used in developed countries and that the specified limits for noise and for
gas emission were adequate. The Distribution part of the project will
consist of rehabilitation of existing installations with no foreseeable
adverse environmental effects. During negotiations, UTE reiterated that the
new environtental unit, to be created in UTE's new organization structure
(para. 2.02), would be responsible to ensure that the project would be
executed with due regard to environmental considerations.
Risks
3.29     The main risk 4s the possible opposition by UTE's staff to changes
in management procedures and working practices under the project's
institutional development component. This should be reduced by the training
program and the technical assistance from the twinned power utility.
Moreover, the probability of success is reasonable given the strategy
adopted by UTE's management for project implementation, which includes close
consultation with the union and UTE's staff as well as a gradualist approach
to reform. So far UTE has implemented the IDP without labor problems. The
project poses no special technical risks.



- 21 -
IV. AGREEMENTS REACHED AND RECOMMENDATIONS
4.01     During negotiations agreement was obtained that:
(i)     UTE would: (a) carry out a feasibility study for assessing the
use of firewood in future power plant,-; (b) discuss with the
Bank the findings of such study, including its environmental
aspects; and (c) include said project in the investment program
only after agreement with the Bank in this respect (para.l.ll);
(ii)    Prior to December 31, 1990, the Government would make the
thermal surcharge created by Decree 384/1989 permanent and
included in the cost of electricity to all customers, as well as
adjust it on a timely basis and at satisfactory levels to meet
UTE's fuel expenses (para 1.13):
(iii)   UTE would: (a) prior to October 31, 1990, create an
environmental unit to serve as a nucleus of creation of adequate
capability in the environmental field within the company; and
(b) promptly thereafter, submit for Bank comments the unit work
program for the period 1991-95 (para. 2.02).
(iv)    Prior to July 1, 1990, the Government would create a clearing
house system, by means of which the Government agencies and
public entities would compensate owed balances between them with
the subsequent payment of any existing balance (para. 2.09);
(v)     UTE would implement the project through a project unit, with an
implementation structure as agreed during appraisal, and headed
by a project coordinator and three project directors who would
be qualified professionals and who would not be subject to
replacement without consultation with the Bank (para. 3.05);
(vi)    The Government and UTE would take all necessary actions to
ensure that UTE's working ratio would not be superior to 502 and
the internal cash generation as a percentage of total
applications would not be inferior to 402 in any single year
(para. 3.21);
(vii)   The Government and UTE would take all necessary measures for
collecting bills issued within 75 days of the issuance thereof
(para. 3.21);
(viii)  UTE would take the necessary actions to increase staff
productivity by not replacing 502 of the expected annual
attrition of UTE's employees (para. 3.21); and
(ix)    UTE and the Government would adhere to an Implementation
Program for the project which would assure that:
(a) UTE would implement the necessary improvements in the
Montevideo distribution network and in the commercial area
to reduce power losses aiming to achieve a total power
loss level in the country of 20.22 by year end 1990, 182
by 1991, 17.62 by 1992, 162 by 1993 and 1994, and 152 by
1996 (para. 1.16);



- 22 -
(b) Prior to December 31, 1990, UTE would submit to the Bank:
(i)   a satisfactory plan of action on the revision of its
insurance policy (para. 2.04); and (ii) a satisfactory
plan of action for changing its depreciation rates (para.
2.05);
4.02    Except for the financial covenants, all remaining covenants of Loan
and Guarantee Agreement 2622-UR would be maintained.
4.03    As a condition of effectiveness, a loan agreement between UTE and
EXIMBANK for financing the thermal plant would be executed (para. 3.10).
4.04    Based on the above agreements, the proposed project would be
eligible for a Loan of US$62.5 million.



- 23 -
ANNEX 1
Page 1 of 4
URUGUAY
POWER MODERNIZATION PROJECT
Energy Consumption
1.       Uruguay was one of the Latin American countries hardest hit by the
oil crisis of the 1970s. To counteract this effect, the Government
implemented more realistic prices for oil derivatives and stimulated
greater conservation efforts. This resulted in more efficient use of
energy, reducing the total consumption of energy in the country.
Attachment 1 gives the aggregate data on: GDP, Total Energy Consumption,
Population, and Electrical Energy. Between 1976 and 1988 energy
efficiency, measured by the ratio cf the total energy consumed in the
country to GDP, improved from 65 TOE/million NUr$ in 1976 to 54 TOE/million
NUr$ in 1988. This was brought about by strong conservation measures and
policies implemented in the energy sector that changed the structure of
energy consumption and resulted in substitution of indigenous resources
(wood and hydroelectricity) for petroleum (see attachments 2 and 3).



URUGUAY
Aduinstraclon Nacional do Usinas y Trasmissionos
Poer modernization Project
Energy Consumption
ENERGY CONSUMPTION IN URUGUAY
Year                 1976    1977    1976    1979    1960    1961    1982    1963    1994    19s6             1986    1967      1968
_______- --------------   -  ___ -____ __ -___              _ ----------- --_------- --_ --------- ----
1. Gross Domestic Product    29048    29864   80s9o    8288R    84606   85469    82138   30257   29816   2990    82148   84048   34217
(in million NS of 1976)
2. Tot.l Energy             1878.0  1868.0  1948.8  2022.7  2026.4  2022.0  1883.1  1684.6  1764.9  1782.5  1800.0  1876.7  1862.8
Consumption (Ktoo)                                                                                                                                N
S Total Energy / GDP           6e        64       ea       62      so       67       s8       61       S9        8       se      66 54 
(toe/million NS)
4. Population               2845.8  2882.3  2879.8  2896.4  2938.7  2982.8  2961.1  2970.1  2689.1  8008.3  8026.8  8042.4  8069.6
(1000 inhab.)
5. Total Energy / Capita     0.659   0.669   0.677   0.696   0.696   0.690    0.631   0.818   0.687   0.676    0.696   0.617    0.609
(toe/capita)
S. Electrical Energy         187.1   198.5   218.8   220.0   289.0   266.6   264.8   261.4   268.3   271.1   283.9   800.5   a23.9
Conwimption (Ktoo)
7. Electrical Energy/Capita  0.068   0.089   0.074   0.076    0.082    0.087    0.086    0.0e8    0.086    08090   0.094    0.099   0.106
(toe per capita)
6. Electrical/Total Energy    10.0%    10.SX   11.OX    10.9%    11.8%    12.6%    13.75   14.2X    15.01    16.8X    1S.8%    16.0%    17.45
>  0
0i   t 
:1.



URUOUAY
Adminstrocion Wacioeal de Ugiasa y Triatonw
powe. lodrenization Prect
Enwrgy Con_umption
ENERGY CONMTION BY SORCES
Year                 1978    1977    1978    1979    1980    1961         1982    1968    1964       1965 1996         1997     1988
_ ~~~~~~~~~- - - -- -- -- - - ___- -- -- - -- - - - -__- -- -- - -- -- -- -- - -- -_-----------
1. Wood            (Ktoe)   878.4   860.7   407.8   418.8   424.4   469.9   422.8   436.1   461.3   497.7   685.4   647.6   491.9
(U)      20. 1    20.2X    20.9X    20.6X    20.9x    22.7%    22.7X    23.7X    28.8    26.7X    29.7X    29.2x   26.4S
2. Sioess           (Ktoe)    80.6    a9.7    41.8    82.2    87.5    40.6    46.7    68.0    47.8    50.0    67.8    64.9    58.8
(s)       1.6X     2.1%    2.1%      1."      1.9%    2.0%    2.6X      2.9%     2.7%    2.9X      3.2%    2.9x    2.9%
S. wind            (Kto)       2.7      2.7      8.8      8.8      8.5     8.7      8.6      4.0      4.2      4.2      4.2      8.9     8.9
m         0.1%    0.1%    0.2%    0.2S    0.2X    0.2%    O.2%    0.2%    0.21    0. 2             0.2%    0.2X     0.2%
4. Coal            (Ktoo)    14.6    19.0        8.6      6.6      7.4     6.8      2.7      8.1      1.9      1.2      1.2     1.6      1.4
(S)       o.sx    1.ox      0.2%    0.8%     0.4%    0.8%    O.1X    0.2X        0.1%    0.1%    0.1% O0.1          O.1l
S. Petrol.e        (Ktoe)   1409.0  1386.0  1480.1  1616.0  1481.2  1862.6  1286.0  1101.9   996.4   9a4.8   986.6  1000.8  1124.7
(3)      76.1%   78.4%   78.4%  ?75.0    70.6X    67.4%   66.85   60.1%X   586%   63.9%   62.0X    68.8%   60.4%
6. Hydroelectrlcit  (Ktot)    42.7    59.0    62.4    48.9   122.4   149.0   162.1   287.4   248.3   244.8   268.a   288.0   187.6
(3)       2.8%    8.15    8.2%    2.8%    8 .0        7.4%    6.2x    12.9%   18.9%   14.1%   14.6%    14.8X   10.1X
- - - -___ - - - -   -- - --                                   - -- -__- -- -- -- _4-_- _- - - - - - -__
TOTAL     (Ktoe)   1676.0  1666.0  1946.6  2022.7  2026.4  2022.0  1s66.1  1684.6  1754.9  1732.6  1800.0  1876.7  1862.8
(X)     1OO.0%  100.0%  1OO.ox  100.0%  100.03  100.0%  100.0%  100.0%  100.02  100.01  100.0%  100.0%  100.0%
:t.
ED0
41



- 26 -
ANNEX 1
URUGUAY                       Page 4 of 4
Energpy CUPUoL4n (t197)            Attachment 3
Wood (20. t )
'S-~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~em il  .3%;w 5II )
1~~y7,/  A'               Coa1 ~~~~~~(O.8x)
PetIGrolu (t5. lXI
URUGUAY
En"y COnsuaption (19 98)
Hydrepower (10.1%)
wood (26.4%)
UMeram & WIlnd (3.1%)
Coal (0.1%)
Petroleurm (60.*X)



of
Diroctorc
General
Manage
Planning  Internal ~      ~ ~ ~ ~ inace
|a*nd CentroIAuditinr
|   C nr tion   |                               st ibution  |i Finonc fi 
Transmission                                     Comerci 2                                   Adanistrationl
Xbnagor                                         gbt b9er                                     Manager    _
Advisory                     lneating                                                         Advisorys
edurea  to                                       *~~~~~~~~~~~rup
FQ;~    oCnctrns ctioz |osnicatio| Montevideo                                      I  unterio                   Ofice        Fiane   |Procureoent|
Opraton   Operation |ik Control    Distribution                             Distribution                 Tchnolo8y                  Inventor.t,
l                     | ~~~~~Ceomercial        Cooerciall



- 28 -
ANNEX 3
Page 1 of 2
URUGUAY
POWER MODERNIZATION PROJECT
Institutional Overview of UTE
AREA                    PRESENT SITUATION               PROPOSED IM1POVEMENTS
Institutional        Autonomus entity under the
Arrangements        Ministry of In4ustry and Energy.
Oovernment nominates 8oard members
end approves budgets and tariffs.
Customer Services    Some improvements have been made           The Institutlonol Development
In recent years but the situation          Progres under the project will
is not satisfactory.  One                  contribut, to the introduction
improvement th,t has significantly         of commercial practices, which
facilitated tho relations between          emphasize the need to
UJTE and its customers h,s been the        promptly and adequately
Implementation of a bill collection        sotisfy customer needs.
system through commercial banks,
and through UTE's own offices, as
well as through the water and
telephone companies' offices. Other
contacts between UTE and its
customers, particularly for the
installation of new connections and
for the solution of customers
complaints, are cumbersome ond time-
consuming.
Metering             Close to 100% of connections metered.      The Institutional
Consumption metering subject to            Oevolopment Program will
errors as a result of old metors, no       modify the moetr reading
supervision of meter accuracy, and of      system *nd create a
Intdequate control of the work of          monagement system for
meter renders.                             verifying the accuracy
of Instelled metors.
Sillig9 and          Computerized monthly billing. Lengthy       The lOP would help to
Collection          process from meter reading to bill          improve procedures and
delivery: 10-1  days for private          lncroese collection.
customers in Montevideo, and 30-40
outside the capital. Satisfactory
collection of amounts billed to
private customers, and poor
collectlon from government and public
entities.



- 29 -
ANNEX 3
Page 2 of 2
Accounting and       Cumbersome and Inefficient systems          The Institutional Development
Budgeting           that combine computerized and manual        Program Includes the design
recordkeeping.  The two systems are         and implemontation of a
not coordinated, and their reports are      computerized Information
Issued with time-laog  that make them      system, Including accounting
of llmited value.  Both systems comply      and budgeting.
with legal requirements but lack focus
on significant operational and
financial Issues. Consolidated
financial statements are issued once a
year with a long 5-6 month lag. Fixed
assets are revalued yearly.
Procurement          Inadequate procuroment planning and         The Institutional Development
Inventory           lengthy procedures.  Excessive              Program includes o new
inventories together with shortage.         procurement and inventory
of frequently n4eded parts and              system.
materials. Partial counting of
Inventories conducted annually.
Personnel            Excessiv, number of personnel               The Institutional Development
(11,600) and in some areas lack of         Program will reduce surplus
qualified personnel.  Insufficient          staff at a rate of about 150
training opportunities.  Poor               employeeo  per year
performance evaluation system.
Strong union.
Planning             Technically adequate, however               The Institutional Development
locking the approprlite ability            Program will strengthen the
to coordinate the different areas           planning system.
of design, procurement, and
construction. A five-year plan Is
revised annually, putting together
a list of projects and gross
estimates of financial requirements.



- 30 -
ANNEX 4
URUGUAY
POWER MODERNIZATION PROJECT
Evolution of Debt with Central Bank
(US$ million)
Year                                External Debt 1/  Bonds 2/  Total
(Amounts Outstanding)
1983                                       5.4             -         5.4
1984                                       3.4            8.2       11.6
1985                                     30.0            16.3       46.3
1986                                      34.8           25.0       59.8
1987                                       9.9           33.7       43.6
1988                                      22.5           36.7       59.2
1989                                     66.4            40.7      107.1
1/ Includes external debt of UTE serviced by the central Bank and interest
charged by the Central Bank to UTE on amuonts outstanding
2/ Bonds issued by the Government to finance El Palmar Hydroelectric Plant



- 31 -
ANNEX 5
Page 1 of 6
URUGUAY
POWER MODERNIZATION PROJECT
Power Market
Historical Data
1.       UTE's overall historic market data is shown in Attachment 1 and
can be sunmarized as followss
Average
Annual
Period       Growth Rate
1970-75        2.4
1975-80        6.9
1980-85        2.8
1985-88        5.8
1970-88        4.3
1978-88        4.4
2.       The market structure has been reasonably stable with sales to
residential customers representing 45 to 502 of total sales, sales to
industrial customers 35 to 40Z, sales to commercial customers around 152,
and lighting around 3Z.   The generation structure, however, has changed
significantly over the last 18 years (Attachment 2). Hydrogeneration
increased its share from around 50 in the early 19709 to around 972 in the
late 1980s. This is due to the commissioning of Salto Grande and El Palmar
in 1979 and 1982, respectively, and the construction of transmission lines
(financed under Loan 1779-UR) to the interior, incorporating isolated areas
of the country into the interconnected system.
Forecast of Future Market
3.       MTM developed with the assistance of consultants, methodologies to
forecast electricity demand based on trend analysis, and regression
analysis techniques. To apply these models, UTZ analyzed the past data to
define correlations among variables and made some assumptions for the
future evolution of others. The analysis of past data shows that the share
of electricity in the total energy balance has increased considerably.
Annex 1 shows that the electrical energy consumption, which represented
10.02 of the total energy consumed in 1976, increased its participation In
the energy balance of the country, reaching 17.4Z of the total energy
consumed in 1988. This can be explained by electricity replacing other
sources of energy and by widespread use of new household appliances. The
coverage of electrical services in the country increased from 792 in 1975
to 652 in 1985 representing a coverage of 922 in urban areas and 362 in



- 32 -
ANNEX 5
Page 2 of 6
rural areas. Actual consumption per residential customer is estimated at
1,922 kWh per year and has increased at an annual growth rate of 2.72 in
the last decade. An analysis of statistical data from the last field
survey held in 1985 shows that the average residential customer does not
have a full array of electrical appliances, which suggests that consumption
per residential customer should continue to grow. The assumptions made for
the future were: (i) an economic growth rate of 3.02 for GDP, which is in
line with Government expectations; (ii) a growth in actual coverage from
85 to 902 by the year 2000; (iii) maintenance of the historic growth rate
of 2.7% for consumption per residential costumer; (iv) population growth at
the same rate of the last decade (0.5X).
4.       The three main categories of consumers (residential, industrial,
and commercial) were analyzed separately. Attachment 3 shows the forecast
sales of energy and demand. In preparing these projections, UTE took into
consideration that the sales of electricity in 1989 do not represent a real
measure of the market since strong restrictions were imposed on the supply
of electricity resulting from the lack of adequate thermal capacity to
compensate the reduction in hydro generation due to the drought.
Losses
5.       Currently total losses level are high due to high technical losses
in the power distribution system and to inadequate commercial procedures.
The Montevideo distribution system is old and its reliability not the same
as the transmission and subtransmission systems. This problem was
partially addressed through improvements and expansion of the Montevideo
system financed by Loan 1779-UR. With Bank assistance (Engineering Loan
2484-UR) 'JTE carried out a distribution study that included a luss
reduction plan in the medium and low-voltage levels. UTE is also
implementing an emergency modernization program for the Mrntevideo system.
The non-technical losses will be addressed by the institutional development
program (IDP) UTE is implementing. In accordance with both actions, UTE is
expecting to reduce losses to the levels shown in Attachment 3. With these
losses and the forecast sales of energy, the generation requirements for
domestic sales would be:
Year            1990  1991   1992   1993   1994   1995   1996   1997   1998
Energy (GWh)  4,779 4,996  5,239  5,287  5,515  5,689  5,940  6,167  6,442
Peak   (MW)      992 1,037  1,087  1,097  1,145  1,181  1,233  1,280  1,337



- 33 -
ANNEX 5
Page 3 of 6
Attachment 1
URUGAY
POWER MOOERNIZATION PROJECT
Market lHttoric Date
<------------- Sales In  whÖ---------------Ö )          <------------- Market  Structure -----------Ö
Resid    Indus    Comner Lighting    TOTAL  Orowth      Resid    Indus    Conr Lighting    TOTAL
(08k)    (08h)    (08h)    (GWh)    (G08)    (U)          (U)      (U)       (X)      (U)      (U)
19TO      834       570      280       48     1727       6.7X    48.8X    88.ox    16.2%      2.SX   100.0%
1971      907      828       805       46     1881       8.9%    48.2W    88.1X    16.2%      2.4X   100.0%
1972      852     s5         2768      86     1763      -6.ax    48.ax    84.0%    15.7%      2.0%   100O.0
1978      871      608       279       68     le0       2.4%    48.2X    88.4%    1S.4%      2.9%   100.0%
1974      629      671       252       45     1797      -0.SX    46.1X    37.8%    14.0%      2.5X   100.OX
1975      869      788       276       57     1940       s.ox    44.8%    88.0X    14.2%      2.9W   100.0X
1976      982      781       298      e6      2072       6.8X    45.0%    87.7X    14.4%      2.9%   100.0%
1977     1000      790       884       68     2187       5.6%    45.7%    86.1%   1S.8X       2.9%   100.0%
1978     1070      914       857       es     2406      10.0X    44.5%   8s.ox    14.8%       2.7X   100.0%
1979     1060      977       878       64     2479       8.0%    42.8X    89.4%    16.2%      2.6X   100.OX
1980     16es     1029       448       69     2706       9.2%    48.1%    88.0%    16.4%      2.5%   100.OX
1081     1298     1078       454       89     2914       7.7%    44.4%    87.OX    15.6%      3.1%   100.OX
1982     1860     1002       485       92     2919       0.2X    48.6%    84.8%    1S.9%      8.2%   100.0%
1988     1400     1061       476       91      8ol6      8.4%    46.4W    84.8%    15.8%      8.ox   10O.OX
1984     1879     1076       475       88      8ol8      O.OX    45.7%    85.7%    15.7%      2.9%   10O.O0
1988     1411     1114       498       92      8110      8.O%    45.4%    86.6X    15.9%      8.ox   100.0%
1986     1451     1201       S10       88      8250      4.6X    44.6X    87.0%    15.7X      2.7X  1OO.OX
1987     1677     1284       586       84     8481       6.6%    46.0%   s8.ox    15.6X       2.4%   100.0%
1988     1710     1808       56W       79     s8a6       7.8%    46.4x    86.5%    15.9X      2.1X   100.0%
1989     1521     1800       S80       99      85o0    -5.0%    48.5%    87.1%    16.6%       2.8%   100.0%



- 34 -
ANNEX 5
Page 4 of 6
Attachment 2
URUGUAY
POWER MODERNIZATION PROJECI'
Generation Historic Date
<---------e eneration in GOh--------)                   <-------Generation Structure------->
Hydro   Thermo Imported    TOTAL    Total   Losses    Hydro   Thermo Imported    TOTAL
GWh      GWh      GWh       GWh     Sales    (%)        (X)      (X)       (U)      (U)
(GWh)  Generot.
1970     1242      8e9        29     2160     1727      20.0WX   5M.5     41.2W      1.3%   100.0%
1971     1469      619        85     2828     1681      19.ox   e8.2%    35.8x       1.SX   100.0%
1972      995     1812        88     2840     1768      24.7X    42.5X    56.1W      1.4X   100.0X
1978     1 sse     875        27     2458     1806      28.5W    68.8W    s5.6W      1.1%   100.0X
1974     1866      911        20     2297     1797      21.SX    69.5W    89.7x      0.9W   100.0X
1975     1182     1241        28     2s88     1940      19.0X    47.2W    61.8X      1.0X   100.0X
1978     1222     1841        25     2568     2072      19.9W    47.2X    Sl.6x      1.0W   100.0W
1977     1567     1189        28     2764     2187      21.4%    56.8x    42.7W      1.0W   100.0%
1976     1687     1296        29     2959     2406      18.7X    55s.8    48.7X      1.0W   100.0W
1979     1452     1467        25     2964     2479      16.4W    49.0X    50.2%      o.sx  1OO.OX
1980     2278      972        84     8279     2706      17.S    69.8%    29.6W      1.0%   100.0%
1961     2546      9          86    8a58      2914      17.6%    72.0X    27.0X      1.OX   100.0W
1982     2446     1069        21     8586     2919      17.4W    69.2x    80.2X      0.6W   100.0W
1988     8586       99        is     865      8018      17.4W    96.9s     2.7W      0.4W   100.0O
1984     86         s5        11     8738    8018       19.2W    98.2W      1.6x     o.8W    10O.OX
1985     8e6s       78         0     8756     81lo      17.2X    96.1X     l.9x      O.ox   100.0O
1986     4064       87         0     4101     8250      20.8%    99.1      0.9sx     0.0W   10O.OX
1987     4289      210         0     4449     8481      22.9x    95.8x     4.7W      O.OX   100.0W
1968     8848      958         0     4796     8688      28.2X    60.1WX    19.       O.OX   100.0W
1999     2667     1759         0     4426     8500      20.9W    6o.8W    as.7x      O.Ox   100.0%



- 35 -
ANNEX 5
Page S of 6
Attachment 3
URUGUAY
POR MODERNIZATION PROJECT
Market Fore¢omt
Year          Sales of             Loaee          Generation         Demnd
Energy              (X)          Requ I reents         (MW)
(ORb)                              (Gwh)
1990              8614              20.2              4779               982
1901             4097               18.0             4998               1087
1992             4822               17.6              5289              1087
1998             4441               16.0             5287               1097
1994             4808               16.0             6516               1145
1996             48S6               15.0              6689             lel
1996              5049              15.0              5940              1288
1997              5278              14.6             6167               1280
1998             5508               14.5             6442               1887
1999             5752               14.5             6727               1896
2000              600T              14.6              7026              1456



Sales & Losses (Thouscnds GWh)
Past and Forec ost
7-
6
5
0110
a)
0~~
707172737475767778798081828384858687888990919293 9495969798
0.
m   tA
Past (1970-89) & Forecost.(1990-98)                  0 in
|Z/ Sales              Losses



- 37 -
ANNE 6
URUGUAY
POWER MODERNIZATION PROJECT
Existing Power Cenerating Facilities
-------------------------------------------------------__--------------------__-----------------------------
Nume             Capacity   Year   Type    Fuel    EfTfc    Units    Firm  Averago
(MW)                    (gr/kWh)  C8l/kTh  (MW)    Energy  Energy
(GWh)   (Gwh)
1.  Gabriel Terra              128    1948  Hydro          na       na  4x82        07.0   722.0
2.  Daygorria                  108    1961  Hydro          na       na  3xS        98.0   653.0
8.  El Psimar                  S80     1982  Hydro         no       no  8x110    843.0  1090.0
4.  Satile #1,#2-(retired)
S.  8stile 8#4                 100    1954 Fueloil        840    8910  2x50        525.6   626.6
6.  BetlIe #6                   88    1970  Fueloil       248    2600  1x88        689.6    689.6
7. Batile #S                   125    1976 Fueloil        260    2580   1x126    766.6   766.4
8.  Gas Turbine GE              10    1966 QasoTl         5OO    6190   1x10                 0.0
9.  Gas Turbine OSC             21    1989 Fueloil        480    4950   1x21        55.2    56.2
10. Gas Turbine AA              24    1982 Gasoil         880    8580   1x24       88.1    68.1
11. Diesel                       2            Diesel      826                        8.8     8.8
12. Salto Grande  (UTE's       406  1979/88  Hydro         na       na  14x1B6       642    1870
share In Salto Grande      540    1989                                           642    2460
varies from 26% in 1968    675    1992                                           642    8000
to 88.8X in 1989, 41.7X    946    1996                                           770    8400
In 1992 and S0X in 1995)
Notes:     (no) not applicable
1989    1990    1991    19m        1998    1994    1995    1996    1997
Total Installed Capacity    1476    1476    1576    1811    1811         1811    2081    2081    2081
of which       Hydro        1106    1106    1106    1241    1241         1241    1511    1611    1611
Thc.mo       370      870      470      670      570      670      570      570      570
____________________________________________________________________________________________________________



- 38 -
ANNEX 7
Page 1 of 9
URUGUAY
POWER SECTOR MODERNIZATION PROJECT
Power Balance
Background
1.       UTE's actual installed generating capacity is 1,476 MW of which
75% is hydroelectric. Hydrogeneration is supplied through three power
plants in the Rio Negro (Gabriel Terra, Baygorria, and El Palmar) and by
the Salto Grande hydroplant in the Rio Uruguay. The only existing
reservoir is Gabriel Terra with capacity for storing the equivalent to 4.5
months of generation. Salto Grande has regulating storage capacity for
only two weeks and therefore its generation strongly depends on the volume
of water inflow. UTE has historical hydrological data going back 78 years.
The hydrological conditions of these rivers are very erratic. During years
of average water inflow the generating capacity in the Rio Negro is 2,365
G'Wh/year, with UTE's final share in Salto Grande 3,400 GWh/year. However,
during dry years the generating capacity is substantially reduced to only
523 GWh/year (222 of the average) in the Rio Negro, and UTE's share in the
Salto Grande 770 GWh/year (232 of the average).
2.       A generation development study through the year 2000  (prepared by
independent consultants in March 1980, financed under Loan 1779-UR) has
shown that none of the identified small hydro projects can compete with
thermal plants: therefore, future generation expansion in Uruguay should be
based on thermoplants. A feasibility study for Punta Pedregal Thermoplant
was then prepared by independent consultants (in 1981) recommending the
installation of a combined cycle plant consisting of two gas turbines of
around 90 MW each (lst phase to be installed in 1984), and one steam
turbine of around 90 MW (2nd phase to be installed in 1986). Follow-up of
the market evolution indicated that this installation could be postponed
due to the very low load growth that occurred in 1982-84 (Annex 5).
3.       With Bank assistance (financed under Loan 2484-UR), UTE hired
consultants and developed a computer simulation model for planning and
operation of the Uruguayan power system that minimizes investments and
thermal generation. Using this model, UTE prepared an update of the
planning studies and issued a report entitled 'Central de Respaldo Termico-
Estudio Tecnico-Economico de Factibilidad" (December 1988), which analyzes
the actual system and compares both technically and economically the
following alternatives for the short-term: (i) installation of a
thermoplant using gas turbines; (ii) installation of the combined-cycle
thermoplant; and (iii) a "no investment' scenario. The study recommends
as the least-cost solution for the short term the immediate installation of
a thermoplant composed of two gas turbines around 90 MW each; for the long
term the necessity of an additional gas unit in 1995 and a new steam
thermoplant for base load generation, to be in operation by 1998. Also
recommended is the preparation of a feasibility study for a new thermoplant
using wood as fuel. This report was analyzed by the Bank and found
adequate.



- 39 -                            ANNEX 7
Page 2 of 9
Power Balance
4.       The power balance study used the generation requirements shown in
Annex 5 and the actual generating capacity shown in Annex 6. The study
analyzed several alternatives, varying from no investment to the
instal!'tion of one, two, or three gas turbines (using fuel oil or gas
oil), as well as the combined-cycle alternative. Attachments 1, 2 and 3
give the statistical data from the results of the study. The study shows,
retrospectively, that from 78 years of observed hydrological conditions,
based on actual generating capacity, UTE would face restrictions of
electricity supply in 25 of the total number of years simulated,
representing a 322 probability of experiencing deficits. The expected
deficit in 1990 would have an average value of 59 GWh (1.52 of the load)
with a maximum expected value during dry years of 1,395 GWh (352 of the
load). In 1994, this would reach a 502 probability of incurring deficits,
with an average value of 74 GWh (1.62 of the load) and with a maximum
expected value of 1,592 GWh (342 of load). The installation of the two gas
turbines in 1991 would reduce these deficit risks to 92 in 1991, 72 in
1992, 152 in 1993, and 23Z in 1994, with the maximum deficit lower than 132
of the load during the whole period (Attachment 1). The extremely dry year
of 1989 confirmed these predictions obliging UTE to impose restrictions to
the use of electricity in the country during the whole year and to curtail
the load during five hours per day during the three months of peak load.
Attachment 4 shows the level of the water in Gabriel Terra reservoir during
the year in different years. It is clear that in 1989, UTE was not able to
recuperate the water level of the reservoir which remained at its minimum
all year.   The capacity balance is shown in Attachment 5, with the
expected generation under average hydrological conditions shown in
Attachments 6 and 7.
b.       As explained in detail in Annex 13, the installation of the two
gas turbines is the least-cost solution to reduce the costs these power
deficits would impose on the economy. The economic analysis included a
sensitivity analysis of variations in load growth rate and fuel costs,
which does not change the recommendation for the installation of two gas
turbines. A localization study was also included in the report prepared by
UTE, analyzing several possible sites, with a recommendation to install a
new plant adjacent to substation "LI in Montevideo. The Bank analyzed this
recommendation; during preappraisal the mission visited the recommended
site and found it adequate. The report also includes a technical and
economic analysis of the type of fuel for the gas turbines, recommending
the use of gasoil based on foreign experience with heavy fuel in gas
turbines.



- 40 -
ANNEX ?
Page 3 of 9
Attachment I
URUGUAY
ADMINISTRACION NACIONAL DE USINAS Y TRASMISSIONES
POWER MODERNIZATION PROJECT
Power Balance
Statistical Results of the Simulation Study
Alternative # 1   No Additional Investment
Year Average  Deficit  Maximum  Deficit       Probability of occurring Deficts
Ö---  >---      Ö<                                            >
(0th)  (X Sales)  (0th)  (% Sales)   Any    Between  Between  Betwesn  Higher
Deficit  0-6X    5-12.6% 12.6-20% than 20%
of Load  of Load  of Load  of Load
1990       69      1.6X    1895       B5X      S2X      82%      10l o%              8X
1991       58      1.8%    1875       88X      87%      87%       17%      9%        6%
1992       s8      1.2X    1808       us%      s1X      81s       14X      91        4%
1998       69      1.8%    1812       29X      44X      44%      19X       a%        4X
1994       74     1.0    1692        U4%      s0%      50%      29%       12%      6o
Alternative # 2   Installation of Two Gas Turbines
Year Average Deficit  Maximum Deficit         Probability of occurring Deficts
-----  ---------------->(           --------- -- -         -                >
(0th)  (X Sales)  (0Wh)  (X Sales)   Any    Between  Between  Between  Higher
Deficlt  0-5%    6-12.5% 12.6-20X than 20X
of Load  of Load  of Load  of Load
1991       16      0.4%     469       11X       8X       8X       OX        6X       4%
1992       19      0.45t    S90       i8X       9X       9%       5%       4%        4X
1993       25     O.X      768       17%      18X      18X       8%        3%       8X
1994       27      0.6%     761       17X      12%      12X       9X        4%       4X



- 41 -
ANNEX 7
Page 4 of 9
Attachment 2
Expected Maximum Deficit (% Load)
35 
30-
25-
20-
15
..S
0-
1991              1992               1993               1994
W 1 iocut nThomwpopnt             Yea          Wflh Thwmolalnt



[  - 42 -                            ANNEX 7
Page 5 of 9
Attachment 3
Expected Deficit Probability (%)
40 
30 
*  U~~~0 
00 
I.,m
1991                 1992                 193                  1994
1771  WiFout Temwpopnt                   Year           Wi_ th Tharmoplent



Gacibr-iel Terra Hydroplant
Reservoir Water Level
81
80
79
4'    78
o 77 - 
76 76
75
74
73                                                                                           1
72-                                                                                            f
0             2             4             6             810                         12 
Months of the Ycar
i84          t    1985            G    1986           A    1987            X    1988           v    1989



- 44 -
ANNEX 7
Page 7 of 9
Attachment S
URUGUAY
POWER MOOERNIZATION PROJECT
Capacity salnce(mW)
Yer                              1990     1991      1992     19ß3      1994     1995      1990      1997     1999
Required Generation(OGh)                 4779      4996     5259      s2s7     SSIS      6so9    5940       6167     6442
Load Factor(X)                          56.00    65.00    55.00    55.00    65.00    55.00    55.00    55.00    55.00
Maximum Demand(MW)                        m        1087     1097      1097     1145      1161 t   128       1280     1887
Available Capacity
Thermal Plants
estlle Units #1, #2                         0         0        0         0        0         0         0        0         0
Datile Units p, #4                        100       loo      100       100      100       100       100      100       100
S,tile Unit #4                             as         9 Oesso                              so        so       Be       66
satil, Unit  #p                           125       125      125       125      125       125       125      125       126
Ga  Turbine OE                             10        1O       10        1O       1O        1O        1O       10        10
Gas Turbine BBC                            21        21       21        21       21        21        21       21        21
Gas Turbine AA                             24        24       24        24       24        24       24        24       24
Mm  Gas Turbine                                     100      2C0       200      200       200      200       200      200
Sub-To*.a I Therm.                        866      468       566       56s       ss6      sss     s56        5se     s5
Hydroelectriec Plants
Gabriel Terra                             128       128      126       128      12        126       128      128      128
sayg1orri                                 106       106      106       106      106       106      106       106      106
Pnlmr                                     8O        880 U830           88o      880       880       880      880      830
Salto Grande                              640       540      07S       S67      675       945      94S       946      945
Sub-Total Hydro                          1106      1106     1241      1241     1241      1S51     1Sll       11     1611
_--                                                                          m m =  _ 
Total Capacity                          1474      1574     1609      1609     1809      2079     2079      2079     2079
Resrve (24                                         289      244       245      249       265      258       268      269
mamsm                                ststma m    xomm             x1mm
Met Tot.l Capacity                      1240      1885     156s      1564     1S56      1626     1821      1616     1610
CAPACITY BALANCE                       246.09   296.06   477.66   486.66   415.28   645.18   566.12   585.96   472.91
(-) 1OX of Peak Lod plus Largost Machine



ANNEX '
- 45 -                                          Page 8 of 9
URUGUAY                            Attachment 6
ADMINISTRACItO  NACIONAL DE USIIAS Y TRASMISSiINES
POWER MODERNIZATION PROJECT
Energy Ocneration(OWh)
(Average Hydrolo"ical Conditions)
Year                            1990     1991     1992      1908     1994     1996     1996      109?     1908
Oenerntion R.quirad(MWh)
Dometic Market                     4779     4996     5289      5287     5515     5689     5940      6le7     8442
Export to Argentina                 200      400      500       soo      500      5O0      500       soo      soo
Total                          4979      5896     6789     5787      6ol6     6189     6440    s67?    6942
Hydro Plants
Rio Negro                               1689     2296     2289      2237     2815     2189      2840     2454     2680
Solto Grands                            2460     2500     3000      80       8000     8400      8400     8400     3400
Total Nydro                             4089     4798     5289      5287    516      5539      5740     5854     6080
Thermw Plants
Thermol ge.eraton                        890      6oo     s50        650      700      650       700      81a      912
Total Therml                             890      600      500       50 7so0           66        700 soo  813      912
Total oeneratlon(Gth)                    4979     5896     5789      5787     6015     6189     6440    6e66       6942
Thermal Exports (0h)                      80      16o      200       200      200      200       200      200      200
Fuel Oil  X                        1    0.915     0.89     0.88      0.87     0.88      0.8      0.89     0.89
Exports Fuel (0th)                         80    148.4      178       17T      174      168       160      178      178
Exports Ceatl (0th)                         0     18.8       22        24       26       84        40       22       22
Domesttc Fuel (0Gh)                       810      403      267       808      485      874       400      546      6a4
Domesntic Geell (0h)                        0       87        88       42       6s        77      100       67       78



Past and Forecast Generation
(Thousands GWh)
6
5
a0)
2
0                                                                 6p~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
~ID 
70 71 72 73 74 75 76 77 78 79 80 8182 83 84 85 86 87 88 89 90 9192 93 94 95 96 97 98  x
I% -4
Past (1970-89) & Forecast (1990-98)
l/2 X -l ydro-generotion                         Thermo-generctll to



- 47 -
ANNEX 8
Page 1 of 4
URUGUAY
POWER MODERNIZATION PROJECT
Investment Program
1.       The investment program for the expansion of the UTE system
consists of the completion of on-going projects, the proposed project, a
future power plant, and natural extensions of the distribution system.
2.       Attachment 1 shows details of the investment program and
Attachment 2 shows the total investment program with taxes and import
duties as well as without these levies.
3.       The expansion program consists ofs
(a)    Gabriel Terra Hydroplant Rehabilitations the replacement of
electromechanical equipment in the powerplant, replacement of
mechanical equipment at the dam, and minor civil works in the
powerhouse and the dam (underway, financed by Loani 2622-UR;
works scheduled for completion by 1996).
(b)    Central de Respaldo Termico: a new thermoplant using gas
turbines, including fuel tank reservoirs, located in La Tablada
Refinery, and the interconnecting pipeline, as well as the
electrical interconnection with the existing transmission
system (all included in the proposed project);
(c)    Central Dendroelectricat a future thermoplant, possibly using
wood as fuel, to be in operation by 1998 (feasibility study
being carried out under technical cooperation with Sweden);
(d)    Expansion of Transmission Systems the installation of 500-kV
transmission lines to Montevideo and to the Punta del Este area
(underway, financed by the B-Loan associated with Loan
2622-UR). The first phase (Montevideo) is scheduled for
completion under Loan 2622-UR by 1993; a possible second phase
(not yet funded would follow, to be completed by 1996;
(e)    Rehabilitation and Improvement of the Montevideo Distribution
System: (i) an emergency program (underway, and funded by UTE's
own sources) to tackle the most urgent needs of the system;
(ii) upgrading the 30-kV distribution network (underway
financed by the B-Loan associated with Loan 2622-UR); (iii)
improvement of critical areas identified in a Bank-financed
consultant study to reduce losses and improve reliability
(proposed in the present project);



- 48 -
ANNEX 8
Page 2 of 4
(f)    Rural Distribution Programs the interconnection of small
villages to the main system and extension of coverage in the
rural area. This program is being funded by IDB and covers the
rice and milk producing areas; and
(g)    Normal Extension of the Distribution System: the natural growth
of the system to connect new customers and to maintain the
quality of supply.



- 49 -
NNEX 8
Page 3 of 4
Attachment 1
URUWAY
POWER SECTOR MODERNIZATION PROJECT
Ongoing and future Projects
(Taxes and Duties Included)
1990    1991    1m        1980    1994     196    1996    1997    1998
1. Generation
- Cabriel Terre Rehab.                0.0      4.6      6.5      6.7      6.0     5.0      2.6
- Central Respaldo Termico            28.0    a7.0    10.0
-  ew Power Source                                                       15.0    85.0    85.0    40.0    55.0
- Improvements In Plants               0.8     0.7      0.6      8.8      4.8      8.0     8.0      2.0      2.0
Total                         84.8    42.8    17.0    10.0    26.8    48.0    40.6    42.0    67.0
2. Transmission
- Expansion Program (let)             8.1    10.0    16.0    15.0    10.0
- Expension Program (2nd)                                        5.0    16.0    10.0
- Small Improvements                  0.5               1.0      2.0      4.5     4.5      5.0      6.0      5.0
Total                          6.6    10.0    16.0    22.0    29.5    14.5          5.0     5.0      5.0
8. Oistribution
- RD 2622-UR Projet                   4.0      8.5      0.5
- Montevideo Expansion                 7.0     8.0    10.0    11.0    16.0    15.0    15.0    15.0    15.0
- Montevideo Improvemnt               7.0      7.0    10.0    15.0       5.0      5.0      5.0      5.0      6.0
- Rural Electrificat                  4.0      5.0      6.0      9.0      7.0      7.0     7.0      7.0      7.0
- Interior Expansion                   8.0     4.5      5.6      7.6    10.0    10.0    10.0    10.0    10.0
- Co mercil Activities                 5.0     8.5      8.9      2.9      1.0      1.0     1.0      1.0      1.0
- Equipmnt & Special Moters                    2.6      8.0      8.4      1.0     1.0      1.0      1.0      1.0
Sub-Total                     80.0    84.0    89.0    49.1    80.0    88.0    89.0    89.0    89.0
- 1ID Rice A Milk                     18.0    11.4      6.1
Total                         48.0    45.4    47.1    49.1    89.0    89.0    89.0    89.0    89.0
4. Administrative                      18.0     6.0      8.0      6.0      8.0     4.0      4.0      4.0      4.0
s. Personnel alloc. Invest              7.0     7.0      7.0      7.0      7.0     7.0      7.0      7.0      7.0
TOTAL----- 108.    C=                                           100. =0                            112
TOTAL                        106.9   110.7    98.1    94.1   106.8   107.5    95.6    97.0   112.0



- 50 -                            ANNEX 8
Page 4 of 4
Attachment 2
URUWAY
POWER SECTOR MODERNIZATION PROJECT
Investment Program
TOTAL INVESTMENT PROGRAM (TAXES AND DUTIES INCLUDED)
YEAR        1990    1991      1992    1993    1994    199w        1996    1997    199l
GENERATION                    a4.3    42.8    17.0    10.0    26.8    48.0    40.8    42.0    67.0
TRANSMISSION                   8.8    10.0    16.0    22.0    29.5    14.5           5.0     5.0      5.0
DISTRIBUTION                  48.0    45.4    47.1    49.1    89.0    89.0    89.0    89.0    89.0
OTHER                         18.       8.0      6.0      8.0      8.0      4.0      4.0     4.0      4.0
PERSONNEL                      7.0      7.0      7.0      7.0      7.0      7.0      7.0      7.0     7.0
TOTAL                        108.9   110.7    98.1    94.1   1U6.6   107.6    95.6    97.0   112.0
INVESTMW   PROGRAM WITH TAXES AND DUTIES (PERSONNEL DISTRIBUTED)
YEAR        1990    1991    1992    1998    1994    1996    1998    1997    1996
GENERATION                    U8.7    46.2    18.4    lo.e    27.1    46.0    48.8    46.8    60.8
TRANSMISSION                   7.1    10.7    17.8    28.8    81.6    15.6           5.4      5.4     5.8
DISTRD3UtION                  48.0    48.5    50.9    58.0    41.7    41.7    42.1    42.0    41.6
OTHER                         19.2      6.4      8.5      6.5      8.4      4.8      4.8      4.8     4.8
,_ --- - ----- - ----- _- - - --  ----- - --- _- - - --  _------ --- _-- --- -- _-- - -- -_- -- -- -
TOTAL                        108.9   110.7    98.1    94.1   106.6   107.5    95.6    97.0   112.0
TOTAL INVESTMENT PROGRAM (TAXES AND DUTIES EXCLUDED)
YEAR        1990    1991    1992    1998    1994    1996    1996    1997    1998
GENERATION                    80.6    87.6    15.8        9.0    22.6    88.8    88.5    87.7    60.7
TRANSMISSION                   5.9      8.9    14.4    19.8    28.8    12.9          4.5     4.6      4.4
DIStRIBUTION                  88.8    40.4    42.4    44.2    84.8    84.6    85.1    85.0    84.7
OTHER                         18.0      5.8      5.4      5.4      5.4      8.6      8.6      8.8     8.8
--- -------  _------ ------- -. 9- -           - 7  ---  - -8-9 -- -- 7  --- -0 -----
TOtAL                         90.8    92.a    77.e    78.4    89.0    ss.e    79.7    80.8    9a.3



- 51 -
ANNEX 9
Page 1 of 3
URUGUAY
POWER MODERNIZATION PROJECT
Project Description and Costs
The proposed project would consist of:
(a)   Central de Respaldo Termico - consisting of a new thermoplant
composed of two gas turbines of 113.5 MW each and a control room
to be installed at the same site as substation 'L" in Montevideo.
This would include the supply of the generating units, associated
step-up substation and transmission line to interconnect it to the
transmission system, construction of all necessary civil works,
including the control room, and installation of equipment. It
would also include the fuel tanks to be installed in La Tablada
refinery and two miles of pipeline to interconnect it to the power
plant. The supply would include the necessary spare parts for
five years operation of the thermoplant. The estimated cost is:
Local                - US$ 4.0 million
Foreign              - US$75.0 million
Total               - US$79.0 million
(b)   Distribution Network Improvements - consisting of the necessary
inprovements in Montevideo distribution system to reduce losses
and to improve reliability of services as recommended by a Bank
financed consultant study, which was agreed during appraisal. The
estimated cost is:
Local                - US$23.0 million
Foreign              - US$10.0 million
Total              - US$33.0 million
(c)   Institutional Development - consisting of technical coperation
through a twinning contractual agreement to improve commercial and
operational procedures, increase labor productivity, and improve
administrative systems required to support the above, inter alia,
personnel, procurement, inventories, and information systems with
related equipment. This would include the acquisition and
installation of new computer facilities, including terminals to
several areas in the interior of the country, the related
communications facilities, and other necessary equipments and
tools to implement the Institutional Development Program (IDP). A
training program will also be part of IDP. During appraisal UTE



- 52 -
ANNEX 9
Page 2 of 3
submitted to the Bank details of the program, which will consist
of training in the new methodologies, software to be developed as
part of the IDP, as well as in-service training at Union-Fenosa
headquarters in Spain for transfer of skills in computer
technology. It will also include the rehabilitation of UTE's
training center with the necessary renewal of equipment and
facilities. This was assessed by a team of three experts from the
International Labor Organization that visited Uruguay during
appraisal time. The cost estimate of IDP and the training program
is:
Local     Foreign   Total
(USS million)
1. Technical Assistance & Software        8.0       26.8       34.8
2. Equipment                                        13.0       13.0
3. Training Program                       0.4         3.0       3.4
8.4       42.8       51.2



- 53-                                          ANNEX 9
Page 3 of 3
Attachment 1
POWER MODERNIZATION PROJECT
Project Cos   Sutmary
- -----USS Thousands------
Description                                   Loeal  Foreign    Total
1. Thermoplent                                   4000    75000    79000
2. Montevideo Distribution                      28000    10000    83000
8. IOP : Technical Assistance                    6000   26800    84600
Equipment                                       18000    18000
Training Program                         400     8ooo      8400
Beaie Cost                             86400   127000   168200
Physioal Contingeney                    8840     9080    12870
Price Contingency                      11122    21162    82274
TOTAL PROJECT COST                     49862   167982   207644
PROPOSED FINANCING (US1 Thousand) =    62500
Finaneing Categories
Ö--- 88 Thousands------
Description                                 Foreign    Total Category
Cost     Cost Financed
1. Thermoplent                                  92712   100611    26695
2. Montevideo Distribution                      123862    42027    10758
8. IOP : Technicol Assistance                   88129    44820         0
Equipment                              16070    16556    18985
Training Program                        8708     4880      8227
Total               167982   207644    64885
Unallocated           7685
Total Financed       62600



- 54 -
ANNEX 10
URUGUAY
POWER MODERNIZATION PROJECT
Project Implementation Schedule
Issue                         Implementation
Bidding        Award
Documents       Contract       Start       Finish
(a)   Thermoplant          Jun. 1989        Jul. 1990   Ago. 1990   June 1993
(b)   Montevideo Distrib. June 1991         June 1992   Aug. 1992   Dec. 1995
(c)   Institutional        Jun. 1990        Jan. 1991   Jan. 1991   Dec. 1995
Development
(d)   Training Program    Jan. 1991         Jan. 1992   Jan. 1992   Jun. 1997
Assumptions:
Loan Signature:        July 1990
Effectiveness Date:   August 1990
Closing Date:          December 1997



- 55 -
ANNEX 11
URUGUAY
ADMINISTRACION NACIONAL OE USINAS Y TRASMISSIONES
POWER MODERNIZATION PROJECT
Estimated Disbursemnt Schedule
Fiscal Year
Semester         Semester      (%) Accumu lat     (X)
FY1991
02/90               625         1      625         1
01/91              1260         2     1615        8
FYI992
02/91              1875         a     8750        6
01/92              4375         7     8125        18
FYloga
02/92              6625         9    18750       22
01/93              5625         9    19875       SI
FYI994
02/98              7500        12    28675       48
01/94              8675        11    88750       64
FY1995
02/94              5000         8    8T670       62
01/95              662s         9    44875        71
FY199I
02/95              4875         7    48750       76
01/96              4875         7    53125       85
FY1"7
02/96              4875         7    57600        92
01/97              5000         8    62500      100



- 56 -
Annex 12
Page 1 of 2
URUGUAY
POWER SECTOR MODERNIZATION PROJECT
UTE's Finances
Income Statements (Annex 12.1)
1.       During the last three years UTE's rate of return was around 5? but
it reached a low 1? in 1989 because of a bad hydrological year that caused
restricted generation and energy sales. During the projection period
(1990- 1997) the rate of return is expected to start at 5.8?, improving to
6.8Z and remaining at this level for about 3 years, until the new
investments with generation plants are fully incorporated into UTE's
assets. At the end of the period, rates of return will be above 7?.
Domestic tariffs start with 8.1 US cents/kWh, including a 10? thermal
surcharge because of increased fuel expenses in 1990. This surcharge could
be gradually reduced to 5? in 1992 and the following years, provided a
normal hydrology situation occurs. In 1989, personnel expenses represented
a substantial 22? of total operating expenses; through a gradual reduction
of staff--expected at some 150 net per year--this share would be reduced to
about 16? by 1997. Fuel expenses and energy puarchases (from the binational
Comision Tecnica Mixta de Salto Grande) assume average hydrological
conditions. Depreciation expenses have been around 2.2Z of assets in
operation, which is rather low for a utility that has both generation and
distribution. This percentage would be increased at the beginning of the
projection period. Cash operational margin which attained 72? in 1990 will
reach 542 in the next year and remain below 50? for the rest of the period.
2.       Since the projections were prepared in constant values, all of the
above expectations are subject to the government taking corrective actions
to neutralize the negative impact of the high inflation rates (89? in 1989)
currently affecting the economy of the country. As in the past, UTE should
continue to be granted periodic rate increases whenever necessary to
compensate for increased inflationary expenses.
Flow of Funds (Annex 12.2)
3.       From a reasonable internal net generation in 1988, which allowed a
44? contribution to its investment, UTE attained a very low net generation
in 1989 that did not cover its debt service payments. The Central Bank had
to provide assistance by extending a new credit. During the projection
period the funding mix of UTE is expected to improve already in 1990 with
better internal fund generation. Starting with values of close to 40?,
contribution to investment would reach the satisfactory level of about 50?
by 1992 and remain at this level until the end of the period. To provide a
more realistic evaluation of the contribution to investment ratio, in this
case it would be determined by adding working capital changes to the
capital expenditures. This is also consistent with the projected
substantial reduction of UTE's accounts payable during next years, when



- 57 -
Annex 12
Page 2 of 2
resulting increases in working capital would appear as an additional
investment. To complete the sources of funds, reliance on borrowing will
continue, both internal for the local cost of continuing and future
investment and new external borrowing for the imported components of future
projects. The Central Bank should again be the main source for internal
financing, while export credits and international agencies would provide
external financing.
Balance Sheets (Annex 12.3)
4.       UTE's ratio of debt to local assets in 1989 was satisfactory
(40Z); it will remain at about the same level for the next 3 years and
gradually improve to 34Z in 1997. This denotes a sound capital structure
and reflects the improving returns of the company and its relatively low
reliance on borrowing. The current ratio was 1.1 times in 1989 , it is
distorted by an excessive amount of accounts receivable. This situation
will improve over the projection period, when the payment period for
electricity payments of public entities that was 256 days in 1988 and 379
days in 1989 will be reduced to 75 days, and the same period for private
consumers from 67 to 36 days. The working capital management also assumes
a reduction of UTE's inventories, with values decreasing by a yearly US$5
million from 1990 on. The current ratio which starts with 0.8 times in
1990 is expected to reach 1.2 times in 1997, reflecting a good level of
liquidity.
Performance Indicators (Annex 12.4)
5.       UTE's operational and financial performance would be monitored by
a set of indicators on a yearly basis. On the overational side, energy
losses which were 22? in 1989 will be reduced to a reasonable 152 at the
end of the projection period. Personnel efficiency will be improved by
achieving a net reduction of about 150 staff per year which would bring the
customerslemployee index, presently at a low 82, to a more reasonable 98.
This reduction would be achieved by not filling all the vacancies that
occur with normal turnover, about 300 per year. On the financial side, the
main indices are related to the financial projections (see above). Labor
as a percentage of gross plant in service should decrease from the present
1.9? to about 1.3? in 1997; in the same line, labor expenses expressed as a
percentage of operating revenues should decrease from the 1989 value of 222
to a more reasonable 11? by 1997. Debt service coverage reached 1.4 times
in 1989; in spite of heavy debt commitments, UTE is expected to stay close
to 1.5 times, increasing this margin to 1.7 after 1992. Indebtedness,
measured as the ratio of long-term debt to total assets, would steadily
decrease from the present 46? to a comfortable 34? by 1997.



URUGUAY
ADMDNISTRACION NACIONAL DE USDNAS Y TRASMISIONES ELECTRICAS (UTE)
POUR MODERMIZATION PROJECT
Income State.enta
(Ii a ilIlons of January 1990 USI)
---   ------------------------- lNlstoric ----- ---I -------F-Fircoot, ------------ -----                       --
Year ending Dec. 81                             1987   1988   1909   1990   1991    1992   1998   1994   1995   1990   1997
-- --~~~~- ------------ ---- Notes -- -- ----------         -- ------ - ----------- -
Operating reveeue"                             201.7  204.4  269.7  a28.8  852.9   864.0  874.1  3S9.0  465.9  428.2  441.1
Electrcicty sales                I/         2S8.4  27s.9  2S6.7  814.1  887.7   848.9  8S8.6  872.6  888.6  404.9  422.1
Other operating rewenues                     11.8   18.6   12.0   14.1   16.2    16.7   10.1   16.6   17.6   18.2   19.0
Operating expeneso                             183.8  219.1  264.0  243.4  258.9   2e8.8  288.7  282.7  297.3  806.7  810.1
Personnel                                    62.1   62.4   68.0   56.2   64.8    63.6   52.7   61.9   61.1   60.4   49.6
Fuel                                          8.2   51.1   62.0   42.0   29.5    22.9   26.0   85.8   a4.9   88.0   42.0
Electricity purchase                         47.8   29.4   62.0   54.9   57.8    71.4   78.6   75.6   08.4   91.1   93.8
Oenoral administration                       16.7   26.2   23.0   20.0   20.0    23.0   28.0   28.s   28.0   23.0   28.0
Depreciotlon                                 69.6   66.0   61.6   85.4   86.3    9a.0   93.5   90.8   99.5  104.2  107.7
%.n
Operating Income                                78.4   66.3   14.7   84.9   99.0   103.7  106.4  106.9  160.6  116.5  125.6
Non-operating oxpefsee                         -9.6  -12.6   -9.6   -9.6   -1.6    -1.6   -1.6   -1.6   -1.6   -1.6   -1.0
Income before tntorst                           89.4  65.8    6.7   75.9   98.0   102.7  104.4  106.9  107.8  11656  124.0
Total lntorest                                  69.8   71.4   77.6   72.9   77.8    79.4   77.9   70.8   74.0   88.9   62.4
Interest during construction                  0.6    4.1    o.8    1.4    5.8       9.1   ll.S   16.1   10.2   10.2   11.5
operating Interest                           69.8   67.3   76.7   71.6   71.6    70.3  06.3   60.7  08.8   58.7   66.8
MET INCOME                                      -0.4  -18.6  -71.0    4.3   20.5    82.4   38.1   89.8   48.9   58.8   78.2
-- -                    -= -  =                      =  == =- --
1/ Electricity sales (oth)                    3942.0 4S89.0 8900.0 4914.0 4497.0  4922.0 4941.0 5188.0 6538.0 5660.0 5778.0
(U growth)                               9.8  -18.8   14.7   12.0       7.2    2.6    8.9    4.0    4.0    4.0
Domestic (0th)                            8431.0 8088.0 8600.0 8814.0 4097.0  4822.6 4441.6  4833.0 4936.0 5065.0 6278.0
(11 growth)                                   7.8   -5.0    9.0    7.4        6.6    2.8    4.3    4.4    4.4    4.4
Exports  (0th)                             511.0  625.0    0.0  296.0  400.0   5600.0  600.0   00.0  600.0  500.0  600.0                   e
Average sales price (UScont/khh)              B.4    0.8    7.3    7.3    7.5       7.2    7.2    7.8    7.3    7.3    7.3                 -
(X growth)                 1.8   -1.0   16.7    6.7   -4.1    -3.6    0.2    0.2    0.2    0.2    0.2
Doomstic (UScent/kWh)           1.00         6.8    6.8   7.84   8.07   7.93    7.70   7.70   7.76   7.70   7.70   7.70
Exports  (UScent/&Wh)                        8.4    8.2    0.0    3.2    8.2        3.2    3.2    3.2    3.2    3.2    3.2



URUGUAY
ADMINISTRACION NACIONAL DE USINAS Y TRASNISIONES ELECTRICAS MUTE)
POWER MODERNIZATION PROJECT
Flow of Funds
(in millions of January 1990 USS)
-Ö-------------------------------------------storic--------------------------Forecast-------------------------------------
Year ending Dec. 81                              1987   1988   1989   1990   1991    1992   1993   1994   1996   1998   1997
-                                                  ----------------------- Notes----------- ------------ - --------- ------------------------------- --- -------- ----
SOURCES
Internal Ceneration                             128.4  107.0  86.7  141.2  184.2   192.8  197.9  202.3  207.t  219.7  231.7
Income before lnterest                        89.4  65.8    5.7   76.9   98.0   102.7  104.4  106.9  107.8  116.6  124.0
Depreciation                                  69.0   00 6    81.0   66.4   86.8    90.9   93.6   96.3   99.8  104.2  197.7
Other                                          0.0   -6.0    0.9    0.6    0.0        0.0    0.0    0.0    0.0    0.0    0.0
Debt Service                                    107.8   86.6   96.7  105.6  124.6   184.8  142.9  138.2  149.6  181.2  132.7
Amortization                                  88.0   18.2   20.0   34.0   58.9    64.0   76.6   71.6   86.9  102.6   81.9
Interest charged to Income                    69.6   67.3   78.7   71.    71.6    70.3   66.a    6.7   63.8   68.7   60.8
Internal Net Generation                          20.6   22.3  -80.0   86.7   69.7    58.4   66.1   84.0   57.9   58.6   99.0
Borrowings                                       18.6   27.9   79.0   46.5   78.1    56.4   44.7   74.4   67.1   48.8    9.4
IDB loan                                       1.0    0.0   09.       0.0    0.0      0.0    9.0    9.0   09.        9.9    0.0                 '.
Proposed loan                                  0.0    0.9    0.0    9.0    1.8        6.3   11.3   14.4   10.8    8.8    9.4
Salto Grande                                  12.0   11.4   18.0    0.0    0.0        0.0    0.0    0.0    0.0    0.0    0.0
World Sank 2484-UR                             0.8    0.2    0.0    1.5    0.0        0.0    0.0    0.0    0.0    0.0    0.0
World Bank 2622-UR                             0.2    0.3    0.0    3.6    6.6        7.9   10.3   10.0    6.6    0.0    0.0
Cotinancing Loan 2822                          0.0    0.0    0.0   11.9   12.8    17.2    3.1    0.0    0.6    0.0    0.0
Central Bank Uruguay                                 16.0   54.0    0.0    9.0        0.0    0.0    0.0    0.0
Other CACEX                                                   7.0    0.0    0.0       0.9    0.0    0.9    9.6    0.6    0.0
US Eximbank (GaS Turbines)                                           28.6   22.7
Future Loans                                                                35.0    24.0   20.0   60.0   40.0   40.0    0.0
TOTAL SOURCES                                    84.1   50.2   49.0   81.2  187.8   113.8   99.8  138.4  116.0  107.3  108.4
33=   =3=    =         =3=    ==   3=3         3==  =3=    -    3=3
APPLICATIONS
Construction Program                             40.1   48.1   83.0  10990  119.8    93.1   94.1  106.8  107.6   96.8   97.0
Generation                                     2.0   16.8    8.0   86.7   45.2    18.4   10.6   27.1   48.0   43.8   46.a
Transmislson                                   4.0    0.0    5.0    7.1   10.7    17.3   23.8   31.6   15.6    5.4    6.4
Distribution                                  80..   86.2   46.4   46.0   48.5    60.9  65.0   41.7   41.7   42.1   42.0
CGneral invostment                             4.0    2.6    6.6   19.2    6.4        6.5    8.6    8.4    4.3    4.3    4.8
Interest during Construction    .                  0    4.1    0.8    1.4    6.8         9.1   11.5   10.1   10.2   10.2   11. 6
Totel Construction Program                       40.1   52.2   63.3  110.4  118.8   102.2  106.6  118.9  117.7  106.8  168.6
Working Capital Increase                         -6.0   -2.0  -14.8  -29.2   21.2    11.7   -5.9   21.6   -2.7    1.5   -0.2
TOTAL APPLICATIONS                               34.1   60.2   49.0   81.2  187.8   113.9   99.7  138.4  116.0  107.3  106.4
_=3    3==           = -                =      ===   === 33- =Ö Ö-- =-==



URUGAY
DMINISACICN NACIONUL DE U6INAS Y TRASUISIONES ELECMRICAS (UE)
POWR ilDERNUATI9 PROIJECT
Pro-Form  Balaeo Sheet
(in S*IIIlo  of January 1990 USO)
---N---toric --
Year eoding Of. St                               1987   198e   1989   199J   19si    1002   1908   1094   1906   1998   1997
--Net..--                  -                --
ASSETS
Fixed Aseot. tn Operation                       2S64.6 2794.6 2908.8 2076.7  3M89.7  3214.6  8338.9 3449.9 3665.9 3720.9 8845.9
loee Aecumuloed DeprecIstion                   1240.0 1323.0 1436.b 1609.9 1667.1  1I6.1  1770.6  1687.0 1968.6  2071.0 2178.7
Not Fixed Assets In Operation                   1414.0 1471.0 1473.1  1409.9  1490.6   187.65 1566.3  1673.9 1599.1 1649.9 1667.2
Work In Pre.os                                   96.0   68.0   08.4  181.9  188.4   108.7   80.0  192.9   95.7   46.4   29.9
Total Net Fixed Aseot                           15S4.0  1       C6.9  1556 .7 01.7 1682.0  1644.2  1656.8  1678.9  1694.8  1696.8  1697.2
Current Aseet
Cash and Banks                                   7.0    7.O    4.9    6.3    6.6         7.9    7.2    7.5    7.6    0.1    6.6
Temporary Surplu                                 9.9      .9    6.O 0    9.O    9.0      0.0    9.0  0 .0    9.0  0O.9    0.9
Account. Roeelvable                              50.9   69.0   80.7   59.5   64.0   6B.1   67.6   70.8   73.8   76.7   80.0
Inventory                                       38.9   69.9   78.2    9.9   656.0    59.6   45.O   40.0   40.0   40.0   40.0
Other                                            4.9    4.0   14.1    8.8    0.3         6.2    8.6    9.4    9.4    8.5    8.7
Total Current Assets                            19.9  139.6  172.9  134.7  186.1   18t.2  126.6  127.6  139.8  133.3  137.1
Other Aset..                                              3.9    3.o    3.o    3.9        3.0    3.9    3.0    3.        8.0    3.9
TOTAL ASSETS                                    1612.0  1676.0 1732.6 1739.4  1779.1  1776.4  1787.6  1607.3  1826.6  1632.6  1837.3
e- _                              ==== _ =S= -
EQUITY AND URABLITIES
EquItty
Capital                                         45.0   46.0   46.0   48.       4   48.     9 46. 9 46. 9   46.0   46.0    48.0
Retained Earnings                              -876.0  -721.0 -792.9  -787.7  -781.2  -728.8 -490.7  -651.4  -607.6  -660.6  -477.6
Capital Rovealuatilon                          1458.9 1614.9 1534.4  1534.4  1634.4  1634.4  1634.4  1634.4  1634.4  1534.4  1534.4
--- -          -- -  - -- - - _--- _-- - - --   ---- -- - --- ---- -  - --_-  -- - --- -- -- -
Total Equity                                     928.9  839.0  788.4  792.7  819.2   861.6  889.7  929.0  972.8  1929.6  1102.6
Long-term Debt                                  665.9  843.9  792.9  784.5  70s.6   777.5  758.6  739.1  693.7  66.7   617.0
Current Liabilities
short term debt                                          9.0    0.0    4.8    1.4        6.1   17.1   68.6    1.1    9.8   12.3
Current Portion of LT Debt                      92.0  124.9   34.0   63.0   64.0    76.6   71.6   85.9  102.6   81.9   62.2
Accounts Payable                                30.0   63.0  111.2   89.7   72.9    58.6   44.2   31.1   32.9   33.8   34.7
Other Current Liabilit.ie                        7.0    7.0    7.0   14.6   14.9    14.2   14.6   16.6   18.5   16.9   17.4
- - - -    - --- - --   --- -     -- ---   -- ---    -- ---   -- ---   -- ---   -- ---   -- ---
Total Current Liabilities                        129.0  194.0  162.2  162.2  162.8   149.4  147.5  139.3  182.0  142.3  116.6
TOTAL EqUITY AND LIABILITIES                    1612.9 1678.0  1732.6 1739.4  1770.1  1778.4  1787.8  1807.3  1828.6  1832.8  1837.3



URUGUAY
AOMINISTRACION NACIONAL DE USINAS Y TIR ISIONES ELECTRICAS (UTE)
POWER MODERNIZATION PROJECT
Performneo 1ndicaters
---                    -----HI*oI-------I---Wit.i-                        ---Forecast----- --
Year endiWg Dc. a1                                19?   1986   1069   1990   1991    1992   1993   1994   199S   1996   1997
- Note.----- __-
1. oPERAONAL  DICATORS
Lotsee  ()                                     22.?   22.2   21.7   29.2   16.0    17.6   16.0   16.0   15.0   16.0   14.5
omber od  mployee                            11,703  11,617  11,606  11,456  11,891  11,10  11,066  10660  10,700 10,656  10,400
Nmber of customers (thosand)                    920    987    040    0s5    966          976    985    996  1,06   1,014   1,928
Customers/employe                                79      61      82      s       65       s      9       92      94      96    90
Sales (CUb)                                   8,942   4,808   8,606  4,014   4,497   4,822   4,941   6,518    5,988   5,5S0   6,577
Sales/eplory  (HUb)                              8T     8n71    82    a85       a88      432    449    478    499    526    656
Systemload factor (M                             64      64      68      S5      5C       65     65    65        66      56      66
2. FINANCIUL NDICATORS
Contribution to Investment        1/           60.3   44.8  -41.2   48.9   48.8    51.8   65.2   46.8   60.8   54.5   91.4
Aveorg  sale. price (UScent/kUh)                6.4    6.8    7.8    7.6    7.5          7.2    7.2    7.8    7.8    7.8        7.8
Domestic                                 8.6    6.8    7.8    6.1    7.9          7.7    7.7    7.7      7.7    7.7      7.7
Export                                   8.4    8.2    0.0    8.2    8.2          8.2     8.2    8.2    8.2      8.2    8.2
Rate of return (M)                2/            6.6    4.6    1.0    5.6    6.7         6.6    6.9    6.8    0.8        7.2    7.5
Labor/Groa  plant In service(S)                 2.0    1.9    1.9    1.9    1.6          1.7    1.6    1.5    1.4    1.4    1.8
Labor/Operating revenuos ()                    19.9   16.4   20.6   18.6   15.4    14.7   14.1   18.8   12.8   11.9   11.2
Db service coverages (tie")       8/            8.6    2.1    1.4    1.7    1.8          1.7    2.0    1.6    1.8    2.0    2.1
Indebtedress                      4/           46.6   86.4   45.7   46.1   45.1    48.7   42.0   40.9   87.9   86.1   88.6
Collection perlod (d4ys)          5/
Pubile enterprise                              218    260    879        75      75       76     75      75      75      75      75
Private ustoomers                                4      8a      67    a8        88       s8     88      86    s8        a8     a8
Current ratio (time)              B/            0.6    0.7    1.1    0.6    0.9         0.9    0.9    0.9    0.8    0.9         1.2
Cask operational margin M         7/             46      56      72      54      46      47      47      48      49      48      47
Depreciation rate () M/                         2.2    2.1    2.1    2.2    2.8          2.8    2.8    2.8    2.8    2.6    2.8
Cost of borrowing (M)             9/            9.0    9.4    9.7    0.8    9.1          9.8    9.8    9.8      9.1    9.0    6.8
1/ Internal cash genration as a percentage    4/ Total long-tern dobt as a percenta-  7/ Operating expenses minus depreciation
of total applications                          go of total assets                      as percentage of operating revenues.
2/ Operating Incme as a percentage of average  5/ Ratio of account. receivable to *e- 8/ Ratio of yearly depreciation to
not fixed assets In operatlon                  los revenues, times 86.                fIxed assets in operation.
8/ Ratlo of internal generation (gross)        6/ Ratio of current assets to current  9/ Ratio of total interest to average
to not debt service                            liabilitles.                            yearly long-"ro debt.



- 62 -
ANNEX 13
Page 1 of 6
URUGUAY
POWER MODERNIZATION PROJECT
Economic Analysis
Least Cost Solution
1.       The proposed project includes investments in three different
areas: (i) thermal units to reduce the risk of energy deficit; (ii)
institutional improvement program to increase UTE's efficiency; (iii)
distribution network improvements to reduce losses and to improve
reliability of electricity supply. It is very difficult to separate the
benefits accruing from each program because all of them aim at improving
the quality and reliability of power services. However, an economic
analysis was performed to analyze the effect of installing the new
thermoplant without considering the benefits from the other programs based
on a report entitled nEstudio Tecnico-Economico de Factibilidad de la
Central de Respaldo Termico" (December 1988). Energy sales were projected
to grow at a rate of 4.1? over the next 10 years (Annex 5).
2.       The power balance simulation studies were performed using a new
computer program developed by consultants that minimizes new investments
and fuel expenses and recommends the least-cost expansion plan (Annex 7).
The cost of fuel used was US$18/barrel in 1988 increasing to US$30/barrel
in 1997. The discount rate used was 122 and the expected life of the gas
turbines and combined-cycle units considered to be 27 years. The
investment cost used for the gas turbines was US$500/kW and for the
combined cycle US$710/kW. The cost used for gas turbines is conservative,
on the safe side of the decision-making process, since these investments
were compared with estimated costs of energy deficits. (The cost used for
the gas turbines was confirmed to be very conservative during the
preparation of the project, since the procurement of the gas turbines was
advanced and resulted in prices of US$286/kW). Sensitivity analyses were
performed considering fuel. prices 202 higher and 20t lower than in the base
case and load growth rate 20? lower than the base case. The results of the
sensitivity analysis show an elasticity of 0.56 to fuel price reductions
and 0.9 to fuel price increases. Greater sensitivity, however, exists for
load growth reduction, with an elasticity of 1.32: however, even in this
case, the installation of the gas turbines is the least-cost solution to
improve generation reliability. The report prepared by UTE and the
methodologies developed by the consultants and used in the report were
reviewed and found satisfactory to the Bank.



- 63 -                      ANNEX 13
Page 2 of 6
Internal Rate of Return
3.       The internal rate of return of the installation of the thermal
units was computed as the discount rate equalizing the present value of the
stream of costs and benefits associated with it. The cost stream (in 1990
constant prices) comprises the capital costs of the thermoplant, the
incremental operation, and maintenance costs for the condition with and
without the thermal units, and the incremental fuel costs based on the
expected fuel consumption with and without the new thermoplant. The
investment costs reflect the real costs from bids received in the advanced
procurement of the thermoplant. The incremental operation, maintenance.
and fuel costs were calculated considering UTE's related unit costs and the
results of the power balance study (Alternatives 1 and 2 of Annex 7). The
benefits were measured by the savings to the economy resulting from the
difference of expected cost of electricity deficit with and without the
thermoplant. To estimate the costs of the deficit, four deficit levels
were considered: (F1) annual electricity deficit smaller than 5% of total
expected load; (F2) annual deficit between 5% and 12.5Z of total load; (F3)
annual deficit between 12.5% and 20X of total load; and (F4) deficit higher
than 202 of total load. The cost of the deficit for each of these levels
was estimated as the cost to the economy in the event of incurring such
deficits. These estimates were based on 1979 data when electricity was in
short supply for that year, data from the National Bureau of Statistics,
and by calculating the outage costs as the economic cost associated with
the lack of electricity supply on the production of various goods and
services and the willingness to pay by residential customers. The results
of this study yield the following deficit costs:
Deficit Level           Estimated Cost        Relation to
Group             (X of total load)         (US cents/kWh)       Actual Tariff
Fl             0   to  5.0%                  14                 2.00
F2              5.0 to 12.5%                 40                 5.71
F3            12.5 to 20.0%                 120                17.14
F4            Over 202                      200                28.57
4.       These unit costs were then considered in the power-balance-
simulation computer program as the operat'ig costs associated with deficits
of energy resulting from the different hydrological conditions, and the
recommended investment program resulted in minimizing the total expected
costs. Attachment 1 gives the expected average deficit costs under the two
alternatives with and without the thermoplant. The difference between the
associated costs in these two alternatives was considered as the benefits
resulting from the installation of the thermoplant. No shadow pricing was
used nor other benefits measured. Attachment 2 shows the results of the
internal rate of return calculation as well as the sensitivity analysis.
5.       Separate analyses of the improvement in the Montevideo
distribution network and of the implementation of the Institutional
Development Program were not carried out because their benefits are very
difficult to isolate from the project benefits resulting from other



- 64 -
ANNEX 13
Page 3 of 6
investments. Instead, the internal rate of return for UTE's overall
investment program for the period 1990-97 was computed as the discount rate
equalizing the present value of the stream of costs and benefits associated
with it. The cost stream (in 1990 constant prices) comprises the capital
cost of the development program for generation, transmission, and
distribution and the associated incremental operational and maintenance
costs based on UTE's own past experience. Fuel expenses were calculated in
accordance with expected thermal generation and actual fuel costs.
Revenues derived from incremental sales were used as a proxy for benefits.
The benefits stream represents revenues generated by the investment program
using average tariffs, also in constant prices, and assuming that these
benefits are attributed to the program at 102 of the increase of sales in
1990, 202 in 1991, 402 in 1992, 602 in 1993, 802 in 1994 and 1002 in 1995
on. Standard sensitivity analyses were carried out, the results of which
appear in Attachment 3 of this annex.



- 65 -
ANNEX 13
Page 4 of 6
Attachment 1
URUtUAY
POWER MODERNIZATION PROJECT
Expected Average Deficits
ALTERNATIVE t 1                              ALTERNATIVE # 1
WITHOOUT ANY INVESTMENT                      WITHOUT ANY INYESTMENT
--------- Deficit (OWh)   ---------          --------- Cost of Deficit ---------
Fl       F2       Fs       F4                   Ft       F2       FS       F4
O(P(G  5(P<12.6 12.6CP<20 P>20                   14       40      120      200
Year                                        TOTAL                                        TOTAL
1991      18        12        8       1s      65       2.6      4.8      9.0    a0.0    46.9
1992       17      12         8       16      68       2.4      4.8      9.6    82.0    48.8
1998      21        14        9       1s       59      2.9      5.0     10.8    80.0    49.8
1994      25       s1        10      28        74      8.5      6.4     12.0    46.0    87.9
1995      28        16        9       21       72      8.6      6.4    10.8    42.0    62.8
1995      41        8o       14       87      122      5.7     12.0    16.6      74.0    106.5
1997      87       s8        21      65       144      5.2    18.2    25.2   106.0   149.6
ALTERNATIVE # 2                              ALTERNATIVE # 2
INSTALLATION OF TWO GAS TURBINES             INSTALLATION OF TWO GAS TURUINES
--------- Deficit (GWh)  ---------           --------- Cost of Deficit ---------
Ft       F2       Fs       F4                   Fl       F2       Fs       F4
0(P(6 6P<12.6 .2.6<P<20  P>20                    14       40      120      200
Your                                        TOTAL                                        TOTAL
1991        6        5        8        a       16      0.7      2.0      8.8      0.0    12.8
1992       6         6        4        8       19      0.8      2.4      4.8      6.0    14.0
1998       6         8        4        4       20      0.8      2.4      4.8      8.0     16.0
1994        7        7        5        6       26      1.0      2.8      6.0    12.0      21.8
1995        9        7        5        8       27      1.8      2.8      6.0    12.0    22.1
1996      16       11         7       11       45      2.2      4.4      8.4    22.0    87.0
1997      22        14        8       14       S8      8.1      5.6      9.6     28.0    48.8



- 66 -
ANNEX 13
Page 5 of 6
URUGUAY                                        Attachment 2
ADMINISTRACION NACIONAL DE USINAS Y TRASMISSIONES
POWER MODERNIZATION PROJECT
Internal Rate of Return of the InstallatIon of the Thermal Units
(In USa Uillion,1990 constant prices)
I        ------Costs--------------I I----senefits----I   NET
BENEFIT
Increm.ntlncroment         Reduction in
Capital    0 a M   Fuel            Expected Deficit
Year   Investeen  Costa    Costs     Total    OWh   USS million
1990        7.6      0.0      0.0      7.8      0.0      0.0    -7.8
1991       a0.0      0.0      0.0    80.6       0.0      0.0   -80.6
1992       30.6      0.6      0.6     81.7      0.0      0.0   -81.7
1993        7.6      0.6      0.9      9.0     89.0    88.6      24.0
1994                 0.5      1.6      2.0    49.0    47.2    46.2
1995                 0.5      2.5      8.0     45.0     61.5     58.5
1900                 0.6      2.5      3.0     77.0     78.2      10.2
1997                 0.6      2.5      8.0    86.0    98.6    95.S
Rate of Return
Case                                                    R O R
1.Boso  Case                                                       48.6%
2.Investment Increased by 10X                                       89.7%
8a.Benefits Reduced by 10                                          89.1%
4.eenefits Increased by 10%                                         47.6%
6.Investments Increased and Benefits Reduced by 10X                 36.6%
8.Fuel Costs Increased by 30%                                       48.0%
7.Fuel Costs Reduced by SO%                                         48.9%
8.Attributed Cost of DofIcIts Reduced by SOX                        17.8%
9.Attributed Cost of Deficits Increased by S0                      62.0%



- 67 -                                      ANNEX 13
Page 6 of 6
URUGUAY                                             Attachment 3
ADMINISTRACION NACIONAL DE USINAS Y TRASMISSIONES
POWER MODERNIZATION PROJECT
Internal Rate of Roturn of UTE 1990/1997 Investment Program
(In USE Milflon,1990 constant prices)
I--------------Costs--------------I I----Benefits----I   NET
BENEFIT
IncrementInrerment          Inerement Revenue
Capital    0 & M   Fuel              Sales 1/  from
Year   Investmen  Costs    Costs      Total    owh    Sales
1990       90.8     -4.9      80.8    116.2     81.4       2.4   -118.7
1991       92.3     -2.9      10.0    105.3    119.4       9.2    -96.1
1992       77.6      0.9       8.6     98.0    32e.8      25.8    -07.7
19O        78.4      8.2      11.7     98.8    584.6      48.5    -64.9
1994       76.5      9.6      21.0    107.0    90e.4      69.8   -87.2
1995       60.4     21.5      19.2    101.1   1886.0    102.9       1.7
1996       50.6     23.6      23.4     97.4   1649.0    119.8      21.9
1997       47.6     26.4      26.9     99.6   1778.0    186.5      86.8
1998 on     0.0     25.4      32.6     58.0   2008.0    164.6      96.6
Rate of Return
Case                                                     R O R
(U)
1.Base  Case                                                         18.5
2.Investment Increased by 10%                                        12.4
3.Bndef its Reduced by 1%                                           11.8
4.Benefits Increased by 10%                                          15.6
S.Invostments Increosed and Benefits Reduced by 10%                  10.8
6.Fuol Costs Increased by 8ox                                        11.7
7.Fuel Costs Reduced by 8OX                                          15.8



- 68 -
Annex 14
Page 1 of 2
URUGVAY
POWER MODERNIZATION PROJECT
Supervision Plan
__________________________________________________________________________
Approximate                                     Expected        Staff
Dates                                         Skill          Input
(month/year)            Activity               Requirements      (SW)
-----------------------------------------------------------__-------------
9-11/90   Supervision Mission           Power Engineer         6.0
(Project Launch)             Financial Analyt
6-9/90    Review Bidding Documents      Power Engineer         2.0
(Computational Equipment)
1-8/91    Review Training Program       Power Engineer         8.0
Including Bidding Documents  Training Expert
4-6/91    Supervision Mission           Power Engineer         5.0
(Review Progress of          Financial Analyst
Project Implementation)
7-9/91    Review Distribution Program  Power Engineer          2.0
Including Bidding Documents
11-12/91    Supervision Mibsion          Power Engineer         5.0
(Review Progress of          Financial Analyst
Project Implementation)
1-8/92    Roview Implementation         Power Engineer         4.0
of I.D.P.                    Financial Analyst
4-8/92    Supervision Mission           Power Engineer         S.0
(Review Progress of          Financlal Analyst
Project Implementation)
7-9/92    Assist in Implementing        Power Engineer         2.0
Thermoplant Installation
11-12/92   Supervision Mission           Power Engineor         5.0
(Review Progress of          Financial Analyst
Project Implementation)
4-6/93    Assss Achievements of the   Power Engineer           2.0
I.D.P. (Versus Targets)      Financial Analyst
11-12/9J    Supervislon Mission          Power Engineer         5.0
(Review Progress of          Financial Analyst
Project Implementation)



- 69 -
Annex 14
Page 2 of 2
URUGVAY
POWER MODERNIZATION PROJECT
Supervision Plan
Approximate                                      Expected        Staff
Dates                                          Skill          Input
(month/year)            Activity               Reuiurement.      (SW)
5-8/94     Assist In Implementing       Power Engineer          1.0
Distribution Rehobiittation
11-12/94    Supervision Mission          Power Engineer          5.0
(Review Progress of          Financial Analyst
Project Implementation)
5-9/95     Assist In Implementing        Power Engineer         2.0
the I.D.P.                    Financial Analyst
11-12/95    Supervision Mission           Power Engineer         5.0
(Review Progress of          Financial Analyst
Project Implementation)
44B/96    Review Achievements of         Power Engineer         1.0
Training Program              Training Expert
11-12/96    Supervision Mission          Poer Engineer           5.0
(Review Progress of          Financial Analyst
Project Implementation)
2-4/97     Assist in completion of the  Power Enginer           2.0
Project Implementation
4-7/97     Supervision Mission           Power Enginoer         5.0
(Assist in Prepring          Financial Analyst
Data for PCR)



- 70 -
ANNEX 15
URUGUAY
POWER MODERNIZATION PROJECT
Procurement Plan
(1) Goods
Bid #                   Description                                Bid        Invita-      Bid
Document    tion          Present.
f# 1      Central Respaldo Termico                             06/22/89    08/29/89    10/27/89
# 2      Computational Equipment                              June 90     Sept. 90    Jan. 91
a 3       Training Equipment                                   Dec. 90     March 91    Jul. 91
* 4       Distribution Equipment                               June 91     Sept. 91    Jan. 92
* 6       Distribution Materials                               Dec. 91     March 92    Jul. 92
* 8       Miscellaneous Operational Tools                      Dec. 91      March 92    Jul. 92



- 71 -
ANNEX 16
URUGUAY
POWER MODERNIZATION PROJFrT
Proiect File
1.       Balanco Energetico Nacional - 1988
Republica Oriental del Uruguay
2.       Memoria Tecnica Anual - 1988
Despacho Nacional de Cargas - UTE
3.       Central de Respaldo Termico
Estudo Tecnico-Economico de Factibilidad - Deciembre 1988
Division de Planificacion y Desarrollo - UTE
4.       Programa de Mejora Gerencial (PMG)
Informe Diagnostico - UTEIFENOSA
5.       Programa de Mejora Gerencial (PMG)
Termos de Referencia y Programa de Trabajo - UTE/FENOSA
6.       Union Electrica-Fenosa
Apresentacion de Calificaciones



58                                                       55                         Sr~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~1 lld8R        
zr  
32~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~r
F-~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~ ~ ~~ ~~ ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~3
4                                                                                                                                         { AW R T I j  A ,5   \ G-
33.~~~~~~~~~~~F6
_~~~~~~~~~~~~~~8 ,d,.nd H   _'*d' Os  S    fTo bdo
3ARGENTINAMONTE  '                                                    y 0                  f   d.                              *            
Z g)'-'--S____                                                                                                                                                 0m,
32~ ~     ~     S                         57                        36                        35                        3d \<t,Ma8
= P6d~~~A - l> -i t >>RUGUA
.0Cmue ot ) \, -_s | X~~~~~~~~~~~
SOT                                                                   1-   .  -
A  A A   _E w     R I Y   C ^ ' A)o                                                                                                              S . - ' y   ''
t4,,,+<cEres  ~ ~~~~    CtIRAd3    ~~~~ S   _          2                 rEINTAYTReS       >        j         ^,, ;.d a-
>3 ARGNTIA                                                             bO"T@EO                                1e
-~~~~~~s                                   57                        U6 RseGU 



