Documlt or
The World Bank
FOR OFFlCaAL USE ONLY
RepwtoNo. 9166
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
COSTA RICA
SAN JOSE METr-0POLITAN AREA WATER SUPPLY PROJECT
(LOAN 1935-CR)
NOVEMBER 30, 1990
Country Department II
Infrastructure and Energy Operations Division
Latin America and the Caribbean Region Office
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their oMcial duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
(As of March 1990)
Currercy Unit             Colon (C)
US$1.00            -      C 85.9
WEIGHTS AND MEASURES
1 meter (m)           -       3.28 feet (ft)
1 kilometer (km)      =       0.62 mile (mi)
1 millimeter (mm)    =        0.039 inches (in)
1 cubic m/s (cums)   =        22.82 million US gallon/day
1 liter (1)           -       0.26 US gallons
GLOSSARY OF ABBREVIATIONS
AyA   -   Costa Rica - Water Supply an( Sewerage Institute
CDC   -   Commonwealth Development Corporation
FRAU  -   Revolving Fund for Urban Water Supply
IDB   -   Inter-American Development Bank
MH    -   Ministry of Health
PAC   -   Community Self Program
SENAS -   National Service for Underground Water
SJMA  -   San Jose Metropolitan Area
SNE   -   National Electricity Service



T* W     OPID FOR OFFCIAL USE ONLY
WN"0on. OC. X033
U.S A
Office of Dtreet.rw-4gral
November 30, 1990
MEMORANDUM TO THE EYECUTIVE DIRECTORS AND THE PRESIDENT
SUBJECT:      Project Completion Report on Costa Rica
San Jose MetroRolitan Area Water SuPDYl Project (Loan 1935-CR).
Attached, for information, is a copy of a report entitled 'Project
Completion Report on Costa Rica - San Jose Metropolitan Area Water Supply Project
(Loan 1935-CR)" prepared by the Latin America and the Carribean Regional Office
with Part II contributed by the Borrower. No audit of this project has been made
by the Operations Evaluation Department at th4.s time.
Attachment
Tho Ooment bha  vmuw    dMaWsuo and may be and by mapW=Um  y m Ub P.ifnmg
d It"cfodIut   is         ^Zy nototin   e hdacsd wtIoul World PmnSLDn.



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
_OSTA RICA
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
SAN JOSE METROPOLITAN AREA WATER SUPPLY PROJECT
(LOAN 1935-CR)
TABLE OF CONTENTS
Page No.
Preface     .      .     .     .     .     .     .     .     .     .     .     .     .     .     .     .     .     .     .     .     .     .     .     .     .     .     .     .     .     .i
Evaluation  Summary    . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
PART I PROJECT REVIEW FROM BANK'S PERSPECTIVE
Project  Identity  .1...           .      .  .  .  .  .  .  .   .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .   .   . .
Background  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .  .                                  1
Project  Objectives  and Description  .  . . . . . . . . . . . . .                                2
Project  Objectives            . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .  .                        2
Project  Description   . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .    2
Project  Design  . . . . . . . . . . .  . . . . . . . . . . . .  .                                3
Project  Implementation  . . . . . . .  . . . .  . . . . . . . .  .                               3
Loan effectiveness  and  Project  Start-up    . . . . . . . . . .                              3
Implementation  Schedule    . . . . . . . . .  . . . . .  . . .  .                             3
Procurement    . . . . . . . . . . .  . . . . . . . . . . . .  .                               4
Project  Cost         . . . . . . . . . . . . . .  . . . . . . . . .                           5
Disbursements    . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .                                 5
Loan Allocation   . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .                                  5
Project  Results    . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .                                 5
Project  Objectives            .         . . . . . . . . . . . . . .                           5
Financial  Performance    . . . . . .  . . . . . . . . . . . . .                               6
Project  Impact          . . . . . . . . . . . . .  . . . . . . . . .                          6
Project  Sustainability  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .                                  7
Bank  Performan_e  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .                                  7
Borrower  Performance  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .                                  9
Project  Relationship  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .                                10
Consulting  Services    . . . . . . . . .   . . . .                              , . . .        10
Project  Documentation  and Data  .  . . . . . . . .                             , . . .        10
PART  II   PROJECT  REVIEW  FROM BORROWER'S  PERSPECTIVE.  . . . . . .   11
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance
of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



TABLE OF CONTENTS (Cont.)
Page No.
PART III STATISTICAL INFORMATION
Table 1.  Related Bank Loans and/or Credits.  . . . . . . . . .  1.2
Table 2.   Project Timetable.  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .  12
Table 3.  Loan Disbursements ................ .  13
Table 4.  Project Implementation  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .  14
Table 5.A Project Costs   .....  ..  .              ..  .   .  ..  .  ..  .    .  15
TRble 5.B Project Financing ................ .  16
Table 6.A Project Results: Direct Benefits  . . .  . . . . . .   17
Table 6.B Economic Impact   . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .  18
Table 6.C Studies . .................... .  19
Table 7.  Status of Covenants   ....  .             .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .    .  20
Table 8.A Use of Bank Resources: Staff Inputs.  . . . . . . . .  22
Table 8.B Missions .2.3................... .  23
ANNEXES
ANNEX 1  Monitoring Indicators  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .  24
ANNEX 2  AyA Income Statements  ...  .            .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .    .  25



- i -
COSTA RICA
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
SAN JOSE METROPOLITAN AREA WATER SUPPLY PROJECT
LOAN; 1935- CR
PREFACE
1.        This is the Project Completion Report (PCR) for the San Jose
Metropolitan Area Water Supply Project in Costa Rica, which was
partially financed with Bank Loan 1935-CR in the amount of US$26.0
million, approved on December 1980. The Borrower is the Costa Rican
Water Supply and Sewerage Institute (AyA). The loan was closed on June
1988, four years behind schedule. Disbursements against commitments
were made until June 1989 and an outstanding balance of US$51,524 was
cancelled.
2.        The Infrastructure and Energy Operations Division, Department
II of the Latin American and the Caribbean Regional Office (LA2IE)
prepared Parts I and III of the PCR based inter alia, on the Staff
Appraisal Report; the Loan and Guarantee Agreements; supervision
reports; progress reports; correspondence between the Bank and the
Borrower and; internal Bank correspondence. The Borrower prepared Part
II of the PCR. Comments received from the Borrower on Parts I and III
of the PCR were taken into account in this final version of the Report.



- ii -
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
COSTA RICA
SAN JOSE METROPOLITAN AREA WATER SUPPLY PROJECT
(LOAN 1935-CR)
EVALUATION SUMIARY
Oblectives
1.        The project's main objective was to provide additional safe
water for the San Jose Metropolitan Area (SJiA) and to reduce water
shortages in this area, especially ring the dry season. In addition,
important project objectives were to  evelop an economically and
finiancially sound sector investment program, improve the planning of
water supply and sewerage services and strengthen AyA's management,
-inancial and planning capacity. Also, the project aimed to make AyA
financially self-sufficient and to establish the basis for future
investments outside the SJKA, where service levels are lower (para.
3.01)
2.        Wlile the physical targets of the project were achieved,
although with delays, the project did not completely achieve its
institutional objecdives, which were too ambitious (paras. 3.02 and
4.03); major managerial problems, which finally ended with a
reorganization of AyA, led to an adjustment of these initial objectives
(paras. 5.02 and 6.01). The financial objectives were not met and the
financial situation of AyA continues to be very weak (paras. 5.02 and
6.02).
Implementation Experience
3.        It took over eighteen months between loan signing and
effectiveness, mainly due to the delay in fulfilling conditions for
effectiveness requiring the obtention of a loan from Commonwealth
Development Corporation (CDC), and the non-compliance by AyA of
financial provisions under the Bank loan as well as delays in obtaining
ratification by Congress of the Bank and CDC loans. In addition to this
delay, there was an initial delay in project execution, due to
management deficiencies, financial difficulties and procurement issues.
Once these were solved, after about two years from the effectiveness
date, project execution moved smoothly. The project was completed in
accordance with the original scope, but 5.5 years behind schedule.
Despite this delay, however, actual project cost (expressed in US$) was
similar to the appraisal estimate because: (1) the original cost
estimate was too conservative; and (ii) the rate of devaluation of the
Colon did not keep pace with domestic inflation (para. 5.05).



- ili -
Results
4.         The conntruCtion of the Orosi water scheme has solved the
water ratioining problem in the SJMA and has improved the water quality.
The expansion and rehabillitation of the distribution netw rk has
prepared the water system to cover the demands of the increasing
population.  Major improvements in AyA's commercial and financial
management, providing an improved basis for the utility's future, have
been achieved, even though the opetating and financial performance of
AyA has not improved as expected (para. 6.05). The actual rate of
return of the Cro4i water scheme is about 102, which compares reasonably
with a retutn on t.ice project of 12.42 estimated at appraisal (para.
6.04).  Neither of these figures consider important benefits arising
from externalitiPs ancl constimet stitp]us, s5  that. it may be reasonably
argued that ex post the project remains economically justified.
Sustainability
5.         Sustainahility of th9 Orosi water scheme will te sectured if
efficient operation antd maintenance practices are implemented and if the
distribution system can keep pace with population growth and increasing
water demands. In addition, a continued management effort in the
commercial, operation and maintenance areas is needed to reduce the
level of unaccounted-for water, so that the water produced through the
Orosi scheme fully benefits the population. Together with these aspects
and to ensure the financial viability of AyA, there is a need to improve
the operational performance of AyA, to increase tariffs and to establish
a mechanism for periodic tariff adjustments (para. 7).
Findings and Lessons Learned
6.         In projects involvinig complex teclhnical works, procurement
issues should be discussed thoroughly (during project preparation and,
upon agreemenit, immediate actions shouldl be taken to train the local
staff involved in the procurement process, to ensure that they
understanid the Batik's requiteinents.  This is of major importance when
the Borrower has no experience with Bank operations, and local
procurement procedures differ substantially from Bank practices (paras.
5.03 and 8.02(a)).
7.         Institutional development of borrowers or entities with a
large scope fot improvement should be sought by sharpening the focus of
the institutional development issues towards sustainability.  Thus, a
water agency with a poor operational and financial performancE should
focus its institutiuoial developmenit program in an initial stage, on the
development and implementation of an unaccounted-for water program
(para. 8.02(b) and 9.03(b)).
8.         The use of the working ratiu as a financial covenant should be
considered when the water agency has been incurring operating losses for
a period of time and when there is not a formal methodology in the
counitry or agency for fixed assets revaluation (para. 8.02 (c)).
9.         Greater attention should be given to the water supply and
demand estimations, particularly because they are so important to the
financial projections.  In this project, they were both respectively
under and overestimated (paras. 6.02 and 8.02(d)).



COSTA RICA
SAN JOSE METROPOLITAN AREA WATER SUPPLY PROJECT
(LOAN 1935-CR)
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
PART I: PPOJECT REVIEW FROM BANK'S PERSPECTIVE
1.   Proiect Identity
Name            San Jose Water Supply Project
Loan No.    : 1935-CR
RVP Unit    : Latin America and Caribbean Region
Country Department II
Country         Costa Rica
Sector         W  zr and Sanitation
2.   Backzround
2.01        The development of water supply and sanitation in Costa Rica
is primarily entrusted to two Government agencies: the Costa Rican
Water Supply and Sewerage Institute (AyA), which is the national
institution responsible for urban and concentrated rural communities,
and the Ministry of Health (MH), responsible for dispersed rural
communities. In addition to these two agencies there are also
individual municipalities that manage their own systems, as well as two
public entities that play an important role in the Sector: the National
Electricity Service (SNE), which regulates tariffs and administers the
General Water Law, and the National Service for Underground Water
(SENAS), which carries out groundwater exploration and development
programs.
2.02        The Water Sector objectives at the time of project appraisal
were to: increase water and sanitation coverages especially for the
urban and concentrated rural populations through house connections;
improve the continuity of the water service especially in the capital
area of San Jose where water shortages and intermittent service existed;
improve the planning and allocation of public resources for water and
sewerage services; strengthen AyA's managerial capabilities in
investment planning, capital budgeting, financial and managerial
accounting and billing; reduce the levels of unaccounted-for-water;
develop a water and sewerage master plan; and, develop a comprehensive
plan for the Revolving Fund for Urban Water Supply (FRAU), created by
the Government to support the municipalities with the construction of
water supply and sewerage systems.
2.03        The San Jose Water Supply Project was the Bank's first
effort to assist the Government in the development of the sector and has
contributed to the achievement of the sector objectives aforementioned.



-2-
The construction components of the project have enlanced the water
supply service coverage in the capital area of San Jose and particularly
have solved the continuity problem of the water service in this city.
The institutional development component has enabled AyA to improve its
managerial capability, especially in the operational planning and
commercial areas. The master nlan project component has provided the
basis for future water supply and sewerage development in the San Jose
Metropolitan Area (SJMA). Tne project did not directly affect the
sewerage service nor the Revolving Fund ior Urban Water Supply (FRAU)
because of its decapitalization during the period 1981-83.
3.   Project Oblectives and DescriRtion
3.01      Project Obiectives:  The main project objectives were to:  (a)
develop an cconomically and financially sourd sector inve.stment program;
(b) strengthen AyA's management, financial and planning capacity; (c)
provide additional safe water for the San Jose Metropolitan Area (SJMA);
and (d) improve the planning of future water supply and sewerage
services. The Project would also help make AyA financially viable and
establish the basis for future investments outside the San Jose
metropolitan area where service levels are lower.
3.02      Project Description:  The project comprised the fo lowing
components:
(a) increase the capacity of the SJMA water system by 1.P
m3/sec through the construction of 28 km of raw water
transmission line; expansion and upgrading of the water
treatment plant, and reinforcement of the treated water
transmission system;
(b)  replacement of old and undersized water mains serving the
SJMA (24.5 km);
(c)  purchase and installation of about 30,000 water meters
and accessories;
(d) preparation of a water supply and sewage services master
plan to the year 2000 for the SJMA; and
(e) strengthening of AyA's organization and management in the
following areas: (i) invastment planning and capital
budgeting; (ii) supervision and administration of the
Revolving Fund for Urban Water Supply (FPAU) and of the
Community Self Help Program (PAC); (iii) standards used
for the design and construction of urban and rural water
supply and sewage systems, including subproject selection
criteria; (iv) accounting and billing; (v) organization
and management structures including decentralization and
regional operations; and (vi) training. In addition, it
included the improvement of AyA's program to reduce
unaccounted for water as well as the strengthening of
AyA's groundwater development program.



-3-
4.   Proiect Design
4.01      The conceptual foundation of the Project was provided by the
strategy established by the Bank to lend initially for a large priority
project in the SJMA. The lesrccns to be learned were to be applied by
AyA to its other systems and passed on to the municipally-operated
systems through AyA trainirg programs. Although the project components
were designed for the San Jose area, the loan agreemert included a
covenant of "project preparation" for sixteen medium-and small-size
cities with water shortages outside the SJMA. AyA agreed to prepare the
preinvestment scudies for these sixteen cities.
4.02       T.ae scope and scale of the project were appropriate in light
of its objectives and recurring water shortages in San Jose. At
appraisal the project execution period was estimated to be 3 years.
This timing was too optimistic, taking into account the complexity of
the tasks, the financial weakness of AyA, and the lack of experience of
AyA with a relatively large project and with Bank operations (in
general, in Latin America the execution of water projects with similar
components takes around 6 to 7 years). During the preparation of the
project the need for cofinancing was established but the time needed for
the fulfillment cf cenditions of effectiveness Af the cofinancing agency
was not realistically assessed when processing the Bank's loan.
4.03       In retrospect, the design of the technical assistance
component was too general and ambitious and lacked a sense of priority,
in an agency that had much scope for improvement.
4.04      AyA was responsible for the implementation of the project, and
its staff carried out most of the preliminary and final designs of the
water supply and distribution project components, as well as the
preparation of the terms of reference for the technical assistance and
master plan.
5.   Project Jmplementation
5.01      Loan Effectiveness and Project Start-up:  Although Loan
1935-C., was signed in January 1981, it became effective only in August
1982, a delay of over eighteen months. The main reasons for this delay
were the non-fulfillment of conditions of effectiveness requiring .he
obtainment of a loan for £6 mill'on from the Commonwealth Development
Corporation, CDC; the extended delays in obtaining Congress ratification
of Bank and CDC loans; and the non-compliance by AyA of covenanted
f'.nanctal provisions.
5.02      Implementation Schedule:  The appraisal report stated that the
project would be corpleted within 3 years of start-up, or by December,
1983. However, the Project was completed in ac.-edarice with the
original scope in June 1989, a delay of 5.5 years. When the original
loan closing date expired on June 30, 1984, the project was about 3-1/2
years behind schedule. The Bank extended several times this closing
date by six months or oiie year, in order to keep maximum pressure on AyA



-4-
to improve its finances, its operational efficiency and to solve the
procurement issues in a reasonable period of time. Although there was
an initial delay in proiect execution because of the problems detailed
below, once these were solved, after two years approximately from
effect'.veness date, project execution began to move smoothly. The main
reasons for the initial delay were:
(a)  Management deficiencies.  Deterioration of AyA's
management began by early 1983 with changes in top
positions and in 1985 the Government suspended AyA's
Board Lf Directors and appointed a "Junta Interventora"
(Board of Overseers) which oversaw AyA major managerial
deci_ions until October 1988. During this period AyA waz
reorganized, its senior managament was replaced and
actions were initiated to improve its commarcial,
financial and accounting systems that were then causing
serious management problems.
(h)  Financial situation.  Throughout project implementation
this was a continiuous problem. It was aggravated in '985
due to the unexpected breakdown of AyA's customer billing
system, which precipitated a financial crisis and
resulted in AyA relying on Government contributions to
pay its operating expenses. To address AyA's financial
problems, the Government and AyA, at ;he urging of the
Bank, implemented a number of measures including the
reduction of staff, the improvement of AyA's billing and
collections, and adjustments in water tariffs.
(c)  Procurement issues.  Cumbersome and lengthy procurement
process, because of locel procurement procedures and
mechanisms, and lack of AyA's experience with Bank
procurement ptocedures.
5.03      Procurement:  Procurement actions were slow and faced many
obstacles in the initial stages of project execution mainly due to the
unfamiliarity of AyA and Government with Bank procurement requirements.
Also, once AyA selected contractors and the Bank approved awards,
bidders complained to the Contraloria General (this is allowed for, and
a frequent practice, under t':e legislation of Costa Rica), which
ultimately reversed awards. To expedite tne construction of the main
project works, which were of highest priority to the Gove~rnment due to
increasing severe water shortages in the SJMA, the Government invoked
its emergency powers and established a Special Emergency Commission in
March 1984, chaired by the Vice President of the Country, with the
authority t-) award contracts directly without recourse to the
Contraloria. Once this Special Emergency Commission was established,
procurement went smoothly and in accordance with Bank procedures.
5.04      Despit- the initial setbacks, the consultancies, services,
goods and civil works were procured under procedures satisfactory to the
Bank and were mostly procured through ICB.



-5-
5.05      Project Cost:  The estimated co,t of the project at appraisal
was US$55.3 million, while the final cost according to AyA was US$54.3
million, as shown in table 5A of Part III. There were no major
variations between the appraisal estimate and the total actual project
cost (expressed in US$), even though the project was completed 5.5 years
behind schedule, the technical assistance component was modified during
project execution, and additional expansion and rehabilitation works
were included under the distribution network component.  This was
possible because: (i) the original cost estimate was too conservative
and (ii) the rate of devaluation of the Colon did nlot keep pace with
domestic inflation. Because of the devaluation of the British pound
against the US dollar after project appraisal, CDC agreed to increase
its initial funding to AyA of £6 million to £9.1 million, equivalent to
US$12.8 million (approximately 24Z of the total cost), while the Bank
contributed with the financing of 482 of the total cost. wliich was the
percenitage estimated at appraisal.
5.06      Disbursements:  The actual and estimated disbursements of the
loan are given in table 3 of Part III. As mentioned previously (para.
5.02), the disbursements were first delayed due to delays in loan
effectiveness and in project implementation. Disbursements against
commitment^ were made until June 1989 and an outstanding balance of
US$51,524 was cancelled.
5.07      Loan Allocation:  The original, revised and actual allocations
to the various project components are shown in table 5B of Part III.
The original allocations were revised in 1987 and 1988 to include the
financing of goods and works needed to protect the Orosi pipeline and
the surrounding environment; the addltional works on the distribution
network; and the extension of the termination date fnr the
capitalization of interest accrued during constructian.
6.   Project Results
6.01      Project Objectives:  The physical targets of the project were
substantially achieved, as shown in table 4 of Part III.  The overall
increase of the water services in the SJMA as a result of the project is
more than expected at appraisal; the results are given in table 6 of
Part III.  Thus water rationing is no longer a problem in the SJMA and
water qu1ality has also improved. Nevertheless, the objectives of the
technical assistance component in organization and management were
adjusted during project execution, due to the fact that the priority
needs of AyA had changed from the time of appraisal to the time of
implementation. Thus, the objective of this component became to develop
and implement new computerized systems for customer billing and for
accounting. The computerized billing system was completed in 1q89, and
the new accounting system is expected to be operational by end 1990.
The preparation of the water and sewerage master plan fcr the SJMA,
which was incluidedI under this project, was financed by che IDB and
completed in December 1989.



- 6 -
6.02       Financial Performance:  The income statements including both
appraisal estimates and actual results for FY80-88 are given inl Annex 2.
As shown in this annex, the financial performance of AyA duting project
execution was unsatisfactory and AyA never complied with the covenanteu
financial tate of return on tevalued assets.  The main differences
between the appraisal and actual olperational and financial results are:
(i) local inflation was underestimated, thus generating an
underestimation of the total operational costs; (ii) water demand for
the SJMA was overestiimated by approximately 35% (Actual: 34
m3/mo./conn.; Appraisal: 46 m3/mo./conn.) thus generating an
overestimate of SJMA revenues; (iii) higher than expected operating
costs per connection (actual operating costs per connection exceedecd
apptaisal estimates by 116Z), thus generating an Underestimate of the
total operational costs.  The actual personnel costs are 70% of these
total operational costs (a ratio that is excessively high for a utility
company), even though measures were implemented during project execution
to reduce tthem.
6.03       In addition to these facts, the Government on several
instances delayed the approval of tariff increases needed in order to
keep tarif's in line with inflation and the expected reduction of the
unaccounted for water did not occur, (Actual: 422; Appraisal: 252),
thus the financial position of AyA dicd not improve during project
execution. Nevertheless, despite AyA's poor financial performance, the
execution of the project was not adversely affected as the Government
provided the necessary counterpart funds in a timely manner. After a
new Government took office, in May 1990, water rates were increased
substantially and AyA's financial prospects have IIow improved.
6.04       The rate of returni on the investment in the Orosi water supply
scheme and associatecd  listribt iIon works is now estimated at albout 10!,
as showni in Table 6B of Part III.  This compares reasonably with a
return on the project of 12.4.  estimated at appraisal, given the lower
water consumptions and( tariffs, higher operational costs and delays in
implementation. Neither of these figures takes into account consumer
suLplus or exteLnalities, such as liealth ancd envitonmental. benefits, so
in that sense both underestimate the econoniic worth of the project.  The
data available does not presently allow a more comprehensive estimate.
6.05       Project Impact:  The project made a major positive impact on
the water sector of the SJMA ancd is considered a major accomplishmenit
for the country, as for the first time in recent history, there are no
watet shortages in the SJMA cduiring the (Iry season. In addition, it has
permitted the extension of setvices to cover the demands of the
increasing urban development of the SJMA. From a technical point: of
view, the construction of the Orusi water supply pipeline was a complex
task as it involved the installation of 28 Km of 1100mm  ldiameter wster
main through virgin juntgle uith steep slopes and very rough terrains.
Thie project also supported major improvements in AyA's institutional
developmnent.  The design andl implementation of a new computerized
billing ancd accounting systems. together with thie purchase of computer
equipment, has allowed AyA to handle its commercial and financial
management in a more efficient way and thus improve its overall
management.  Nevertheless, as evidenced from  the financial performance,
the operating performanlce of AyA did not improve as expected:



-7-
uniac counted for water hlas noit bePen re(lt' ed- to t he ex'P(cted levels
(althouglh improvements have b)een made in the ident if iat ion of the
causes, whi(h  will facilitate  thie formtlattion of a better focused
unaccounted for water program): and the number of employees still
remains higli, although measures were taken in order to suspend thle
hiring of new personnel.  Basic monitorinig indicators are given in Annex
1. Also, the preinvestment studies for sixteen medium and smalL size
cities prepared under this project have served as the basis for the
execution of an IntLeramerican Development Bank (IDB) financed project.
7.   Project Sustaimiability
7.01       The major accomplishments uf the project have been to increase
the quality and coverage of the water service in the SJMA, especially
during the dry season and to strengthen the commercial and financial
management of AyA providing an improved basis for the utility's future
growth. Sustainahility of these accomplishments will be secured if
efficient operation and maintenatnce practices of the Orosi water supply
scheme are maintained and the distribution system (network plus storage)
is expanded in accordance with the future population growth and the
increasing water demands.  A continued management effort, especially in
tt'? commercial, operation and maintenance areas is needed, in orcier to
reduce unaccounted fot water level so water producecl through the Orosi
sclheme fully benefits a larger number of the population which will
receive the services and thus generate the expected revenues. Together
with these aspects and to ensure the financial viability of AyA, there
is a need to review the tar iff policy, tariff levels and structure, and
to establish  a mechanism for periodic adjustments of tariffs to reflect
the economic cost of providing these services.  Actions taken recently
by the Government are a satisfactory first step in this direction (para.
6.03). AyA has incdicated its interest in further Bank assistance to
consolidate the institutional stLengthening gains achieved with this
project, to continue the improvement and expansion of t.he water supply
and sewerage svstems, and to improve the unaccounted-for-water levels.
8.   Bank Performance
8.01       The Bank made a positive contribution to the physical and
institutional develoipment of tlhe SJMA water sector, even though the
achievements in tlhe financial area and in the institutional improvement
of AyA felt short of those expected. Bank performance was generally
satisfactory: though it is possible that a more thorough preparation
effort coul(d have helped to avoid some of the problems t-hat were faced
later. Bank staff contributed since project preparation with
professional advice that led to the identification of the Orosi water
scheme as the least cost solution to solve the water shortages of the
SJMA. During implementation, the Bank demonstrated its willingness to
support AyA by extending the closing date while pressing for tariff
increases and operational efficiency improvements; advisinig AyA on the
scope and priorities of institutional development actions and supporting
them with detailed discussion of terms of reference and the procurement
of new computer eqtuipment and the services of international consultants
for the new billing and accountinig systems: allowing AyA to use other
funds to tinianice the preparation of the water and sewerage master plan;
showing flexibility to solve the problems generated by the appeal of



- 8 -
awards and supporting AyA and the Government in the search for ways to
reevaluate bids in a manner consistent with Bank's Procurement
Guidelines while avoiding rebidding, which would have been very time
consuming.
8.02      However, in retrospect, the following lessons may be learnt
from the experience in the project:
(a)  The Bank underestimatecd the capacity of AyA to handle a
complex technical work and the time relquiePd to conduct
procurementt. itl the country.  Procurement procedures
should he discussed thoroughly during project preparation
and, upon agreement, immediate actions should be taken to
traiti the local staff involved in the procurement process
in the formulation of the bidding documents, to ensure
that they meet tthe Bank's requirements.
(b) The objectives of the institutional development component
were too broad and very optimistic, if one takes into
consideration that AyA had much scope for improvement and
that the Bank had little experience with this agency.
Although the results obtained under this component have
had a positive impact in AyA's management, the challenge
for the future would be to sharpen the focus of the
institutional developmenit issues towards sustainability.
(c)  It does not seem adequate to establish a financial rate
of return on revalued assets covenant when the water
agency has been incurring operatinig losses and when
changes in the rate base are likely to arise from changes
in the methodologies applied for the revaluation of fixed
assets. This was the case of AyA, teat showeu at
appraisal negative net incomes for previous years, and
during project execution varied its procedures for the
revaluation of its fixed assets. In this case, the
working ratio, i.e.: the ratio of operating expenses
(excluding depreciation) to operating revenues would have
been a more appropriate reference fer a financial
covenant than the one actually used.
(d) Another aspect which should have deserved greater
attention, because it is so important to the financial
projections were the estimations of the water demand and
of the water produced whiclh in this case were
respectively over and underestimated significantly, as
stated in para. 6.02.



-9-
9.   Bot rower Performnance
9.01      After a slow start, with strong intervention of the
Governrmlent, AyA was able to bring together a maniagerial team that
provided solid leadership in tle areas of project execution,
illstitut ional dpvelopenpnt and commercial practices.  The Gnvernment
futther domonstrat ed its conunitment to the project by providing the
needed counterpart funds and by assuming in 1987 AyA's debt seLvice
payments on external borrowings.
9.02       During project execution, A-m was unable to submit to the Bank
its external audit report in a timely nianner nor in general were the
external auditors able to give a fully untualified opinion of AyA's
year-end firancial results. Delays and problems in the preparation of
the external audit reports can he traced to (i) AyA's accounting system
which was overly complicated and ill-suited for the needs of the
company, thus making it difficult for AyA to close its book promptly at
year end so that the external auditors could prepare their reports by
the date covenanted in the Bank's loan agreement; (ii) a disagreement
during 1984 and 1985 between AyA and the Government over the appropriate
methodology to be used in revaluing AyA's fixed assets-- an issue which
was subsequently resolved to the satisfaction of both parties; and (iii)
the collapse of AyA's billing systpm in 1985 which made it impussible
for AyA and its external auditors to establish accurately the level of
AyA's accounts receivable. The Bank repeatedly urged AyA to take
actions to address the above-mentioned problems, so that AyA could
comply with the Bank's audit covenant.  In response, as mentioned
previously, AyA has developed and implemented a new computerized billing
system and is in the process of installir.g a new accountinig system.
With the introduction of these new systems, AyA and external auditors
are expected in the future to be able to prepare satisfactory audit
reports.
9.03       However, in retrospect, the following lessons may be learnt
ftom this project:
(a)  Internal cash generation of AyA is weak and needs to be
strengthened through tariff adjustments, reductiotns in
operating costs and the establishment and application of
a consistent cost recovery policy. In this regard the
Governmenit's past commitment to basing tariffs on
economic criteria has been weak, and often influenced by
other short-term considerationus.
(b)  AyA should give priority to the implem, tation of its
unaccounted-for water program, in order to improve its
opetational performance.



- 10 -
10. Project Relationship
10.01      Bank relationship with Government and AyA has been good,
despite the initial high turnover in AyA's management. The project
required heavy supervision effort by the Bank to ensure that, once
started, project execution remained on track. Bank relationship with
the cofinancing agency, CDC, was very smooth and mutually supportive,
and in general the two institutions carried out simultaneous supervision
missions.
11. Consulting Services
11.01      Project consultants provided valuable assistance to AyA in
project implementation, particularly for the development and
implementation of a new computerized hilling and accounting systems, as
well as in the definition of the new hardware needed for these
applications. The project supervision engineers also provided inputs
and support in guarantying that the works were completed on schedule and
within budgPts. In addition to these consultancies, a team of
international consultants prepared for AyA the master plan study and the
several engineering designs of the Orosi scheme. In general, the
performance of the consultants was satisfactory.
12.  Project Documentation and Data
12.01      The legal agreements for the project were adequate, except
that the covenanted financial rate of return on revalued assets does not
seem to have been the more appropriate covenant, as stated in para. 8.02
(c))
12.02      Original project documentation was satisfactory; however, the
operational ancd financial forecasts macle at appraisal covered only 3
years, while ac;tual project execution lasted 7 years.  Thus, the
appraisal estimates were not fully ade(quate for the preparation of the
PCR.
12.03     Although most of the data relevant to the preparation of the
PCR was available, its access was niot simple because AyA's audit and
progress reports and Bank supervision reports were not consistent.  Easy
access would he possible if after each supervision mission, the Project
Implementation File is updated in all its Sections, even if no major
progress has been achieved in ea(h one of them and if the Borrower
follows a consistenit presentation of its audit and pLogress reports.



-11-
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
COSTA RICA
SAN JOSE METROPOLITAN AREA WATER SUPPLY PROJECT (LOAN 1935-CR)
PART II: PROJECT REVIEW FROM BORROWER'S PERSPECTIVE
1.    Evaluation of World Bank participation in the project.
a)    We consider the Bank's participation in all the stages of the project
to have been very opportune and of great value and assistance to
carrying out the project and institutional strengthening.
b)    Communications between the Bank and the Institute were smooth and
free of problems.
c)    Once the project was identified, the Bank's participation was very
valuable not only in choosing alternatives but in discussions with
Aya before the local authorities to decide the best project. Had
this not been the case, it would have created great difficulties
for the Institute.
d)    It is important to highlight the improvement in the commercial,
financial, and operational areas as a result of the institutional
strenghthening components of the project.
e)    With regard to supervision, around 1984 there were obstacles and
interference, especially in procurement, which were subsequently
resolved and supervision of the project was considerably helpful,
not only for the project but also for the improvement of Aya.
2.    Evaluation of Aya's Participation
a)    Project identification and preparation by Aya's professionals were
good and were accepted by the Bank.
b)    In the execution stage of the project there were problems ir. 1984
related to local procurement procedures that delayed the works.
This situation was not adequately managed by the Institute. After
overcoming these problems, project execution moved quickly and
satisfactorily.
c)    Supervision  of  works  and  the  consultants'  contracts  for  the
development of the commercial and financial components, as well as
implementation of the same, are proof of successful participation
on the part of tU  Institute's staff.



-12-
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
COSTA RICA
SAN JOSE METROPOLITAN AREA WATER SUPPLY PROJECT (LOAN 1935-CR)
PART III: STASTISCAL INFORMATION
1. Related Bank Loans and/or Credits: None.
2: Project Timetable
Date                 Date                 Date
Item                   Planned              Revised                Actual
-  Identificat4on                                                            01/80
(Executive Project
Summary)
-  Preparation                                                               04/80
-  Appraisal Mission                                                         05/80
-  Loan Negotiations               10/80                                     10/80
-  Board Approval                  12/80                                     12/80
-  Loan Signature                  01/81                                     01/81
-  Loan Effectiveness              05/81         7/81; 10/81; 4/82;          08/82 1/
7/82
-  Loan Closing                    06/84         06/85; 12/85; 6/86;         06/88
6/87
-  Loan Completion                 12/83         9184; 3/85; 12/86;          06/89 2/
12/87
1/ Delays in effectiveness were due mainly to legal and financial
provisions not complied by AyA.
2/ The actual loan completion is the date of final disbursement.



3. Loon Disbursements
Cumulative Estimated and Actual Disbursements
---------------------------------------------------
(US$ Millions)
FY   1981   1982   1983   1984   1985   1986   1987   1988   1989
------------------------------------------------------------------
Appraisal Estimate                    4.7   16.9   24.9   26.0    -        -      -      _      _
Actual                                -      -       0.9    1.6      2    9.9   19.2   22.7   25.9
Actual as Z of Estimate                 0       0      4      6      8      38     74     87    100
Date of Final Disbursement: June 5th, 1989.
TIMELINE OF PLANNED, REVISED
AND ACTUAL DISBURSEMENT SCHEDULES
Million USS
25
10
1980 1961 1982 1983 1984 198 1988 1987 1988 1989
=Actual   =Revised   E 3Appraisal



-14-
4. Project Implementation
Appraisal
Indicators                    Estimate                            Actual
Indicator 1   28 km. of raw water                      28 .5 km.
transmission line.
Indicator 2   Expansion of 1.5m3/sec. of the           Expansion 1.8 m3/Sec.
Tres Rios water treatment plant.
Indicator 3   11.3 km. of treated water                25.7 km.
transmission pipe.
Indicator 4   Replacement of 24.5 km. of water         Not executed
mains and 2,600 water connections.
Indicator 5   Purchase and installation of 30,000  60,000 meters.
water meters.
Indicator 6   Water and sewerage master plan           Completed by December 1989.
until year 2000.                        With outlook to year 2010.
N.A. - Information not available



5. Project Costs and Financing
A. PROJECT COSTS
(U S       M I L L I O N)
Appraisal Estimato                        Actual
Local Foreign
Item                 Costs  Exchange Total                   Total 2/
Costs
1.  Orosl Water Supply        16.3    18.2  84.6                         84.0
Schem
2.  Dltribution System        0.6     0.7    1.2                        10.0
Rehabilitation
3.  Water Mators               0.7     0.7    1.4                         1.4
4.  Master Plan Study          0.4      1.1    1.5 1/                     0.0
S.  Technical Asslitance       0.3      1.0    1.8                        3.9
6. Contingencies               2.0      6.6    8.6                        0.0
7.  Interest A Financial       0.0     8.9    6.8                         6.0
Charges
TOTAL:                  20.2    35.1   65.3                        54.8
1/ Was financed by IDB.
2/  Informtion provided by AyA as of September 1988,  Breakdown
between local and foreign costs Is not available.



-16-
8. Project Financing
Planned            I                  I                     I
Source            Loan               I   Revised
Agreement            I    (2-08)        I        Final
-------------------------------------   ----------------   -------------------___
I                         (US8'M)       #   I   (US'M)  x   I   (USS'lM)           x I
I1PRD                                       |                  |                     |
I--!                                                            I                     I
Pipes, materials,             10.0       16 i      14.1    26 l        16.9       29
meters A equlpment
ICivil works                    8.6        7 I      6.4    11           6.4        12
Consultnnts                    3.0        6 l       2.1      4 l        1.1        2 l
llrtereot A other              4.8         8         3.4     6           2.5        6 l
charges on the loan                         l                  l
I~~~~~~~~~~~                                          
lUnollocatod                    6.1        9           -     _ I           _        _
I   Sut-Total                 2e.0       47 l      26.0    47 l        26.9        48 l
I                                            I                  I                     I
ICo-Finnncing                                l
I  Institutions                              I                  I                     I
. CDC 1/                      18.8 2/   26 l        138.    26 I        12.8 8/   24 l
1 Domestic                     16.5       28 1      15.6    28 1        1.65       28 1
I ________________________________________________ _     ____________ ~____l___________________l
l  TOTAL:                  5663      100 l      66 a.3   10         54.a      looI
1/  Coeonweslth Dovolopment Corporation.
2/  Equivalent to L 6 millions (1USS = L 2.8) In November 1980.
8/ Equivalent to L 9.1 millions In 1988.



-17-
6. Project Results
A. Direct Benefits
Appraisal        Estimated at    Estimated at full
Indicators                      Estimate        Closing Date            Development
-  Additional population         193,000              103,000 2/             366,000
served (persons)                                  235,000 3/
- Additional connections
Water                       17,700               21,500 2/              73,500 4/
46,300 3/
-  Additional water                   1.8                 1.8                      -
produced (M3/sec)
-  Additional water                   1.5                 1.5                      -
treatment (M3/sec)
-  Connections metered                100                  80                      -
in SJMA (Z)
-  Connections metered                 38                  47                      -
in Regions (Z)
-  Urban poor beneficiaries    143,000                 75,000                      -
(persons) from water
shortages
-  Total beneficiaries           478,000              450,000                      -
(persons) from water
shortages
1   By year 1991.
2I Estimated by initial closing date of 1984.
3/  Es:imated by actual closing date of 1988.
4/  Consider.i-.g the expansior of the water production (Orosi pipeline) for
the SS9A.



*18-
B. Economic Impact
Appraisal                 Actual
Estimate        (At Final Development)
Econon,ic
Rate of Return                    12.4Z                      9.8Z
Assumptions
Project Life                      30 years                 30 years
Full Development                  1984                      1989
Average Tariff              C3.39/m3(US$0.28/M3)  C18.7/m3 (US$0.23/M3)
Commentr
The main factors contribut-ing to lower IRR than estimated at appraisal have
been implementation delays, higher operational costs, lower water consumption
and lower water tariff.



C. Stud)es
Purpose as
Defined at                                                            Impact of
Appraisal                            Status                             Study
1.  Weter and s-wage master plan    Completed In Dec. 1909.            Will permit the identificatlon
for SJMA until yoer 2000                                          and set the priority for water
end sewoge works In the SJMA
togethor with tho level of
nvoetmonts needed.
2.  AyA'e organization and            Now billing and accounting    Improvemnt has beon achieved
manege"mnt lmprov-ent.            systoms were completed           In the comworcial and financial
by early 1999.                  monogement of AyA.
S.  Control for unaccounted for       Although the results expectod
water,                            have not been achieved, a
major accomplishment of tkii
otudy Is that it has permitino
AyA Ider.tify the priority
projecto to be carry out to
roeuice the unaccounted
for water.
4.  Continuation of preliminary       Fully completed.
investigation program for
ground water development.



-20-
7. Status of Covenants
Section                     Condition                                Status
L.A. 3.04.(i)       Prepare terms of reference   Terms of reference of a new billing
for organization and           and accounting systems were carried out.
management study.
L.A. 3.04.(ii)       Submit to Bank conclusions   Terms of reference of a new billing
of the organization and        and accounting systems were carried out.
management study.
L.A. 3.04.(iv)      Catry out recommendations    Design and implementation of a
of the organization and        new billing and accounting systems were
management study in             carried out.
accordance with a
timetable satisfactory
to the Bank.
L.A. 3.05.          Carry out a study of            In compliance.
tariff fees and other
charges.
L.A. 3.06.(a)       Furnish targets for             In compliance.  However, these targets
achieving reductions in        were not met throughout project
meter reading and               implementation and Bank continually
invoicing time, the            asked AyA to adddress these issues.
level of accounts
receivable, the amount of
unaccounted-for-water and
the ratio of employees to
water connections.
L.A. 3.07.          Carry out a program for         In compliance.  However, AyA expanded
the installation of            the program to 60.000 meters.
30,000 meters on water         Bank had no objection to the program's
service connections            expansion.
and standpipes.
L.A. 3.09.(b)(iii) Submit to the Bank               In compliance.
(quarterly) a report
of project implementation.
L.A. 3.11.          Furnish terms of reference,  In compliance by December 1989.
interim reports and the
draft final report for
the Master Plan Study.
L.A. 5.02.          Submit to the Bank              See para. 9.02 of PCR.
(annually) independently
audJited financial
statements.



-z1-~~~~~~~~~~~~~ 
Section                     Condition                               Status
L.A. 5.03.(b)       Review with the Bank            In compliance.
(annually) financing of
AyA's overall investment
program.
L.A. 5.04.(a)       Maintain rates required         Not met.
to produce an annual rate
of return of not less than
1.02 in 1981t 5.3S in 1982;
3.52 in 1983; and 4.52
in subsequent years.
L.A. 5.04.(b)       Review with the Bank not        Tariff levels were reviewed but,
later than June 30 and         their application was generally
December 30 of                 delayed and their effect
each year tariff levels.       did not keep up with the expected
rate of return.
L.A. 5.05.          Incur no new debt unless        In compliance.
service ratio is greater
than '.3.
L.A. 5.08.(a)       Furnish terms of reference   In compliance.
for preinvestment
studies of 16 medium-
and-small size cities.
L.A. 5.08.(b)       Furnish to the Bank             In compliance.
for review and comment
preinvestment studies in
about 16 medium-and small-
size cities.
G.A. 2.02.(b)       The Government shall            AyA cut back its investment program
make equity contributions    as a result of the economic situation in
to AyA as needed for           Costa Rica, but cuts did not affect
carrying out its program       implementation of Bank project.
during the 1980-83 period.
G.A. 2.02.(c)       The Government shall provide Government provided funds for PAC program;
funds for administration       however limited funding of FRAU program
and operation of the PAC       forced cut back of its operations.
and FRAU programs.
G.A. 2.02.(d)       The Government shall            These studies were finally
provide adequate fund          financed by IDB.
for preinvestment studies
in about 16 medium- and
small-size cities.



-22-
8. Use of Bank Resources
A. Staff inputs by Stage of Project Cycle
(Staff Weeks in Field)
Project Cycle                  Final
Through Appraisal                    20
Appraisal through                      -
Board Ap,-oval
Board Approval                         7
Through
Effectiveness
Supervision                        42.5 (6 yrs.)
TOTAL                          62.5



B.   Missions                                                             -23-
Stags of              Month/       Number of         SW           Specialization        Performance Rating              Types of
Project Cycle              Year         Persons       In Field        Represented a/             Status b/               Problemm  c/
--__-_..----------------------_--___-----------------------------------__----__-----------__---__--------------------
Through Approlool
Identification                  12/79           3             6                  2 E
IF
Preparation                     03/80            2            4                  1E
IF
Appraisal                      0/60            4            11                  1 E
IF
1 EC
IC
-------------------------------------------------------------------------__--__--------------------------------------
SUG-TOTAL%                                          20
Supervision
Supervislon 1                   04/t1           3             3                  1 E                       2                        U
IF                                                 p
IT
Supervlbs  n 2                  11/61           2             2                  1E                        1
IF
Supervision 3                   04/t2           2             2                  1 E                       3                        F
iF
Supervision 4                   10/62            a            5                  2 E                       2                        U
iF
Supervielon S                   11/S2            1            1                  1 E                       I
Supervision 6                   02/83           2             2                  1E                        2                        m
IF                                                 F
Superviolon 7                   00/6J            2            2                  1 E                       2                        U
IF                                                 F
Supervision 6                   01/04           2             2                  1 E                       3                        U
iF                                                 F
Supervision 9                   09/84           2             4                  1 E                       2
1F
Supervision 10                 0/S6            2             3                  1 E                   N.R  d/
IF
Supervision 11                  09/S6            1            2                  1 F                       3                        F
Supervision 12                  12/86            1           0.5                 1 E                       3                        F
Supervision 13                  03/66            1            1                  1 F                       3                        F
Supervision 14                  07/66            1            1                  1 F                       2                        F
Supervision i6                  11/so           2             2                  1 E                       2                        F
IF
Supervision 16                  04/97           a             S                  1 E                       1
2F
Supervilion 17                  06/07            1            1                  1 F
Supervielon 10                  01/6S           2             2                  1 E                       1
IF
Supervision 19                  12/S3           2             2                  2 F                       1
SUB-TOTAL:                                          42.S
TOTAL:                                          62.6
-----.----------------------------------------------------------------__-----__-.-----------------------------------_
o/: F, Flnancial Analyst; E, Engineer; EC, Econome;t; T, Training specialist
b/: 1, Problem Free or mlnor problems ; 2, Moderate Problems; 3, Msjor Problems
c/: U, Managerial; F, Financial; P, Political
D/: Non Rated.



COSTA RICA
SAN JOSE METROPOLITMN AREA WATER SUPPLY - LOAN 19135-CR
MONITORINC INDICATORS
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
1930           1981    1932    1938    1984                             1 95    1936    1937    198a
App.   Act.   App.  Act.   App.  Act.   App.  Act.   App.   Act.   App.   Act.   App.   Act.   App.   Act.   App.   Act.
SA JOSE METROPOLITMN
AREA (SJMA)
Water Produced (Millions MI)      75.7      -   75.7   38.6  73.2   91.5   36.7   91.3  92.2  93.6   98.1  101.0  102.9  108.4  108.2   n.o.  112.7   n.-.
Water Sold (Millions M)           47.0      -   49.2  51.5   58.2  52.6  60.5  58.0  65.5    1.4  70.6  56.0  75.1  58.4   30.1   n.s.   34.6   n.o.
Unaccounted for Water (1)           U8      -      35     42     32     48     80     42      29     43     26    46      27     44     26    45       2S     42
Water Connections (000's)        106.6       -  109.8  114.0  113.0  119.4  118.6  128.2  122.8  126.1  180.0  129.2  186.4  140.8  143.4  142.7  149.4  150.9
Sewer Connections (000's)         67.7      -   62.8   60.7   67.8  75.1   72.7   81.0   73.5   n.a.   n.o.  n.s.   n.a.  99.0   n.o.   99.8  n.a.  103.4
No. Inhob/Connection               5.8    5.8  n.o.   n.o.   n.o.   n.o.   n.r.   n.s.  n.s.   n.e.   n.o.  n.m.  n.S.   n.o.   n.o.  n.s.  n.o.   n.o.
Population Served (000'.)          56S      -    532    604    599    633    618    663    646    663    689    686    723    744    760    756    792    300
Total Population (000'o)          659       -    613       -    631      -    65o      -    710       -    762      -    734      -    *09       -    834      -
Water Produced per Capita          867      -    86u   402    853    893    334   a83    390    404    890    412    890   831    890   n.a.    390   n.m.
(1/p/d/)
Water Consumd/Connection          U8.7   n.s.   37.8   37.6   89.2  86.7   48.2  36.8  44.6   34.0  46.3  U6.1  46.9  34.7  46.5   n.o.   47.1   n.o.
(Mg/Month)
TOTALS
No. Employee                      2720      -   2720   2754   2560   2358   2390   2934   2240   2653   n.o.   2659   n.o.   8024   n.o.   2627   n.*.   2713
Enployeee/1000 Connect.           16.4      -   16.0   14.7   14.7   14.6   18.4   14.3  12.1   12.3   n.s.   12.5   n.o.   13.6   n.o.   11.0   n.o.   11.0
Total Water Connections (000's)  165.4      -  169.6  187.6  174.0  196.0 -178.7  202.1  135.8  206.3   n.o.  212.0   n.o.  224.7   n.o.  238.3   n.o.  247.5
Total Seoage Connections (000's)  66.4      -   71.9  65.7  77.3   31.1   34.8  91.3  91.2   87.9   n.s.   97.0   n.a.  102.3   n.m.  111.8   n.o.  118.5
Total etbr Produced              117.5      -  117.5  141.7  120.0  161.9  128.6  162.8  138.9  174.8  n.s.  136.7   n.o.  175.0   n.o.  175.0   n.o.  175.0
(Msllions MI)
Total W0ter Sold                  67.6      -   70.1  72.6  74.6   71.9  82.3  97.1  87.8   94.2  92.9  102.7  97.4  93.8  102.4  96.0  106.3  101.0
(Mi lion. M)
Unaccounted for Water (3)           42      -      40     49    a8      se     86     40      U4    46       -    45       -     4C       -     46      -     42
Water Consme_d/Connection         34.1   n.s.   84.4   82.2  35.7  80.7   38.4  40.0  89.4  38.0   n.s.  40.4   n.o.   85.9   n.o.  U3.2   n.o.   34.0
(M1J/Month)
n.*. a Mon avilable.



COSTA RICA
SAN JOSE METROPOLITAN AREA WATER SUPPLY - LDAN 1906-CR
AyA INCOME STATEMENTS
(IN MILLION OF COLONES)
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
1 9 3 0      1 9 6 1        1 9 6 2        1 9 6          1 9 6 4       19   65 a/      1 9 6 6        1 9 6 7        1 9 6 6
FINANCIAk  DATA        Appr.   Act.  Appr.   Act.  Appr.   Act.  Appr.   Act.  Appr.   Act.  Appr.   Act.  Appr.   Act.  Appr.   Act.  Appr.   Act.
Average WIter Tariff C/Md        1.6    1.3    2.7    2.4    t.7    6.0    8.7    6.1    4.3    7.9   n.x.   10.4   n.n.   n.m.   n.n.   14.9   n.x.   15.J
Average Sewage Tariff C/MI         -      -       -      -       -      -       -    1.6       -    2.6       -    3.4   n.m.   n.s.        -    3.0       -    2.4
Local Inflation (5)             50.0  J3.0   20.0   87.1    6.0   90.1    7.0   82.6   n.m.   12.0   n.s.   15.0   n.n.   11.6   n.n.   16.8   n.m.   20.6
Exchange Rate (C/USS)           12.0    3.6   11.0   21.6   13.0   87.4   11.0   41.1   13.0   44.6   n.n.   60.6   n.m.   56.0   n.m.   62.6   n.a.   76.6
REYENUES
Water                          119.0      -  166.4  152.6  273.6  117.2  30r,.3  516.6  160.6  616.6   n.n.  961.7   n.a.   n.x.   n.s. 1281.1   n.m. 1483.6
Sewage                          16.7      -   10.5   16.4   46.4   19.4   66.9   69.1   72.4   74.2   n.s.  106.9   n.a.   n.o.   n.m.  150.6   n.m.  114.6
Others                           3.1      -    6.6    2.6    7.6    0.0    9.5    7.1   11.9    7.9   n.o.   10.0   n.m.   n.m.   n.x.    0.0   n.m.    0.0
TOTAL REVENUES:            189.0  146.7  221.6  178.4  129.7  156.6  370.7  596.0  464.0  760.9   n.s. 1070.6   n.s.   n.m.   n.m. 1411.6   n.a. 1691.0
COSTS
Personnel                       n.x.      -   n.s.       -   n.m.       -   n.m.  306.4   n.S.        -   n.r.  32J.0   n.s.   n.a.   n.m.  673.0   n.n.  901.9
Energy                          n.s.      -   n.s.       -   n.s.       -   n.m.   87.3   n.s.        -   n.s.  141.0   n.s.   n.m.   n.s.  166.9   n.m.  191.1
Others                          n.s.      -   n.s.       *   n.s.            n.m.  146.7   n.m.       -   n.s.  184.6   n.o.   n.m.   n.s.  142.1   n.m.  204.7
TOTAL COSTS:               150.6  121.2  157.6  160.J  176.9  810.6  204.3  542.4  259.2  674.6   n.m.  663.6   n.n.   n.m.   n.m.  961.0   n.m. 1301.7
Operating Income before
Depreoiation                   6.4   23.5   86.7   (7.4) 153.8   46.6  166.4   52.6  226.6  176.1   n.n.  216.9   n.s.   n.m.   n.m.  410.6   n.m.  296.1
Depreciation                    U6.0   35.0   63.0   61.3  68.6   90.9   69.9  144.1  106.2  234.0   n.s.  160.6   n.e.   n.m.   n.s.  239.0   n.a.  364.0
Operating Income (Loam)        (29.6) (11.5)  12.7  (U6.7)  35.2  (46.1)  76.6  (91.7) 117.4  (57.9)  n.s.   16.1   n.s.   n.o.   n.o.  141.6   n.s.  (67.7)
Financial A Other Incmmee      (26.1)   0.0  (43.7)  (1.3) (43.3) (10.1) (64.7) (16.6) (96.7) (22.3)  n.o.   (9.0)  n.a.   n.s.   n.m.   44.6   n.s.  117.6
and Expenoe (Not)            -------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- - --
NET INCOME:             (57.7) (11.5) (11.0) (62.0)  41.9  (56.2)  21.6 (107.1)  21.7  (60.2)  n.m.   27.1   n.m.   n.n.   n.s.  136.2   n.m.   29.6
Revalued Fixed Asete             964   1216   1266   2516   1690   3696   2136   3919   2610   4447   n.m.   J154   n.s.   n.n.   n.s.   9370   n.m.  12439
Rate of Return (3)              (3.1)  (1.6)   1.0   (1.5)   6.3   (1.3)   1.6   (2.7)   4.5   (1.9)  n.r.    1.1   n.m.   n.o.   n.m.    2.1   n.s.    0.1
n.s. a Non Availablo
/  Not-Audited



