Document of              D 
The World Bank                 r UWlBn  t
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No. 311')b-CR
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
COSTA RICA
SAN JOSE METROPOLITAN AREA WATER SUPPLY PRO
November 26, 1980
Projects Department
Latin America and the Caribbean Regional Office
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
Currency unit
US$l                                            12.0 Colones (¢)
US$0.0833
UNITS AND MEASURES
1 mm           millimeter    =    0.04 inches
1 cm      =    centimeter    =    0.39 inches
1 I       =    meter          =    3.28 feet
1 km           kilometer      =    0.62 miles
1 1       =    liter          =    0.26 US gallons
1 m3           cubic meter         264 US gallons
1 m3/sec       cubic meter   =    22.82 MGD = million US gallons
per second                2     per day
1 ha      =    hectare        =    10,000 m   = 2.25 acres
FISCAL YEAR
January 1 to December 31



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
AIC        =   Average Incremental Cost
AyA        =    Costa Rican Water Supply and Sewerage Institute
(Instituto Costarricense de Acueductos y Alcantarillados)
CABEI      =    Central American Bank for Economic Integration
CDC        =    Commonwealth Development Corporation
FAF        =    Family Assistance Fund
(Fondo Asistencia Familiares)
FRAU       =   Revolving Fund for Urban Water Supply
(Fondo Rotatorio para Agua Urbana)
ICE             Costa Rican Electricity Instit.te
(Instituto Costarricense de Electricidad)
IDB        =    Inter-American Development Bank
IFAM            Municipal Development and Assistance Institute
(Instituto de Fomento y Ayuda Municipal)
IMAS            Joint Institute of Social Assistance
(Instituto Mixto de Ayuda Social)
INVU       =   National Institute of Urban Housing
(Instituto Nacional de Vivienda y Urbanismo)
IRR        =    Internal Rate of Return
MH              Ministry of Health
(Ministerio de Salud)
NPV        5   Net Present Value
OCC             Opportunity Cost of Capital
ODA             Overseas Development Authority
OFIPLAN         Office of Planning and Economic Policy
(Oficina de Planificacion y Politica Economica)
PAC        =    Community Assistance Program
(Programa Ayuda Comunal)
PAHO            Pan American Health Organization
PRA        =    Program of Administrative Rationalization
(Programa Racionalisacion de Administracion)
L This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contenst may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



- iii -
ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS (Continued)
SENAS           National Service for Underground Water
(Servicio Nacional de Aguas Subterraneas)
SJMA            San Jose Metropolitan Area
SJMR            San Jose Metropolitan Region
SNAA       =    National Water Supply and Sewerage Service
(Servicios Nacionales de Acueductos y Alcantarillados)
SNE             National Electricity Service
(Servicio Nacional de Electricidad)
WHO             World Health Organization



- iv -
COSTA RICA
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
SAN JOSE METROPOLITA1I AREA VIATER SUPPLY PROJECT
TABLE OF CONTENTS
Page No.
I.   INTRODUCTION ..............................................................        1
II.   THE SECTOR ...............................................................         I
Country Background .......................... ............ .                I 1
Water Resources ........................................                    2
Sector Organization ............             ........................       2
Sector Finances .................... ..... ... ......................       3
Service Levels ....................................................         4
Service Level Goals ......... .. . . . .  ...................................  4
Sector Objectives    .        ......................         .. . .         5
Sector Constraints . ................................... .                  5
Investment Program and Goals Attainment ................                    6
III.    POPULATION, SECTOR SERVICES AND DEMAND IN THE PROJECT AREA                        6
Project Location ...........  ........................... .                 6
Regional Development Prospects ........................                     7
Sector Agencies  *.......................................                   8
Existing Systems .         ... . . . .......   ................ .           8
Population Served and Standards of Service .............                   10
Water Supply Services for the Urban Poor *.....--.....                     11
Population and Demand Projections             ......................       12
IV.  THE PROJECT- .................   13
Genesis  ****. *****..*              ...................................   13
Objectives                          -...........                           14
Project Description .-. ...... . . . .    ...o. ... .  .....o ..... ..... ..  15
Status of Project Preparation  .....o ..... ....-., ...                    16
Cost Estimates    -         .        -..... ... .       .......            17
Project Financing ..                               ....    18
Implementation ........  .-          .... .. . . .. . ... ... ....         21
Water Resources Aspects  ..          . .o.......o.o....  ...... .   ....... .  23
Environmental and Health Aspects .....-..........         .......          23
Procurement                                      o-. .  .........  24
Disbursements.....                                    ..- .    ......-.    25
This report is based on the findings of an appraisal mission which visited
Costa Rica during May 5 to 22, 1980. The mission comprised Messrs. R. MacEwen,
Engineer; W. Roach, Financial Analyst; F. -Morris, Young Professional and
A. Penfold, Consultant.



v -
TABLE OF CONTENTS (Continued)
Page No.
V.   THE BORROWTER  ................................................                     26
Lending Arrangements  .............        ........... ............         26
Organization  ...........................................                   26
Management and Staff  . ....................... ........... .               27
Training ...............................................                    29
Management Systems .......................... ...........                   29
Audit and Insurance  .......  .            ........... . .. .-.- .... .     30
Organization and Management Technical Assistance .                  ....    31
VI.   FINANCIAL ANALYSIS  ......... ............................. ..*    ..... ...        32
Past and Current Financial Performance  ........                .........   32
Revenues  ...                ...... ...       ........................      34
Capital Contributions  ......................                               35
Financial Projections  ...............         ..      ................     36
Financing Plan ......... .... ..........          ....................      37
Monitoring Indicators  ....... .      .... .......................          41
Project Completion Report  ..............                        ....       41
VII.    ECONOMIC AND SOCIAL ANALYSIS  ...............             .......oo_  .....        43
Project Benefits  ............. .     ...... . ....     ...............     43
Least-cost Solution  .....  o ...o .......            ..................    43
Return on Investment and Average Long-Run
Incremental Cost ............... . ..44
Impact on Urban Poor  ..............        ... .. .  ..............        46
Affordability of Services to the Urban Poor ....                            46
Project Sensitivity and Risks  ..........................                   46
VIII.    AGREEMENTS REACHED AND RECONHENDATIONS  ............                               48



- vi -
TABLE OF CONTENTS (Continued)
LIST OF ANNEXES
1.   AyA Investment Program
2.   Existing SJMA Water Supply and Sewerage Systems
3.   Historical and Projected Population, Water Consumption and
Production for the SJMA System
4.   Project Description
5.   Project Cost Estimate
6.   Implementation Schedule
7.   Project Implementation - Key Dates
8.   Loan Disbursement Schedule
9.   Organization Chart of AyA
10. Financial Statements and Projections with Assumptions
11.  Analysis of AyA Tariff Structure                     3
12. Calculations for IRR and NPV - Orosi Scheme (1.8 m /sec)
13. Selected Documents and Data Available in Project File
LIST OF TABLES
3.1 Actual and Projected Population and Water Demand for the SJMA,
1979, 1984, 1990 and 2000
4.1 Estimated Project Cost by Expenditure Category
4.2 Estimated Project Cost by Component Including Contingencies
4.3 Project Financing Plan
5.1 Technical Assistance to AyA for Organization and Management
6.1 AyA Selected Income Statement and Cash Flow Data, 1974-79
6.2 AyA Summary Projected Income Statement and Cash Flow Data, 1980-84
6.3 Government Support to AyA
6.4 AyA Financing Plan, 1981-83
6.5  AyA Monitoring Indicators
7.1 Least Cost Comparison of Alternatives at 12% Discount Rate
7.2 Affordability of Service to Urban Poor
MAP
No. 15163 - Costa Rica - Water Supply Project, San Jose Metropolitan Region






COSTA RICA
SAN JOSE METROPOLITAN AREA WATER SUPPLY PROJECT
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
I. INTRODUCTION
1.01      The Government of Costa Rica has requested Bank financial assist-
ance for the expansion of the water supply to the San Jose Metropolitan Area
(SJMA), the preparation of a water and sewerage master plan, and the financ-
ing of technical assistance for institutional improvement. The project was
prepared by the Costa Rican Water Supply and Sewerage Institute (AyA) which is
the national institution responsible for providing water supply and sanitation
services throughout Costa Rica. The total estimated cost of the project plus
interest during construction is US$55.3 million. A Bank loan of US$26.0
million is recommended to cover 74% of the foreign cost of the project
including interest during construction. Cofinancing of US$13.8 million
would be provided by the United Kingdom from the Commonwealth Development
Corporation (CDC). The Borrower and the beneficiary would be AyA. This
would be the first Bank Loan to the water sector in Costa Rica and to AyA.
The project would be implemented in the three year period 1981-83. The
project was appraised in May 1980 and found to be technically and economi-
cally justified and suitable for a Bank Loan.
II. THE SECTOR
Country Background
2.01      The Republic of Costa Rica is situated in Central America between
Nicaragua and Panama yith access to bot4  the Atlantic and Pacific Oceans.
Its area is 50,900 km including 100 km of islands. For administrative
purposes, the country is divided into seven provinces, 80 cantons and 413
districts.
2.02      There are three principal geographic and climatic regions:  (a) the
low Atlantic Region, with a maximum altitude of 500 m and tropical climate;
(b) the Central Plateau, where the SJMA is located, with altitudes between
1,000 and 2,000 m and an agreeable climate; (c) the Pacific Region, with low
mountains, wide valleys and distinct dry and rainy seasons.
2.03      The mid-1980 population of Costa Rica was estimated at 2.2 million 1/
(50% in urban communities with over 2,000 inhabitants). Overall annual popula-
tion growth was 3.4% for the period 1960-70. As a result of a very rapid
decline in fertility, however, the rate declined to 2.6% in 1970-75 and is
expected to drop to 2.3% in the 1980s. The Central Plateau, with annual
1/   Population Department, Office of Planning and Economic Policy (OFIPLAN).



growth rates of nearly 5% over the period 1963-78, contained 64% of the
1978 population. Most of the Central Plateau growth occurred in the SJMA
where 27% of the country's population lives. Costa Rica's rate of urban
migration is among the lowest for developing countries. As a result of this,
as well as successful housing programs, the problem of urban slums is much
less severe in Costa Rica than in most other developing countries.
2.04      Costa Rica has a young population.  In 1978, 42% of the total
population was less than 15 years old, and life expectancy at birth was
70 years. In 1978 the infant mortality rate was 28 per 1,000 live births as
compared with infant mortality rates of 47 per 1,000 in Panama and 77 per
1,000 in Guatemala. 1/ As a result of improved sanitation, infant mortality
caused by intestinal diseases in 1978 was only 13%, down from 25% in 1972.
Mortality due to intestinal diseases for the general population has been
greatly reduced over the years and, in 1977, was fifth among the leading
causes of death. There is still a concern for the relatively high inci-
dence of water-borne diseases which can be traced to inadequate water supply
and sanitary facilities in the rural areas.
2.05      The economy of Costa Rica is open and remains heavily dependent
on the export of a few agricultural commodities (coffee and bananas still
account for slightly more than 50% of all merchandise exports). Per capita
income in 1979 was US$1,820. There is a relatively large middle class in
the urban areas (44% of total national income is shared by the middle 60% of
the population). The public sector has long played a vital role in the
development process. The Government has given substantial attention to
improving the country's basic infrastructure and has provided a wide range of
public services. Close to half of the Government's expenditures have tradi-
tionally been in education, health, nutrition and other social sectors.
Water Resources
2.06      Precipitation varies from a minimum of 1,500 mm p.a. in the Pacific
Region to a maximum of 3,400 mm p.a. in the Atlantic Region, although some moun-
tainous areas may have over 8,000 mm of precipitation p.a. Distinct seasonal
variations affect precipitation in all regions. The dry season runs from
December to April. Surface water resources are abundant; however, there is a
lack of good reservoir sites near the major urban centers. Groundwater is
present in most areas, but has not been extensively developed, primarily
because the volcanic origin of the known aquifers has made it difficult to
characterize the aquifers and predict safe yields. Most of the developed
groundwater comes from springs, although 20% of the SJMA's water supply comes
from deep wells.
Sector Organization
2.07      Sector responsibilities are primarily entrusted to two Government
agencies, although individual municipalities and two other public entities
also play an important role. AyA, an autonomous and decentralized Government
1/   World Bank Development Report, 1980, The World Bank, August 1980.



agency, has the authority to plan, design, construct, operate and maintain
water supply and sewerage systems in communities of over 200 inhabitants. It
operates 196 systems providing about 31% of the total population with a
piped water supply.
2.08      AyA also channels nearly all sector investment for the urban and
concentrated rural population by acting as a financing agent and providing
technical support to municipalities for the construction of water supply
and sewerage systems. In this connection, the Government has created
and AyA administers a Revolving Fund for Urban Water Supply (FRAU), financed
by the Family Assistance Fund (FAF) and other Government grants and loans.
Until 1978 Government financing was channelled to the municipalities
through the Municipal Development and Assistance Institute (IFAM). All
FRAU financial assistance consists of loans. The municipalities operate
and maintain 236 urban and rural water supply systems which nrovide about
34% of the total population with a piped water supply.
2.09      AyA has also launched a Community Self Help Program (PAC) financed by
FAF and aimed at solving the water needs of the concentrated rural areas (settle-
ments with 200 to 2,000 inhabitants). Under this program, local communities
construct the system and operate it with materials, design and technical assis-
tance furnished by AyA. To be eligible for PAC, a community has to pledge some
financial resources, materials and labor. In less than three years of operation,
PAC has successfully upgraded 153 systems and built 95 new aqueducts
benefitting 82,000 people.
2.10      The second most important agency in the sector is the Ministry of
Health (MH). It is responsible for environmental health including latriniza-
tion programs and installation of hand pumps for the dispersed rural population
(communities with less than 200 inhabitants). Both AyA and MH have legal
responsibility for water quality control; however, only AyA is currently carry-
ing out this function.
2.11      The other two public agencies which have an important role in the
sector are the National Electricity Service (SNE), which regulates tariffs
and administers the General Water Law, and the National Service for Underground
Water (SENAS), an autonomous Government entity which carries out groundwater
exploration and development programs.
Sector Finances
2.12      The sector has relied in the past on a combination of Government
contributions and borrowings, principally external loans, to finance invest-
ment programs. This reliance is a result of tariff policies which have
not allowed for sufficient internal cash generation to support expansion.
Tariffs for most municipally operated systems are significantly lower than
those charged by AyA and do not even cover operation and maintenance expenses.
Government contributions to AyA over the period 1974-79 amounted to US$54
million. Borrowings by AyA, principally from the Inter-American Development
Bank (IDB), the Central American Bank for Economic Integration (CABEI) and the
United Kingdom Overseas Development Agency (ODA), amounted to US$37 million
over the same period. Continued Government financial support of US$27 million
and use of external borrowings of US$65 million, would be required to assist
AyA in the implementation of its investment program during 1980-84 (paras 6.16
and 6.17).



-4-
Service Levels
2.13      The availability of water supply and sewerage services in Costa Rica
ranks among the highest in Latin America. In 1978 about 75% of the total
population was served by public water supply. Service was provided almost
exclusively by house connections. Water supply service level statistics in
1978 were as follows:
Population Served           Responsible
Area                Number       Percent       Governmental Agency
Urban                 1,100,000        94                  AyA
Concentrated Rural      400,000        88                 AyA
Dispersed Rural         650,000        39                 MH
The above figures include but do not reflect population served with inter-
mittent or otherwise inadequate supply.
2.14      While service levels are high, continuity of service is poor.
Many water supply systems are old and in poor repair, resulting in high
leakage. As wastage and per capita consumption are also high, supply
often lags behind demand. In the urban and concentrated rural areas, the
quality of water supplied at the source is generally acceptable. Quality
is threatened, however, by intermittent service and low distribution system
pressure.
2.15      Forty-three percent of the urban population is served by waterborne
sewerage systems, 54% by septic tanks or sanitary latrines and 3% does not
have service. There are 12 cities with waterborne sewerage systems. Only six
systems provide some degree of treatment, but there is no control of effluent
quality. In the rural areas, approximately 96% of the concentrated population
has either sanitary latrines or septic tanks, and about 77% of the dispersed
population has sanitary latrines. Effective coverage is less than indicated
because a significantly large number of latrines are in unacceptable condition.
Service Level Goals
2.16      The 1979-82 National Development Plan dedicates a chapter to the
water supply and sewerage sector. Sector goals are to: (a) provide water
service to 95% of the urban and concentrated rural populations through house
connections by 1982; (b) improve existing systems; (c) increase coverage in the
dispersed rural areas to 47% of the population; (d) serve 70% of the urban
population by a waterborne sewerage system and 30% by either septic tanks or
latrines; and (e) provide service to 100% of the concentrated rural popula-
tion and 90% of the dispersed rural population with sanitary latrines.
It is unlikely that these goals will be met by 1982; however, most of the
goals could be met beginning in 1984 if the 1980-84 sector investment program
is implemented as planned.



-5-
Sector Objectives
2.17      Almost all of Costa Rica's 1982 sector service level objectives
are below the International Water Decade targets formulated at the 1976 UN
Conference on Human Settlements and reaffirmed at the UN Water Conference
at Mar del Plata, Argentina in 1977. The UN targets for 1990 imply
complete coverage of urban areas with house connections for both water and
sewerage, house connections for water for the rural agglomerated population,
and sanitary excreta disposal for the concentrated and dispersed rural
populations. The country's targets for sewerage services are less ambitious
than those of the UN but are probably more realistic in light of present
service levels and programmed sector investment.
2.18      The construction component of the proposed project would enhance
the water supply service goals, particularly in the SJMA. The technical
assistance component would enable AyA to improve its operations in other
urban and rural areas and to upgrade services nationally. A proposed master
plan would provide the basis for future water supply development in the SJMR
and a third stage sewerage project for the SJMA. The project would not
directly affect sewerage service levels outside the SJMA. Funding for sewerage
system improvements is being sought from CABEI and IDB.
Sector Constraints
2.19      The major sector constraints are identified as follows:
(a) limited ability to plan and finance the sector investment
program. The sector needs large amounts of government funding
in a period of retrenchment of public sector spending;
(b)  limited institutional capacity to implement the sector invest-
ment program. AyA has the capacity to administer its invest-
ment program in the SJMA; but, its regional operations are
deficient;
(c) lack of master planning;
(d)  lack of MH institutional capacity to implement
programs for the dispersed rural population;
(e) inadequate tariff levels and structures; and
(f) incomplete metering and leakage which cause high
levels of unaccounted-for water.
2.20      Most of these constraints would be addressed by the proposed tech-
nical assistance and master plan project components (paras 4.11 and 4.12).
Through these components, AyA would receive technical assistance to: (a)
improve its managerial capabilities in investment planning, capital budgeting,
financial and managerial accounting and billing; (b) develop a comprehensive
plan for the FRAU program; and (c) improve the water supply and waste disposal



-6-
for the rural areas. The development of a master plan for the SJMA would
also be included, as would technical assistance for metering and for leakage
control. On November 1, 1980 AyA implemented a 50% tariff increase. This
represented an important first step in addressing financial and tariff
constraints.
Investment Program and Goals Attainment
2.21      AyA invested ¢181 million (US$21.1 million in 1979, and this
year's figure is estimated at around 0245 million (US$26.5 million). 1/
The investment program for 1980-84 (Annex 1) amounts to ¢1,491 million
(US$122.4 million), including all AyA investments and the FRAU and PAC
programs financed by FAF (paras 2.08 and 2.09). The investment program
excludes MH's latrinization work and hand pump installation in the rural
areas (para 2.10). Construction of several large new projects (the Orosi
water supply scheme, the sixteen cities project and initiation of the
stage three sewerage project), and continuation of FRAU and PAC programs
explain the high average annual investments of ¢312 million (US$24.0 million)
proposed for 1981-84.
2.22      The attainment of most of the country's sector goals as set forth
in this program is judged feasible on the basis of high service levels and
available financial, institutional and manpower resources, provided that the
present sector constraints are addressed successfully through technical
assistance and financial reforms proposed under the project.
2.23      The Orosi component would allow the SJMA to maintain a 95% water
service level. Completion of the stage two sewerage project and the start of
stage three sewerage project, both included in the investment program, should
meet the sewerage goal for the SJMA. The 16 medium size cities water supply
and sewerage project, presently in the planning stage, and the FRAU program
(involving about 30 cities) should meet sector goals in other urban areas.
The goal of providing acceptable water to 88% of the population in the
concentrated rural area will be met by the continuation of the PAC program.
The MH latrinization program in the rural areas will fall short of its goal
of serving 100% of the population with at least sanitary latrines in acceptable
condition, unless the program is accelerated. The same result can be expected
with water service goals in the dispersed rural areas administered by MR.
External funds and trained manpower are needed to successfully implement the
program.
III. POPULATION, SECTOR SERVICES AND DEMAND IN THE PROJECT AREA
Project Location
3.01      The area to be served by the project is the SJMA.  A proposed master
plan would cover the larger San Jose Metropolitan Region (SJMR). The SJMR
covers an area of 400 km2 in the Central Plateau at an altitude of 1,200 m.
1/   Including FRAU and PAC Programs.



-7-
The SJMA, located in the center of the SJMR, includes the central canton of
the province of San Jose, the capital of Costa Rica and a majority of the
districts of ten surrounding cantons. The SJMR has an estimated population
of 900,000 or 41% of total and includes the three smaller urban centers of
Alajuela, Heredia, and Cartago which are located within a distance of 20 km of
the SJMA. Mountainous terrain has limited development of the SJMR to the
north, south and east. To the west, the valley slopes gently all the way to
the Pacific Coast, and development is moving in this direction. The water
source for the project is the Reventazon River watershed to the east of the
SJMR. The headwaters of the Reventazon River are located in the Talamanca
Mountain Range (Map).
Regional Development Prospects
3.02      San Jose was founded in 1723 and became the capital of Costa Rica
in 1823. The SJMA is the country's governmental, industrial, commercial,
and cultural center. The surrounding area includes the most fertile land in
the country for the cultivation of coffee, the nation's chief export.
3.03      In 1963, the SJMA contained about 25% of the country's population.
This percentage increased to 26% in 1973 and is estimated at 27% in 1980.
While the Government has actively encouraged the development of other
regions, notably the Northwestern (Guanacaste) and Atlantic regions, the
SJMA will continue to increase its dominant position relative to the rest
of the country. The population of the SJMA's largely commercial central
area is not expected to grow greatly during the next ten years (1980-90).
The population of the outlying districts of the SJMA, especially those to the
south and west of the city, can thus be expected to grow rapidly in the near
future.
3.04      At present the lack of water restrains development in some areas.
Industries requiring large quantities of water for manufacturing processes
have been forced to locate in areas where the availability of groundwater
allows them to develop their own private supplies. To a certain extent, AyA
controls development by refusing to provide water for residential and
commercial development in areas of the city where dry season shortages have
been the most critical. There are abundant water resources that could be
developed to serve the SJMA, but most of the close-in, low cost gravity sources
have already been developed. In the future water will have to be brought from
relatively long distances and will require the construction of reservoirs or
extensive pumping from aquifers.
3.05      Wastewater disposal and drainage have not constrained development.
The natural slope of the Central Plateau to the west and the Virilla River
system, which drains the region, have made the disposal of storm water runoff
and sewerage a relatively easy task. A waterborne sewerage system provides
service for 49% of the population of the SJMA. Eventually, waterborne sewerage
service will be extended to all of the area's population. At the present time
treatment is neither provided nor needed. The need for treatment in the future
would be studied as part of the project (para 4.11).



-8-
Sector Agencies
3.06      The two principal agencies involved in the project are AyA and the
Costa Rican Electricity Institute (ICE), the most important organization in the
power sector.  AyA, the Borrower, would be responsible for project implementa-
tion. ICE controls the source that would be developed for water supply under
the project. ICE currently uses this water to generate power at its Rio Macho
and Cachi hydroelectric plants. AyA has signed a formal agreement with ICE
for the diversion of up to 1.8 m3/sec for the project (para 4.24). AyA and
ICE have a satisfactory working relationship.
Existing Systems
3.07      There are eight municipally owned water systems in addition to the
AyA controlled SJMA system, as follows:
Municipality               1980 Population
Cartago                       73,300
Alajuela                      62,000
Heredia                       42,100
Escazu                        34,600
Santa Ana                     18,800
Paraiso                       11,500
Tres Rios                      9,700
Colon                          6,000
Total                   258,000
The water production of the SJMA system is about twice the combined production
of the eight other systems in the region. The SJMA, Cartago, Heredia and
Alajuela have waterborne sewerage systems. Except for the SJMA system, cover-
age is quite limited. Five of the eight water systems have been given loans
and are receiving technical assistance from AyA through the FRAU program. The
municipalities are independent minded. Although they are willing to accept
the loans and technical assistance from AyA, they are reluctant to cooperate
fully in implementing tariff and financial policies to fulfill the obligations
under which assistance and loans are offered. AyA has no enforcement powers
over the municipalities, but does have the right to collect any of the munici-
palities past-due loan installments directly from the Government. The amounts
collected are deducted from budgetary allocations to the municipalities.
Technical assistance is proposed under the project to strengthen the FRAU
program (para. 4.12).
3.08      Water is supplied to the SJMA system from six surface water sources,
five spring sources and fifteen deep wells. The surface water sources receive
full treatment, including filtration. The water quality of the spring sources
and the wells is very good, and only chlorination is required. About 50% of
the water is conveyed to the distribution system by gravity. Only water from
the deep wells and two spring sources is pumped. Ten percent of the supply is
repumped to high service areas. The estimated dry and wet season yields of
the existing sources, including sources now under construction, are as follows:



Dry season yield    Wet season yield
Source                            (l/sec)              (1/sec)
Surface water
Existing                                   925                 1,220
Under construction                           -                     -
Springs
Existing                                   735                   675
Under construction                         160                   140
Wells
Existing                                   520                   520
Under construction                         120                   120
Total                      2,460                 2,675
3.09      The SJMA distribution system is divided into 13 separate pressure
zones. Each zone has one or more service reservoirs which establish and
maintain the pressure. There are 20 service reservoirs with a total storage
capacity of 82,800 m3, equivalent to 40% of the average demand in 1980.
3.10      Most of the large facilities have been designed by US or British
consultants using materials standards and design criteria of these two
countries. AyA uses US standards for the purchase of pipe and materials.
The small facilities are designed to locally developed criteria based on
US practice. Design criteria would be examined for suitability as part of the
technical assistance component of the project (para 4.12). Supply and produc-
tion facilities, especially the new ones, are well conceived and maintained.
The same cannot be said of the distribution system, which is a conglomeration
of different systems which originally belonged to eight separate municipalities.
Prior to 1978,-no reliable maps of the distribution system were available.
AyA has been mapping the system since 1978 and now has 70% of it covered.
3.11      Water production is measured at each source, but most of the original
telemetering equipment installed at the major treatment and production facili-
ties is not operational. The accuracy of manually measured flows using
primary hydraulic devices such as weirs is considered acceptable. The
water from all sources is only mildly corrosive. Water quality problems arise
immediately after heavy rainfalls when high turbidities reduce production at
the two largest treatment plants which employ slow sand filters.
3.12      Sewage and storm water are collected separately in all-gravity
systems. The sewerage system is relatively new, except for the downtown
San Jose area, having been constructed since 1964. At present raw sewage
is discharged without treatment to the Virilla River downstream of the city.
The master sewerage plan, prepared in 1962, calls for primary and secondary
treatment to be added as the fourth and final stage of the program. The
construction of the second stage is now nearing completion. A more detailed
description of the SIMA water and sewerage systems is given in Annex 2.



- 10 -
Population Served and Standards of Service
3.13      The 1980 population of the SJMA is estimated at 595,000.  Roughly
half of this population is fairly densely housed in the Canton of San Jose and
the population centers of the ten surrounding cantons. The :emaining half
resides in the surrounding area on land that was previously used for agricul-
ture. Thirty percent of the population (179,000 persons) are classified as
urban poor. 1/ This population is not concentrated, but spread fairly evenly
throughout the SJMA.
3.14      In 1980 95% of the SJMA population was served by the public water
supply system through 106,600 private connections and 40 public standpipes.
The remaining 5% is served by private, individual systems using either
springs or wells for sources. Metered per capita consumption (including
industry, government, and institutions) in 1979 was 234 1/cd. Per capita
production was 378 1/cd based on population served. If adequate production
capacity had been available, it is estimated that per capita production would
have been 390 1/cd and consumption would have increased accordingly. Classi-
fication of 1979 per capita production by use is as follows:
% of Total
Category                     1/cd          production
Domestic                      170              45
Commercial                     19               5
Industrial                     26               7
Government                     15               4
Institutional                   4               1
Total consumption        234              62
Unaccounted-for               144              38
Total production         378             100
3.15      Industrial consumption is low since many industries have their own
private supplies. It is estimated that private industrial consumption is
equal to 10 1/cd. Domestic consumption by the urban poor is estimated to be
80 1/cd (one half the average domestic consumption). Excessively high levels
of unaccounted-for water in the SJMA (38% of water produced) are the result of
leaks, illegal connections, under-registration of meters, underestimated
consumption of flat rate customers, and overestimated production from unmetered
supplies. AyA has a program to reduce unaccounted-for water. Assurances were
obtained that the unaccounted-for water program would be continued and that
unaccounted-for water would be reduced in accordance with recommendations of
the technical assistance program. AyA agreed to submit targets to the Bank
for review and comment not later than December 31, 1981. A preliminary target
of 29% unaccounted-for water by 1984 has been established as a monitoring
indicator goal for the SJMA (para 6.18 and Annex 3).
I/   The poverty level results from applying a relative poverty threshold
equivalent to an annual per capita income of ¢1,810 at 1973 prices
(1/3 of GNP per capita) to 1973 census income data and projecting it
to 1980, 1984 and 1990 assuming a constant income distribution.



- 11 -
3.16      At the beginning of 1980, 87% of all connections were metered0  The
remaining 13% were billed on a flat rate basis, their consumption being estimated
as equal to the average consumption of all metered domestic users. Consumption
from the 40 public standpipes was unmetered. Consumption from standpipes, water
for washing streets, flushing sewers and water mains, and water used by
the fire department are estimated at 2% of total production. AyA's current
program of installing meters on all service connections and standpipes is
proceeding satisfactorily. The estimated completion date for this program
is December 31, 1981. Assurances were obtained during Loan negotiations
that this program would continue and be completed on schedule. Funds would
be provided in the project for the purchase and installation of meters for
this program (para 4.10).
3.17      Although water service levels are high (95%) and the quality of
all water meets World Health Organization (WHO) standards at the source,
water pressure in the distribution network and continuity of supply are not
adequate. The 1980 dry season deficit was approximately 16% of demand, result-
ing in low system pressures and intermittent service to approximately 333,000
persons (59% of the serviced population), a condition that could lead to con-
tamination of water in the distribution system. Another 50,000 inhabitants
experience even worse shortages in the municipally-served cantons of Escazu,
Santa Ana and Colon, which would be connected to the SJMA system after com-
pletion of the project when supply capacity is increased. The deficit has
created an adverse economic impact since AyA has refused to extend service for
new development until additional supplies are available.
3.18      About 49% of the SJMA population is served by the waterborne sewerage
system through 55,000 direct connections. Most of the remainder of the popula-
tion is served by septic tanks and will eventually be served by the waterborne
sewerage system when the present construction program is complete, probably by
1990. A small percentage of the population (less than 10%) still uses latrines.
All systems are considered safe from a public health standpoint.
Water Suppljy Services for the Urban Poor
3.19      In 1980 30.2% of the SJMA population was in relative poverty
(179,000 inhabitants). The SJMA is characterized by having rich and poor
neighborhoods relatively well mixed together, making it very difficult to
investigate the degree to which water service levels vary with poverty. No
large concentrations of unserviced low-income dwellings are known to exist
at present, and AyA officials estimate that the present 95% piped service
level is fairly evenly distributed throughout the SJMA. Under the project,
service in low-income neighborhoods would be improved by replacing inadequate
existing mains and providing additional connections as required (para 4.09).
In future years, new low-income households would benefit from connections made
possible by the project (para 7.06).
3.20      The Government is constructing an average of 6,000 subsidized
housing units p.a. for low-income families through programs administered
by the National Institute of Urban Housing (INVU) and the Joint Institute
of Social Assistance (IMAS). A new program currently being planned by the



- 12 -
Ministry of Housing would make low interest mortgage money available to pri-
vate developers with projects that include a mix of low- and medium-income
units. The Government has budgeted 0512 million for 1979-1981 in addition
to its regular housing budget for this program in an attempt to raise annual
housing starts to 18,000 p.a. At least 80% of the projects are expected to be
in the SJMA. The Government is concerned that sufficient water supply be
available for its housing programs and has requested AyA to make water service
available.
Population and Demand Projections
3.21      The population of the SJMA is expected to reach 710,000 inhabitants
by 1984, the first full year of service of the proposed project and 885,000 in
1990, the design year for the project. These projections are based on an
annual population growth rate of 3% and expansion of the existing service area
to include three areas not presently served by AyA (Escazu, Santa Ana and
Colon). The annual growth rate of 3% is considered conservative. Most other
agencies, including AyA, have been using growth rates of as high as 5% for
SJMA population projections.
3.22      Future water demand has been derived from the expected population
growth, a 95% service level in the expanded service area by 1990 and a per
capita demand of 390 1/cd (water production) approximately equal to the
existing demand (para 3.14). Service levels are expected to drop to 91% in
1984 when new areas are annexed to the system since distribution systems in
these areas only serve about 50% of the existing population. These distribu-
tion systems can be easily incorporated into the SJMA system, but it is
expected that it will take several years before the systems can be expanded
to serve everyone in the newly incorporated areas.
3.23      Per capita domestic, industrial and commercial consumption is ex-
pected to increase between 1984 and 1990; however, this increase is expected
to be derived mostly from full metering coverage so that unaccounted-for water
would decrease but overall per capita production would remain unchanged. The
expected population served, total consumption and total production for the
1979-2000 period are given in Annex 3 and summarized in Table 3.1.
Table 3.1 ACTUAL AND PROJECTED POPULATION AND WATER DEMAND
FOR THE SJMA, 1979, 1984, 1990 and 2000
1979     1984      1990     2000
Population (thousand)               578      710       885    1,205
Population served (thousand)        549      648       841    1,145
Population served  M%)               95       91 a/    95        95
Demand (1/sec)                   2,500    2,900    3,800    5,200
Production (1/sec)               2,400    2,900    3,800    5,200
Consumption (1/sec)               1,500    2,100    2,800    3,900
Unaccounted-for production (%)       38       29        25       25
a/ Reduction results from addition of new areas with service
levels less than 95%.



- 13 -
3.24      Demand for sewerage service is based on completion of the second
stage of the SJMA sewerage project in 1982 and initiation of the third stage
follow-up project in 1984. Sewer connections in the SJMA are expected to
increase from the present 55,000 to 78,000 in 1984, with a corresponding in-
crease in service levels from the present 49% to 62% by 1984.
IV. THE PROJECT
Genesis
4.01      This would be the first Bank Loan to the water sector in Costa Rica.
The principal project component, the Orosi water supply scheme, is not part of
any master plan. It was conceived by AyA in early 1979 as an emergency solution
to the problem of recurring water shortages in the higher areas of the SJMA
system during the dry season. The scheme was selected over other previously
identified schemes because it is simple and can be implemented quickly and
because it is the next in line, least-cost alternative water source for San
Jose (para 7.03). The potential for quick implementation results from the
fact that the source of supply, the Rio Macho power plant supply system, has
already been developed and paid for by ICE. Also, there is unused capacity
at the Tres Rios water treatment plant where the new supply would be treated.
4.02      AyA originally intended to request Bank funds to finance the larger
and more costly Rio Pirris water supply scheme, scheduled to become opera-
tional in 1985. The Bank's December 1979 identification mission reviewed
AyA's request for an engineering loan for the Rio Pirris scheme. The mission
found the scheme technically feasible but not economically justified. The
mission identified at least two other potential sources that could provide
water at a lower marginal cost, but that had not been sufficiently investigated.
It was clear to the mission that before any project of the magnitude of the
Rio Pirris scheme could be undertaken, preparation of a master plan was
necessary to identify and study all alternatives. The mission therefore
suggested the possibility of Bank financing for the Orosi scheme, along with
preparation of a master water and sewerage plan and a technical assistance
program. AyA agreed to this proposal and a preappraisal mission visited
Costa Rica in February 1980.
4.03      In addition to financing an urgently needed project, the Bank's
primary objective in entering the sector would be to strengthen AyA. AyA is
also seeking adequate foreign financing for investments in low service level
areas outside the SJMA. Because of AyA's limited capacity to carry out such
works and the possibility of securing more concessional financing to cover its
short term requirements, Bank funding is not required at present for these
areas. However, as AyA becomes stronger, it is expected to request Bank
financing for works outside the SJMA. In preparation for this eventuality,
AyA plans to carry out preinvestment studies for a proposed water supply and
sewerage project in about 16 medium and small size cities. Assurances were
obtained from AyA that they would prepare terms of reference not later than
June 30, 1981 for the preinvestment studies; furnish the Bank for comments
the terms of reference and conclusions of the studies; and complete the studies
by December 31, 1982. Also, assurances were obtained from the Government that
funding would be provided to AyA to undertake the studies not later than
December 31, 1981.



- 14 -
4.04      The Orosi supply scheme was planned by AyA's technical staff.  The
need for additional water supply is well recognized by citizens who have
suffered water shortages during the dry season and by developers whose plans
for additional construction have been turned down for lack of water in certain
areas of the city. The Orosi scheme is included in the Government's 1979-82
National Development Plan and is consistent with the plan's objective of pro-
viding a piped, continuous and safe water supply to all people living in areas
with concentrated populations of 2,000 or more. Although the SJMA already meets
the Government's objectives for service level coverage, the goal of providing
reliable and continuous service is not being met and water quality is threatened.
Objlectives
4.05      The overall objectives of the project are: (a) to assist the Govern-
ment in developing an economically sound sector investment program consistent
with service requirements and public finance constraints; (b) to promote
institution building of AyA; and (c) to provide a safe and reliable water
supply for the SJMA with emphasis on improved service to the urban poor.
Specific project objectives are as follows:
(a) improvement of AyA's management and the efficiency of its
operations;
(b) improvement of AyA's planning and programming for expansion of
water supply and sanitation services in smaller cities and rural
areas;
(c) improvement of AyA's planning, technical and financial
assistance to municipalities and other independent water
supply and sewage systems;
(d) achievement of AyA's financial independence from Government
subsidy;
(e) increase in water supply capacity to eliminate existing dry
season shortages which would affect an estimated 478,000 persons
including 143,000 urban poor in 1984 (paras 7.01 and 7.06);
(f) provision of an adequate water supply for future demands in
the SJMA including the Government's low income housing
projects (para 3.20); and
(g) reduction of AyA's operating cost through improved
efficiency, reduction in unaccounted-for water and lower-
ing of the operating employee to service connection
ratio from the present 12.1 employees per thousand
connections.
4.06      In 1984, after completion of the project, service levels actually
would be slightly lower than at present (para 3.22); however, service area
coverage would be increased by 14 km2 (11% of the existing service area), and
all those served would have a safe and continuous supply of water during the
dry season. In addition, water supplies would be adequate for expected system
growth until the year 1990.



- 15 -
Prolect Description
4.07      The project has five components as described in detail in Annex 4
and summarized below:
(a) construction of the Orosi water supply scheme to serve the SJMA;
(b) distribution system rehabilitation in low-income neighborhoods
of the SJMA;
(c) installation of about 30,000 water meters;
(d) provision of a water and sewerage master plan for the SJMR;
and
(e) provision of technical assistance to improve the organiza-
tion, management and operations of AyA and develop a comprehensive
program to improve water and sewerage service in smaller cities
and rural areas, including planning, technical and financial
assistance for systems outside of AyA's control.
4.08      The Orosi Scheme.  This component would increase the capacity of
the SJMA water system by 1,800 1/sec. The source of supply would be the
peaking reservoir of the ICE-owned Rio Macho power development. Water
from the Rio Macho and the Rio Orosi, tributaries of the Rio Reventazon,
is diverted to the reservoir through a series of tunnels and siphons.
The peaking reservoir can only store enough water for the daily requirements
of the power plant. Annual average flow from the Rio Macho and Rio Orosi is
about 13.0 m3/sec. The minimum dry season flow is estimated at 3.5 m3/sec. 1/
The diverted water would be transmitted to the Tres Rios water treatment plant,
which is now supplied by inadequate sources. Wet season flows exceed the
existing plant capacity of 600 1/sec; however, during the dry season the
available flow averages only 300 1/sec. The transmission system would consist
of a connection to the Rio Macho power plant penstock, 22 km of 1,050 mm pipe,
5 km of 900 mm pipe and 1 km of tunnel. The capacity of the Tres Rios water
treatment plant would be increased from 600 1/sec to a total capacity of
2,100 1/sec, and two 600 mm or larger trunk mains from the plant to areas of
demand would be constructed.
4.09      Distribution System Rehabilitation.  This project component would
comprise installation of 24.5 km of 8-in and smaller mains in low-income
neighborhoods. The new mains would replace undersized mains and mains known
to be in poor condition. New service connections would be installed where
required. This project component would benefit 14,600 persons directly.
4.10      Meter Purchase and Installation.  AyA has 163,000 SJMA and regional
customers. Only 106,000 have connections with functioning meters. The
majority of the unmetered customers (77%) are located outside the SJMA. This
project component would install approximately 30,000 meters which would
increase meter coverage from the present 65% level to 83% (100% coverage in
the SJMA and 38% in the regions).
1/ The minimum 7-day flow one year in 20.



- 16 -
4.11      Master Plan.  The master plan would assess water needs for the SJMR
until the year 2000 and identify sources of supply to meet these needs.
The sewerage master plan for the SJMA prepared in 1962 would be updated, and
the wastewater disposal and treatment needs of the rest of the SJMR would
be determined. The plan would define the institutional and financial require-
ments of plan implementation and would recommend engineering solutions. Local
versus regional development of water resources and control of wastes would be
major issues addressed by the study. Assurances were obtained from AyA that
the Bank would be given an opportunity to comment on the terms of reference,
all interim reports and the draft of the final report and that the draft final
report would be completed by August 31, 1983.
4.12      Technical Assistance Program.  The technical assistance program
would be aimed at improving the organization and management of AyA, its
unaccounted-for water reduction program and its groundwater investigation
program. The organization and management technical assistance would be
the most extensive part of the technical assistance program and would be
aimed at improving the following areas:
(a) sector investment planning and programming;
(b) supervision and administration of AyA's technical
assistance and financing programs for municipal operated
water systems (FRAU and PAC Programs);
(c) standards for design and construction of urban and
rural water supply and sewerage systems including
subproject selection criteria;
(d) managerial capabilities of AyA in financial plant¶ing,
accounting and billing;
(e) training;
(f) regional operations; and
(g) groundwater investigation.
The basis for the management aspects of the technical assistance program is a
plan prepared by Pan American Health Organization (PAHO) in 1979 and accepted
by AyA's Board of Directors in February 1980. The Bank has reviewed the plan
and agrees with its recommendations. The focus of the technical assistance
component would be the development of AyA as a truly sector wide institution,
responsive to the service needs of the urban and concentrated rural populations
and capable of: (a) planning and allocating public resources for water supply
and sewerage programs; (b) providing financial, technical and training support
for municipally owned and independent rural water supply systems; and (c) effi-
ciently managing and operating its own systems.
Status of Project Preparation
4.13      The Orosi water supply component is in an ad-vanced stage of prepara-
tion. Designs for the construction of the 1 km raw water tunnel and for the
distribution network rehabilitation component prepared by AyA's staff are
complete and were reviewed by the Bank during project appraisal. A contract



- 17 -
has been awarded for construction of the tunnel. The raw water transmission
pipeline design, also being performed by AyA's staff, is 90% complete. The
final design will be reviewed by a US consultant prior to Bank review and
bidding (para 4.23). The Tres Rios water treatment plant expansion and the
treated water transmission pipelines are being designed by the same consultant
with a local joint venture partner. Final designs are scheduled for completion
in October 1981. Bidding documents for the purchase of meters and terms of
reference for the technical assistance and master plan are being prepared
and will be ready for Bank review in January 1981. During 1981, the first
year of project implementation, it is expected that bids covering 92% of
the project cost will be invited. Because of the advanced stage of prepara-
tion, it is expected that project implementation will proceed without major
delays.
Cost Estimates
4.14      The estimated total cost of the project to be implemented between
1980 and 1983 is 0626 million (US$48.5 million), with a foreign exchange cost
equivalent of US$28.3 million (58% of total project cost). Interest during
construction would add US$6.8 million. The cost estimates are summarized in
Tables 4.1 and 4.2. Detailed cost estimates and estimates of annual expendi-
tures are provided in Annex 5.
4.15      The base cost estimates were prepared by AyA and are expressed
in March 1, 1980 prices. Estimates for civil works are based on recent bids
for similar work in Costa Rica, while cost estimates for materials and
equipment are based on quotations from suppliers. Engineering and technical
assistance cost estimates include salaries of AyA's engineering staff assigned
to the project, consultant costs and equipment to be used by the consultants
and AyA in carrying out the investigations and engineering design. Cost
estimates for consultants assume that foreign firms in joint venture with
local firms would be hired for design review of the raw water transmission
pipeline, detailed design of the treatment plant expansion, advice during
construction, preparation of the master plan and the organization and manage-
ment technical assistance. It is assumed that individual expatriates would be
hired for the groundwater investigations and unaccounted-for water technical
assistance at slightly lower rates. The average consultant man-month cost
(including salary, fee, overhead, profit, international travel, local transpor-
tation, equipment and subsistence) is estimated at US$4,200 for local consul-
tants and US$10,500 for foreign consultants. The average consultant man-month
cost is estimated at US$7,500. The total consultant requirement is estimated
at 557 man-months. A detailed estimate of consultant costs is included
in Annex 5.
4.16      All estimates include an allowance of 10% for physical contingen-
cies. The allowance for price contingencies is 20% of foreign costs and 1%
of local costs expressed in equivalent US dollars. Annual inflation rates
assumed in the calculation for foreign costs were 10.5% in 1980, 9% in 1981,
8% in 1982 and 7% in 1983. Inflation rates assumed in the calculation of price
contingencies for local costs were 30% in 1980, 20% in 1981, 8% in 1982 and 7%
in 1983. The Colon to US dollar exchange rate was assumed to depreciate from



- 18 -
8.57:1 when the estimates were prepared in March 1980 to 12.0:1 by December
1980 and 13.0:1 in 1981 and later years. The exchange rate and inflation
assumptions take into account the new "'semi-flexible"t exchange rate system
adopted by Costa Rica on September 15, 1980. The low local price contingency
is the result of the devaluation assumptions which compensates for the high
local inflation rates when local prices are expressed in US dollars. The
foreign exchange component includes the cost of imported materials and equip-
ment, foreign consultants' fees, and the foreign costs of civil works and
local materials. Materials and equipment imported directly for the project
would be exempt from custom duties and import taxes. Customs duties and taxes
would be paid on supplies purchased by contractors on the local market.
Table 4.1 ESTIMATED PROJECT COST BY EXPENDITURE CATEGORY
% of
~ million          US$ million          base
Local  Foreign  Total  Local  Foreign  Total  costs
Materials and equipment         8    175      183    0.6    13.6      14.2    29
Civil works                   196      67     263   15.3      5.1     20.4    42
Engineering services and
technical assistance         30     39       69    2.3     3.0       5.3    11
Total base cost          234    281      515   18.2    21.7      39.9    82
Physical contingencies         25      28      53    1.9      2.2      4.1      8
Price contingencies             1      57      58    0.1      4.4      4.5      9
Total project cost       260    366      626   20.2    28.3      48.5   100
Interest and financial
charges                      -      88       88     -      6.8       6.8
Total financial
requirements           260    454     714   20.2    35.1       55.3
Project Financing
4.17      Total financing required for the project, including interest during
construction, is US$55.3 million. The proposed Bank Loan of US$26 million
would finance 74% of the foreign exchange requirement. The rest of the foreign
exchange component plus 23% of the local cost would be financed by a US$13.8
million equivalent loan from the Commonwealth Development Corporation (CDC)
Which would not be tied to goods or services of any nationality. The terms and
conditions of the CDC loan would be similar to those the Bank's (interest - 9.50%;



- 19 -
term - 15 years; grace - 3 years; and commitment fee - 3/4%. The rest of
the local cost would be provided by AyA and the government.
Table 4.2 ESTIMATED PROJECT COST BY COMPONENT INCLUDING CONTINGENCIES
% of
¢ million             US$ million         Project
Local  Foreign  Total  Local  Foreign  Total  costs
Orosi Scheme                 231      305     536    17.9   23.6      41.5    86
Distribution network
rehabilitation               8       12      20     0.6    0.9       1.5      3
Meters                        10       12      22      0.8    0.9       1.7     3
Master plan                    6       19      25      0.5    1.5       2.0     4
Technical assistance           5       18      23     0.4    1.4       1.8      4
Total project cost      260     366      626    20.2   28.3      48.5   100
Interest and financial
charges                             88       88      -      6.8      6.8
Total financial
requirements         260     454      714    20.2   35.1      55.3
4.18       The applications of the funds from each source are listed in
Table 4.3.  Joint financing is proposed for the foreign exchange cost of the
raw water transmission pipeline. Parallel financing would be used for all
other project components. In order to ensure timely availability of funding
and effective coordination of the cofinancing arrangements, it has been agreed
with CDC and AyA that:
(a) US$13.8 million in cofinancing, on acceptable terms and
conditions and for agreed project components, would be
available to finance the project and the Bank would be
provided with written agreements covering satisfactory
cofinancing arrangements;
(b) AyA would meet all conditions of effectiveness of the
cofinancing; and
(c) cofinancing arrangements would provide for procurement of
goods and services for the raw water transmission pipeline
in accordance with Bank procurement guidelines.
Items (a) and (b) would be conditions of Loan effectiveness.



Table 4.3: PROJECT FINANCING PLAN
(US$ Million)
Project  Cost                              Financing
Item                   Local        Foreign        Total         IBRD        CDC         AyA
Tunnel                     1.1           1.2           2.3          1.2         -          1.1
Access Roads               3.9           0.7           4.6           -         3.0         1.6
Transmission               6.5          11.3          17.8          9.0        2.3         6.5
Distribution               1.5           2.6           4.1          2.6         -          1.5
Treatment                  1.7           1.4           3.1           -         3.1          -
Engineering                1.6           1.0           2.6          1.0         -          1.6
o
Dist. Renewal              0.5           0.7           1.2           -         1.2          -
Meters                     0.7           0.7           1.4          0.7         -          0.7
Master Plan                0.4           1.1           1.5          1.1         -          0.4
Tech. Assist.              0.3           1.0           1.3          1.0         -          0.3
Base Cost             18.2          21.7          39.9         16.6        9.6        13.7
Contingencies              2.0           6.6           8.6          5.1        1.7         1.8
Sub-Total             20.2          28.3          48.5         21.7       11.3        15.5
Interest                                 6.8                        4.3        2.5          -
Total                 20.2          35.1          55.3         26.0       13.8        15.5
Foreign Cost                                                   26.0        9.1           -
Local Cost                                                        -        4.7 --      15,5



- 21 -
4.19      AyA's financial contribution to the project from its internal cash
generation is estimated at US$14.4 million. The remaining US$1.1 million
would come from a Government grant paid to AyA in 1979. Assurances were
obtained that the Government would provide about US$20.5 million over the
project execution period to cover other AyA capital investments (para 6.16).
4.20      Financing of US$4.3 million of interest during construction for
the Bank loan is proposed. CDC agreed to finance interest during construction
of US$1.5 million on their loan also. The proposed project would represent a
60% increase in AyA's fixed assets in operation at the end of 1979. The large
investment increment justifies financing of interest during construction on
the proposed Bank Loan.
Implementation
4.21      AyA would be the owner of the water supply and distribution compon-
ents of the project. The various divisions of AyA would supervise the design
and construction of these components and would operate and maintain the
completed works. AyA and its predecessor have completed two major water
supply projects and two major sewerage projects for the SJMA since 1961. In
addition, AyA has implemented numerous smaller water supply and sewerage
projects for areas outside the SJMA. AyA therefore is well qualified to
implement the project. AyA is also familiar with the requirements of inter-
national lending agencies similar to the Bank, such as the IDB and CABEI which
have participated in some of the above projects. IDB was the principal lender
for the first and second stage of sewerage projects for the SJMA, and its local
representatives have expressed satisfaction with AyA's implementation of the
second stage of the sewerage project now in progress. A minor role will be
played by ICE which would construct the connection of the transmission main to
the Rio Macho power plant penstock and install the meter which would measure
the flow of water to the transmission main.
4.22      Preliminary and final design of the water supply and distribution
project components is being managed by AyA's Studies and Projects Department.
Construction would be supervised by the AyA Construction Department. Implemen-
tation of the master plan and technical assistance components of the project
would be the responsibility of the Planning Department. Project managers
have been assigned to all project components. AyA agreed to appoint a project
manager with suitable staff to oversee all aspects of the project, ensure
timely implementation and provide the Bank and CDC with procurement documents,
disbursement requests and progress reports. Appointment of the project manager
and his staff would be a condition of Loan effectiveness.
4.23      An AyA special projects group within the Studies and Projects Depart-
ment prepared the detailed design of the raw water transmission pipeline. A
US consulting firm, Gannett Fleming Corddry and Carpenter, Inc., in joint
venture with a local firm, both satisfactory to the Bank, are preparing the
final designs of the Tres Rios treatment plant expansion and treated water
transmission pipelines. The same joint venture is also reviewing the raw
water transmission design and would provide advice during construction.



- 22 -
A foreign consulting firm in joint venture with a local firm would be engaged
for the master plan study. The technical assistance for unaccounted-for water
reduction and groundwater investigations would be provided by short-term
consultants. A management firm would be engaged to provide organization and
management technical assistance. All technical assistance a--d engineering
would be financed with Bank Loan funds. Assurances were obtained that consul-
tants satisfactory to the Bank would be hired as indicated above.
4.24      A project implementation schedule is included in Annex 6.  Imple-
mentation of the Orosi scheme project component began in April 1980 with the
bidding for the tunnel construction, and, given the status of final design
preparation, the project should be completed by December 31, 1983. Although
it is expected that all phases of the Orosi scheme will not be completed until
December 1983, its raw water transmission system should be completed by
November 1982. Since the Tres Rios water treatment plant currently has 300
1/sec unused capacity during the dry season, this part of the project could be
put into use during the dry season which begins in December 1982. Thus,
benefits would accrue to the project before it is 100% complete. The Loan
closing date would be set for June 30, 1984 to allow time to process outstand-
ing disbursements. A breakdown of the project into bids and the scheduled bid
dates are included in Annex 7.
4.25      There are no legal or administrative factors which would prevent
execution of the project on schedule. An agreement satisfactory to the Bank
for extraction of 1.8 m3/sec from the Rio Macho power development was
signed by ICE and AyA in September and now is awaiting approval of Costa
Rica's Controller General. This agreement includes conditions of extraction
and compensation to be met by AyA. The Controller General's approval of the
agreement would be a condition of Loan effectiveness. Except for approval of
the Guarantee Agreement, AyA requires no other special legislative or adminis-
trative approval for the implementation of the various project components.
Land required for the project not already owned by AyA consists of easements
for the transmission mains which would be acquired at an estimated cost of
01.2 million (US$0.10 million). As most of the pipeline right of way is in
public lands or easements, purchase of easements is not expected to be diffi-
cult. If a purchase cannot be arranged, AyA has the legal authority to force
private parties to provide easements.
4.26      The Bank would supervise all project components including those
items financed by CDC. The Bank's supervision of CDC-financed project
components would include review of designs and monitoring progress of project
implementation. The cofinancing agreement with CDC would include arrangements
for the exchange of information and reports.



- 23 -
Water Resources Aspects
4.27      The source of supply for the project is currently under the juris-
diction of ICE, and all flows are now being used for power generation.
Under the Costa Rican Water Law, administered by SNE, water for public water
supply has priority over water for power generation. In the past SNE has
done little in terms of water resource allocation, since water resources
were abundant. Until the current project, there had been little or no
competition for the available resources. At the time development of the Rio
Orosi and the Rio Macho for power was proposed, the use of these resources as
a source of water supply for the SJMA was not envisioned. Fortunately, ICE has
agreed to the diversion of a quantity of water which will make the project
economically feasible.
4.28      The effect of the Rio Macho diversion on ICE's power generation
operations would be to advance by at least one year the need for future
investments to increase generating capacity. Although the Orosi scheme will
reduce the potential for hydropower generation, its overall impact on the
national energy balance could be positive. If AyA had been forced to rely
on high risk groundwater development (para 7.03), the only financially
feasible alternative to the Orosi scheme, the energy consumed in pumping
would have exceeded the equivalent energy value of Rio Macho water. The
energy necessary to pump a cubic meter of groundwater is 1.7 kWh per cubic
meter of water produced whereas the present worth energy value of the Rio
Macho water was calculated at 1.4 kWh per m3 (1.2 kWh based on existing
generation capacity). The diverted water could be replaced in the future,
if economically justified, by diversions from the Pejibaye and Pirris Rivers
totaling 3.8 m3/sec on an average. Plans by ICE to construct additional
generating capacity downstream of its existing plants could make these diver-
sion schemes economic in the future. In any event, ICE, which has collaborated
with the Bank in six power projects to date, has an ambitious power generation
expansion program to exploit Costa Rica's sizable hydropower resources, esti-
mated to have a potential of 9,000 MW.
4.29      The quantity of water available for water supply for the Orosi
project component is not a concern since the safe yield of the source exceeds
the diversion by almost 100%, and since ICE has agreed to give first priority
to wpter supply requirements. The drainage area upstream of the proposed
diversion point is all undeveloped Government-owned land and is designated as
a forest reserve area. The water quality is excellent. Since no development
of the watershed will be permitted, the water quality should not deteriorate
in the future.
Environmental and Health Aspects
4.30      No long-term negative environmental or health effects are associated
with the project, and no one will be displaced as a result of the project.
Some negative environmental effects, such as water pollution from siltation and
disruption of existing services, would result from construction of the project



- 24 -
but would only be temporary. In the long term the project would have a
beneficial impact on the health and well being of the citizens of the SJMA who
would be guaranteed a safe and uninterrupted water supply until 1990.
Procurement
4.31      For Bank-financed or cofinanced procurement, civil works contracts
less than US$300,000 equivalent and material and equipment contracts less than
US$100,000 equivalent up to an aggregate amount of US$2.0 million would be
awarded under local bidding procedures which are acceptable to the Bank. With
the exception noted in para 4.34, procurement of all other goods and services
financed under the Bank's loan would be through international competitive
bidding (ICB) in accordance with Bank guidelines. Procurement of goods and
services financed by CDC without Bank's participation would be made in accord-
ance with CDC guidelines for procurement.
4.32      Separate contracts would be awarded for the supply and installation
of large diameter pipe for the Orosi scheme. The treatment plant expansion
would be a single supply and install contract. Most of the equipment and
pipe for the Orosi scheme is expected to be supplied by foreign manufacturers.
The meter supply contract would be awarded to a foreign manufacturer since
no meters are manufactured locally. Supply of small diameter pipe for the
distribution system rehabilitation would probably be awarded to local manu-
facturers since there are a number of well established firms in Costa Rica
that produce small diameter pipe. Civil works contracts for large diameter
pipe installation are expected to be won by local contractors in joint venture
with foreign firms. Local contractors would probably win contracts to install
small diameter pipe. The access roads for the Orosi scheme would be con-
structed by the Ministry of Public Works under force account. CDC will
finance the foreign cost of this work and part of the local cost. The
largest single contract will be for the supply of pipe for the raw water
transmission pipeline which will be financed jointly by the Bank and CDC.
The estimated value of this work is US$10.0 million.
4.33.     For purposes of evaluating bids, manufacturers in the Central American
Common Market, including Costa Rica would receive a preference of 15% of the
CIF landed price or 50% of the import duties payable by non-exempt importers,
whichever is lower. This arrangement is in line with the Central American
Agreement on Fiscal Incentives. Civil works contracts are expected to be won by
local contractors in joint venture with foreign firms, although the tunnel
contract has been awarded to a foreign contractor.  Most equipment supply
contracts are expected to be won by foreign suppliers. All of the consulting
contracts are expected to be awarded to foreign firms in joint venture with
local firms.



- 25 -
4.34      Because the 1 km raw water tunnel was on the critical path for
project implementation, AyA initiated procurement, in accordance with local
procedures, in April 1980. It had initially been intended to finance this
contract entirely with government contributions, but during negotiations AyA
requested its inclusion in Bank financing. The tunnel construction contract
was awarded in August 1980 to Construction Louisburgh, Ltd.(Canada) for
US$2.3 million. The bidding attracted widespread response from qualified
foreign firms, the bids were competitive and the award went to the lowest
evaluated bidder. Financing of this contract by the proposed loan was there-
fore agreed. In October, after consultation with the Bank, AyA engaged con-
sultants to design the water treatment plant expansion, review the raw water
transmission pipeline design and assist AyA during construction (para 4.23).
The value of this contract is about US$1.5 million. Retroactive financing of
foreign cost expenditures made between October 1, 1980 and the date of loan
signing for consulting services (US$0.15 million) and the tunnel construction
(US$0.35 million) is recommended.
Disbursements
4.35      A schedule of disbursements by quarter is presented in Annex 8.
Disbursements would be supported by normal documentation and should be completed
by June 30, 1984, which would be the closing date for the Loan. The Loan would
be disbursed as follows:
(a) one hundred percent of foreign expenditures for civil works,
materials and equipment (except for items cofinanced by CDC
for which the proportion would be 80%);
(b) the estimated foreign component of locally procured civil
works (20% or 16% for cofinanced items), materials and
equipment (85% or 68% for cofinanced items);
(c) seventy-five percent of expenditures for consultant services;
and
(d) one hundred percent of interest and other charges on the Bank
Loan during construction.



- 26 -
V. THE BORROWER
Lending Arrangements
5.01      The Borrower and implementing agency for the proposed Loan would
be AyA, an autonomous public entity of the Government of Costa Rica.
Organization
5.02      AyA was created in 1976 from the National Water Supply and Sewerage
Service (SNAA) which was established in 1961 under the direction of the Minister
of Public Health. AyA's charter gives it broad authority to plan, construct,
administer and operate water supply and sewerage systems in urban areas,
as well as in rural communities of over 200 inhabitants. The institution
may also contract loans with the prior authorization of the Costa Rican
Legislative Assembly and is exempt from all taxes and duties.
5.03      A seven-member Board of Directors, including an Executive President,
is appointed by the Cabinet and governs the operations of AyA. Although the
appointment of the Executive President is political by nature, the law
requires the appointee to have broad experience in and knowledge of water
supply and sewerage operations. The current Executive President, a sanitary
engineer with seventeen years of work experience at AyA and SNAA, is well
qualified for his position.
5.04      AyA's organization chart is shown in Annex 9.  The Planning
Department, in order to maintain close ties with the policy making role
of the Executive President, and the Internal Audit Department, to maintain
objective independence from operations, report directly to the Executive
President. Seven major departments report to the General Manager (para 5.08),
as follows:
(a)  Operations - responsible for operation, maintenance and commercial
activities of the metropolitan and regional water supply and sewerage
systems (separate operating divisions are established for the SJMA
and the regions. Regional operations are further divided into five
geographic areas);
(b)  Administration - responsible for purchasing, stores, general
services, computer center operations and the financial and accoun-
ting department;
(c)  Studies and Projects - responsible for preparation and review of
feasibility studies, engineering designs, bidding documents, pro-
curement, physical systems optimization and water quality control;
(d)  Construction - two departments responsible for implementation of
construction programs for urban and rural works respectively;



- 27 -
(e)  FRAU -  acts as the financing and technical agent for emergency
construction programs of municipally owned systems; and
(f) Special Projects - originally established as a project management unit
for the Rio Pirris scheme and proposed as the project management unit
for the Bank project.
Other units reporting to the General Manager include the personnel, legal and
public relations departments.
5.05      There appears to be scope for greater decentralization of AyA's
activities to the operating regions. Regional staff are not sufficiently
familiar with the various technical, administrative, managerial and planning
aspects of the water supply and sewage system placed under their control.
Technical assistance would be provided to study further decentralization of
AyA's operations, identify training needs of regional management and staff,
and develop appropriate management reporting tools to control regional
operations (para 5.23).
5.06      FRAU was established within AyA in 1978 to strengthen and improve
sector coordination and to handle emergency water supply situations arising
in municipally owned systems. In its role as administrator of the loan revolv-
ing fund, AyA acts as the financing agent, provides technical support for
project construction and proposes necessary tariff adjustments. So far
30 cities have requested assistance for projects totalling approximately
US$12.0 million. FRAU is now working on the basis of emergency requests
rather than a comprehensive plan. What is needed is: (a) the preparation
of a complete program of rehabilitation and expansion throughout the urban
subsector; (b) development of design criteria, construction norms and train-
ing needs; and (c) definition of a financial strategy to assure maintenance of
the revolving fund. Technical assistance is proposed to assist AyA in develop-
ing a comprehensive plan for FRAU (para 5.23).
5.07      AyA is also involved in the financing, on a grant basis, and con-
struction of rural water supply systems through the Government-funded FAF.
Forty-seven water supply systems benefitting 139 rural communities have been
programmed for 1978-82 at a cost of US$13 million. Although per capita
investment costs have dropped since 1975-77, there is still need for review
and analysis of: (a) design criteria and construction norms; (b) community
participation; (c) financing and selection criteria; and (d) training and
supervision needs. Technical assistance would be provided to AyA under the
Loan to improve the rural water supply program (para 5.23).
Management and Staff
5.08      The General Manager is selected by the Board for a term of six
years and may be reappointed. The present General Manager, a civil engineer,
has extensive experience and is well qualified to handle the overall responsi-
bility for the day-to-day operations of the institution.



- 28 -
5.09      Managerial, professional and technical staff numbered 308 persons
at the end of April 1980. According to survey data prepared by AyA, staff
at these levels are compensated adequately. Salaries are higher than in
other autonomous public sector entities, but below the prevailing salary
levels for the private sector. Turnover at this level is low.
5.10      AyA had 2,723 employees at the end of April 1980.  The number of
employees per thousand connections was 16.7. This ratio is extremely high
when compared to other similar institutions in Latin America. One factor
contributing to the high employee per connection ratio is that 27% of the
work force (about 750 emloyees) is engaged in construction of urban and
rural water supply projects. Exclusion of these construction workers
reduces the number of employees per thousand connections to 12.1, still
a high number by Latin American standards. Evaluation of the efficiency
of each of AyA's departments would be carried out and realistic manning
levels recommended as part of the technical assistance program (para 5.23).
Assurances were obtained during negotiations that AyA would reduce the
number of its employees in accordance with recommendations of the technical
assistance program and that targets for the reductions would be submitted
to the Bank not later than December 31, 1981. A preliminary target of eight
operating employees per thousand connections has been set as a monitoring
indicator goal (para 6.18).
5.11      WHO/PAHO has provided technical assistance to AyA and its fore-
runner (SNAA) since 1962, including a Program of Administrative Rationalization
(PRA) carried out in 1976. In October 1979, WHO/PAHO evaluated the PRA and
provided a plan for further institutional development. The plan envisions
technical assistance at three different levels:
(a) interinstitutional - definition of AyA's role within the health
sector and relationships with other Government institutions;
(b) macroinstitutional- restructuring of organization, planning and
control systems to carry out AyA's role in the sector; and
(c) microinstitutional - identification, analysis and revision of each
of the major management support systems (financial, development,
information, commercial and general administrative services).
The study estimated technical assistance requirements at 50 man-months,
including 24 months of long term and 26 months of short term assistance.
5.12      The WHO/PAHO report has been accepted by AyA's Board of Directors,
and found satisfactory as a basic institutional improvement plan by the
mission.  The report would be used as the basis for the managerial and organi-
zational technical assistance program proposed for the project (para 5.23).



- 29 -
Training
5.13      AyA's training activities have been largely oriented toward the
areas of administration and engineering. AyA has effective study and scholar-
ship programs for its employees at the university level in these areas. A
more comprehensive training program needs to be developed. As part of the
comprehensive approach, more operations-oriented training should be introduced.
Courses should also be integrated into the program to meet the fundamental
administrative, financial, operational and maintenance training needs of
municipally owned systems receiving FRAU financing and rural water supply
systems receiving FAF financing. Training recommendations would be developed
by the technical assistance team (para 5.23).
Management Systems
5.14      Billing of AyA's 163,000 SJMA and regional customers is centralized
in San Jose.  A review of billing records shows 57,000 connections unmetered
or with inoperative meters. Most of these (77%) are located outside the
SJMA. AyA has a well functioning meter repair and replacement shop. A
metering program, which would increase meter coverage from the present 65%
to 83%, is included as a project component (para 4.10). As part of the
tariff study (para 6.08), recommendations would be developed regarding the
extent of the metering program after 1981 for regions outside the SJMA.
5.15      In 1979, serious delays of six to eight months were experienced in
regional billings because of problems in the data processing division. At the
time of the appraisal mission, regional billing had been brought up to
date through acquisition of new computer software and the hiring of a new
data processing manager. Short term consultants had also been contracted
to improve operations. Meters are read bimonthly and are satisfactory.
Billing procedures are considered satisfactory with the exception of a three-
month lag from the time meters are read until bills are sent.  Estimating
consumption and waiting to resolve differences until bills have been prepared
would considerably reduce processing time and improve AyA's cash position.
Technical assistance is proposed to assist AyA in the acceleration of its
billing process (para 5.23).  Assurances were obtained during Loan negotia-
tions that AyA would reduce the billing period after meter reading in accord-
ance with targets established by the technical assistance program. AyA agreed
to submit the targets to the Bank for review and comment not later than
December 31, 1981.  A preliminary target of one month has been set as a moni-
toring indicator goal (para 6.18).
5.16      Late charges of 2% per month are assessed and water of customers
two months in arrears is shut-off regularly. The Commercial Department has
the capacity to shut-off 150 customers per day and annually disconnects about
25,000. Accounts receivable, including US$0.5 million in long-term receivables
representing delinquent accounts with extended payment arrangements, amounted
to 2.2 months of sales at the end of 1979. Assurances were obtained during
Loan negotiations that accounts receivable would be reduced in accordance with
targets established by the technical assistance program. AyA agreed to submit
the target to the Bank for review and comment not later than December 31, 1981.
A preliminary target of 2.0 months of sales has been set as a monitoring
indicator (para 6.18).



- 30 -
5.17      Financial accounting policies are in accordance with generally
accepted principles for a water utility company. Weaknesses in financial
accounting include delays of three to four months in the issuance of
the monthly financial statements, arbitrary allocations of costs between
metropolitan and regional operations, delays in transferring -ompleted
works from construction in progress to permanent fixed asset accounts and
lack of trust fund accounting for FRAU and rural aqueduct programs.
5.18      The principal management accounting report is the yearly program
budget which includes both operations and capital investments. The program
budget, prepared by the Planning Department and operating management, is
approved by AyA's Board of Directors and Costa Rica's Controller General.
Delays in the comparison of actual with budgeted expenditures and frequent
modifications in the capital investment budget reduce the effectiveness
of the program budget as a planning and control device. Profit center
accounting and systematic collection and reporting of key statistical informa-
tion also need to be developed or improved to assist in planning and control.
This effort should be concentrated in the Planning Department. Technical
assistance would be included to address deficiencies in accounting and
information systems (para 5.23).
5.19      Investment programs and medium term capital budgets are prepared
by AyA's Planning Department with technical inputs from the Studies and
Projects Department. Capital programs and budgets drawn up by AyA have been
included in the National Development Plan without major modifications.
Weaknesses in investment planning are concentrated in the microeconomic
justification of individual projects and the financial feasibility associated
with implementing an overly ambitious investment program. Technical assistance
would be provided to AyA to assist in the preparation of a comprehensive
investment program and related capital budget (para 5.23).
5.20      The Bank reviewed AyA's investment program and recommended reductions
that would make the program financially feasible. Agreement was reached on
the program presented in Annex 1. The program equitably allocates the avail-
able investment funds among the regions and the SJMA. Agreement was obtained
for an annual Bank review, prior to the preparation of AyA's budget, of progress
in carrying out the investment program and plans for financing the remainder
of the program. Assurances were also obtained that AyA would consult with the
Bank on any proposal to make in any fiscal year capital expenditures in excess
of US$2.0 million equivalent and not included in the investment program.
Agreement was reached with the Government during Loan negotiations that expan-
sion of water supply and sewerage facilities within Costa Rica would be based
on economically justified programs and that financing for such expansions would
be available on terms and conditions which would not adversely affect AyA's
financial condition or the carrying out of the project.
Audit and Insurance
5.21      Auditing coverage of AyA is considered satisfactory.  The Internal
Audit Department was reorganized in September 1979 after the Board of Directors
redefined internal auditing as independent financial and operational auditing



- 31 -
functions. Previously, the internal auditor participated directly in manage-
ment through the signing of checks and documents. AyA is also audited by
the Controller General and SNE. AyA engaged a new external CPA firm, Lic.
Enrique Sala y Asociados, to perform the audit for calendar year 1979.
While the firm is small, it has provided services to the Government and
large private concerns. Because of AyA's delays in closing the books, audited
financial statements for 1979 were not issued until the end of July 1980. A
similar delay can be expected for the 1980 audited financial statements. The
proposed technical assistance would reduce time required to close the books
so that audited financial statements would be available by the end of April
1982 for the 1981 calendar year (para 5.23). Assurances were obtained during
Loan negotiations that AyA's financial statements would continue to be
audited by competent external auditors and that a copy of their report,
together with comments on compliance with Bank Loan covenants, would be
sent to the Bank not later than June 30, 1981 for calendar year 1980, and not
later than April 30 for the following years.
5.22      AyA carries satisfactory fire and casualty insurance on plant and
equipment subject to these risks. It is not considered necessary or practical
to insure treatment plants, mains and collectors. AyA also carries fidelity
bonds and insurance for third party liability, professional risks and goods in
transit. Insurance coverage is considered adequate.
Organization and Management Technical Assistance
5.23      Provision of technical assistance to AyA for organization and manage-
ment is an integral part of the project (para 4.12 and Annex 4). A schedule
is shown in Table 5.1 below. In order to effectively coordinate all aspects
of the organization and management technical assistance, a single contract
with a management consulting firm satisfactory to the Bank is proposed.



- 32 -
Table 5.1: TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE TO AyA FOR ORGANIZATION AND MANAGEMENT
Scheduled Date
Implementation
Description                     Completion    of Recommendations
Terms of reference for study                        3/31/81
Contract award                                      6/30/81
Study of AyA's role in the sector                   9/30/81           12/31/81
Study of AyA's organization and management
structure including regional operations
and decentralization                             10/31/81            1/31/82
Study of management support systems
including investment planning, capital
budgeting, financial and management
accounting and reporting, billing, FRAU
and rural water supply programs                   4/30/82            7/31/82
Study of training requirements                      4/30/82            7/31/82
Assurances were obtained during negotiations that AyA would: (a) carry out
a management and organization study with terms of reference and consultants
acceptable to the Bank; (b) prepare terms of reference not later than March
31, 1981; (c) furnish to the Bank by not later than June 30, 1982 the results
of the study for review and comment; and (d) implement satisfactory changes,
based on study recommendations, in its management, organization and management
support systems in accordance with a timetable satisfactory to the Bank.
VI. FINANCIAL ANALYSIS
Past and Current Financial Performance
6.01      Key income and cash flow data, extracted from AyA's financial
statements for the period 1974-79 (Annex 10), are summarized in Table 6.1.
6.02      Revenues and expenses increased at the same approximate rate over
the 1974-78 period. AyA thus maintained operations at close to the financial
breakeven point (there were small operating profits in every year except 1975
when there was a small operating loss of ¢3.8 million). After deductions
for interest and non-operating expenses, AyA showed net losses in every year.



Table 6.1:   AyA  SELECTED INCOME AND CASH FLOW DATA 1974-79
(Millions of Colones)
1974         1975           1976         1977           1978        1979
Revenues                                     37.5          52.8           73.3        82.7           91.1        104.2
Operating expenses                           29.9          47.6          59.7         66.0           72.0        102.6
Depreciation                                  6.8           9.0           12.4        12.4           18.8         29.1
Operating income (loss)                       0.8          (3.8)           1.2         4.3            0.3        (27.5)
Net income (loss)                            (4.6)         (8.7)          (9.0)        (3.0)          (8.3)      (45.9)
Operating ratio                              97.9         107.2           98.4        94.8           99.7        126.4
Debt service ratio                            0.5           0.4            0.2          0.6           0.7          0.02
Rate of return -                              0.5          (1.8)           0.4         1.2            0.1         (3.9)
% Contribution of investment                  Nil           Nil           Nil          Nil            Nil          Nil
Investment program                           58.7         106.1         152.1        100.0          127.2        181.4
Government contributions b/                  22.0          33.1           49.2        55.2          188.9        117.6
IDB and other loans                          43.9          79.7          54.9         41.8           53.0         48.5
a/ Based on unrevalued Fixed Assets 1974-1978 and revalued Fixed Assests 1979.
b/ Includes ¢ 89.9 million in 1978 and ¢ 84.6 million in 1979 for investments
in PAC/FRAU programs administered by AyA.



- 34 -
Gross internal cash generation was sufficient to cover only 49% of debt
servicing requirements over the 1974-78 period, and AyA was unable to fund any
of its investment program from its operations. Government contributions were
required in increasing amounts to meet debt service and investment requirements.
6.03      The SJMA operations have heavily subsidized AyA's operations in the
rest of the country. In 1978, the SJMA system posted an operating ratio of
77%, positive operating and net income and a rate of return on unrevalued
fixed assets in operation of 5.3%. At the same time, the combined regional
divisions produced an operating ratio of 203% and resulting operating and net
losses (Annex 10).
6.04      Results for 1979 show a deterioration in AyA's financial performance
that reflects escalating operating costs (43% over the 1978 levels) and additional
depreciation expense of ¢9.5 million as a result of fixed asset revaluation.
The results also reflect the lack of adjustments in tariffs from 1976 until
November 1979 when AyA finally implemented a 15% increase approved by SNE
in 1977. In 1979 gross internal generation of cash was 90.7 million, the
operating ratio was 126.4, the net loss increased to ¢45.9 million and the
rate of return on revalued fixed assets was negative 3.9%.
Revenues
6.05      Water and sewerage service sales account for over 97% of AyA's
revenues. AyA's past financial policies have dictated a tariff strategy
designed to yield revenues which would cover operating, maintenance and
administrative costs and, further, the administrative costs associated with
AyA's investment program. The strategy provides for debt service and capital
expenditures to be covered by government subsidies. Tariff proposals must
be approved by AyA's Board of Directors, published to allow public comment
and approved by SNE with the process requiring two months to complete.
Under Costa Rican law, new tariff proposals can only be implemented every
twelve months.  SNE approved a 50% tariff increase effective November 1, 1980.
The present tariff schedule is shown in Annex 11 together with analysis of
the tariff structure.
6.06      The current average water tariff is 02.45/m3 (US$0.20 m3) and the
combined average water supply and sewerage tariff is ¢3.06 m3 (US$0.26/m3)
for those customers with both water and sewerage service. The tariff structure
provides for five consumer categories (residential, commercial, industrial,
concessional and governmental) and seven fairly narrow consumption blocks
for up to the first 120 m3 of water consumed monthly. Separate tariff schedules
are maintained for the SJMA, other urban centers and rural areas. While con-
sumption categories and blocks are the same for each area, other urban tariffs
are 55% to 100% of the SJMA rates, and rural tariffs run 15% to 100% of the SJMA
rates, depending on consumption category and block. Industrial consumption is
low because of the large number of private wells in use. Private wells are
licensed and are assessed only nominal fees. These sources compete directly
with AyA for use of the aquifer.



- 35 -
6.07      The SJMA tariff structure (Annex 11) for the residential category is
based on consumption blocks and is highly progressive in nature at all levels
of consumption. The only exception to this is the second residential consump-
tion block (16-25 m3) where the charge per m3 is 2% lower than the charge per
m3 for the first 15 m3.  Approximately 90% of the metered residential consumers,
using up to 60 m3 of water, receive cross subsidies. 1/ The tariff structure
for the rural residential category also contains a regressive element through
the fourth consumption block (41-60 m3).
6.08      A study under the proposed project would be carried out to address
the deficiencies in the tariff structure and other AyA revenue sources.
Assurances were obtained during negotiations that AyA would complete the study
of the tariff structure and other revenue sources (Annex 11) by March 31,
1981, under terms of reference acceptable to the Bank, and that AyA would
implement satisfactory changes by November 1, 1981.
Capital Contributions
6.09      AyA's capital contributions are generated through government
subsidies, customer contributions and levies. As a matter of policy, AyA
has relied heavily on Government subsidies to provide debt service coverage
and equity contributions to its investment program. Government contributions
amounted to 0188.9 million (US$22.0 million) in 1978 and an estimated 0117.6
million (US$13.7 million) in 1979. Of the total 0306.5 million (US$35.8
million) received from the Government in the 1978-79 period, 0174.5 million
(US$20.4 million) represented contributions to the FRAU and PAC programs. Net
Government subsidies for AyA's investment program and debt servicing require-
ments amounted to 0132.0 million (US$15.4 million) in 1978-79. A principal
objective of the project would be to assist AyA in moving to a position of
financial autonomy during the project implementation period. Nevertheless,
during the interim 1980-83 period, continued Government financial support of
AyA would be required to implement AyA's investment program and meet a portion
of AyA's debt service requirements (para 6.17).
6.10      Customer contributions and levies include reimbursement by new
customers of the costs of connections, donations of water and sewerage infra-
structure by developers and levies based on a square meter charge for land
benefitted by water and sewerage networks.  The levy is 00.61/m2 (US$0.05/m2)
and has not been increased in over ten years. At present AyA has no deferred
payment arrangements for the poor to amortize the cost of a house connection.
The feasibility of increasing the assessment and a plan to provide deferred
payment arrangements for the poor for house connections would be reviewed as
part of the proposed tariff study (para 6.08).
1/   Subsidy is deemed to exist when the per m3 charge to the consumer is less
than the average cost of water.



- 36 -
Financial Projections
6.11      Financial projections for AyA for the years 1980-84 are based on
the assumption that AyA will move to a position of financial autonomy by 1984.
Revenues are projected on the basis of the 50% increase in tariffs approved by
SNE (para 6.05) and further increases in subsequent years to allow rates of
return of 1% in 1981, 5.3% in 1982, 3.5% in 1983, and 4.5% in 1984. A tariff
increase of 50% effective November 1, 1981, would be needed to meet the rates
of return for 1981 and 1982. Projected tariffs increases needed to satisfy the
rates of return would be as follows:
% Increase
Date                 Average Water Tariff       Current Terms   Real Terms
October 31, 1980                 ¢1.63                         -             -
November 1, 1980                 ¢2.45                        50            50
November 1, 1981                 ¢3.67                        50            22
January 1, 1983                 V3.71                          1            (9)
January 1, 1984                 04.33                         17            9
6.12      Operating expenses have been projected to increase in line with
inflation and volume production increases, with the exception of labor and
overhead costs. Labor and overhead costs are projected to remain constant
in real terms after 1980, as a result of economies of scale and the comprehen-
sive technical.assistance program (paras 4.12 and 5.23). Expenses in 1983 and
1984 include additional operating and maintenance costs associated with the
Orosi scheme, and net compensation to ICE for water diverted from the Rio
Macho Reservoir. Compensation is calculated on the basis -of ICE's marginal
cost of energy of the diverted water. Inflation rates of 30% in 1980, 20% in
1981, 8% in 1982 and 7% p.a. for the last two years have been used for the
financial projections. Exchange rates are estimated at ¢8.57:US$1.00 through
September 1980, ¢12.00:US$1.00 for the last quarter of 1980 and V13.00:US$1.00
for 1981-84.



- 37 -
6.13      AyA, in order to comply with an IDB loan covenant, revalued its
water and sewerage fixed assets as of December 31, 1978. During Loan negotia-
tions agreement was reached on the amount of the revaluation of water and
sewerage fixed assets (also approved by SNE and IDB), the amount of revalued
other fixed assets which belong in the rate base, the procedure to up-date the
revaluation to reflect 1979 price increases, and the recording of the up-dated
revaluation in AyA's books as of January 1, 1980. During Loan negotiations
agreement was reached on the methodology and index to be used in the future
for annual fixed assets revaluation.
6.14      Projected income statement and cash flow data for the years 1980-84
are presented in Annex 10 and summarized in Table 6.2. AyA's financial
performance would improve considerably under the proposed financial strategy.
Over the project implementation period, the average water tariff would
increase approximately 82% in real terms from the October 1980 level of
¢1.63/m3 (US$0.14/m3). The 1984 average water tariff for the SJMA would be
03.39/m3 (US$0.28/m3) at December 1980 prices, which is consistent with the
average long-run incremental cost of water for the SJMA (para 7.05). The
operating ratio would drop from the 1980 projected level of 121% to below 95%
in 1981, and decrease to 75% in 1984. The debt service ratio would increase
from an estimated 0.1 in 1980 to a high of 1.9 in 1982 and drop to 1.4 in 1984
as a result of increased debt service. This would reflect full annual amor-
tization of the Bank Loan and the first semiannual payment on the CDC loan
made by AyA for the proposed project. In 1984 AyA would finance 41% of its
investment program from internal cash generation.
6.15      Total government financial support to AyA for the period 1980-83
is estimated in Table 6.3.
Financing Plan
6.16      AyA's financing plan for the period of project implementation is
summarized in Table 6.4. Details of the project financing plan are presented
in paras- 4.17 and 4.18. Other loans of 0113.1 million included in AyA's
financing plan for 1981-83 represent the disbursement of outstanding balances
of previous loans from IDB and IFAM and partial drawdown of a proposed new
loan from IDB to assist in financing the 16 medium and small cities project.
IDB is considering the request for financing.



Table 6.2: AyA SUMMARY PROJECTED INCOME STATEMENT AND CASH FLOW DATA 1980-1984
(Millions of Colones)
1980          1981            1982            1983            1984
Average water tariff/m3                  1.76           2.66            3.67            3.71            4.33
Revenues                               139.0          223.5           329.7           370.7          464.8
Operating Expenses                     130.6          157.8           175.9           204.3           239.2
Depreciation                            38.0           53.0            68.6            89.9           108.2
Operating income (loss)                (29.6)          12.7            85.2            76.5           117.4
Net income (loss)                       (57.7)        (31.0)           41,9            21.8            21.7
Operating ratio                        121.3           94.3            74.2            79.4            74.7           f
Debt service ratio                       0.1            0.9             1.9             1.6             1.4
Rate of return                           (3.1)          1.0             5.3             3.5             4.5
% contribution to investment             NIL            2.0            12.0            35.0            41.0
AyA internal cash generation
to investment                          NIL            7.0            47.5            64.4            77.5
Investments a/                         130.5          441.9           394.5           182.7           190.8
Government contributions a/             54.0          166.4            74.0            26.0
IBRD and other loans                    67.1          275.0           249.4          106.1           118.0
a/  Investments in PAC/FRAU programs are excluded from investments and Government contributions beginning
in 1980.  PAC/FRAU investments are trust funds administered by AyA.



Table 6.3:   GOVERNMENT SUPPORT TO AyA
(Millions of Colones)
1980         ¢1981            1982           1983           Total
Advanced contributions to AyA a/       58.0                                                         58.0
Contributions to investment program   31.9            117.1           6.1                          155.1
Other Government Contributions         22.1            49.3          67.9            26.0          165.3
Total                      112.0           166.4          74.0           26.0           378.4
Total - US$ equivalent      13.1            12.8           5.7            2.0            3B 6
a/ Funds received from Government prior to 1980 and held by AyA in the form of cash and short-term
investments.
10/80



- 40 -
Table 6.4:   AyA FINANCING PLAN, 1981-83
Millions of       % Contribution
CoIones        to Investment
Gross internal generation                       382.9
Customer contributions                           18.9
Debt service                                   (235.5)
Working capital and cash                        (45.0)
Other                                             0.9
Total contribution to investment            122.2              12
Investment in project                           620.1
Other investment                                288.6
Capitalized interest                            110.4
Total investment                           1019.1
Total to be financed                        896.9
Government contributions                        266.4               26
IBRD loan                                       338.0              33
Other project loans                             179.4               18
Other loans                                     113.1              11
Total financed                              896.9             100
Total financed (US$ equivalent)                  70.0



- 41 -
6.17      Financial feasibility is based on AyA:  (a) obtaining revenues
sufficient to cover operating and maintenance costs and depreciation;
(b) achieving the rates of return cited in para. 6.11; and (c) receiving
continued Government support over the 1980-83 period. Discussions with AyA,
SNE and the Ministry of Finance indicate agreement with the strategy to move
AyA to a position of financial autonomy and the rate of return covenant. SNE,
as a first step, approved AyA's proposal to increase tariffs by 50% effective
November 1, 1980, and the Ministry of Finance has agreed to the proposed
government commitments during the 1980-83 period. Assurances were obtained
during Loan negotiations that AyA revenues would be sufficient to obtain a
rate of return on revalued fixed assets of not lower than 1% in 1981, 5.3% in
1982, 3.5% in 1983 and 4.5% thereafter and that SNE would approve the tariff
increases necessary to produce the required revenues. Arrangements were made
during Loan negotiations for a semiannual joint review of tariff levels.
Also, during Loan negotiations assurances were obtained for provision of
continued Government funding to assist in implementing AyA's investment
program and the PAC/FRAU programs administered by AyA and meet a portion of
AyA's debt service requirements over the 1980-83 period. To further protect
the financing plan and AyA's financial viability, assurances were obtained
during Loan negotiations that AyA would not incur new long-term debt, without
the Bank's agreement, unless the net revenues before interest and depreciation
for the fiscal year next preceding such incurrence or for a later 12-month
period ending prior to such incurrence, whichever amount is the greater, are
greater than 1.3 times the maximum debt service requirements for any succeeding
fiscal year on all debt, including the debt proposed to be incurred.
Monitoring Indicators
6.18      Assurances were obtained during Loan negotiations that AyA would
prepare quarterly progress reports on the project. Separate reports would
be provided for the water supply, technical assistance and master plan
components. Construction and technical assistance and master plan activities,
as well as disbursements, would be measured against schedules. Actual AyA
performance would be measured against the monitoring indicators shown in
Table 6.5.
Project Completion Report
6.19      Assurances were obtained during negotiations that AyA would prepare
a completion report not later than six months after project completion. The
report would describe physical, financial and management improvements, and
project benefits.



Table 6.5:  AyA MONITORING INDICATORS
P r o j e c t e d
indicator                        1979
(Enticattd) 1971980           1981         1982         1983         1984
SJMA
Water produced (million m3)                 75.7           75.7         75.7         78.2         86.7         92.2
Water sold (million m3)                     47.0          47.0         .49.2         33.2         60.5         65.5
Unaccounted-for water (%)                   38             38           35           32           30           29
Number of connections (thousand)
Water                                   104.6         106.6        109.8        113.0         116.6        122.3
Sewerage                                 53.4          57.7         62.3         67.3          72.7         78.5
Service levels (%)
Water                                    95            95           95            95           95           91 a
Sewerage                                 49            51           54           57            59           59  /
Per capita production (1/cd)               378           367           356          358          376          390
Consolidated
Water produced (million m3)                117.5          117.5        117.5        120.0        128,5        133.9
Water sold (million m3)                     66.8           67.6         70.1         74.6         82,3          87.8
Unaccounted-for water (%)                   43.2           42.5         40.3         37.8         36.0          34.5
Average revenue per m3 sold (¢)               1.34          1.76         2.66         3.67          3.71         4.33
Number of connections (thousand)
Water                                   163.4          165.4        169.6        174.0        178,7        185.8
Sewerage                                 61.3          66.4         71.9          77.8         84.3         91.2
Exchange rate                              8.57:1       12.0:1       13.0:1        13.0:1        13.0:1      13.0:1
Projected inflation (Z)                     -              30.0         20.0          8.0          7.0           7.0
Total Investment (O millions)               96.8         130.5         441.9        394.5        182.7        190.8
% contribution to investment                NIL           NIL            2           12           35           41
Government contributions (V millions)   117.6              54.0        166.4         74.0         26.0          -
Total Employees                           2640          2720          2720         2560         2390         2240
Employees per 1000 connections b/           12.1           11.8         11.6         10.4          9.2          8.0
Operating Ratio (%)                        126.4          121.3         94.3         74.2         79.4          74.7
Debt Service Ratio                           0.02           0.1          0.9          1.9          1s6           1.4
Rate of Return (%)                           (3.9)         (3.1)         1.0          5.3          3.5           4.5
Month  Sales in Receivables                   2.2           2.2          2.0          2.0          2.0           2.0
a /Includes expansion of SJMA service area to incorporate Escazu in 1984. Excluding Escazu, service levels
would be 95% for water and 62% for sewerage in 1984.
b /Excludes employees engaged in construction.
10/80



- 43 -
VII. ECONOMIC AND SOCIAL ANALYSIS
Prolect Benefits
7.01      The project's four components would primarily benefit the SJMA.
The institutional improvement of AyA and the restructuring of the tariff
system, however, would have spill-over benefits throughout the country.
Direct benefits from the construction of the Orosi water supply scheme would
accrue to approximately 478,000 persons in 1984 who would suffer water short-
ages during the dry season without the project. The project would benefit an
additional 193,000 persons expected to be added to the system by 1991 because
of natural population increase, migration and expansion of the service area to
include Escazu, Santa Ana and Colon. These three small towns to the west of
the SJMA are currently serviced by old and deficient municipal systems. The
project will also provide water service for the Government's low-income
housing projects (para 3.20).
7.02      Over the longer run, preparation of the master plan would benefit
the entire population of the SJMR (estimated to reach 2 million people by
the year 2000). The institutional improvement of AyA through technical
assistance would enable AyA to strengthen its overall operations, including
the FRAU and PAC programs. These two programs have the potential to greatly
improve services at a relatively low per capita investment. The new tariff
structure that would result from the tariff study (para 6.08) should be more
progressive, thus allowing cross-subsidization to benefit both urban and rural
poor.
Least-cost Solution
7.03      Four alternatives were selected for comparison with the Orosi water
supply scheme. Immediate development of groundwater from the Colima aquifer,
the alternative with the potential for producing the lowest cost water, is
not considered technically feasible at this time. At least three years of
additional investigation are needed to confirm the aquifer's long-term safe
yield and to identify well locations. Table 7.1 lists the marginal cost of
water in the SJMA, net present values, the total cost of the proposed project
and the total cost of the other four alternatives, discounted at 12%. To make
each alternative comparable, groundwater has been assumed as the second stage
of each at a capacity sufficient to meet the year 2000 demand when added to
the capacity of the alternative being compared. Table 7.1 shows that the
proposed project has the highest net present value, the lowest marginal cost
and the lowest present value of total costs of all the feasible alternatives.
Therefore, the proposed project is the least-cost alternative at discount
rates between 6% and 17%.



- 44 -
Return on Investment and Average Long-Run Incremental Cost
7.04      The rate of return on the investment in the Orosi water supply
scheme and the associated distribution works was calculated using revenues as
a measure cf economic benefits. The calculation (detailed in Annex 12) used
shadow prices for energy. Market prices are used for all other inputs as they
are believed not to be significantly distorted, given Costa Rica's relatively
open economy. The resulting rate of return of 12.4% is satisfactory as
benefits based on revenues for water service do not reflect economic and
social benefits in full. Other non-quantifiable benefits, such as improvements
in public health, labor productivity and nutrition, deserve recognition
although they are not included in the calculation. A rate of return was not
estimated for the master plan and technical assistance components of the
project because of the difficulty of quantifying their benefits with reason-
able precision.
7.05      The average long-run incremental cost of water supply in the SJMA,
based on the proposed project and future groundwater development and using a
12% discount rate, is US$0.28/m3at December 31, 1980 projected price levels, 1/
compared to the present average tariff (US$0.20/m3).  The average long-run
incremental cost is also equal to the proposed average tariff for the SJMA in
1984 (US$0.28/m3). Charges are progressive, with the exception of some
anomalies which are expected to be corrected as a result of the proposed
tariff structure studies (para 6.08). As a result, consumers using more than
the minimum would be charged for their marginal consumption at rates which
would exceed the social cost of production by an amount which increases as
consumption rises. This should encourage water conservation and reduce future
investment requirements.
1/   Calculation of average long-run incremental cost of water supply
made using December 31, 1980 price projections in order to include
effect of semiflexible exchange rate system instituted on September 15,
1980.



Table 7.1: LEAST COST COMPARISON OF ALTERNATIVES AT 12% DISCOUNT RATE a/
Net present      Marginal cost    Present value
value b/         of water            costs in
Alternative                   (US$ million)       (US$/m3)        (US$ million)
Orosi 1.8 m3/sec + groundwater 1.8 m3/sec          0.0               0.30              69.6
Orosi 1.2 m3/sec + groundwater 2.4 m3/sec         -2.1               0.31              70,7
Orosi 2.5 m3/sec + groundwater 1.1 m3/sec         -3.0               0.31              71.6
Pirris (direct) 2.5 m3/sec +
groundwater 1.1 m3/sec                           -25.7               0.42              89.4
Groundwater 3.6 m3/sec c/                        +14.7               0.24              58.2
a/ Costs and benefits based on March 1, 1980 estimates which do not reflect effects of semi-
flexible exchange rate system instituted on September 15, 1980.
b/  Benefits based on an average tariff of US$0.30/m3.
c/ Not feasible without further investigation.
10/80



- 46 -
ImRact on Urban Poor
7.06      The project beneficiaries include 143,000 urban poor (30% of benefi-
ciaries) 1/ who would suffer water shortages in 1984 if the Orosi scheme
were not built. The number of beneficiaries would rise to 206,000 by 1990.
In 1984 65% of the poor in the SJMA would benefit, increasing to 76% in 1990.
Affordability of Services to the Urban Poor
7.07      Water tariffs for basic consumption (0-15 m /mo.), assuming no
changes in the current tariff structure, would have to increase from the
current monthly charge of 020.00 to 024.30 to comply with proposed financial
covenants. AyA has no established criteria for guiding the setting of
tariffs according to ability to pay. Using the normally admissible limit for
water charges (3% of family income), tariffs for minimum consumption (0-15
m3/mo.)are within the affordability limit at even the subsistence family
income threshold as shown in Table 7.2. It is estimated that approximately
79% of the relative urban poor consume less than 15 m3 per month and the
remaining poor consume less than 25 m3. Thus, the service is affordable to
all the urban poor. There is still some latitude for tariff increases if
needed.
Project Sensitivity and Risks
7.08      The sensitivity of benefits to changes in costs was tested.  The
tests measured the impact of decreases in revenues and extreme and highly
unlikely cost increases on the return on the investment in the project. The
results, in order of declining sensitivity, are as follows:
Return on the
Investment
Base Case                                             12.47
10% decrease in revenues                             10.54
20% increase in capital costs                        10.62
50% increase in distribution costs                   11.82
10% increase in energy costs                         11.86
10% increase in operation and maintenance costs    12.30
Since benefits are estimated on the basis of revenues only, the return
is more sensitive to reduction in revenues (arising from production demand
or tariffs below the forecast), than to changes in costs. Demands were
projected conservatively on the basis of historic consumption patterns.
Actual demand is not expected to fall significantly below the forecast.
1/   The poverty level for 1979 is about US$607, approximately one-third of
the Costa Rican national per capita income. Costa Rica's 1979 per capita
GNP is estimated at US$1,820 (World Bank OMS, 1980).



- 47 -
Table 7.2: AFFORDABILITY OF SERVICE TO URBAN POOR
(Colones per month)
Monthly water charge b/
Poverty      Family poverty           3% of
level         threshold- a/       threshold   15m3/month       19 m /mon,th
Subsistence         1,132                34           25
Relative            2,288                69           25             38
a/ Per capita subsistence level taken as US$300 p.a. (WH0/PAHO Sector Study) and
relative poverty level as US$607 p.a. (World Bank, 1980). Average famiIy size
of 5.3.                                      - _  ,        -_
bi Equivalent to 95 1/cd and 120 1/cd.
10/80



- 48 -
Projected tariff levels, although achievable, represent significant increases
over tariffs prevailing in October 1980. Nonetheless, the proposed tariffs
are within reach of all income groups in the SJMA and should not lower the
demand significantly. Demand projections include allowances for the effects
of higher tariffs.
7.09      The project's IRR is also sensitive to changes in construction costs.
A 20% increase in these costs in real terms would decrease the project's IRR
to 10.6%. This rate is still considered satisfactory since non-quantifiable
benefits are not taken into consideration. However, a 20% increase is
considered unlikely since final designs are at an advanced stage and present
costs already include 10% for physical contingencies.
7.10      The project is only slightly sensitive to increases in energy costs.
Cost calculations are based on the marginal cost of energy in Costa Rica (¢0.41/kWh)
which is higher than current charges to AyA. An escalation of energy costs of 10%
in real terms, also very unlikely, would only decrease the IRR to 11.7% which
is considered satisfactory. The sensitivity of the project's worth to distri-
bution, operation and maintenance costs is so low that they should not be a
matter of concern.
7.11      Risks associated with the construction and operation of the Orosi
scheme should be regarded as minor because AyA's Project Department staff is
relatively well trained and efficient. The major risk to the project is con-
nected with AyA's financial position. The proposed financial plan is based on
continued Government financial support to the institution until 1984.  The
Ministry of Finance has agreed to the proposed Government commitments over the
1980-83 period.  The financial plan is also very dependent on AyA meeting the
proposed rates of return (para 6.17) which are based on an 82% tariff increase
in real terms over the 1980-84 period.  SNE approved a 50% tariff increase
effective November 1, 1980, as an important first step in AyA achieving the
proposed rates of return. During Loan negotiations assurances were obtained
that the Government would continue to provide financial support to AyA and
that AyA would maintain tariffs necessary to meet the proposed rates of return
(para 6.17).
VIII. AGREEMENTS REACHED AND RECOMMENDATIONS
8.01      During Loan negotiations assurances were obtained from AyA that
they would:
(a) maintain tariffs at levels sufficient to achieve a rate of
return on their revalued net fixed assets of not lower than
1.0% in 1981, 5.3% in 1982, 3.5% in 1983 and 4.5% for subse-
quent years (para 6.11 and 6.17).



- 49
(b)  complete their metering program. by December 31, 198
(paras 3.16, 4.10 and 5.14);
(c)  employ a project manager with suitable staff dusizag project
implementation (para 4.22);
(d)  furnish to the Bank for comment terms of reference for the
preparation of a master water and sewerage plan and subsequently
allow the Bank to comment on all interim reports and the
draft final report not later than August 31, 1983 (para 4.11);
(e) prepare terms of reference not later than June 30, 1981 for pre-
investment studies of a proposed water supply and sewerage project
in about 16 medium and small sized cities; furnish the Bank for
comment the terms of reference and conclusions of the studies; and
complete the studies by December 31, 1982 (para 4.03);
(f)  employ consultants whose qualifications, experience and conditions
of employment shall be satisfactory to the Bank to prepare the
final design of the Tres Rios water treatment plant expansion, carry
out the master plan study, review the transmission system designs,
offer construct supervision advice for all phases of the Orosi
scheme, and carry out the organization and management improvement
programs (para 4.23);
(g) furnish to the Bank for review and comment not later than
December 31, 1981 specific targets for achieving reductions in
the period between meter reading and invoicing, the level of
accounts receivable, the amount of unaccounted-for water and
the ratio of employees to water connections; and thereafter
carry out on the basis of a timetable agreed to with the Bank
the targeted reductions (paras 3.15, 5.10, 5.15 and 5.16);
(h) exchange views annually with the Bank, prior to preparation
of its budget, on its progress in carrying out the investment
program and its plans for financing the remainder of the
program (para 5.20);
(i) consult with the Bank on capital expenditures which exceed by
US$2.0 million expenditures included in the capital investment
program in any one fiscal year (para 5.20);
(j) continue to have their financial statements audited annually by
competent external auditors and have a copy of the audit report,
together with comments on compliance with Bank Loan covenants, sent
to the Bank not later than June 30, 1981, for calendar year 1980
and not later than April 30 for the following years (para 5.21);



- 50 
(k) prepare terms of reference acceptable to the Bank by March 31,
1981 for a study of AyA's organization and management and provide
to the Bank for review and comment the conclusion of the study
no later than June 30, 1982, and implement the recommendations
in accordance with a schedule satisfactory to the Bank (para 5.23);
(1) complete by March 31, 1981 a study of tariff structure adjustments
with terms of reference acceptable to the Bank and including a
study of flat charges for unmetered consumption, reconnection fees,
levies, charges for the use of private industrial wells, deferred
payment arrangements for house connections for the poor, and expan-
sion of metering programs in the regions, and implement the recom-
mended changes by not later than November 1, 1981 (para 6.08);
(m)  incur no new-long term debt which would result in a debt service
ratio of less than 1.3 except as the Bank should otherwise agree
(para 6.17);
(n) make a semiannual joint review of tariff levels (para 6.17);
(o) send to the Bank quarterly progress reports (para 6.18); and
(p) send to the Bank, not later than six months after project
completion, a satisfactory project completion report (para 6.19).
8.02      During Loan negotiations assurances were obtained from the Govern-
ment that during project execution:
(a) funds would be made available by not later than December 31, 1981
to AyA to undertake preinvestment studies for a proposed water
supply and sewage project in about 16 medium and small-size cities
(para 4.03);
(b) adequate Government funding would be provided to AyA to allow
implementation of AyA's investment program and the PAC/FRAU programs
administered by AyA and to meet a portion of its debt servicing
requirements over the period 1980-83 (para 6.17);
(c) SNE would approve AyA tariff increase requests which AyA will
require to meet the rates of return specified in para 8.01(a) above
(para 6.17); and
(d) expansion of water supply and sewage facilities within Costa Rica
would be based on economically justified programs and that
financing for such expansions would be available on terms and
conditions which would not adversely affect AyA's financial
condition or the carrying out of the project (para 5.20),



- 51 -
8.03      The following events would be conditions for Loan effectiveness:
(a) appointment of the project manager referred to in para 8.02 (a)
above;
(b) execution and delivery of the CDC Loan Contract (para 4.18);
(c) satisfaction of the conditions of effectiveness of the CDC Loan
Contract (para 4.18); and
(d) ratification by the Controller General of the agreement between
AyA and ICE for the diversion of water from the Rio Macho power
plan penstock (para 4.25).
8.04      The proposed Bank loan would allow retroactive financing for the
foreign cost of consultants and the construction of the tunnal (para 4.34) up
to US$0.5 million.
8.05      With the above assurances, the project would be suitable for a Bank
loan of US$26.0 million. The terms would be 15 years maturity, including
3 years grace.



COSTA RICA
SAN JOSE METROPOLITAN AREA WATER SUPPLY PROJECT
AyA Investment Program a/
Program                                             1980         1981         1982      1983          1984        Total
San Jose Metropolitan Area
Water Supply
Chivas                                                         15.5        12.9          -            -          28.4
Orosi                                            8.4          280.8       280.8         58.5          -         628.5
Short term program                                 8.1           18.3         2.5          -          __           28.9
Sub Total - Water Supply                    16.5          314.6        296.2         58.5          -         685.8
Sewerage
Phase II                                        73.3           60.4        33.1          -            -         166.8
Phase III                                         -                            4                     52.3        52.3
Sub Total - Sewerage                        73.3           60.4         33.1          -           52.3       219.1
U'
Sub Total - SJMA                      89.8          375.0        329.3         58.5         52.3      904.9         t
Urban Areas
8 cities - Water Supply & Sewerage                12.0            5.5         -            -            -          17.5
4 cities - Water Supply                           11.7           27.2         9.5          -            -          48.4
16 cities - Water Supply & Sewerage                  -              -           -          68.0         116.2      184.2
Sub Total - Urban Areas               23.7           32.7          9.5         68.0         116.2     250.1
AyA Direct Investment                            113.5          407.7        338.8        126.5         168.5    1155.0
Investment through PAC/FRAU programs b/
30 cities - Water Supply (FRAU) c/                 49.1           43.6        13.7         10.6          23.2      140.2
47 Rural Water Supply Systems                      82.4           26.0         -            -             -        10874
200 Rural Water Supply Systems                                       -          32.1        31.7          23.7       87.5
Sub Total - PAC/FRAU                 131.5           69.6         45.8         42.3          46.9     336.1
Total Investment Program                           245.0          477.3        384.6       168.8         215.4    1491.1
a/  Source:  AyA and Appraisal Mission Estimates 7/80
b/ AyA acts as administrator of PAC/FRAU program investments; consequently, these investments are not
a part of AyA's direct investment, but represent trust funds received from the Government's FAF.
c/   Investment in 1983 and 1984 represents portion of 16 cities investment attributable to FRAU.
10/80



- 53 -
Annex 2
Page 1 of 4
COSTA RICA
SAN JOSE METROPOLITAN AREA WATER SUPPLY PROJECT
Existing SJMA Water Supply and Sewerage Systems
Water Supply System
1.        The SJMA water supply system originally consisted of the inde-
pendent systems of eight different municipalities. The systems were brought
under unified control when the National Water Supply and Sewerage Service
(SNAA), the forerunner of AyA, was formed in 1961. At the time of its forma-
tion, the unified system had a production capacity of 1,000 m3/sec from three
surface-water-supplied treatment plants and several minor springs. The most
important supply facilities were the upper and lower slow sand filter plants
at Tres Rios. Both plants are supplied by the same surface water source,
but operate independently of one another. The lower plant also has a Permutit
package filter plant added in 1961. The combined production capacity of these
plants today is 600 1/sec. After periods of heavy rainfall, however, production
capacity is less because of the increased turbidity of the raw water. The
other two filter plants in existence in 1961 and functioning today are the
rapid sand filter plants at Guadalupe and Los Sitios, with present capacities
of 300 1/sec and 200 1/sec, respectively. A Permutit filter plant similar to
the one at Tres Rios is located at the Los Sitios plant. Flow from all three
plants is by gravity, except for a small high altitude sdrvice area supplied
from the Guadalupe plant.
2.        Since 1961 the system's production has been doubled through the
addition of two new sources and through expansions at the three filter plants.
The first source to be added after the unification of the system was the
Puente Mulas spring. The springs for this source emerge in the Virilla River
Valley, about 10 km west of the center of San Jose. The springs were
developed by constructing collector tunnels in the cliffs which line the
river valley. The current capacity of the system is 400 1/sec (320 l/sec in
the wet season 1/), although its transmission main and pumping stations were
designed for a capacity of 1,200 l/sec.
3.        The most recent source to be added to the system is the Santo
Domingo well field. This source consists of 13 wells (one under construction)
about 100 m deep which tap the Colima aquifer. This aquifer, which is the
source of water for the Puente Mulas springs, has an estimated yield of
15 m3/sec. The geology of the aquifer is extremely complicated and not well
understood. Recently, groundwater levels for the existing wells have been
dropping at rates in excess of those predicted by the design consultants.
Investigations of the aquifer are continuing, and it is hoped that the source
would have potential for future development. The existing wells pump to a
ground storage reservoir in Uruca. A high-lift pumping station then pumps
1/   The lower wet season capacity results from the length of the travel time
of water from the recharge area to the area of the springs.



- 54 -
Annex 2
Page 2 of 4
the water to the SJMA distribution system. The rated capacity of the
existing wells is 500 1/sec. The transmission main and the pumping station
at Uruca are designed for an ultimate capacity of 1,100 I/see.
4.        The existing sources of supply and their capacities are listed in
at the end of the Annex.
Water Distribution System
5.        The distribution system is divided into 13 separate supply areas or
pressure zones. Each zone has one or more service reservoirs which establish
the hydraulic gradient or the pressure for that zone. There are 20 separate
service reservoirs throughout the system. In general, the service reservoirs
are supplied from the various sources and serve as the point of supply for the
distribution system. The hydraulic gradient in the highest pressure zone
is 1,200 m, while the lowest pressure zone gradient is at 1,086 m. Within
each pressure zone, pressures are allowed to fluctutate from a minimum of 50 m
to a maximum of 136 m.
6.        The total length of distribution system pipe is 700 km, including
the 36-in transmission main from the Puente Mulas source and the 30-in main
from the Uruca well field pumping station. Most of the mains in the system
are spun or cast iron. Galvanized mild steel which has been widely used for
pipes of 3-in diameter and less, although spun iron pipes down to 2-in
diameter are also in service. Transmission mains of ductile iron have been
employed for such special features as river crossings. In recent years, PVC
pipes manufactured in Costa Rica have been laid to serve newer developments in
the suburbs. PVC pipes are also being widely used for service connections
which formerly used copper or galvanized mild steel pipe. Minimum size of
pipe now being installed is 3-in.
7.        Most of the mains in the older sections of San Jose are believed
to be up to 80 years old. The average age of pipes in the SJMA distribution
system is between 30 and 45 years. Samples of pipe recovered from various
parts of the system during an investigation undertaken in 1971 1/ indicated
that the system was in fair condition considering its age. These samples
showed little corrosion and only a slight degree of tuberculation. This is to
be expected from the results of analyses which show treated water from all
sources to be only mildly corrosive.
1/ Feasibility study for the Second Stage Water Supply Program, Howard
Humphries Consulting Engineers, 1972.



- 55 -
Annex 2
Page 3 of 4
Sewerage System
8.        Most of the SJMA sewerage system has been installed in the last 15
years. The system is a result of a four-stage program begun in 1964 with
the ultimate goal of providing a 100% waterborne sewerage system for the SJMA.
The second stage of construction is now nearing completion, and 49% of the
city's residents are connected to the system. The major interceptors of the
all-gravity system parallel the Virilla and Tiribi Rivers with discharge to
points downstream and to the west of the city. Primary and secondary treatment
is proposed for the fourth stage. Most of the population not served by a water-
borne sewerage system are served by septic tanks and some are served by latrines.
At present, AyA requires all new development to include a waterborne sewerage
system even if the system cannot be connected to an existing trunk main. In
this case, the developer must provide septic tanks to meet the needs of the
development until the trunk main is built.



COSrA RICA
SAN JOSE METROPOLITAN AREA-WATER SUPPLY PROJECT
Existing Sources of SuplLa/
C a p a c i t y,
Source of                                    Dry                   Wet
Name                  Supply                 Distribution          Season                 Season                Remarks
Surface Water (Treatment Plants)                                   925                    1,220
Tres Rios (Alta)  Rio Tiribi              Gravity                200                      350
Tres Rios (Baja)  Rio Tiribi              Gravity                130                      250
Guadalupe           Rio Virilla           Gravity                300                      300
Q. Piedras
Q. Lupe
Q. Honda
Los Sitos           Rio Macho             Gravity                200                      200
Escazu              Rio Agres             Gravity                 20                       30                 To be added in 1984 when Fscanu is added to SJ14A System.
San Juan de         Rio Poas              Gravity                 50                       65
Dios
Cuadros             Rio Purral            Gravity                 25                       25
Springs                                                            895                      815
Puente de Mulas   Puente de Mulas         Pumped                 480                      400                 Nominal rating of installed pumping equipment is 850 I/sec
Springs                                                                                  but installation designed for expansion to 1.200 I/sec                            Lo
Inicrease in dry aeaaon apring yield to 470 I/aec prograsmmed                     0
for 1982.  Existing dry season yield equals 400 I/sec
La Libertad         La Libertad           Pumped                  80                       80
La Peregrina         Springs                                      10                       10
Padre Carazo        Padre Carazo          Gravity                170                      170
Springs
Chiquita            Chiquita, Tres        Gravity                 40                       40
Rios and Manzo
Springs
Escazu (Zenan)    Minor Springs           Gravity                 10                       10                 To be added in 1984 when Escazu is added to SJMA System.
Alajueleta          Minor Springs         Gravity                 10                       10
San Antonio de    Minor Springs           Gravity                 15                       15
Desamparados
Chivas              Chivas Springs        Gravity                 80                       80
Wells                                                              6                        64
Zapote Wellfield  Zapote                  Pumped                  20                       20
Aqui fer
McGregor I                                                                                                    Water directly to distribution.                                                  I'd
McGregor II                                                                                                   Water directly to distribution.                                                  o 
Santo Domingo        Colima               Pumped                 620                      620                 13 wells with a nominal installed capacity of 800 1/sec
Wellfield           Aquifer                                                                                  One is under construction and another planned.  All wells
pump to Uruca reservoir and distribution puMp station wi thI4
a nominal installed capacity of 800 I/sec.  Existing rated                       0
program for 1982.
TOTAL  (ALl sourcesl                                             2,460                    2,675
a/ Includes new sources and expansioas of existing sotirces under construction to be added prior to completion of project



COSTA RICA
SAN JOSE METROPOLITAN AREA WATER SUPPLY PROJECT
Historical and Proiected Population Water Consumption and Production for the SJMA System
Total         Population          Percent          No. of                                                                                            Percent           Supply
Year     population          served          population       connections               Consumption c/                            Production                  unaccounted-for   capacity d/
in thousands a/   in thousands         served        in thousands         6                                      6        .                             production         (m3/sec)
(10 m3/vr)  (m3/sec)        (lcd)      (10 m3/vr)  (m3/sec)          d)
1975           513              445              87              84.0            32.6         1,030         201         67.5         2,140          416             52               1,700
1976           529              466              88              87.9           40.7          1,290         239         73.7         2,340          433             45               2,100
1977           545              494              91              93.2           37.7          1,200         209         74.1         2,350          411             50               2,100
1978           561              524              93              98.9           46.6          1,480         244         79.7         2,530          417             42               2,100
1979           578              549              95             104,6           46.9          1,490         234         75.7         2,400          378             38               2.100
1980           595              565              95             106.6           47.0          1,490         228         75.7          2,400         367              38              2,100
1981           613              582              95             109.8           49,2          1,560         232         75,7         2,400          356              35              2,100
1982           631              599              95             113.0            53.2         1,690         243         78.2         2,480          358              32              2,180
1983           650              618              95             116.6           60.5          1,920         268         86.7          2,750         384              30              2,700
1984           710              648             91 b/           122.3            65.5         2,080         277         92.2          2,920         390              29              4,260
1985           762              689             90 go           130.0            70.6         2,240         281         98.1         3,110          390              28              4,260
1986           784              723              94 b!          136.4            75.1         2,380         285        102.9          3,260         390              27              4,260
1987           809              760             94              143.4            80.1         2,540         289        108.2          3,430         390              26              4,260
1988           834              792              95             149.4            84.5         2,680         292        112.7          3,570         390              25              4,260
1989           860              817              95             154.2            87.2         2,770         293        116.3          3,690         390              25              4,260
1990           885              841              95             158.7            89.8         2,850         293        119.7          3,800         390              25              4,260
1995         1,033              981              95             185.1           104.7         3,320         293        139.6          4,430         390              25              4,870
2000         1,205            1,145              95             216.0           122.3         3,880         293        163.0          5,170         390              25               5,680
a/  Projections assume a 3% pes annum increase with Escazu being incorporated in the service area in 1984 and Santa Ana and Colon in 1985.
b/  Percent population served declines in 1984 due to addition of Escazu in 1984 and Santa Ana and Colon in 1985.  Existing distribution networks for these
communities only serve about 50% of the population, It is projected to take until 1988 before expansion of networks is sufficient to allow 95% service
coverage.
c/ Metered consumption for metered users plus billed consumption for flat rate users.
d/  Dry season supply capacity.  In 1995 and 2000 supply capacity assumed equal to 110 percent of production.



- 58 -
Annex 4
Page 1 of 7
COSTA RICA
SAN JOSE METROPOLITAN AREA WATER SUPPLY PROJECT
PoetDescrtion
General
1.        The project consists of five components.  The principal component
is the Orosi scheme, which is designed to increase the water supply to SJMA
and overcome existing dry season deficits. Other components include: rehab-
ilitation of the water distribution system; purchase and installation of
water meters; preparation of a master plan; and provision of technical assis-
tance to improve organization and management, reduce unaccounted-for water and
to investigate groundwater sources.
Orosi Water Supply Scheme
2.        The Orosi water supply scheme would increase the dry season production
capacity of the SJMA water supply system by 86% to 3,900 1/sec. Upon comple-
tion, the Orosi scheme would be the system's largest single source of supply.
Treated water would enter the system at an altitude of 1,350 m which is suf-
ficient to supply 11 of the system's 13 pressure zones without pumping.
3.        The scheme consists of:  construction of 28 km of raw water trans-
mission line from a connection to the penstock of the Rio Macho power plant
to the Tres Rios water treatment plant; expansion of the Tres Rios water treat-
ment plant; and reinforcement of the treated water transmission system to
allow distribution of the increased supply to the arpas of current need and
future growth. Statistics on the basic features of the scheme are as follows:
(a) Source
Name:                       Llano Reservoir (Rio Macho power
project owned by ICE)
Safe yield:                  3,500 1/sec
Maximum water
surface level:            1,568 m
Water surface level
fluctuation:              6.0 m
Intake:                     Existing intake for power plant.
Diversion through control value connected
to penstock.
(b) Raw Water Transmission
Intake                      Valved connection to existing power plant
penstock.
Section 1:                   22 km of 42-in pipe terminating at tunnel.
Maximum pressure 500 m. Average pressure
150 m. Design capacity 1,800 1/sec.



- 59 -
Annex 4
Page 2 of 7
Section 2:                  1 km of gradeline horseshoe shaped
tunnel, maximum dimension 2 m. Design
capacity 4,800 l/sec. Invert elevation
at entrance 1,480 m.
Section 3:                  5 km of 36in pipe.  Maximum pressure 160 m.
Average pressure 100 m. Design capacity
1,800 1/sec.
Flow control:               Control valve at source with overflows at
tunnel and treatment plant.
Flow measurement:           Venturi meter at source and overflow weir
at treatment plant.
(c) Treatment
Location:                    Tres Rios treatment plants
Existing capacity:            600 1/sec
Expanded capacity:            2,100 1/sec
Safe yield of existing
source:                     300 1/sec
Inlet water surface
level:                       1,433 m
Outlet water surface
level:                       1,400 m
Existing treatment:          Mixing, flocculation, and slow sand
filtration (rapid sand filtration
for 20% of plant capacity).
Proposed treatment:          To be determined.
(d) Treated Water Transmission
Section 1:                   4.2 km of 24-in. pipe from expanded
treatment plant to the Granadilla Reservoir
(size and location to be confirmed by
treatment plant consultant).
Section 2:                    7.1 km of 24-in. pipe from expanded
treatment plant to Curridabat Reservoir
No. 1 (size and location to be confirmed
by treatment plant consultant).



- 60 -
Annex 4
Page 3 of 7
4.        The connection to the penstock would be designed and constructed
by ICE in accordance with AyA's requirements. The details of and responsi-
bilities for the connection, the amount of water to be extracted and compen-
sation to ICE for the extracted water is part of a formal agreement between
ICE and AyA. Implementation of this phase of the scheme will be outside the
control of AyA. Since cooperation between the two agencies is good, ICE is
expected to fulfill its obligations under the agreement without difficulty.
The Orosi scheme presents few problems in design and only minor problems
in implementation. It is an all-gravity scheme which would have little
dependence on mechanical equipment. The safe yield of the source, which is
well documented through over 25 years of record keeping, is more than suffi-
cient to meet the project flow of 1.8 m3/sec.
5.        The most difficult part of the component would be the expansion of the
Tres Rios water treatment plant. The design of this component has yet to be
undertaken. The objective of the expansion would be to meet the capacity and
quality requirements of the project, utilizing to the greatest extent possible
the existing facilities in order to minimize the cost. The pipeline would pre-
sent more problems in construction than in design since one-third of the pipe-
line is located in undeveloped terrain where access roads and rights-of-way must
be prepared in advance. Construction would also be complicated by ten river
crossings. Water hammer and corrosion are not expected to be major problems;
however, these aspects of the design would be undertaken by special consultants
acceptable to the Bank.
6.        The one-km tunnel section underneath the continental divide was
designed by AyA's technical staff with the assistance of ICE's tunneling
experts and their consultants, SNC of Canada. The geology of Costa Rica, which
is volcanic in origin and highly faulted, makes tunnel construction difficult.
There is much previous experience to draw upon, however, and AyA has considered
it in the preparation of the design and contract documents. In preparing the
contract documents, AyA anticipated several situations which may face the
contractor and has established payment procedures should these situations be
encountered.
Distribution System Rehabilitation
7.        This component would provide for replacement of 24.5 km of old and
undersized mains in low-income barrios with new mains of adequate capacity.
It would also provide for the replacement of 2,600 old and deteriorated
galvanized iron service connections with PVC tubing. Lengths of main to be
installed, by diameter, are as follows:
Diameter                   Length
(in.)                      (km)
3                         10.1
4                          7.0
6                          3.4
8                          4.0
24.5



- 6 L 
Annex 4
Page 4 of 7
Purchase and Installation of Water Meters
8.        The goal of Aya's metering program is to have 100 percent metering
in the SJMA and 38 percent metering in the regions by the end of 1981. This
project component would purchase and instail 30,000 meters required to meet
these goals. Bank Loan funds would be used to purcnase the meters and ser-
vice connection assessories. Installation would be by AyA's own forces.
Master Plan Water and Sewage Study
9.        Previous studies recommending improvements in the SJI4A water sys-
tem dealt with the immediate problems and only identified possible alterna-
tives for meeting future demands (Rader and Assoc., 1959; and Howard Humphries,
1972).  In 1978, AyA investigated ten potential sources, and identified and
recommended the Rio Pirris as the next source to be developed. The ten alter-
natives analyzed did not, however, include two identified tn both the Rader
and Howard Humphries reports.
10.       A master sewerage plan for the SJMA was prepared in 1962.  The plan
outlined a four-stage program to extend the waterborne sewerage system which,
at that time, served only the business district of San Jose. This plan was
followed for the first- and second-stage programs, but the plan needs to be
updated before final design and implementation of the third- and fourth-
stage programs.
11.       Another shortcoming in the past was that water and sewerage planning
was locally oriented. A regional approach to planning is more important now
since the four urban areas in the region are beginning to compete for the same
water resources. In addition, the methods used by one area to dispose of its
wastewater could have an adverse effect on the environment of other nearby
communities.
12.       The proposed master plan would provide a program to fill the SJMR's
water supply and wastewater disposal needs until the year 2000 and would
specifically include the following:
(a) Water Supply
(i) inventory of existing water supplies, both public and private;
(ii) inventory of all undeveloped water resources with a potential
for filling the water supply needs of the region;
(iii) forecast of regional water supply needs through the year
2000;
(iv) evaluation of alternatives for filling the forecasted water
needs, including the Rio Pirris scheme and alternatives
included in the Rader and Howard Humphries reports; and
(v) recommended scheme including preliminary plans and cost
estimates, for a first stage project.



- 62 
Annex 4
Page 5 of 7
(b) .2S1a! e
(1)  inventory of existing sewerage systems and treatment plants;
(ii)  location of major sewage discharges and effect on water
quality;
(iii) estimate of future wastewater disposal needs;
(iv)  development of treatment alternatives;
(v)  recommendations for level of treatment and justification;
(vi)  recommendations for a regional wastewater management scheme,
including preliminary plans and cost estimates for a first-
stage project;
(vii) review of SJMA third-stage sewerage program and recommendations
for modifications, including preliminary plans and cost esti-
mates;
(viii)  survey of industrial waste discharges to identify pollution, to
determine flows and loadings and the presence of toxicants; and
(ix)  recommendations for monitoring and control of waste discharges.
(c) Institutional and Financial
(i)  institutional arrangements for plan implementation;
(ii)  evaluation of existing water law and recommendations for
improvements;
(iii)  financing of the proposed plans; and
(iv)  feasibility of charging for private development of groundwater
resources.
Technical Assistance
13.       Organization and Management.  Technical assistance for organization
and management would provide for: improvements in AyA's sector investment plan-
ning and programming; better coverage of urban areas outside the SJMA and
concentrated rural areas consistent with service requirements; improved tech-
nical and financial assistance from AyA to municipally owned systems and
independent rural water supply systems; and increased efficiency in the
management and operation of AyA's systems. In particular, the technical
assistance (estimated at 60 man-months) would consist of the following:
(a) investment planning and capital budgeting: preparation of a
comprehensive investment program for the urban and rural
concentrated populations consistent with service needs and
public finance constraints;



- 63 -
Annex 4
Page 6 of 7
(b)  FRAU program:  preparation of a comprehensive program of
rehabilitation and expansion throughout the urban sub-sector,
and development of design criteria, construction norms, training
program needs and a financial strategy to assure maintenance of
the revolving fund;
(c) PAC program: review and analysis of design criteria and
construction norms, community participation, financing and
selection criteria, and supervision and training needs;
(d) sector role and interinstitutional relations: establish sector
needs and define the role of all organizations in the sector in
meeting these needs;
(e) organization and management structure: study of the effects of
decentralization and proposal of recommendations for improvements;
(f) financial and management accounting and reporting: improvement
of allocation of costs, reduction of delays in the issuance of
financial reports, introduction of trust fund accounting for the
FRAU and PAC programs, introduction of profit center accounting
and systematic collection and reporting of key statistical informa-
tion and refinements in budgeting;
(g) billing: reduction of the three-month lag between the times
meters are read and bills are sent; and
(h) training: assessment of needs as a result of all technical
assistance items.
14.       Control of Unaccounted-for Water.  Recognizing the need to reduce its
unaccounted-for water (38% of production for the SJMA in 1979), AyA formed a
system optimization division in 1976 to study the problem and take the necessary
measures to eliminate the causes. At present, this division consists of four
engineers, five draftsmen, ten technicians, and two repair crews of six men each.
The division is capable of measuring flows and locating leaks. Although it
presently surveys leakage on a limited basis, the division's main effort to date
has been the mapping of the distribution system on the theory that accurate maps
are necessary for effective leak detection and control.
15.       The technical assistance would consist of engaging an engineer or
technician experienced in the control of unaccounted-for water to work with
the system optimization in an advisory capacity for a period of six months.
The expert's objective would be to increase the effectiveness of the system
optimization division by evaluating equipment, procedures, organization and
training, and recommend improvements in these areas. He would implement the
recommendations approved by AyA and assist in the purchase of leak detection
equipment.



- 64 -
Annex 4
Page 7 of 7
16.       Groundwater Development.  Groundwater development in the SJMR has
expanded steadily during the past 10 years and now totals about 1,300 1/sec,
including 500 1/sec from the Santo Domingo well field which serves the SJMA.
Very substantial resources remain unexploited. Development of these resources
has been handicapped by insufficient information on well yields during extended
drought and lack of adequate hydro-geographical information. Particularly
critical issues are the mechanism and distribution of groundwater replenishment;
the vulnerability to pollution of the recharge area; and the definition of an
effective groundwater pollution protection policy. SENAS and AyA, with the
assistance of the Government of the United Kingdom through the Overseas
Development Association (ODA), embarked on a preliminary investigation prog-
gram to solve these problems in 1979. The technical assistance component
for groundwater development would provide up to US$300,000 for continuation
of this program past March 31, 1981, when the current technical collaboration
agreement between the Government of Costa Rica and ODA will expire.



- 65 -
Annex 5
Page 1 of 4
COSTA RICA
SAN JOSE METROPOLITAN AREA WATER SUPPLY PROJECT
Project Cost Estimate
Basis for Cost Estimates
1.        Exchange rate:  US$ 1 = 912.9 (Average 1980-83)
2.        Base date for estimates:   March 1, 1980
3.        Base cost estimates:
(a) The tunnel construction cost is based on the awarded contract price.
(b) The estimated cost of the Orosi raw water transmission main and the
distribution system rehabilitation is based on quantity take-offs
from advanced preliminary designs and/or final designs. Pipe,
fitting, valve and material cost estimates are based on supplier
quotations. Steel pipe was assumed for the estimate; however, these
prices were compared with quotations for prestressed concrete pipe
which were within 10% of the steel pipe prices. Unit prices for
civil works are based on recent bids for similar works in Costa Rica
updated to March 1, 1980. The foreign cost component includes
the cost of imported materials and an estimate of the depreciation
cost of heavy equipment most likely to be used in the project.
(c) Cost estimates for the treated water transmission main and treat-
ment plant expansion are based on preliminary designs. The unit
prices used are considered reasonable; however, quantities and sizes
could change after final design. Cost estimates for these items should
be considered as allowances.
(d) Easement costs are based on AyA payments for similar work.
(e) Costs of studies for detailed designs, construction, supervision and
technical assistance are based on a man-month estimate for various
tasks and prevailing man-month rates charged by consultants in Costa
Rica (page 3). Use of local consultants has been assumed for work
within their known capability.
(f) Meter costs are based on AyA maintenance records for installation
and suppliers quotations for the meters and accessories.
4.        Physical contingencies: 10% for civil works, materials, equipment
and consulting services.



66 -
Annex 5
Page 2 of 4
5.         Price contingencies: 1% for local costs expressed in US dollars
and 20% for foreign costs. Calculations assume exchange rates and inflation
rates as follows:
Annual
inflation
Exchange                      rate
rate                         (%)
Year                      (p Per US$)              Foreign    Local
1980 (prior to 9/15/80)       8.57                    10.5       15.0
1980 (after 9/15/80)         12.00                    10.5      30.0
1981                         13.00                    9.0       20.0
1982                         13.00                     8.0        8.0
1983                         13.00                     7.0        7.0



ANNEX 5
- 67 -                                Page 3 of 4
COSTA RICA
SAN JOSE METROPOLITAN AREA WATER SUPPLY PROJECT
Engineering and Technical Assistance
Project Cost Estimate
Man-months and costs
Local                   Foreign
Man-      Cost (US$   Man-          Cost (US$
Work Item                     Months    thousand)    Months       thousand)
Orosi Scheme                                    142          479          98           990
Project management                            4            20          4            40
Evaluation of existing treatment
plant                                      4            14           6            50
Study of treatment alternatives              6            21          10            90
Surveys and borings                           -           40          -
Final design                                 128          364         50           450
Construction supervision advice               -            -          20           180
Special consultants                          -            -            4            50
Review of AyA designs                         -            -           4            30
Vehicles, equipment and misc.                 -            20         -            100
Master plan                                      Y-14         414         125          1093
Project management                            3            15          3            27
Water system inventory                        2            12           1            8
Demand projections                            2            12           1            8
Water resource inventory                      3            10          4             32
Water supply alternatives                    48           148         50           400
Sewerage system inventory                     2           12           1             8
Water quality testing and evaluation          4            14           1            8
Wastewater management alternatives           40           120         48           384
Waste treatment study                         2            12          2            16
SJMA stage III review                         5           18          10            80
Cost estimates                                3            11          4            32
Vehicles, equipment and misc.                 -            30         -             90
Unaccounted-for water reduction                   -            -           12           158
Advisor to AyA                                -            -          12           108
Equipment                                     -            -          -             50
Groundwater investigations                        _            _            6           304
Advisor to SENAS                              -            -           6            54
Equipment                                     -            -          -            250
Management assistance                            12           224          48           496
Project management                            -            -            3           27
AyA's sector role and interinstitu-
tional relations                           -            -            3            27
AyA's organization and management
structure                                  -            -            6            54
AyA's management support systems             12            48          36          324
Subsistence allowances and other
direct costs                               -           176          -             64
Total                    268         1,117         289         3,041
Average mm cost:
Local                                   4,200
Foreign                                10,500
Combined                                7,500



COSTA RICA
SAN JOSE METROPOLITAN AREA WATER SUPPLY PROJECT
Project Cost Estimate
(US$ Million)
Total                  1980                      1981                     1982                     1983
Local    Foreign       Local      Foreign       Local      Foreign       Local      Foreign       Local      Foreign
Orosi Subproject                      16.3       18.2          0.5        0.2           7.3        9.7          6.1         8.1           2.4        0.2
Raw Water Pipe                         6.5       11.3           -          -            1.4        7.1          3.7         4.2           1.4-
Raw Water Tunnel                       1.1        1.2          0.1        0.1           1.0        1.1           -           -             -           -
Treated Water Pipe                     1.5        2.6                -                   -          -          0.8          2.6           0.7
Access Roads                           3.9        0.7           -          -            3.9        0.7           -           -             -           -
Treatment Plant                        1.7        1.4           -          -            0.5        0.4          1.1         0.9           0.1         0.1
Engineering (consultants)              0.5        1.0           -         0.1           0.2        0.4          0.2         0.4           0.1         0.1
Engineering (AyA)                      1.1         -           0.4         -            0.3         -           0.3          -            0.1          -
Distribution System Renewal            0.5        0.7           -          -            0.2        0.2          0.3         0.5          ___                    e
Meters                                  0.7       0.7          -          -             0.3        0.3            4         0.4-
Master Plan                            0.4        1.1             _          _          0.1        0.2          0.2         0.5      4     h          0X
Technical Assistance                   0.3        1.0        _             -            0.1        0.3          0.1         0.4           0.1         0,3
Base Cost                        18.2       21.7          0.5       0.2            8.0      10.7          7.1         9.9           2.6         0.9
Contingencies                          2.0        6.6           -                       0.2        2.7          1 1         3.5           0 7-
Physical                               1.9        2.2          0.1         -            0.8        1.1          0.7         1.0           0.3         0.1
Price                                  0.1        4.4         (0.1)        -           (0.6)       1.6          0.4         2.5           0.4         0.3
Total Project Cost                20.2       28.3          0.5       0.2            8.2      13.4           8.2       13.4            3.3         1.3
Interest                                          6.8           -          -                       1.1                      2.5                       3.2
Total Financial                   20.2       35.1          0.5        0.2           8.2      14.5           8.2       15.9            3.3        4.5        c 
Requirements                                                                                                                                -
Exchange  Rate                       12.9:1                   12.0:1                   13.0:1                  13.0:1                    13.0:1                '.
_4_



COSTA RICA
SAN JOSE METROPOLITAN AREA WATER SUPPLY PROJECT
Implementation Schedule - Cumulative Completiona/
1979                      1980                       1981                       1982                       1983
Component lUnit)                                                                       
1     2      3     4      1     2      3      4      1     2      3     4       1     2      3     4       1     2      3      4
Orosi Scheme
RawVWater Pipe Supply (km)                                                                          DB     C      12    27
Raw Water Pipe Installation (km)                                                                     D      B     C      5     10    16    22    27
Construction of Tunnel (m)                                         D             B     C            200   500   700  1000
Construction of Access Road (km)                                                              D      C      4     8                                 _
Treated Water Pipe Supply (km)                                                                                    D      B     C      3      11
Treated Water Pipe Installation (kmi)                                                                                   DB            C             3      7     11
Water Treatment Plant Expansion (% I                                                                                     D      B     C      15    35    55    70    85    100
Distribution System Rehabilitation
Pipe Supply (km)                                                                                                  D      B      C     10    24
Pipe Installation (km)                         =B                                                                                      C     6      13    20    24    =
Meter Purchase and Installation
Purchase (number, thousand)                                                                   D      BC    15    30
Installation (number)                                                                                      10    20    30
Master Plan and Technical Assistance                                                                                                                                          I
Master Plan (%_                                                                                             T      I     C     10    20    40    60    s0    90    100
Organization & Management Assistance 1%                                                              T      IC    25    50    75    100
Unaccounted for Water Reduction Assistance (% I                                                      T     IC    50    100
Groundwater Investigaton Assistance (% )                                                             T     IC    15    35    55    70    85    100
Studies and Design
Consulting Services for Orosi Scheme (% )                                 TI                  C      20    35    46    60    65    70    75    80    85    9            95    100
Tariff Structure Study (% )_                                                                        100
Preinvestment Studies for 16 Cities (%6 I                                                                   T     I  C          25    50    75    1_                          _
/ Legend: D = Detailed engineering; B = Bidding; C = Contract Signed; T  Terms of Reference Complete; I = Invitation Letter Sent.
~J Study to be accomplished by AyA Staff.
World Bank - 22237



-70-                                                   ANNEX 7
COSTA RICA
SAN JOSE METROPOLITAN AREA WATER SUPPLY PROJECT
Project Implementation - Key Dates
Event                                    Target date                Event                                      Target date
Board Presentation                                   12/80           Meter purchase and Installation
Orosi Tunnel                                                            Draft specifications                               12/80
Bid documents issued                                1/81
Final design                                    12/79               Contract award                                      3/81
Bid documents issued                            4/80                Installation complete                              12/81 a/
Contract award                                   8/80
Distribution System Rehabilit. Pipe Supply
Orosi Raw Water Pipe Supply                                                                                                 /8l
Final design                                         /81
Final design                                     1/81               Bid documents issued                               10/81
Bid documents  issued                            2/81               Contract award                                      2/82
Contract award                                   5/81
Distrib. System Rehabilit. Pipe Installation
Orosi Raw Water Pipe Installation                                      Final design                                       lO/81
Final design                                    3/81                Bid documents issued                               12/81
Bid documents issued                            4/81                Contract award                                      4/82
Contract award                                  8/81
Master Plan
Orosi Access Road8
Terms of reference                                  6/81
Final design                                  12/80                Letter of invitation                                7/81
Contract with Min. of Public Works             1/81                Contract award                                     10/81
Submit draft final report to Bank                  8/83 a/
Technic. Assistance for Organization & Mgmt.
Orosi Treatment Plant
Terms of reference                                 3/81
Final design                                  12/81                Letter of invitation                                4/81
Bid documents issued                           1/82                Contract award                                      6/81
Contract award                                 4/82                Submit targets to Bank                             12/81 a/
Submit conclusions to Bank                         6/82 a/
orosi Treated Water Pipe Supply                                     Technical Assistance for Unaccounted-for Water
Reduction
Final design                                    9/81               Terms of reference                                  3/81
Bid documents issued                          10/81                Contract award                                      5/81
Contract award                                  2/82               Submit targets to Bank                             12/81 a/
Orosi Treated Water Pipe Installation                              Technical Assistance for Groundwater Investig.
Terms of reference                                 3/81
Final design                                  11/81                Letter of invitation                                4/81
Bid documents issued                          12/81                Contract award                                      5/81
Contract award                                 4/82
Preinvestm. Study for 16-Med. & Small Size Cities
Consulting Services for Orosi Scheme
Terms of reference                                6/81 a/
Terms of reference                             1/80                 Letter of invitation                               7/81
Letter of invitation                            2/80                Contract award                                    12/81
Contract award                                10/80                 Submit draft final report to Bank                 12/82 a!
Tariff Structure Study
Draft final report                              3/81  a/
Implement changes                              11/81  a/
a/ Loan covenant date.
10/80



71-
ANNEX 8
COSTA RICA
SAN JOSE METROPOLITAN AREA WATER SUPPLY PROJECT
Loan Disbursement Schedule
Bank fiscal             Disbursements        Cumulative
year and                during quarter        disbursements      % of
quarter ending          (US $ million)        (US $ million)    Total
FY 1981
March 31, 1981               2.0                   2.0             8
June  30, 1981               2.7                   4.7            18
FY 1982
September 30, 1981           3.0                   7.7            30
December 31,  1981           3.2                  10.9            42
March 31, 1982               3.0                  13.9            53
June  30, 1982  ''           3.0                  16.9            65
FY 1983
September 30, 1982           2.9                  19.8            76
December  31, 1982           2.9                  22.7            87
March 31, 1983               1.3                  24.0            92
June  30, 1983               0.9                  24.9            96
FY 1984
September 30, 1983           0.6                  25.5            98
December  31, 1983           0.5                  26.0           100
10/80



COSTA RICA
SAN JOSE METROPOLITAN AREA WATER SUPPLY PROJECT
INSTITUTO COSTARRICENSE DE ACUEDUCTOS Y ALCANTARILLADOS
ORGANIZATION CHART
BOARD
OF
DIRECTORS
EXECUTIVE
PRESIDENT
AUOTR                                       DIECOR OF
MANAGER
L IR    ||DIRECTOR OF
ATTORNEY                                   PUBLIC RE.I
DIRECTOR OF
HUMAN RESOURCES
|   |  [      O  1   1 ~~~~~UPB WAE   ||WRL  AN                  RURIALWATER  ||ADMIISRAIO                                            OPERATIONS
MANAGER             MANAGER             MAN       MANAGE                     SUPPLY MANAGER||S      MANAGER                                          MANAGER
AREA OPERATONS    OPERATIONS         SERVICES
MANAGER         MANAGER   |      MANAGER
GENERAL
SERVICES                                  
DEATM AENTDEATET                                 DVSO
| PROJECTS |ASICSTUOIE        BRSYSTEMS                                                 STOES          FIPNANCIAL    CFIC|
EARTMENT |DEPARTMENT |OPTIMIZATIONI]                                                   DEPARTMENTJ    DEPARTMENT        CENTER          DIVISI                           DS
MARCH 19SDO
W-rld B-nE, 2188E,



- 73 -
Annex 10
Page 1 of 9
COSTA RICA
SAN JOSE METROPOLITAN AREA WATER SUPPLY PROJECT
Financial Statements and Prolections with Assumptions
Assumptions for Financial Projections
Inflation and Exchange Rates
1.        Estimated rates of inflation used for financial projections are
30% in 1980, 20% in 1981, 8% in 1982 and 7% (1983 and 1984). Exchange rates
are estimated at 08.57 = US$1.00 through September 1980, 012.00 = US$1.00
for the last quarter of 1980 and 013.00 = US$1.00 for 1981-84.
Revenues
2.        The SJMA water demand for the period 1980-84 is based on:  (a)
increases in per capita consumption derived principally from more extensive
metering coverage, (b) annual population increases of 3%, (c) maintenance
of a 95% service level, and (d) expansion of AyA's service area to include
Escazu in 1984. For the other regions water demand is projected to increase
at 2.4% p.a. Sewer connections are projected to increase at an annual rate of
8%, primarily as the result of the sewage projects in the SJMA.
3.        Average water and sewerage tariffs for 1980 are based on current
tariffs for the first ten months of the year and implementation on November 1,
1980 of a 50% increase in tariffs. Average water and sewerage tariffs for
1981-84 are projected on the basis of obtaining a rate of return of 1% in
1981, 5.3% in 1982, 3.5% in 1983 and 4.5% in 1984.
4.        Other revenues for 1980-84 are assumed to maintain the same percen-
tage relationship to water and sewerage revenues as in 1979.
Operating_ Expenses
5.        Operating expenses have been projected to increase in line with
volume production increases with the exception of labor and overhead costs.
These costs are projected to remain constant from 1980 to 1983 due to economies
of scale and operational efficiencies resulting from the technical assistance
program. Expenses in 1983 and 1984 include additional operating and mainte-
nance costs associated with the Orosi project and net compensation to ICE for
water diverted from the Rio Macho reservoir calculated on the basis of ICE's
marginal cost of energy of the diverted water. Inflation rates in para 1
above were applied to all operating expenses.
Depreciation
6.        Depreciation expense is based on a composite rate applied on a
straight line basis. Depreciation rate for water supply assets is 3.3%;
sewerage assets, 2.5%; and other assets, 7.0%.



- 74 -
Annex 10
Page 2 of 9
Debt Service
7.        Projected debt service requirements are shown on page 9 of Annex 10.
All interest during construction is assumed to be capitalized.
Investments
8.        Investments include the expenditures under the project; expenditures
for the completion of the second stage sewerage project (1980-83); initiation
of the third stage sewerage project (1984), completion of the Chivas and short-
term water supply program and the 8 cities and 4 cities projects (1980-82);
initiation of the 16 cities project (1983-84); and capitalized interest,
consumer contributions and purchases of other assets, as shown in the following
table:
1980     1981      1982     1983      1984
AyA direct investment (Annex 1)   113.5    407.1    338.8    126.5    168.5
Capitalized interest                  5.2     22.9      43.9      43.6      9.1
Customers' contributions              7.5       6.1      6.2       6.6      6.8
Other assets                          4.3      4.9       5.6       6.1      6.6
Total                          130.5    441.9    394.5    182.7    190.8
Customers' contributions are based on a 5% annual increase in the corres-
ponding capital account and represent additions to the investment program.
Other assets include an annual allowance of 04.3 million adjusted for infla-
tion for the purchase of machinery and equipment.
Working Capital
9.        Working capital assumptions include (a) 2.0 months' sales customer
accounts receivable beginning in 1981, maintenance of miscellaneous accounts
receivable at year-end 1979 levels, elimination of unbilled revenues begin-
ning in 1981 resulting from delays in billing procedures; (b) increases in
inventory at 8% of unrevalued gross fixed assets until ¢100 million level is
reached in 1983; and (c) increases in current liabilities in line with increases
in operating and interest expenses and a percentage of the inventory increase.
Fixed Assets Revaluation
10.       Fixed assets were revalued as of December 31, 1978.  Agreement was
reached during Loan negotiations on the amount of revalued fixed assets as of
December 31, 1978, and the methodology and index to be used in the future for
annual revaluation. The Construction Price Index for Costa Rica is used to
revalue assets for 1979. For the years 1980-84, assets are revalued using
inflation rates mentioned in (1) above.
Other Assets
11.       Increase in other assets in 1980 and 1981 reflects capitalization
of foreign exchange loss on external long term debt as a result of currency
devaluation. Losses are assumed to be amortized over the external loan
repayment periods.



COSTA RtICA,
SAN JOSE NETR0POLrITM  AREA WATER SUPPLY PROEa
AyA income Statement for Years Ended December 31
(Killions of Colonas)
A c t u a 1                                                              P r a   e  c t e d
1974          1975          1976         1977         1978          1979           1980          1981          1982          1983          1984
Water produced (millions m3) *1                           65.3           67.5          73.7          74.1         114.7        117.5          117.5         117.5         120.0         128.5         135.9
Water sold (millions m3) ar -                             31.3           32.6          40.7          37.7          64.8          66.8          67.6          70.1          74.6          U2.3          87.8
Unaccounted-for water (7)  _a                             52.1          51.7           44.8          49.1          43.5         43.2          42.5          40.3           37.8          36.0          34.5
Water connections (00's)                                 127.4          131.3          139.5        144.8          ji7.7       163.4          165.4         169.6         174.0         178.7         185.8
Sever connections (000' )  b/                            N.A.          N.A.           47.7          57.5          56.9         61.3          66.4           71.9          77.8          84.3          91.2
Average tariff                                            N.A.          N.A.           N.A.          N.A.           1.22         1.34           1.76          2.66          3.67          3.71          4.33
Revenues
Water                                                  35.4           47.1           65.1          72.6          78.8         80.3         119.0         186.4         273.5         305.3         380.5      4
Sewer                                                   1.9           4.6            6.5           8.4           9.9        1.S            16.7          30.5          48.4          55.9          72.4
other                                                  _Q211172411L36691.
Total Revenues                                      37.5           52.8           73.3          12.7           2.4        104.2           .0          23.5          39.7          3N+
Operating, Maintenance & Administrative Costs             29.9          47.6           59.7          66.0           72.0       102.6         30.6           157.8         175.9         204.3         239.2
operating Income Before Depreciation                       7.6           5.2           13.6           16.7          19.1          1.6           8.4          65.7         153.8         166.4         225.6
Depreciation                                               6.8            9.0           12.4          12.4          18.8         29.1          38.0          53.0          68.6          89.9          108.2
operating income (loss)                                    0.8           (3.8)         1.2            4.3           0.3 (27.5                 (29.6)         12.7           5.2          7117.4
Financial 6, other expenses (net                           5,4           4.9            10.2           7.3           8.6         18.4          28.1          43.7          43.3          54.7           95.7
list income (loss)                                 ___             (8.7. (9.0)                  (3.0,)        _X          (4A5.9) 9521              :  =L -                IL                     21.7
Revalued fixed aasets   /                                 N.A.          N.A.           N.A.          N.A.           N.A.        712.7         964.0       1,266.4       1,590.0       2,184.5        2,609.7
Rate of return                                             0.5           (1.8)           0.4           1.2           0.1         (3.9)         (3.1)          1.0           5.3           3.5            4.5
operating ratio                                           97.9          107.2          98.4          94.8           99.7        126.4         121.3          94.3          74.2          79.4           74.7-
a/ Water produced, sold and unaccounted-for in years 1974-1977 are for metropolitan area only.
bi sewer connections corrected in 1978.                                                                                                                                                                      o
/ Assets revalued as of 12/31/78                                                                                                                                                                             '0
Source: Audited Financial Statements, WHO Tariff Study, AyA and mission estimates.
10/S0



COSTA RICA
SAN JOSE METROPOLITAN AREA WATER SUPPLY PROJECT
AyA Balance Sheets as of December 31
(Millions of Colones)
A c t u a I                                                     P r o I e c t e d
____    __           Acu_Po    ce
1974         1975         1976        1977        1978 a/    1979          1980         1981          1982         1983         1984
Assets
Fixed Assets
Property, plant & equipment                     238.5      350.7         392.0       530.1       853.0      1037.9       1536.1       1889.4       2422.1        3321.1       3566.8
Accumulated depreciation                        (74.8)      (83.5)       (95.9)    (108.2)    (201.1)    (264.4)         (381.7)      (511.0)       (620.5)      (753.8)      (914.8)
163.7      267.2         296.1       421.9       651.9       773.5       1154.4       1378.4       1801.6        2567.3       2652.0
Work in progress                                  135.6       129.3        240.1       202.1       209.7       266.7        210.4        606.2         616.8         70.0        247.6
Total Fixed Assets                           299.3      396.5         536.2       624.0       861.6      1040.2       1364.8       1984.6       2418.4        2637.3       2899.6
Current Assets
Cash and temporary investments                   52.7        11.2          3.6        12.3       105.9        69.4         14.2         27.2          10.0         30.7         42.5
Accunts receivable                               15.8        24.5         27.6        29.8        51.1        39.2         52.3         53.4          71.1         77.9         93.6
Inventory                                        26.3        93.7         64.5        49.4        52.8        44.1         62.9         66.6          97.3        100.0        100.0
Total Current Assets                          94.8      129.4          95.7        91.5       209.8       152.7        129.4        147.2        178.4         208 6 _      2236.1
Other Assets                                       27.1        26.2         28.7        28.1        27.9        25.3        119.9        137.4         122.0        166 5         90.8
FAF/FRAU Programs                                                                                   63.3
Total Assets                                421.2       552.1         660.6       743.6      1162.6      1218.2       1614.1       2269.2       2718.8        2952.4       3226.5
Net Worth and Liabilities
Government contributions                          260.1       293.3        342.5       397.7       560.1       529.8        549.4         715.8        789.8        815.8        815.8
Capital Surplus                                    61.1        73,2         84.5       104.4       123.3       131.0        138.5         144.6        150.8        157.4        164.2
Revaluation surplus                                                                                219.0       320.5        552.6         783.5        891.4       1017.5       1197.2
Accumulated deficit                               (34.9)      (43.0        (55.8)      (59.5)      (69.2)    (120.5)       (178.2        (209.2_  (1 67.3j _       £145.5) _123 .8
Total Net Worth                              286.4      323.5         371.2       442.6       833.2       860.8       1062.3       1434.7       1664.7        1845.2       2053.4    e 
Long Term Liabilities                              118.3       193.3        230.2       252.8       287.8       323.6        505.0         776.5       984          1025.3       1065.9
Short Term Liabilities                              12.6        32.5         55.7        41.7        40.0        31.6         44.3          55.1         66.1         78.5        103.5      a
Other                                                3.9_        2.8           3.5        6.5          1.6        2.2           2.5          2.9          3.1          3.4           3.7     4.. 
Total Liabilities                            134.8      228.6         289.4       361.0        294 6      357.4        551.8        834.5       1054.1        1107.2       1173.1        o
Total Net Worth & Liabilities                421.2      552.1         660.6       743.6      1162.6      1218.2       1614.1       2269.2       2718.8        2952.4      3226.5      Z
Debt/Equity & Debt                                  29%         37Z          38%         36%         26%         27%          32%           35%          37%          36%           34%
a/ Includes asset revaluation as of 12/31/78
Source: Audited Financial Statements, WHO Tariff Study, Aya and mission estimates.
10/80



COSTA RICA
SAN JOSE METROPOLITAN AREA WATER SUPPLY PROJECT
AyA Statement of Cash Flow for Years Ended December 31
t
(Millions of Colones)
A c t u a I                                                           P r o j e c t e d
1974        1975         1976          1977        1978           1979        1980          1981          1982         1983          1981-83        1984
Sources
Income before depreciation                           7.6           5.2         13.6          16.7        19.1            1.6         8.4          65.7        153.8         166.4         385.9         225.6
other revenueslexpenses (net)                       (3.)          (2.1)        (9.0)         (3.0)       (0.6)          (0.9)       (1.0)         (10           (10          (1.0)         (3O             10
Gross internal generation                            4.1           3.1          4.6          13.7        18.5            0.7         7.4          64.7        152.8         165.4         382.9          224.6
Customer contributions                              13.7          12.1         11.3          19.9        17.8            7.1         7.5           6.1           6.2          6.6          18.9            6.8
Total internal resources                            17.8          15.2         15.9          33.6        36.3            7.8        14.9          70.8        159.0         172.0         401.8          231.4
Government contributions                            22.0          33.1         49.2          55.2       188.9          117.6        54.0         166.4         74.0          26.0         266.4
World Bank loan                                                                                                                                    1.7        153.4          42.9         338.0
other project loans                                                                                                                               91.0         72.8          15.6         179.4
other loans                                         43.9          79.7         54.9          41.8        53.0           48.5        67.1          42.3         23.2          47.6         113.1         118.0
Total borrowings                                    43.9          79.7         4.9         .1.8          53.0           48.5        67.1         275.0        249.4         106.1                       118.0
Other                                                           __0.6                                                                7.6           0.4           0.2          0.3           0.9            0.3
Total sources                                    83.7        128.0         120.0        130.6        278.2         174.5        143.6        512.6         482.6         304.4      1.299.6          349.7
Applications
Project investment                                                                                                                   8.4         280.8        280.8          58.5         620.1
Other investments                                                                                                                  116.9         138.2          69.8         80.6         288.6          181.7
Capitalized interest                                                                                                                 5.2          22.9         43.9          43.6         110.4            9.1
Total AyA investment program                     58.7        106.1         152.1         100.0        37.3           96.8       130.5        441.9         394.5         182.7       1.019.1         190.8        "
FAF/FRAU programs I/                                                                                     89.9           84.6
Interest expense                                                                                                                    23.1          29.3          26.9         38.2          94.4           79.0
Amortization                                                                                                                        26.0          34.4          41.0          65.7        141.1           77.4
Debt service                                         8.1           7.3         23.3          24.7        26.8           30.7        49.1          63.7          67.9        103.9         235.5          156.4
Working capital                                      (0.7)        14.7        (56.9)          9.8       117.7          (48.7)        19.2         (6.0)         37.4          (2.9)        28.5           (9.3)
Other                                               17.6          (0.1)         1.5          (3.9)        6.5           11.1                         -_
Total applications                               83.7        128.0         120.0         130.6        278.2         174.5       198,8         499.6         499.8        283,7       1,2S3.1          337.9
Change in cash                                                                                                                         (55.2)        13.0         (17.2)         20.7          1S.5          11.8
Beginning cash                                                                                                                          69.4         14.2          27.2          10.0          14.2          30.7
Ending cash                                                                                                                            -T14.2        27.2          10.0          30.7          30.7          42.5
Debt service ratio                                       0.5          0.4           0.2           0.6         0.7            0.02        0.1           0.9          1.9           1.6         -                1.4
% contribution to investment                             Nil          Nil           Nil          Nil          Nil           Nil          Nil           1.6         112.0         35.2          11.1          40.6
1;  FAF/FRAU programs eliminated after 1979 as AyA acts only as administrator and technical advisor for these trust funds.
Source:  Audited financial statements, WHO Tariff Study, AyA and mission estimates. 9/80
Go0
io,so



COSTA RICA
SAN JOSE METROPOLITAN AREA WATER SUPPLY PROJECT
a/
AyA 1978 Income Statement by SJMA and Regions-/ 
SJMA          REGIONS            COMBINED
Water Produced (milliSn M )                                       75.7            39.0              114.7
Water Sold (million M )                                           46.6            18.2               64.8
Water Unaccounted-for (%)                                         38.4            53.3               43.5
Revenues ( ¢ millions)                                            74.8            16.3               91.1
Operating, maintenance & Admin. Costs ( ¢ millions)              46.3             25.7               72.0
Income before Depreciation (¢ millions)                          28.5             (9.4)              19.1
Depreciation ( ¢ millions)                                       11.4              7.4               18.8
Operating Income (Loss) ( ¢ millions)                            17.1            (16.8)               0.3
Operating Ratio (%)                                               77.1           203.1               99.7
a/ Source: AyA Audited Financial Statements.
o oE
th



COSTA RICA
5AN JOSE METROPOLITAN AREA WATER SUPPLY PROJECT
Long-Term Debt
Amount Outstanding
Interest   Amortization                     as of Dec. 31, 1979
Lender                          Purpose                 Rate (%)      Period        Currency         (Mill. of Colones)
External Debt
United Kingdom (ODA)    II Stage SJMA Water Supply           6       1978-1995        UK L                 68.2
CABEI                    II Stage SJMA Water Supply       8-8 3/4   1979-1992         US$                  74.6
IDB                      Rural water supply systems,
5 cities project, II Stage
SJMA Sewerage Project         2 1/4-8 1/2 1969-2017         US$                   81.4
EXIMBANK                 SJMA Water Supply                   6       1971-1985        US$                  13.5
AID                      SJMA Water Supply                 3 1/2    1966-1986         US$                   13.3
Commercial Banks                                            12       Short term       US$                  16.0
Total external                                                                                        267.0
Internal Debt
IFAM                     Other urban water supplies       8-10       1976-1998         ¢                    40.1
Other                    Puente Mulas and other           5-10       1976-1992         ¢                    16.5
Total internal                                                                                           56.6
323.6                    ot
o0 
Source:  AyA audited financial statements 10/80                                                                                       '



COSTA RICA
SAN JOSE METROPOLITAN AREA WATER SUPPLY PROJECT
Projected Borrowings
Interest  Amortization                        1980       1981       1982       1983       1984        Total
Lender                     Purpose                 Rate (%)  Period                Currency                      Millions  of  Colones -  - - - - - - - - -
IhRD                      Proposed project              9 k       1984-1995            US$                     141.7      153.4        42.9                  338.0          1
CDC                       Proposed project               9 k      1984-1995            L                        91.0        72.8       15.6                  179.4
IFAM a/                   8 cities project              8         1982-1994            e           15.8                                                       15.8
IDB  b/                   II & III stage SJMA
Sew. proj.-16 cities proj.  8 i          1985-2017           US$         51.3         42.3       23.2       47.6       118.0       282.4
67.1        275.0      249.4      106.1      118.0       815.6
a/   Represents balance of IFAM4 loan to complete eight cities project.
b/   Represents balance of IDB loans for II stage SJMA sewerage project for years 1980-1982 and
proposed new loans for III stage SJMA sewerage project and 16 cities project for 1983-1984.
Source:  AyA and mission estimates 10/80.                                                                                                                                  X A
o o



COSTA RICA
SAN JOSE METROPOLITAN AREA WATER SUPPLY PROJECT
Projected Debt Service Requirements
(Millions of Colones)
1980                        1981                           1982                          1983                          1984
Lender                          Amortization  Interest        Amortization   Interest       Amortization  Interest        Amortization  Interest        Amortization  Interest
External debt
United Kingdom                         4.1          4.0             4.1            3.7             4.1           3.5              4.1          3.2             4.1           3.0
CABEI                                  8.1          9.1             8.1            8.4            11.8           7.6             11.8          6.6            11.8           5.7
IDB                                    2.5          5.7             2.5            9.6             2.5          12.4              2.5         15.4             2.5          22.4
EXIMBANK                               2.6          0.7             2.6            0.6             2.6           0.4              2.6          0.3             2.6          0.1
AID                                    1.9          0.4             2.0            0.4             2.0           0.3              2.2          0.2             2.2           0.1
Commercial banks                                    1.9                            1.9                           1.9             16.0          1.9                                            1
World Bank                                                                         7.8                          20.8                          29.9            28.2          30.2              0
CDC                                                                                6.5                          11.7                          11.7             7.5          16.7
Foreign exchange adjustment            2.0          1.7            10.0            8.3            11.9           7.6             20.3          8.1            12.0           6.4
Total External                    21.2         23.5            29.3           47.2            34.9          66.2             59.5         77.3            70.9         84.6
IFAM                                   2.5          4.1             4.2            4.4             5.1           4.1              5.2          4.0             5.5           3.1
Other                                  2.3          0.7             0.9            0.6             1.0           0.5              1.0          0.5             1.0           0.4
Total Internal                    4.8           4.8             5.1            5.0             6.1          4.6               6.2         4.5              6.5           3.5
Total                                 26.0         28.3            34.4           52.2            41.0          70.8             65.7         81.8            77.4          88 1
Interest expense                                                                                   -      9 .  93                                                           79.0
Capitalized interest                                5.2                           22.9                          43.9                          43.6                           9.1
Total Interest                                28.3                           52.2                          70.8                          81.8                         88.1
Capitalized interest-financed                                                     14.3                          32.5                          41.6
Net interest                                       28.3                           37.9                          38.3                          40.2                          88.1
10/80
~0 
10



-82 -                                          ANNEX 11
Page 1 of 5
COSTA RICA
SAN JOSE METROPOLITAN AREA WATER SUPPLY
AyA Tariffs in Effect NOvember 1, 1980
Monthly   Tariff   Rates
Category
Houses          Shops        Industry      Concessions    Government
Metered water rates (0/m3)
Metropolitan Area
Minimum charge (less than 15 m3)              20.00          70.65         114.15          23.55          35.25
0-15m3                                      1.64           4.71           7.61           1.57           2.35
16-25m3                                      1.61           1.86           3.46           1.52           1.43
26-40m3                                      2.03           2.63           3.46           1.70           1.95
41-60m                                       3.03           4.10           3.46           1.82           2.69
61-80m3                                      4.67           5.39           3.46           1.95           4.04
81-lOOm3                                     6.74           6.74           3.46           2.12           5.39
101-120m3                                     9.12           8.46           3.46           2.12           6.74
121m3 +                                      11.48          10.10           3.46           2.12           8.46
other Urban Areas
Minimum charge (less than 15 m3)              17.00          64.20         102.60          21.45          32.10.
0-15m  t                                    1.43           4.28           6.84           1.43           2.14
16-25m3                                      1.43           1.80           2.70           1.47           1.31
26-40m3                                      1.95           2.31           2.70           1.58           1.73
41-60m3                                      2.69           3.14           2.70           1.70           2.69
61-80m3                                      3.59           4.10           2.70           1.86           3.03
81-lOOm3                                     4.55           4.88           2.70           1.86           3.59
101-120m3                                     5.00           5.88           2.70           1.86           4.50
121m3 +                                       6.30           6.81           2.70           1.86           5.39
Rural Area
Minimum charge (less than 15 m3)              13.00          32.10          51.30          16.05          24.00
0-15m3                                      1.07           2.14           3.42           1.07           1.61
16-25m3                                      0.54           1.80           2.70           1.47           1.31
26-40m3                                      0.66           2.31           2.70           1.58           1.73
41-60m3                                      0.84           3.14           2.70           1.70           2.69
61-80m3                                      1.11           4.10           2.70           1.86           3.03
81-lOOm3                                     1.38           4.88           2.70           1.86           3.59
101-120m3                                     1.40           5.88           2.70           1.86           4.50
121m  +                                       1.92           6.81           2.70           1.86           5.39
Flat water rates (¢/month)
Metropolitan Area                               33.00          90.00         155.20           33.00          49.50
Other Urban                                     31.50          84.75         148.80           31.50          38.25
Rural Area                                      25.50          51.00          81.60           25.50          38.25
Sewerage rates                                        a/              a/             a/             a/             a/
a/ 25% of water billed.
10/80



- 83 -
Annex 11
Page 2 of 5
COSTA RICA
SAN JOSE METROPOLITAN AREA WATER SUPPLY PROJECT
Analysis of Tariff Structure
1.        The tariff structure provides for five consumer categories
(residential, commercial, industrial, concessional and governmental) and seven
fairly narrow consumption blocks for up to the first 120 m3 of water consumed
monthly. Separate tariff schedules are maintained for SJMA, other urban
centers and rural areas. While consumption categories and blocks are the same
for each area, other urban tariffs are 55% to 100% of the SJMA rates, and rural
tariffs run 15% to 100% of the SJMA rates, depending on consumption category and
block. The feasibility of introducing an urban/rural tariff and reduction in
the number of consumption blocks for administrative purposes would be included
in the tariff study proposed to be completed by AyA.
2.        In the SJMA, the residential category accounts for 73% of the
metered consumption and 60% of the revenues. Commercial establishments
provide 8% of consumption and 18% of revenues, and industry accounts for 11%
and 14%, respectively. The concessional and governmental categories account
for the remainder of metered consumption (8%) and revenues (8%). Industrial
consumption is low because of a large number of private wells in use. Private
wells are licensed and are assessed only nominal fees. These sources compete
directly with AyA for use of the aquifer and, as part of the tariff study, an
investigation would be made to develop a plan to assess charges for use of
private wells in line with AyA's marginal cost of water. In the other regions,
the residential category accounts for 64% of metered consumption and 50% of
revenues. Industrial users account for 15% of consumption and 19% of revenues,
and commerce accounts for 7% and 16%, respectively. The institutional and
governmental categories account for the remainder of metered consumption (14%)
and revenues (13%).
3.        The SJMA tariff structure for the residential category is based on
consumption blocks and is highly progressive in nature at all levels of
consumption. The only exception to this is the second residential consumption
block (16-25 m3) where the charge per m3 is 2% lower than the charge per m3
for the first 15 m3. The lowest residential consumption block, representing
20% of AyA's metered domestic users, consumes 4.8% of all metered water but
contributes 5.8% of the revenues because of the minimum charge. The two
lowest residential categories account for 46% of domestic customers, 21% of
consumption and 17% of revenues. Approximately 90% of the metered residential
consumers, using up to 60 m of water, receive cross subsidies. 1/ Consumption
1/   Subsidy is deemed to exist when the per m3 charge to consumer is less
than the average cost of water.



- 84 -
Annex 11
Page 3 of 5
blocks for commercial users are the same as for residential users, but have
higher progressive rates in most cases. The tariff structure is regressive at
the lowest consumption block in each of the other tariff categories because of
the minimum charges. Industry pays a minimum char e of 0114.15 (US$9.51) for
up to 15 m3 and a flat rate of 03.46/m3 (US$0.2 9/m3) for additional consumption.
4.        In the rural areas, the residential category contains a regressive
element in the tariff structure through the fourth consumption block.
5.        Metered connections, representing 87% of SJMA connections, yielded
an average revenue in October 1979 of US$0.25/m3, or US$9.07/connection/month,
while non-metered consumers generate an average revenue of US$2.70/connection/
month. Metered connections in April 1979 represented only 26% of connections
in other regions and yielded an average revenue of US$0.13/m3 or US$7.90/
connection/month while non-metered consumers generated an average revenue of
US$2.28/connection/month. Proposals to increase the flat rate charge for
non-metered consumption would be included in the tariff study.



COSTA RICA
SAN JOSE METROPOLITAN AREA WATER SUPPLY PROJECT
Analysis of Water Connections, Consumption and Revenues
(percent)
C a t e g o r y
Residential    Commercial   Industry  Concession   Government          Total
Metropolitan Area (metered) a/
Metered Connections         91.2           6.1           2.0          0.4           0.3         100
Consumption                 73.2           8.3          11.1          5.8           1.6         100               0
Revenues                    60.3          17.7          13.8          4.2           4.0         100
Metropolitan Area (total)
Connections                 91.3           5.9           1.8          0.6           0.4         100
Revenues                    61.2          17.4          13.3          4.2           3.9         100
Regions (metered) b/
Metered Connections         83.9           8.7           5.5          1.0           0.9         100
Consumption                 63.9           7.0          15.1          3.1          10.9         100
Revenues                    51.7          16.3          18.8          4.0           9.3         100
Regions (total)
Connections                 87.1           6.9           3.4          1.4           1,2         100
Revenues                    64.0          13.8          13.5          2.8           5.9         100
af
a/  Represents 87% of total connections           _
b~/  kepresents 26% of total connections                                                                             O 
Source:  AyA Billing Summary is for April and October 1980.
10/80



- 86 -
ANNEX 11
Page 5 of 5
COSTA RICA
SAN JOSE METROPOLITAN AREA WATER SUPPLY PROJECT
AvA Tariff Study
A study would be carried out by AyA to address deficiencies in the
tariff structure and other revenue sources. The study would be completed
by March 31, 1981 under terms of reference acceptable to the Bank and AyA
would implement the changes by November 1, 1981. The study would include
the following components:
(a) Elimination of regressive elements in the tariff structures.
(b) Introduction of an urban/rural division of the tariff structure.
(c) Increase in the flat change for unmetered consumption.
(d) Reduction in narrow consumption block intervals for administra-
tive purposes.
(e) Increase in disconnection/reconnection fees.
(f) Plan for deferred payment arrangements for house connections
for the poor.
(g) Increase in levies.
(h) Plan for assessing charges for the use of private industrial
wells in line with AyA's marginal cost of water.
(i) Plan for expansion of metering program in regions outside of
the SJMA over AyA's present program for 1980-81.



COSTA RICA
SAN JOSE METROPOLITAN AhEA WATER SUPPLY PROJECT
Calculations for IRR and NPV - OrosL Scheme (1.8 m3/ec,) A/ b/
Capital      Op. & Maint.      Distr.       Energy        Energy        Op. & m.aint.       Total           Iner.           Average              Total           Net
Costs6        Costs           Costs         Cost         Saving           Saving           Costs        Watr Supply       Water Tariff        Benefitg       Benefits
Year             Cx 10           x  06        t x           it xC x lC x 10                                   x Cx                                                   lo6       Ct10  C   C10x  x 106
(1)           (2)             (3)          (4)            (5)             (6)              (7)             (8)              (9)                 (10)           (11)
1980             20.00          -              -             -              -               -               20.00            -               3.39                 -            -20.00
1981            223.00          -                                                                          223.00            -               3.39                 _           -223.00
1982            196.00          -              -             -              -               -              196.00            -               3.39                 -           -196.00
1983             34.00         1.91            -            2.80            -                               38.72           3.20             3.39                10.85         -27.87
1984               -          11.09            15.30       30.60         -25.12            -1.15            30.73          20.60             3.39                69.83          39.11
1985               -          11.09            20.91       24.22         -19.89            -0.89            35.44          25.70             3.39                87.12          51.68
1986               -          11.09            17.34       24.22         -15.68            -0.64            36.34          30.20             3.39               102.38          66.04       m
1987               -          11.09            18.87       31.24         -10.97           -.51              49.73          35.20             3.39               119.33          69.60
1988               -          11.09            16.32       39.65          -6.76           -0.25             60.05          39.60             3.39               134.24          74.19
1989               -          11.09            12.75       39.65          -3.70            -0.13            50.67          42.30             3.39               143.40          83.73
1990               -          11.09             1.27       49.34          -0.51              -              61.20          42.60             3.39               144.41          83.21
1991-2014             -          11.09              -         50.62            -                -              61.71          42.60             3.39               144.41          82.70
Results
IRR:                 12.47%
NPV (12%)            e 16.2 x 106
PV of Costs (12Z):   e 628.2 x 106
Project life:        30 years
Average tariff:      e 3.39/m3 (US$ 0.28/a3)
a/  In order to take into account the economic effects of the semi-flexible exchange rate system instituted by the Government on September 15, 1980,
all costs are projected to December 31, 1980 from base cost estimates prepared in March 1980. In making the projection, annual inflation rates
assumed between March and Decemaber 1980 were as follows:  local inflation - 33% p.a.; foreign inflation - 10.57 p.a.  In March the exchange rate                                       o
was US$1 = C8.57.  The December 31, 1980 exchange rate was rate was assumed equal to US$1 = C12.
b/ See page 2 for explanation of each column.



tMAEX 12
Page 2 of 3
-88 -
COSTA RICA
SAN JOSE METROPOLITAN AREA WATER SUPPLY PROJECT
Explanation of IRR Calculations
Column
No:                   Title                    Explanation
(1)         Capital costs        Includes all direct costs and 10% physical
contingencies.
(2)         Operation and        Includes treatment, operating and labor
maintenance          costs.  Treatment costs are based on
costs               historical costs at the Tres Rios treat-
ment plant. One percent of the construc-
tion cost is assumed for transmission,
operation and maintenance.
(3)         Distribution         Includes costs of primary distribution based
costs               on an average cost per connection of ¢ 2,703
(US$225). Assumes that secondary distribu-
tion and house connections will be paid for
by the customer.
(4)         Energy cost          Consists of the marginal cost of energy to
the country. The diversion will diminish
the amount of water available for hydro-
electricity. AyA has agreed to pay ICE
for the water diverted. Since the diversion
of water can be quantified in terms of
energy lost, the energy cost is obtained
by using the marginal cost of energy (¢ 0.5Z/
kWh).
(5)         Energy savings       The project will allow AyA to reduce ground-
water pumping by using in the early years
the excess capacity of the Orosi scheme,
which is more energy efficient. The energy
savings are calculated by multiplying the
energy savings in kWh by 00.52/krWh (the
marginal cost of energy).
(6)         Operation and        The reduction in groundwater pumping will
maintenance         also result in a decrease in operating
savings             costs of ¢ 0.03/m3.  Operating costs for
groundwater are based on historical values.



ANNEX 12
- 89 -                         Page 3 of 3
Column
No.                 Title                  Explanation
(7)         Total costs          Sum of columns (1), (2), (3), (4), (5)
and (6).
(8)         Incremental          Based on the incremental consumption in
water supply         the period 1983-2014 because of the pro-
ject. In 1990 incremental consumption
will equal the Orosi scheme's supply
capacity.
(9)         Average water        Assumes the proposed tariff of ¢3.39/m3
tariff               (US$0.28/m3).
(10)         Total benefits       Product of columns (8) and (9)
10/80



ANNEX 13
90-                                Page 1 of 2
COSTA RICA
SAN JOSE METROPOLITAN AREA WATER SUPPLY PROJECT
Selected Documents and Data Available in Project File
A.  CSuntry
1.   Republic of Costa Rica Water Supply and
Sanitation Sector Study
WHO-PAHO/World Bank Cooperative Programme
December 1979
2.   Plan Nacional de Desarrollo 1979-1982
"Gregorio Ramirez"
OFIPLAN, 1979
3.   Plan Nacional de Agua Potable y Alcantarillado
Sanitario
Propuesta Preliminar - AyA, Mayo 1978
4.   Ley de Aguas de Costa Rica
No. 276 - SNE, August 27, 1942
5.   Plan de Accion para el Desarrollo del
Programa Nacional de Saneamiento Ambiental
MH, Diciembre 1976
6.   Costa Rica Water Supply and Sewerage Tariff
Study - WHO-PAHO/World Bank Cooperative
Program, April 1980
7.   Urban Poverty Analysis - Anthony Penfold,
May 1980
8.   Ley de la Administraci6n Financiera de la
Republica - 1979
9.   La Pobreza en Costa Rica -- Problemas, Metodologlas
para Determinar Algunas de sus Caracteristicas.
La Academia de Centro America, January 1977.
10.   Proyeccio'n de Poblacion y Hogares:  1973-1983-
Comite Nacional de Poblaci5n, Unidad de Planificacio'n
y Evaluacion, October 1977



ANNEX 13
-91-                              Page 2 of 2
B.  AyA
1.   Ley Constitutiva del Instituto Costarricense de
Acueductos y Alcantarillados Reformada y Anexos
1977
2.   Reglamento del Fondo Rotatorio de Acueductos
Urbanos
3.   Acueductos Rurales - Ayuda Comunal - AyA
Octubre 1977
4.   Informe de Consultorla de Programa de Desarrollo
Institucional para AyA- PAHO-WHO, Noviembre 1979
5.   Diagnostico sobre Politica Tarifaria para 1980-1985
AyA
6.   Manual de Presupuesto - AyA
7.   Presupuesto por Programas 1980
8.   Audited Financial Statements of AyA for the
Years 1974-1978
Lic. Luis Umana y Asociados, CPA
9.   Informe Financiero Contable. IV Trimestre,
1978 - AyA
10.   Informe de Auditoria - Afio 1978 - AyA
11.   Anuario Estadlstico 1978 - AyA
12.   Informe para Banco Mundial - AyA, November 1979
13.   Informe para Banco Mundial - Enero 1980 - AyA
14.   Proyecto Orosi Terminos de Referencia
AyA, 1979
15.   Proyecto Orosi, Breve Descripcion del Programa
y del Proyecto Orosi - AyA, July 1979
IBRD
1.   Methodology and Calculations for Economic Analysis of
the Project






I BRD 15163
s4 IS         /CuT sco/5            To(hoqo,Su                   fuGs,ITZJo                       B 400o  jTuLuIsr/harur                                               sr       86-                84A           SEPTEMBERh 1980
V                                                                             :N_ _ y yf X g  tICA R AGAA,
COSTA 
SANTO SPRING           ,ITIO.                                                                                                                  ®S,n R  I C An-
DMINGO              T ATMENPLAT                        ........RIC
CHI VAS                                                     I 1
i                                                                                                                   9ACIfIC  OCEAtN              >3   } PANAMA
RB'               84'                 82'
/ < / ~ ~ ~ ~~~~~~                      ~          ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~                                                              J- /vi  -gPr-
L~~~~~-~~~~~~~ S       X                       X                                                                     X      - Q VS; /\ C         H~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~CI
RIO MACHO  I   V a ,O os
WATER SUPPLY PROJECT                                                                                                                                                POWER PLANT
SAN  JOSE  METROPOLITAN  REGION                         ;                                                                                                                                5OLLANO                             55'S
990        1904                                                                                                                                           R    V                                                                  Z
EXTENSIONT EATENSION  EX STING
ANT'                          ____ r-- 3~- j I   =  AyA Service area
-1.45'     ~~AyA                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   9-4-
PROJECT  ALTERNATIVE                                                                                P r__                                                                                   
U NDER      Ay,A    BANK                                                                          Shm 
CONSTRUCTION PROJECT PROJECT EXISTING
............             -           Water mains
G---)E--=-- G-) (---4t Water transmission tunnels            ,o
U               N U    Treatment plants
~-;zt~   -tu Dams
C.s2?y- Resernoirs
A    Intakes                                                     \
Pumping stations                                                                                                                                                                   AND INTAKE
X    Springs
o    Wells
a    Tanks
m    Power planT
Selected roads
Riners                                                                                                      FUTURE
[977  Built-up arecis                                                                                               RESERVOIR
Metropolitan Region boundary               _-
KILOMETERS  s      2      4   ,o         0     t
MILES 0           2          4           5/
BA' IS                                      Ito SanAt,ncnn               ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~84' DOL                                                                   Ta/ta lis,~ 83rV J45'



