Document of
The World Bank    FILE COPY
FOR OFMFCIAL USE ONLY
R"ort No. P-2915-CR
REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION
OF THE
PRESIDENT OF THE
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
TO THE
EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS
ON A
PROPOSED LOAN TO
INSTITUTO COSTARRICENSE DE ACUEDUCTOS Y ALCANTARILLADOS (AyA)
WITH THE GUARANTEE OF
THE REPUBLIC OF COSTA RICA
FOR A
SAN JOSE WATER SUPPLY PROJECT
November 26, 1980
This documet haS a restricted diWbution and may be med by recipiets only in the perfornce o
their oficlad duties. Its cotents maY not oterwise be disclowd without World Bank anhn.  I



-CUILENCY EQUIVALENTS
(Official Rate)
Currency unit                               Colon (¢)
US$1                            -           e8.57*
dl,                                         US$0. 117
UNITS AND MEASURES
1 mm              millimeter              0.04 inches
1 cm        =     centimeter       =      0.39 inches
1 m         =     meter            =      3.28 feet
1 km        =     kilometer        =      0.62 miles
1 m3        =     cubic meter      =      264 US gallons
1 m /sec    =     cubic meter             22.82 MGD = million US gallons
per second                         per day
ABBREVIATIONS
AyA       -   Costa Rican Water Supply and Sewerage Institute
(Instituto Costarricense de Acueductos y Alcantarillados)
CABEI         Central American Bank for Economic Integration
CACM      =   Central American Common Market
CDC       =   Commonwealth Development Corporation
CODESA    =   State Development Corporation
(Corporacion Costarricense de Desarrollo)
FRAU      =   Revolving Fund for Urban Water Supply
(Fondo Rotatorio para Agua Urbana)
ICE       =   Costa Rican Electricity Institute
(Instituto Costarricense de Electricidad)
IDB       =   Inter-American Development Bank
IFAM          Municipal Development and Assistance Institute
(Instituto de Fomento y Ayuda Municipal)
LIBOR     =  London Interbank Offer Rate
NBA       =  National Budgetary Authority
(Autoridad Presupuestaria)
PAHO      -   Pan American Health Organization
SENAS     -   National Underground Water Service
(Servicio Nacional de Aguas Subterraneas)
SJMA      -   San Jose Metropolitan Area
SJMR      -   San Jose Metropolitan Region
SNE       -   National Electricity Service
(Servicio Nacional de Electricidad)
FISCAL YEAR
January 1 to December 31
*Since September 25, 1980, half of all trade has been through a
freely-floating parallel foreign exchange market. During the week of
November 9, the Colon floated at a rate of 11 to 11.5 per US$1.



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
COSTA RICA
SAN JOSE W4ATER SUPPLY PROJECT
PROJECT SUMMARY
Borrower:                 Instituto Costarricense de Acueductos y
Alcantarillados (AyA).
Guarantor:                Republic of Costa Rica.
Amount:                   US$26 million equivalent.
Terms:                    15 years, including three years (Z grace at
9.25 percent interest per annum.
Project Description:      The proposed project is part of AyA's five-year
(1980-84) program for water supply and sewerage
facilities. The program components supported by
the proposed loan are: (i) the construction of
a 27 km. transmission pipe and tunnel to divert
up to 1,800 1/sec of water from the Rio Macho
power plant reservoir to an expanded Tres Rios
water treatment plant ("Orosi Scheme"); (ii) the
replacement of water mains in low-income areas
of San Jose and installation of 30,000 water meters
throughout Costa Rica; (iii) the preparation of a
water and sewerage master plan for San Jose and three
adjacent cities; and (iv) technical assistance to
help develop AyA's capacity to plan and manage a
national sector program responsive to rural and urban
service needs. The project would alleviate water
shortages in the capital city; set the basis for
sectoral improvements in the remainder of Costa Rica;
and help establish AyA's financial autonomy. The
project faces no special risks.
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contenst may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



- ii -
Estimated Cost:
US$ Million
Local     Foreign      Total
Orosi Component                                16.3       18.2        34.5
Water Mains and Meters                          1.2        1.4         2.6
Master Plan                                     0.4         1.1        1.5
Technical Assistance                            0.3        1.0         1.3
Base Cost                                18.2        21.7         39.9
Contingencies:  Physical                        1.9        2.2          4.1
Price                         0.1         4.4          4.5
Subtotal                                 20.2        28.3        48.5
Interest During Construction                    -          6.8          6.8
Financing Requirements                        20.2        35.1         55.3
Financing Plan
Bank Loan                                       -         26.0         26.0
Commonwealth Development Corporation           4.7         9.1         13.8
AyA's Internal Cash Generation                 14.4          -         14.4
Government Capital Contribution                1.1           -          1.1
Total                                    20.2        35.1        55.3
Estimated Disbursements:
US$ Million
(Bank) FY1981     FY1982      FY1983      FY1984
Annual                               4.7         12.2        8.0        1.1
Cumulative                           4.7         16.9       24.9       26.0
Economic Rate of Return:      12.4 percent
Appraisal Report:             Report No. 3110-CR, dated November 4, 1980.



INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
*     REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION OF THE PRESIDENT
TO THE EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS ON A
PROPOSED LOAN TO INSTITUTO COSTARRICENSE DE
ACUEDUCTOS Y ALCANTARILLADOS
WITH THE GUARANTEE OF THE
REPUBLIC OF COSTA RICA
FOR A SAN JOSE WATER SUPPLY PROJECT
1.        I submit the following report and recommendation on a proposed
loan for the equivalent of US$26.0 million to Instituto Costarricense de
Acueductos y Alcantarillados (AyA) with the guarantee of the Republic of
Costa Rica for a San Jose Water Supply Project. The loan would have a term of
15 years, including 3 years of grace with an interest of 9.25 percent per annum.
PART I - THE ECONOMY
2.        A report entitled "Costa Rica:  Current Economic Position and
Prospects" (No. 3193-CR) was distributed to the Executive Directors on
November 10, 1980. A special report entitled "Costa Rica: Trade Incentives
and Export Diversification" (No. 3195-CR) was also distributed to the Executive
Directors at the same time. Country Data Sheets are attached as Annex I.
3.        Costa Rica is a small medium-income country.  In 1978 its popula-
tion was 2.1 million and its per capita income was $1,540. It is an example
among developing countries of how high per capita income growth may be achieved
without an undue concentration of development benefits in the upper income
groups. Per capita income has increased at an annual average rate of 3.0
percent since 1960, and the country's income distribution is one of the most
equitable in Latin America. Successive governments have paid substantial
attention to both developing the country's infrastructure (roads, hydropower
and opening new areas for cultivation) as well as addressing the social needs
of the people. More than 45 percent of all expenditures of the Central
Government have traditionally been in education, health, nutrition and other
social sectors. Health and nutrition programs have been an important factor
in halving mortality rates from 10 per thousand in the early 1960s to the
present 5 per thousand. Life expectancy at birth has risen to 70 years.
At the same time, rising incomes, higher educational standards and active
birth control-related programs reduced birth rates so that the natural rate
of population increase fell from 3.7 percent in 1960 to its current level
of 2.5 percent in spite of the dramatic fall in mortality rates. Moreover, by
spending almost one-third of its budget on education, the Central Government
has been able to improve the coverage and quality of primary and secondary
schools, reduce illiteracy to a minimum -- the adult literacy rate was 90 per-
cent in 1978 -- and provide good quality university education. Costa Rica
has no standing army and the share of Government expenditures devoted to
security -- about 2 percent -- has long been one of the lowest in the world.
A coalition of minority parties won both the Presidential and Congressional
elections in 1978. The Executive's Congressional majority is small and this
has led to delays in the legislative passage of Government programs. New
elections will be held in 1982.



- 2 -
4.        Both agriculture and industry have experienced vigorous growth in
the last two decades. Agricultural output growth at 4.2 percent per annum
(1960-1979) has been among the highest in Latin America, and the sector
presently generates about 20 percent of GDP and absorbs about 30 percent of
the labor force. About two-thirds of agricultural output is destined for
overseas markets, with coffee, bananas, and beef averaging 60 percent of all
export earnings in the last five years. The strong performance of agriculture
notwithstanding, the economy has been undergoing a fundamental transformation
as industry has become the largest productive sector. Industrial value added
has grown at an annual rate of 8.8 percent since 1960, currently contributes
26.7 percent of GDP, and since 1963 has absorbed more than twice as many new
employees as has agriculture. The rapid growth of industry was facilitated by
the creation of the Central American Common Market (CACM) in 1960, which
fostered a pattern of regional import substituting industrialization behind
high tariff barriers. Regional trade in manufactured products grew very
rapidly in the first years of the CACM, but more recently, as the first, easy
stage of import substitution has ended, has become a source of diminishing
importance for industrial growth. The Government, conscious of the need to
maintain the momentum of industrial growth by finding new markets for manufac-
tured products, is currently reviewing policies with a view to removing
economic distortions and institutional bottlenecks which inhibit an export
thrust.
5.        Costa Rica's economy is very open and its exports and imports highly
concentrated. In 1979, for instance, exports constituted about 27 percent
of domestic production while imports absorbed 38 percent; about two-thirds of
merchandise exports were agricultural commodities and a similar proportion of
merchandise imports (excluding petroleum) were capital and intermediate goods.
This level of openness and degree of concentration make the economy quite
vulnerable to external price movements. The economy's growth has thus been
punctuated by periodic balance of payments difficulties, where the originating
impulse is most often to be found in deteriorating terms of trade. Financial
strains, moreover, have been occasionally pronounced as the Government has, in
these periods of difficulty, initiated countervailing expansions of Government
expenditure and credit.
6.        Recent economic history exemplifies these cyclical pressures.  In
1976 and 1977,led by a quadrupling of coffee prices and continued improvements
in banana and cocoa prices, the terms of trade moved sharply in Costa Rica's
favor. GDP growth accelerated and the expansion was accompanied by a rapid
increase in imports. With improved export performance, the resource gap
declined from 11.6 percent of GDP in 1974-1975 to an average 5.7 percent in
1976-1977. In 1978 and again in 1979, coffee prices fell substantially and
in the latter year, the country, along with other oil importers, was subjected
to the latest round of increases in the price of petroleum. Consequently, at
the end of 1979, Costa Rica faced a difficult balance of payments situation
with the resource gap at 11 percent of GDP and net international reserves at
slightly less than one month's import coverage. GDP growth, moreover, slackened
in 1978-1979 as the CACM demand for manufactured products weakened (mainly
owing to political developments in the region) and as agriculture suffered a
poor crop in 1979.



- 3 -
7.        Not all sources of difficulty in this recent period have been
external. The Government in 1978-79 adopted expansionary fiscal and monetary
programs which generated excess demand pressures in the economy. Public
savings virtually disappeared as current expenditures (propelled by salary
rises, increased purchases of goods and services and rapidly rising debt
service) increased 50 percent faster than current revenues. Simultaneously,
public capital expenditure remained high, growing from the equivalent of
nearly 9 percent of GDP in 1976 to over 10 percent in 1979. Investment levels
rose substantially in the electricity and transport sectors, and the State
Development Corporation (CODESA) made several large investments with limited
economic returns. Significant recourse to Government borrowing from the
banking system was necessary, and the resulting credit expansion exacerbated
inflation. The annual rate of inflation, as measured by the wholesale price
index, accelerated to 24 percent in 1979, compared to 9 percent in 1978.
8.        These difficulties have continued into 1980 and   e financial
disequilibrium worsened. Early in the year the Government formulated a
stabilization program which provided the basis for a Standby Agreement with
the International Monetary Fund. By September it became clear that none of
the performance criteria could be met. Unanticipated Government expenditure
increases, led by wage and salary increases, without corresponding revenue
improvements as the Legislative Assembly failed to act on several tax
proposals, led to the expectation of a fiscal deficit higher than programmed.
Moreover, tardy Congressional approval of the Government's foreign borrowing
program resulted in domestic credit targets of the Central Bank also being
breached. In the first eight months of 1980, the import bill was about
9 percent higher (in nominal terms) than in the corresponding period in
1979--and unlikely to decline by year's end to the programmed target of zero
nominal increase over 1979.
9.        The Government has therefore undertaken a series of measures.  In
August, the President declared a state of emergency and increased the sales
tax, by decree, from 8 percent to 14 percent. In September as net interna-
tional reserves fell below zero, the exchange rate was devalued by the adoption
of a dual exchange rate scheme; 50 percent of the value of merchandise trade
transactions are governed by the old official exchange rate of 8.57 Colones to
the US dollar, while the remaining 50 percent is governed by a rate determined
in the free market (which on occasion has risen to 14 Colones to the dollar).
Private service transactions are directed to the free market. Import sur-
charges ranging from 10-75 percent were imposed and an advance import deposit
scheme established. These measures, announced as temporary, are expected
to be revised in the near future. Complementary monetary and fiscal policies
are in the process of definition.
10.       The IMF is monitoring the situation closely and has emphasized the
need for an effective stabilization program. The IMF is expected to negotiate
an Extended Fund Facility, or a new standby agreement, with the Government in
December i980 or early in the new year. Bank staff have been and are conduct-
ing extensive economic policy discussions with the Government. Initial IBRD
projections indicate a severe worsening in growth prospects for the economy in
the next three to four years as a deflationary program takes effect and the



- 4 -
terms of trade continue to decline. The partial devaluation incentive provided
to exporters, correcting the long over-valuation, coupled with a series of
additional export promotion measures expected to be announced by the Government,
should result, however, in an enhancement of nontraditional export growth.
Provided imports can be restrained, and provided also that stringent aggregate
demand policies are implemented, the economy should return by 1984-85 to a
higher growth path.
11.       Fiscal control in Costa Rica has long been difficult.  A high
percentage (about 40 percent) of budgetary revenues are earmarked for specific
purposes. This, together with constitutionally mandated spending requirements
and contractual obligations, has left the Central Government in recent years
with little discretionary power in controlling the size of its operating
deficit. Moreover, public sector entities enjoy a high degree of financial
autonomy; the Central Government has not possessed the administrative machinery
to bring their spending in line with macro-economic objectives or to achieve
a more rational allocation of public sector resources. In recognition of
these problems, the Government set up in November 1979, with technical assis-
tance from the IMF, a National Budgetary Authority (NBA). All Central Govern-
ment entities, decentralized agencies and public enterprises are now required
to submit their budgets for approval to the Budgetary Authority. The NBA, for
the first time, is developing an efficient reporting system for the transactions
of the non-financial public sector as well as preparing a consolidated budget
for the entire public sector. Furthermore, a study has been initiated of the
network of earmarked revenues and compulsory spending with the intention to
present to the legislature a bill eliminating revenue earmarking and limiting
compulsory spending.
12.       The Government has undertaken several important economic initiatives
since its assumption of office. In 1978 the interest rate system of the
country was liberalized, portfolio restrictions on commercial and conventional
bank assets were removed, and private financial institutions were left entirely
free to establish their own interest rate structures as well as freely engage
in foreign currency operations. This financial liberalization has, however,
been only partial; rates for agricultural lending have been maintained well
below lending rates to other sectors. Nevertheless, the virtual doubling of
rates paid on time deposits (currently 16 - 17 percent) has resulted in a
substantial increase in private financial savings. A second important initia-
tive has been a partial refinancing of the country's external debt. Histor-
ically, large external borrowings as well as a very recent shift towards
expensive short-term credits has led to a progressively more onerous debt
service burden. In 1978 and early 1979 the Government refinanced some $170
million of debt at more favorable terms, lengthening maturities as well as
securing more favorable spreads over the London Inter Bank Offer Rate (LIBOR).
However, the rapid increase of external borrowing, coupled with higher prevail-
ing interest rates will entail a continuing high debt service burden; in 1979
debt service on public and publicly guaranteed debt reached 24 percent of
exports. Provided prudent policies reducing the size of the resource gap are
adopted, the debt service ratio should stabilize at about 40 percent by the
mid-1980's and the country should continue to remain creditworthy for Bank
operations.



13.       Over the longer term, a substantial effort towards the promotion of
non-traditional exports will be necessary if Costa Rica is to sustain its
development momentum while strengthening its balance of payments. Currently,
exports of non-traditional products to countries outside the CACM are stimu-
lated through an income tax credit scheme as well as a duty drawback scheme.
An agency has been created to promote non-traditional exports. Pre-export
and export financing instruments have been established. These economic and
institutional developments notwithstanding, the system of trade incentives
still heavily favors production for the local and regional market. As noted,
the Government expects to strengthen the non-traditional export promotion
drive with a series of initiatives, including tariff liberalization.
14.       More direct efforts will be needed to strengthen the growth perfor-
mance of the productive sectors. While the extensive frontier of cultivation
has not yet been reached in Costa Rica and the Government continues to develop
unused land (expanding acreages in sugarcane, bananas, and oil palm), much
remains to be done in improving yields--especially in beef production--and
adopting improved land management practices. Substantial excess capacity now
exists in industry, and there is ground for optimism that the active promotion
of subsectoral development in those areas where Costa Rica has a comparative
advantage (food products, textiles, leather products, furniture making, etc.),
will result in an enhanced export performance.
External Assistance
15.       As of December 31, 1979, it is estimated that the Bank Group held
15.1 percent of the US$1,860.3 million external public debt outstanding --
including undisbursed -- repayable in foreign currency. This share is soon
likely to decrease because of an expected increase in the activity of other
external lenders. The Bank Group share of total public debt service in
1979 was 7.9 percent, and it is also projected to decline beginning in 1980.
Of the other major lenders to Costa Rica, the IDB holds 14.9 percent of
external public debt outstanding, including undisbursed, CABEI 7.4 percent,
the U.S. Government 6.1 percent, Venezuela 5.0 percent, other bilateral
lenders 8.0 percent and private lenders 43.2 percent.
16.       The lending to Costa Rica during 1970-79 from the four principal
external agencies totals US$1,490 million, at FY80 prices, of which IDB has
provided 36 percent, the Bank Group 28 percent, CABEI 28 percent and USAID
8 percent. The IDB has concentrated on power, transport and education;
USAID on agriculture and health; and CABEI on transport, power and housing
(see Annex I, page 6). These agencies are likely to continue in the same
areas in the future.
PART II - BANK GROUP OPERATIONS
17.       Costa Rica has received to date 25 Bank loans and one IDA credit
totaling US$357.7 million net of cancellations. Of these, six were for
power, five each for telecommunications and industry, five for roads, three
for agriculture and one each for education and urban transport. The last



-6 -
operation, a loan for the Fifth Highway Project amounting to US$30.0 million,
was signed on May 27, 1980. Fifteen projects have been completed. Performance
audit reports have been issued for two highways and two telecommunications
projects and for one agriculture and one power project. The audit reports for
these projects indicate that their objectives generally were achieved in the
cases of highways, power and telecommunications but relatively less so in
agriculture. In the latter instance, appraisal targets related to crop
production and exports were missed. Also, there was only limited success
in the establishment of an efficient project unit within the Central Bank
and in the adoption by commercial banks and borrowers of better investment
analysis methods. Effectiveness of Bank loans to Costa Rica has often been
delayed by the lengthy legislative ratification process. The last operation,
the aforementioned Fifth Highway Project, is not yet effective because of this
problem. Annex II contains a summary statement of Bank loans, IDA credit and
IFC investments as of August 31, 1980, and notes on the execution of on-going
projects.
18.       Since other lenders have been able to provide Costa Rica with sub-
stantial amounts of concessional lending which the Government prefers to use
for its socially-oriented investments, the main thrust of the Bank's past
lending has been to help develop basic infrastructure, such as power, tele-
communications and highways. However, the Bank has also provided assistance
for agricultural and industrial credit, and has helped make educational pro-
grams more consistent with manpower objectives through a loan for secondary
and vocational education.
19.       In future lending to Costa Rica, we intend to assist the Government
to ease the foreign exchange constraint on development, a constraint that has
become more critical since the increase in petroleum prices, by supporting
projects designed to increase Costa Rica's export capacity and, where economical,
to substitute domestic production for imports. The Bank is helping Costa Rica
to prepare a project for processing non-traditional agricultural products
which would support this objective. We hope to present a rural development
project for the Coto Sur area for consideration by the Executive Directors
later this fiscal year which, in addition to help raise the living standards
of low-income farmers, is designed to expand oil palm development. Another
important lending objective is to continue to provide some support for the
development of physical infrastructure, in view of the continuing need for
substantial amounts of external financing and our long-standing involvement
which gives us a special ability to foster institutional development. That
has been the basis of substantial Bank lending in the past for power, telecom-
munications and transportation. The proposed loan represents the extension of
this approach for the first time to the water sector. We are planning, how-
ever, to increase Bank lending in other areas, particularly to help intensify
the efforts of the Government towards broadening economic opportunities for
the lowest income segments of the population. The Coto Sur area project
serves to further this objective and the Bank is assisting in the preparation
of a second project in this sector for one of the poorest areas of Costa Rica,
the Atlantic region.



- 7 -
20.       IFC's activities in Costa Rica include a 1962 loan and equity
investments of US$194,000 and US$75,530 respectively, in a concrete block
factory, Productos de Concreto, S.A. In 1965 an additional debt and
equity investment of US$183,000 and US$54,830 respectively were made in
this company. These investments have since been sold and fully repaid.
In 1978 the Executive Directors approved two new investments in Costa Rica.
The first was a US$2.5 million loan for the expansion of the facilities of
Scott Paper Company de Costa Rica, S.A. This loan has been fully disbursed,
and the project has been completed on schedule and within budget. An equity
and loan investment of US$700,000 and US$1.4 million respectively was approved
in 1979 to help finance the integration and expansion of a shrimp farm on the
Pacific Coast of Costa Rica. This project, which will make Costa Rica a world
leader in the innovative shrimp farming industry, was structured in coordin-
ation with, among others, CODESA and two local commercial banks. The project
is approximately six months behind schedule and slightly over budget with
55 percent of the loan and 94 percent of the equity disbt. ed. IFC is also
exploring other financing possibilities in the country.
PART III - THE SECTOR
21.       Half of Costa Rica's population of 2.1 million lives in urban
communities (which have over 2,000 inhabitants). Its population is young;
some 41 percent of all residents are less than 14 years old. Life expectancy
at birth is calculated at 70 years. Infant mortality is 28 per 1,000 live
births, which is low by Central American standards (47/77 per 1,000 in Panama
and Guatemala respectively). Mortality due to intestinal diseases for the
population has been greatly reduced over recent years, and ranked fifth among
leading causes of death in 1977. However, there is still a relatively high
incidence of water-borne and other diseases, attributable to inadequate water
supply and sanitary facilities, particularly in rural areas.
22.       In 1978, about 75 percent of the population had access to potable
water, mostly through house connections. Service levels in urban areas were
94 percent and, in rural zones, 88 percent of the population in concentrated
areas and 39 percent of dispersed zones (settlements of less than 200 persons)
were served by public water supply. 43 percent of the urban population is
served by waterborne sewerage systems. About 96 percent of concentrated rural
area residents had sanitary latrines or septic tanks. Some 3 of every 4 Costa
Ricans in dispersed rural areas had access to latrines.
23.       Water Supply Services:  These figures indicate a substantial
increase in water supply services, particularly in rural areas, as a result
of sizable Government efforts. Public investment for water supply in 1971-79
exceeded 4 percent of total public expenditures. However, water quality
remains a problem in some systems, and water supply often is less than demand.
Further, despite the relatively low (2.5 percent) population growth rate,
adequate waste disposal levels have fallen behind population increases.
Costa Rica's needs in water and sewerage services, therefore, are far from
satisfied. Moreover, there are particular problems in Costa Rica's primary



- 8 -
city, San Jose, 1/ and the adjoining smaller cities within 20 kilometers which
together form the "San Jose metropolitan region." 900,000 persons (41 percent
of the population) live in the metropolitan region which is expected to have
2 million inhabitants by the year 2000.
24.       While the aforementioned figures indicate a high degree of water
supply coverage, effective service in the metropolitan region is actually
lower. These statistics, for example, do not reflect the portion of the
region's population served with intermittent or inadequate supplies, which is
estimated at 330,000. In the 5-month dry season, the metropolitan area suffers
serious deficits, estimated this year at approximately 16 percent of demand.
Consequently, continuity of supply and water pressure are inadequate, which
presents health hazards. Further, the limited availability of water has
inhibited industrial development in parts of the San Jose metropolitan area.
This has also restrained commercial and residential development, including
proposed low-cost housing projects, in sections where the dry season shortages
have been the most severe. Since most of the nearby gravity water sources have
already been developed, future water supplies to the metropolitan region will
have to be brought from relatively long distances and will involve the construc-
tion of reservoirs. The marginal cost of water therefore is rapidly increasing,
and additional sources would require even more expensive investments. Theoreti-
cally, there is the alternative of groundwater close to the San Jose metropoli-
tan area. However, this water source is volcanic in origin and its safe yield
is difficult to predict, which has discouraged its development. In order to
overcome these problems, the Government's principal sector organization, AyA,
has prepared the Orosi water scheme for relief of the metropolitan area's
water scarcity (see para. 33), and proposes to develop a master plan for the
metropolitan region (see para. 27).
25.       Sewerage Services:  Approximately half of San Jose's residents are
served by the existing water-borne sanitary sewer system. Most of the
remainder would be covered when the present sewerage construction program
is completed, probably by 1990. The San Jose sewerage system, however,
provides no treatment, which will eventually be required. On-site disposal
facilities also are reported to be inadequate, causing sanitation problems.
Pollution of the Virilla river is caused by the effluent from the collection
system. Six of Costa Rica's other 12 cities with sanitary sewer systems
provide some degree of treatment, but there is no control of effluent quality.
As in the case of water supply, effective coverage may be lower than the
official figures would indicate. This applies particularly to rural areas
where many latrines serving the population are not in acceptable condition.
Sector Problems
26.       Costa Rica does not now have a comprehensive water supply and
sewerage policy nor adequate investment planning to carry out such a policy.
There is no overall water resource planning either, and all past sector
1/   For purposes of this Report, San Jose and the urban districts immediately
surrounding it are termed "San Jose metropolitan area", as opposed to the
"San Jose metropolitan region."



- 9 -
planning has been locally oriented. The 1979-82 national development plan
indicated a national goal of providing water supply through house connections
to 95 percent of the urban and concentrated rural population and to 47 percent
of the population in dispersed rural areas. It set sewerage service targets
of 70 percent of the urban population by waterborne systems and 30 percent by
septic tanks or latrines, and 90 percent of the dispersed rural population
with latrines. It is unlikely that these goals will be met by the target
date of 1982. Annual capital expenditures for the sector, which approxi-
mated US$16 million equivalent in 1979, were estimated to more than double
on average from 1980-85. This level appears to be out of line with the Govern-
ment's foreseeable resources. In addition, AyA has yet to develop a systematic
approach to planning and programming its capital activities, taking into
account its capacity to implement investment projects.
27.       Recognizing these weaknesses, AyA has reduced the level of planned
commitments for the 1961-84 period to average investment p.a. of US$24.0
million equivalent. This appears to be reasonable and appropriate in view of
Costa Rica's financial and operational constraints. In addition, AyA has
decided to develop a master plan for water and sewerage improvements in the
metropolitan region to the year 2000, to insure that future water and sewerage
needs are met for the lowest possible cost. It also would comprise a beginning
for national water resource planning and allocation.
28.       The principal sector agencies are the aforementioned AyA and the
Ministry of Health. AyA plans, designs, constructs, operates and maintains
water supply and sewerage systems in communities of over 200 inhabitants where
the municipality does not provide these services. It operates 196 systems
which provide piped water to about 31 percent of the population. Munici-
palities are responsible for the remainder of piped water supply, operating
236 water systems which serve an additional 34 percent of the population.
AyA is also involved in this aspect. It acts as the financing agent and
source of technical support for the municipalities' water supply projects
by administering a revolving fund ("FRAU", described in para. 34). AyA
in addition provides materials and technical assistance to rural communities
for self-help water supply projects. The Ministry of Health is responsible
for health assistance to the country's dispersed rural population (including
latrinization programs and water supply) as well as family planning services
and nutrition education. Although both organizations are responsible for
water quality control, AyA is the only one currently carrying out this
function. Other agencies involved in the sector include the Servicio Nacional
de Electricidad (SNE), the national regulatory authority over all public
utilities, which is also charged with administering the General Water Law.
The Servicio Nacional de Aguas Subterraneas (SENAS) carries out groundwater
exploration and development programs.
29.       AyA was created as an autonomous institution in 1976 from the
previous national water supply and sewerage service under the direction of the
Minister of Public Health. It is now directed by a board consisting of seven
members (including an Executive President) who are appointed by the Government
for eight year terms. Although the appointment of the Executive President is
political in nature, Costa Rican law requires the appointee to be qualified in
water supply and sewerage operations. The. incumbent, a sanitary engineer, has



- 10 -
17 years experience with AyA and its predecessor; he is well versed for his
position. Day-to-day management is entrusted to the General Manager, also an
engineer who has extensive experience in utility operations. AyA has satisfac-
torily implemented numerous small water supply and sewerage projects and a
current large scale, IDB-financed sewerage improvement activity. Although
AyA has its basic management systems in place, it needs strengthening particu-
larly in planning so as to improve project analysis, and to better gear AyA's
investment program with service needs and financial constraints. Improvement
is needed too in financial and management accounting and reporting for more
effective cost control. AyA's regional activities, moreover, reflect a need
for greater decentralization. Its staff has been strengthened by effective
scholarship programs, but training needs to be expanded substantially. The
project would include a management and organization study to address these and
related requirements, including provisions for further training of AyA manage-
ment and staff.
30.       AyA's financial performance over the past several years has not
been satisfactory, primarily because the Government's tariff policies have
not permitted revenues from internal cash generation to keep pace with costs.
AyA's income and expenses increased at the same approximate rate in 1974-78,
allowing it to maintain operations close to the financial breakeven point.
However, AyA has not generated sufficient income to meet its debt service re-
quirements or to contribute to investment expenditures. The latter have been
financed by Government contributions of IJS$54 million equivalent in 1974-79
and external loans. With no tariff adjustment since 1976, AyA's financial
situation grew even more serious in 1979 when AyA had operating losses and a
resulting negative 3.9 percent rate of return on revalued fixed assets. AyA's
tariffs will need to be increased to achieve a better correlation with marginal
water costs and investment program plans. Further, AyA needs to consider
restructuring its tariffs although they are progressive at virtually all
levels, primarily to correct several anomalies. The lowest volume domestic
consumers (20 percent of all metered domestic consumers) use 4.8 percent of
all metered water but contribute 5.8 percent of revenues. Charges for the
second lowest residential consumption block are 2 percent less than the
charges for the smallest users. AyA has already implemented tariff structure
revisions which would eliminate most of the regressive elements for residential
consumers. Additional study is still required though, and AyA plans a study
of further modifications in order to make the tariff structure still more
progressive, and also increase the extent of cross-subsidization to benefit
lower-income groups. The study would also consider increases in charges for
non-metered consumers (who cut across income lines) who now pay about one
fourth of the rates paid by metered connections in San Jose, as well as other
possibilities for increased revenues.
Sector Objectives
31.       The objectives of the sector are as follows:
(i) improving the planning and allocation of public resources
for water supply and sewerage programs;
(ii) adopting financial and economic policies within the sector
to enable AyA to sustain an adequate expansion;



- 11 -
(iii) improving access to safe water supply and adequate sanita-
tion in rural areas and smaller cities;
(iv) in the short rur., expanding safe water supply for the metro-
politan area to eliminate the acute dry season shortages
and to serve anticipated population growth needs; and
(v) improving water supply and sanitary sewerage systems in 16
intermediate cities.
Investment Program
32.       In order to meet these goals, AyA has planned a sector investment
program of US$122.4 million equivalent in the period 1980-84. The largest
component of the program, representing some 42 percent of the total, is the
Orosi water scheme.
33.       The Orosi project was developed by AyA in mid-1978 as an emergency
solution to eliminate the water shortages in the San Jose metropolitan area.
It would provide an additional supply to the capital city's water system
from the peaking reservoir of the Rio Macho hydroplant. The water would be
transmitted through 27 km of pipe and a tunnel to the existing Tres Rios water
treatment plant which is now supplied by inadequate local sources and has
unused capacity. The project also includes the upgrading of the treatment
plant from the present capacity of 600 1/sec to a total capacity of 2,100
1/sec and two 600 m trunk mains from the plant to areas of demand. When
completed in 1984, the Orosi project would benefit approximately 478,000
persons. These would suffer added water shortages during the dry season if
the project were not constructed. By 1990, the project would benefit an
additional 193,000 persons who are expected to be added to the system through
natural population increase, immigration and expansion of the service area.
34.       The next largest element of the investment program, representing
some 26 percent of the total, would consist of water supply and sewerage
improvements in Costa Rica's smaller urban areas. Since 1978, AyA has served
as a channel for sector investments to Costa Rica's municipalities who operate
and maintain water supply systems servicing over one third of the population
(see para. 28). The Government created a revolving loan fund for urban water
supply, "FRAU", directed to emergency municipal water supply needs, in order
to finance these activities. "FRAU", which AyA administers, is financed by
37 percent of the national sales tax and the proceeds of a 5 percent levy on
public and private sector salaries, and receives other government contributions.
Over the 1980-82 period, "FRAU " and small Government grants are scheduled to
conclude on-going water supply projects in 42 smaller cities, costing about
US$1.8-7.9 million equivalent annually. The major activity in this segment of
the investment program, scheduled for 1983-84, contemplates water supply and
sanitation system improvements in 16 cities.
35.       The balance of the investment program consists of (a) the comple-
tion in 1980-81 of the construction of new water systems in 100 rural
communities, and the subsequent launching of identical works in 200
additional rural settlements; and (b) expansion of sanitation facilities
in San Jose, which IDB is helping to finance.



- 12 -
36.       Implementation of this program would mean that sector investment
would rise from UJS$26.5 million equivalent in 1980 to US$36.7 million
equivalent in 1981 and then decrease to an annual average of US$19.7 million
equivalent in 1982-4. This level of expenditures was established after a
careful review of AyA's existing commitments and capacity, assuming the
continuing participation of international lending agencies (especially IDB)
in this program. External borrowing of US$65 million would be required
to assist AyA for the program through 1984, along with continued Government
financial support of US$27 million equivalent. The latter level of funding
appears also to be broadly in line with the Government's foreseeable
resources.
PART IV -   THE PROJECT
37.       A Staff Appraisal Report entitled "San Jose Metropolitan Area
Water Supply Project" (No. 3110-CR dated November 4, 1980) is being circulated
separately. Supplementary Project data are included in Annex III. The
project was prepared by AyA and consultants during 1978-79; it was appraised
in May 1980. Negotiations with AyA and the Government were held in Washington
during October 14-20, 1980. The delegation was led by the Executive President
of AyA and the Vice Minister of Finance.
Objectives and Project Content
38.       The main objectives of the project are to develop an economically
and financially sound sector investment program; to strengthen AyA's manage-
ment, financial and planning capacity; to provide additional safe water
for the San Jose metropolitan area in order to meet requirements through
1990; and improve the planning of future water supply and sewerage services.
As the Bank's first project in the sector, an important aspect of this involve-
ment is to help make the principal sector organization financially viable and
to improve its absorptive capacity. By doing this, the project, in addition
to financing an urgently needed improvement, would establish the basis for
future investment outside the San Jose metropolitan area where service levels
are lower. As AyA becomes more capable of carrying out such works, it is
expected to request Bank financing for projects designed to reach more of the
rural population and residents of small-sized cities.
39.       The project includes:
(a) construction of the Orosi water supply scheme to service
the San Jose metropolitan area;
(b) provision of a water and sewerage master plan for San
Jose and three adjacent cities in the central
plateau;
(c) rehabilitation of water distribution systems in low-income
neighborhoods of San Jose;
(d) installation of about 30,000 water meters nationally; and



- 13 -
(e) technical assistance to AyA for improving its organization,
management and operations.
The estimated completion date of the project is December 31, 1983.
Orosi Water Supply
40.       The Orosi water supply component is considered the least-cost
solution to San Jose's water requirements. It would increase the dry season
production capacity of San Jose's water supply system by 86 percent. An
examinatioe of water sgurce alternatives indicated lower marginal costs
(US$0.24/m  vs. 0.30/m ) for groundwater sources from a nearby aquifer.
Hydrological studies of the aquifer would require an additional 3 years of
additional investigation in order to make a reliable estimate of the aquifer's
long-term safe yield. The aquifer's deepwells, which have been in operation
for 2 years, have shown groundwater levels declining much faster than was
predicted. For these reasons, the development of groundwater is not considered
technically feasible at this time and was, therefore, rejected by AyA.
41.       The water to be diverted for the Orosi project would originate
from the penstock of a hydropower facility which is owned and operated
by Costa Rica's principal power authority, the Instituto Costarricense de
Electricidad (ICE). AyA and ICE have already entered into a satisfactory
agreement for the diversion of the optimum flow and on a satisfactory formula
for compensating ICE for the diverted water. Ratification of this agreement
by Costa Rica's Controller General would be a condition of effectiveness. ICE
has also agreed to construct the connection of the transmission main to the
hydropower plant's penstock, and the meter which would measure the flow of
water to the transmission main.
42.       Although the Orosi scheme will reduce the potential of the Rio
Macho hydroplant for power generation, the overall impact on the national
energy balance could be positive. If AyA were to proceed with groundwater
development, the only financially feasible alternative to Orosi, the energy
required for pumping would exceed the energy potential of Rio Macho water.
Furthermore, ICE's plans for constructing additional generating capacity
downstream of the Rio Macho plant would make replacement of the diverted
water from distant sources economically justified in the future. The volume
to be used for water supply under the Orosi scheme is equivalent to 1.5 per-
cent of Costa Rica's electrical power consumption (1978).
Master Plan
43.       AyA plans to carry out substantial water and sewerage works in
the future in the San Jose metropolitan region. There are abundant, albeit
costly, water resources that could be developed to serve this area of the
Central Valley. However, there is no comprehensive water resource planning
or machinery established for its allocation. As a result, the different



- 14 -
municipal authorities within this area are competing for use of the same
water. On these accounts, a comprehensive plan is required to provide a base
for the establishment of future investment priorities and to allocate the
remaining area water resources.
44.       In the interests of helping to improve sector planning and investment
allocation, the project provides for the development of a master water and
sewerage plan to meet this need. AyA would consult with the Bank on the terms
of reference for the study and furnish to it the interim and draft final
reports which would be completed by August 31, 1983 (see Section 3.11 of the
draft Loan Agreement).
45.       Another element of sector planning involves AyA's intention to
prepare a project for improvement of water systems and sewerage services in
16 medium- and small-size cities. AyA has already identified the project and
is now seeking preinvestment technical assistance funds for its preparation
and design. The Government would assist AyA to obtain financing for this
purpose. AyA has agreed to furnish the Bank, for its approval, the terms of
reference for the preinvestment studies; to consult with the Bank on their
conclusions; and to complete them by December 31, 1982 (see Section 5.08 of
the draft Loan Agreement and Section 2.02(d) of the draft Guarantee Agreement).
Distribution System Rehabilitation and Metering
46.       The project would include the installation of 24.5 km of 8-inch and
smaller mains in areas of San Jose populated by low-income residents. The new
mains are designed to replace undersized distribution network pipes in poor
condition. This component, which would directly benefit 14,600 persons, would
include all necessary service connections. In addition, AyA also needs to
increase its metering in all its systems in order to promote conservation and
increase revenues. At the beginning of 1980, 65 percent of all connections
were metered; the remainder were billed on a flat rate. Consumption from
40 public standpipes was unmetered. AyA now has a program to meter all service
connections and standpipes in the metropolitan area and obtain 83 percent
coverage elsewhere in Costa Rica. AyA intends to finish this program by
December 31, 1981 (see Section 3.07 of the draft Loan Agreement). The project
would provide for the purchase and installation of about 30,000 meters for
this purpose.
Technical Assistance Studies
47.       On the basis of an analysis in 1979 by the Pan-American Health
Organization, AyA's Board of Directors in February 1980 approved a plan to
improve the utility's management and operations. Its primary focus is on
strengthening AyA's managerial capacity, financial and investment planning,
budgeting and accounting. Another goal is to prepare guidelines for the
"FRAU" program and to define design and construction norms for the commu-
nity self-help projects. Accomplishment of these plans should help AyA
develop into a truly sector-wide institution which can meet the service needs
of the rural and urban population more fully. To help AyA carry out its
plan, the project would provide technical assistance for detailed studies of



- 15 -
AyA's requirements and the development of plans for bringing about the re-
quired changes. An estimated 60 man-months of services would be financed for
this purpose. One part of the study would be directed to AyA's need for greater
efficiencies in its staff since at present the ratio of its operating employees
to connections is 12.1. This is high when compared to similar institutions
in Latin America. AyA would reduce the ratio of employees to connections,
based on the findings of these management studies. In addition, AyA intends
to improve its performance on billings, which have been processed slowly, and
to reduce its accounts receivable. It would adopt procedures to reduce the
period between meter reading and invoicing, whose targets would also be
defined through these studies (see Section 3.06 of the draft Loan Agreement).
The studies moreover would identify staff training needs and produce recommenda-
tions for training programs. AyA would present to the Bank acceptable terms
of reference for the management studies by March 31, 1981, and employ consul-
tants satisfactory to the Bank. AyA has agreed also to furnish the Bank by
June 30, 1982 the conclusions of these studies; exchange iews with the Bank
on the studies' recommendations; introduce modifications a.id additions resulting
from this exchange; and carry out changes in its management systems by agreed
dates (see Section 3.04 of the draft Loan Agreement).
48.       The technical assistance component would also include 18 man-months
of consultants' services for an assessment of groundwater development possibil-
ities in the metropolitan region, plus an evaluation of AyA's system optimiza-
tion work for the control of unaccounted-for water. The present volume of
unaccounted-for water in San Jose's system, 38 percent of water produced, is
excessive. AyA has agreed to reduce water losses by an amount to be defined
through the studies and to submit targets to the Bank for review not later
than December 31, 1981 (see Section 3.06 of the draft Loan Agreement).
Project Costs and Financing
49.       The total project cost (excluding taxes from which AyA is exempt) is
estimated at US$48.5 million of which US$28.3 million represents foreign
costs. Interest during construction on foreign loans would add US$6.8 million,
bringing total financing requirements to US$55.3 million, of which US$35.1
million represents the foreign component. The proposed Bank loan of US$26.0
million would cover 74 percent of the foreign costs of the project, including
interest during construction and other charges on the Bank loan. The financing
of interest is designed to help alleviate the heavy impact which the project
would have on AyA's finances (the project would represent a 60 percent increase
in AyA's fixed assets) during its efforts to obtain financial viability.
Processing is well advanced for a loan from the Commonwealth Development
Corporation (CDC) equivalent to US$13.8 million (at 9.5 percent interest
repayable over 15 years) to provide the additional external finance required
plus US$4.7 million equivalent of local costs. AyA's fulfillment of conditions
of effectiveness of the CDC loan would be a prerequisite to effectiveness of
the Bank loan. The Government has already granted AyA US$1.1 million as a
capital contribution for the project, and would provide an additional approx-
imately US$20.5 million equivalent over the project period for AyA's investment
program and debt service needs. AyA would itself finance the remaining US$14.4
million equivalent of local costs of the project.



- 16 -
50.       A summary of project costs is set out in the Project Summary
(see page ii). The estimates were based on March 1980 prices. Civil works
estimates were based on recent bids made for similar work in Costa Rica;
estimates for materials and equipment are based on suppliers quotations.
Physical contingencies of 10 percent have been applied to base costs of all
components, and price contingencies equivalent to 20 percent of foreign
costs and 1 percent of local costs were then applied. The low local price
contingency results from this assumption, which compensates for high local
inflation rates when local prices are expressed in US dollars.) The average
man-monthly base cost for consultant services was estimated to range from
US$4,200 for locally hired consultants to US$10,500 for foreign consultants,
averaging US$7,500. A total of 557 man-months of consultant services would be
required.
Co-Financing Arrangements
51.       The project financial arrangements entail joint financing by the
Bank and CDC of the transmission line from the Rio Macho hydro station to
the water treatment plant. CDC would itself finance the access road to the
treatment plant; the plant's expansion; and the rehabilitation of San Jose's
water distribution system. The proposed loan would finance the construc-
tion of the tunnel for the transmission system and the latter's distribution
trunk mains, plus AyA's project engineering, master plan and technical
assistance program. A memorandum of understanding has been negotiated with
CDC. It covers procedures for procurement; proportionate financing of the
transmission line; coordination of project supervision; and exchange of
information.
Procurement
52.       All equipment and materials financed by the Bank would be procured
through international competitive bidding, in accordance with Bank Guidelines,
with the following exceptions. Civil works contracts with estimated costs
less than or equal to US$ 300,000, and equipment lots costing no more than
US$100,000, within an overall ceiling of US$ 2.0 million, would be advertised
locally in accordance with Government regulations, which are satisfactory.
The 1 km raw water tunnel is on the critical path for project implementation
and AyA had initially intended to finance it entirely with Government contri-
butions. It, therefore, procured it through international competitive bidding
under Costa Rican procedures, starting in April 1980. Since the bidding
attracted widespread response from qualified foreign firms and because the
award was made to the lowest evaluated bidder, Construction Louisburgh (Canada),
it was agreed to include US$2.3 million in the proposed loan to cover its
contract which was awarded in October 1980. Suppliers from Costa Rica and
other Central American Common Market countries would be granted a margin of
preference of 15 percent of the CIF landed price or 50 percent of import
duties, whichever is lower, in accordance with the Central American Agreement
on Fiscal Incentives.
53.       In order to avoid delaying the implementation of the Orosi project,
the Bank agreed to the engagement of Gannett Fleming Corddry and Carpenter
Inc. (US) in a joint venture with a Costa Rican firm to carry out the work



- 17 -
described in paragraph 55 below. Retroactive financing of payments for
the tunnel construction and these consultants' contracts incurred after
October 1, 1980 (expected to be about US$ 500,000) is therefore included in
the proposed loan (see Schedule 1, para. 4 to the draft Loan Agreement).
54.       The proposed loan would be disbursed over a 3-1/2 year period.
Disbursements from the loan account would be made against (a) 80 percent of
the foreign cost of equipment and civil works for the transmission line
jointly financed with CDC; (b) 100 percent of the foreign cost of equipment
and civil works for the transmission system's tunnel and reinforcement;
(c) 100 percent of the foreign cost of the water meters; (d) 75 percent
of expenditures for consultants services; and (e) interest and other charges
on the proposed Bank Loan through December 31, 1983.
Project Execution and Management
55.       AyA would carry out the supervision of engineering and construc-
tion of the project. It has proven technical experience in similar works
which it and its predecessors have undertaken since 1961.  AyA's appointment
of a project manager, with qualifications and under terms and conditions
satisfactory to the Bank, and an adequate staff would be a condition of
effectiveness of the proposed loan (see Section 7.01(a) of the draft Loan
Agreement). As noted in para. 41 above, ICE would construct the transmission
main connection to the Rio Macho power plant penstock and install the meter
to measure the flow of water to the transmission main. ICE has effectively
completed four projects financed by Bank loans to Costa Rica's electric power
sector, and is in the process of implementing two additional projects being
financed by more recent loans (Nos. 1126 of June 16, 1975 and No. 1713 of
June 25, 1979).
56.       The Orosi water supply component is in an advanced stage of prepara-
tion. Design of the construction of the raw water tunnel and the distribution
network rehabilitation is completed. The raw water transmission pipeline's
design is complete except for the consultants' design review. A US-Costa
Rican joint venture has recently been engaged for this work and for the final
design of the treatment plant expansion. It will also review the raw water
transmission pipeline design.
57.       The technical assistance to be undertaken will be carried out by
consultants whose qualifications and terms of reference would be satisfactory
to the Bank. AyA would seek to retain a single consulting firm to coordinate
the several organization and management studies.
Financial Analysis
58.       The Government and AyA appreciate that a continuation of AyA's
recent financial performance (see para 30) would adversely affect sector
finances, as well as prevent the accomplishment of the investment program.
Accordingly, in a marked break from its past practices, AyA has set out to
achieve a position of financial autonomy by 1984, largely by tariff increases
in this period of approximately 82 percent in real terms. As a first step,
tariffs were increased by 50 percent effective November 1, 1980. These



- 18 -
increases are intended to allow a 1.0 percent rate of return in 1981, 5.3
percent in 1982, 3.5 percent in 1983, and 4.5 percent subsequently. These
are considered acceptable in view of the fact that they represent a major
improvement from AyA's present negative return, that the proposed project's
full benefits would only be realized in 1990, and that the planned improvements
should result in greater operational efficiency. AyA and the Government have
also agreed that future tariff increases would be sufficient to obtain the
aforementioned rate of return targets (see Section 5.04(a) of the draft Loan
Agreement and Section 3.03 of the draft Guarantee Agreement). AyA and the Bank
would hold joint reviews semi-annually of the adequacy of tariff levels (see
Section 5.04(b) of the draft Loan Agreement). In addition, by March 31, 1981
AyA would complete the study on the revision of its tariff structure, to be
conducted under agreed terms of reference (see Section 3.05 of the draft Loan
Agreement).
59.       AyA last revalued its fixed assets as of December 31, 1978.
Subsequently, AyA agreed with the Bank on the amount of net revalued fixed
assets and the methodology to be used as the basis for future annual revalua-
tions (see Schedule 5 to the draft Loan Agreement).
60.       AyA's other financial targets include (1) reducing its operating
ratio from the projected 121 percent in 1980 to below 95 percent in 1981,
and to 75 percent in 1984; and (2) raising its contribution to investment from
the present negative values to 41 percent in 1984. These remedial measures,
if successfully implemented, should contribute substantially to increasing
AyA's financial capacity and improving sector finances. In view of the
importance of these goals, AyA has agreed to exchange views annually with the
Bank, prior to the preparation of its budget, on its progress in carrying out
the investment program and plans for financing the remainder of this program
(see Section 5.03(b) of the draft Loan Agreement). The NBA (see para. 11
above) would participate in these reviews in order to ensure that overall
budgetary priorities are adequately taken into account. As noted in para. 49,
the Government has agreed to continue its financial assistance to AyA for
implementing the investment program and meeting the utility's debt service
requirements during 1980-83 (see Section 2.02(b) of the draft Guarantee
Agreement). Tn addition, AyA has agreed that, during the implementation
period of the proposed project, it would consult with the Bank on investments
not included in the investment program whose cost would exceed US$2 million
equivalent in any year (see Section 5.06 of the draft Loan Agreement). In
this connection, the Government has agreed to take all action necessary to (1)
coordinate water and sewerage expansion in order to prevent duplication of
facilities and unnecessary investment; (2) ensure that such expansion is based
on economically justified programs, and would be financed on appropriate
terms; and (3) also ensure that this expansion is within AyA's administrative
capacity and would not adversely affect any Bank-supported water project (see
Section 3.02 of the draft Guarantee Agreement). In addition, AyA would obtain
the Bank's concurrence before borrowing if its projected net revenues were
less than 1.3 times its maximum future debt service requirement (see Section
5.05 of the draft Loan Agreement).



- 19 -
Economic Analysis
61.       As discussed in para. 40 above, studies have shown that the Orosi
project would be the least cost solution for San Jose's expected water supply
requirements during the second half of the 1980s compared with several other
alternatives. It has the highest net present value, the lowest marginal cost
and the lowest present value of total costs of all feasible alternatives.
62.       The rate of return on investment in the water production facilities
and associated distribution works has been calculated as the discount rate
which equates the present value of the streams of costs and benefits. Revenues
were used as a proxy for benefits and were calculated at projected 1984
tariffs deflated to 1980 values. The rate of return is estimated at 12.4
percent. With an estimated present opportunity cost of capital in Costa Rica
of about 12 percent, the project's return is satisfactoryr particularly
as revenues from water sales do not fully measure all be. fits. These would
include improvements in health, nutrition and labor produLtivity, and the
indirect benefit to San Jose industry and commerce whose production and
employment depend on reliable water.
63.       In this connection, it is noted that the expansion of safe water
supply to eliminate acute dry season shortages in the metropolitan area would
have substantial benefit for San Jose's poorer residents. When the project
comes into service in 1984, it is estimated that its beneficiaries in rela-
tive poverty I/ would number 143,000, equivalent to 65 percent of San Jose's
urban poor. By the time Orosi's full capacity is achieved in 1990, the number
of urban poor benefitting is expected to grow to 206,000, as a result of
population increases and the expansion of the area affected. (The initial
benefits would be directed to those districts which now have the most defi-
cient service). This would increase the proportion of urban poor served to 76
percent. These proportions are regarded as significant, since San Jose's
poorer residents are generally more dispersed geographically than those in
other large metropolitan cities and there are no known large concentrations of
unserviced low-income dwellings. These factors make it difficult to design
improvements in public services such as those provided by the project so as to
primarily serve the urban poor. Consequently, AyA's low income consumers would
gain proportionately with others. They would also benefit from the proposed
tariff structure improvements (see para. 30). In addition, under the project,
service in low-income neighborhoods would be improved by replacing inadequate
water mains and providing additional connections (see para. 46). Moreover,
the Bank's association with project preparation work on Costa Rica's medium-
and small-size cities (see para. 45) offers potential for greater future
investment benefitting the poor outside the San Jose metropolitan area.
1/   Costa Rica's per capita income is estimated at US$1,820 (1979).  The
poverty threshold was US$607 (World Development Report, 1980, The
World Bank).



- 20 -
64.       The project would also afford distinct benefits for AyA.  The
planned institutional reform should strengthen the company by expanding
its capabilities in investment planning, capital budgeting and financial
management. The scheduled measures concerning AyA's revenue increases,
more economic operations and other financial objectives are designed to
make it financially viable. These and the experience gained by implement-
ing the Orosi scheme should combine to help AyA enlarge its presently limited
capacity to administer large-scale water and sewerage investments. Accom-
plishments of these objectives would enable AyA to become a professionally
stronger and more extensive national institution capable of setting targets
for the sector, formulating policies and programs, and implementing these
programs.
Environment
65.       There are no major environmental risks associated with the project.
In the course of construction activity, there may be some water pollution
from siltation and disruption of existing sources. These effects would only
be temporary.
Risks
66.       There are no unusual risks associated with the project.  Its
construction schedule is reasonable. AyA's responsibilities are believed
to be within the capability of its relatively well trained staff. The project
cost estimates are considered realistic since final designs are at an advanced
stage. The main element of risk concerns AyA's financial condition during the
project implementation period, which entails continued Government support of
the utility. However, this assistance would be relatively small in 1980-81,
and would be spread over a 4-year period which should be manageable.
PART V - LEGAL INSTRUMENTS AND AUTHORITY
67.       The draft Loan Agreement between AyA and the Bank, the draft Guarantee
Agreement between the Republic of Costa Rica and the Bank, and the Report to the
Committee provided for in Article III, Section 4 (iii) of the Articles of Agree-
ment are being distributed to the Executive Directors separately. The draft
agreements conform to the normal pattern of loans for water projects, and their
more important features have been included in Part IV. These are summarized in
Section III of Annex III of this report. The effectiveness of the loan is
conditioned on (a) ratification by the Controller General of the AyA-ICE agree-
ment on the extraction of water from the Rio Macho hydro plant (para. 41);
(b) appointment of AyA's project manager and qualified staff for supervision
of the project (para. 55); and (c) fulfillment of conditions of effectiveness
of the CDC loan (para. 49).



- 21 -
68.       I am satisfied that the proposed loan would comply with the Articles
of Agreement of the Bank.
PART VI - RECOMMENDATIONS
69.       I recommend that the Executive Directors approve the proposed loan.
Robert S. McNamara
President
Attachments
November 26, 1980



- 22-                                                           Annex I
Page 1 of 6
TABLE 3A
COSTA RICA - SOCIAL INDICATORS DATA SHEET
COSTA RICA                      REFERENCE GROUPS (WEIGHTED A VESA%GES
LAND AREA (THOUSAND SO. KM.)                                                              - MOST RECENT ESTIMATE)(
TOTAL               50.7
AGRICULTURAL        20.5                                   110T RECENT             IADDLE INCOME              MIDDLE INCOME
1960  /b    1970 /b ESTI1IATE /b    LATIN AHERICA & CARIBBEAN              EUROPE
GNP PER CAPITA (US$)                     420.0  if   710.0 /f  1540. 0                    1384.1                     2381.1
ENERGY CONSUMPTSON PER CAPITA
(KILOGRAMS OF COAL EQUIVALENT)        233.0        421.0      564.0                    1055.9                      1641.4
POPULATION AND VITAL STATISTICS
POPULATION, MID-YEAR (MILLIONS)         1.2           1.7        2.1
URBAN POPULATION (PERCENT OF TOTAL) 36.5             39.7       42.5                      63.4                       53.9
POPULATION PROJECTIONS
POPULATION IN YEAR 2000 (MILLIONS)                            3.0
STATIONARY POPULATION (MILLIONS)                              5.0
YEAR STATIONARY POPULATION IS REACHED                      2065
POFULATION DENSITY
PER SQ. KM.                          24.0         34.0       41.0                      28.1                        77.2
PER SQ. KM. AGRICULTURAL LAND        85.0         93.0      102.0                      81.7                       129.5
POPULATION AGE STRUCTURE (PERCENT)
0-14 YRS.                            47.5         46.1       39.7                      41.4                        30.6
15-64 YRSI.                           49.5         50.7       56.7                      54.7                        61.1
65 YRS. AND APOVE                      3.0          3.2        3.6                        3.9                        8.2
POPULATION GROWTH RATE (PERCENT)
TOTAL                                 3.7          3.4        2.5                        2.7                        1.6
URBAN                                 4.2/c        4.2        3.3                        4.1                        3.3
CRUDE BIRTH RATE (PER THOUSAND)        47.0          35.0       28.0                      34.8                       22.8
CRUDE DEATH RATE (PER THOUSAND)         10.0          7.0        5.0                       8.9                         8.9
GROSS REPRODUCTION RATE                  3.5          2.8        1.7                       2.5                         1.5
FAMILY PLANNING
ACCEPTORS, ANNUAL (THOUSANDS)          ..         19.0       22.6
USERS (PERCENT OF MARRIED WOMEN)    ..              ..       67.0
FOOD AND NUTRITION
INDEX OF FOOD PRODUCTION
PER CAPITA (1969-71-100)             85.0         99.0      114.0                      106.9                      113.1
PER CAPITA SUPPLY OF
CALORIES (PERCENT OF
REQUIREMENTS)                      98.0        108.0      114.0                     107.4                       124.3
PROTEINS (CRAMS PER DAY)             53.0         59.0       62.0                      65.6                        91.0
OF WHICH ANIMtAL AND PULSE         28.0         32.0       36.0                      33.7                        39.6
CHILD (AGES 1-4) MORTALITY RATE        10.0          4.6         3.0                       8.4                        4.3
HEALTH
LIFP  EXPECTANCY AT BIRTH (YEARS)    62.0           66.8       70.0                       63.1                       67.8
INFANT MORTALITY EATE (PER
THOUSAND)                              85.0/d       70.0       28.0                       66.5                       55.9
ACCESS TO SAFE WATER (PERCENT OF
POPULATION)
TOTAL                                  ..         74.0       77.0                       65.9
URBAN                                  ..         98.0       95.0                      80.4
RURAL                                  ..         59.0       62.0                      44.0
ACCESS TO EXCRETA DISPOSAL, (PERCENT
OF POPULATION)
TOTAL                                  ..         52.0       93.0                       62.3
URBAN                                  ..         66.0       94.0                       79.4
RLRAL                                  ..         43.0       93.0                       29.6
POPULATION PER PHYSICIAN             2600.0       1630.0    1390.0                      1849.2                     1030.1
POPULATION PER NURSING PERSON        1700.0       1690.0      453.0                    1227.5                       929.4
POPULATION PER HOSPITAL BED
TOTAL                                  ..        250.0      288.0                     480.3                       289.7
URBAN                                  ..        100.0
RURAL                                  *-       4440.0
ADMISSIONS PER HOSPITAL BED               ..        28.0       29.0                         ..                        17.0
HOUSING
AVERAGE SIZE OF HOUSEHOLD
TOTAL                                 5.8/d        5.6        5.6
URBAN                                 5.4/d         ..
RURAL                                 6.0/d          ..
AVERGCE NLMSER OF PERSONS PER ROOM
TOTAL                                 1.5/d        1.3        1.4
LRBAN                                 1.3/d          .          -
R[JRAIL                               1. 7/d        ..
ACCESS TO ELECTRICITY (PERCENT
OF DWELI INGS)
TOTAL                                55.50/d                 59.0/e
URBAN                                93.572          .       87 07;2
R TTPA 1                             32.o7/d         ..      37.                          *-                          *



Annex I
- 2 3 -                                                           Page 2 of 6
TABLE 3A
COSTA RICA - SOCIAL INDICATORS DATA SHEET
COSTA RICA                    REFERENCE GROUPS (WEIGHTED AVE SA  S
- MOST RECENT ESTIMATE)
MOST RECENT              MIDDLE INCOME           MIDDLE INCOME
1960  lb    1970 lb ESTIMATE /b    LATIN AMERICA & CARIBBEAN            EUROPE
EDUCATION
ADJUSTED ENROLLMENT RATIOS
PRIMARY:     TOTAL                 96.0        110.0     111.0                     99.7                     105.9
MALE                  97.0       110.0      111.0                    101.0                     109.3
FEMALE                95.0       109.0      110.0                     99.4                     103.0
SECONDARY:   TOTAL                 21.0         28.0      44.0                     34.4                      64.0
MALE                  20.0        27.0       41.0                     33.5                      71.1
FEMALE                21.0        28.0       48.0                     34.7                      56.9
VOCATIONAL ENROL. (% OF SECONDARY)  19.0          10.0      19.0                     38.2                       28.8
PUPIL-TEACHER RATIO
PRIMARY                            26.0         30.0      33.0                     30.5                       29.4
SECONDARY                          22.0         17.0      20.0                     14.5                       26.1
ADULT LITERACY RATE (PERCENT)           ..          ..       90.0                     76.3
CONSUMPTION
PASSENGER CARS PER THOUSAND
POPULATION                         14.0         23.0      32.0                     43.0                      84.6
RADIO RECEIVERS PER THOUSAND
POPULATION                         62.0         75.0      73.0                     245.3                    192.2
TV RECEIVERS PER THOUSAND
POPULATION                          2.4         58.0      76.0                     84.2                     118.5
NEWSPAPER ("DAILY GENERAL
INTEREST") CIRCULATION PER
THOUSAND POPULATION                  92.0           *-      8B.0                     63.3                      93.0
CINEMA ANNUAL ATTENDANCE PER CAPITA   ..            ..         ..                      ..                        5.7
LABOR FORCE
TOTAL LABOR FORCE (THOUSANDS)       375.4        527.0     719.7
FEMALE (PERCENT)                   16.4         19.4      25.1                     22.2                      30.4
AGRICULTURE (PERCENT)              51.2         42.0      29.0                      37.1                      37.0
INDUSTRY (PERCENT)                 18.5         20.0      23.0                     23.5                      29.3
PARTICIPATION RATE (PERCENT)
TOTAL                                30.3         30.7      32.2                      31.5                      40.9
HALE                                 50.4         49.9      51.5                     48.9                       55.9
FEMALE                                9.9         11.2       12.6                     14.0                      26.2
ECONOMIC DEPENDENCY RATIO                1.6         1.3        1.3                      1.4                       1.0
INCOME DISTRIBUTION
PERCENT OF PRIVATE INCOME
RECEIVED BY
HIGHEST 5 PERCENT OF HOUSEHOLDS   33.0          23.0
HIGHEST 20 PERCENT OF HOUSEHOLDS  58.6          50.4
LOWEST 20 PERCENT OF HOUSEHOLDS    5.7           5.4
LOWEST 40 PERCENT OF HOUSEHOLDS   13.0          14.7
POVERTY TARGET GROUPS
ESTIMATED ABSOLUTE POVERTY INCOME
LEVEL (US$ PER CAPITA)
URBAN                                ..           ..     300.0
RURAL                                 ..          ..     189.0                     190.8
ESTIMATED RELATIVE POVERTY INCOME
LEVEL (US$ PER CAPITA)
URBAN                                 ..          ..     B25.0                     474.0
RURAL                                 ..          ..     471.0                     332.5                     385.8
ESTIMATED POPULATION BELOW ABSOLUTE
POVERTY INCOME LEVEL (PERCENT)
URBAN                                 ..
RURAL                                 ..
.    ot available
Not applicable.
NOTES
/a   The group averages for each indicator are population-weighted arithmetic means. Coverage of countries
among the indicators depends on availability of data and is not uniform.
/b    Unless otherwise noted, data for 1960 refer to any year between 1959 and 1961; for 1970  between 1969
and 1971; and for Most Recent Estimate, between 1974 and 1978.
Ic   1950-63;  /d 1963;  /e Percent of subscribers.
/f  Based on the 1980 Atlas, the GNP for 1960, 1970, and 1979 is                               April, 1980
430.0, 730.0, and 1810.0, respectively.



- 24-                                                                                                      Annex I
DEFINITIONS OF SOCIAL INDICATORS
Notes:  Although the data are drawn I tote toaoe   generall1y judged the most snthrittatit-  sod reliable, it Jo.    o&r. be  -oLt cc  they toy rot he inner-
stenionlly ..oeporaie heceums otI th  lark of etandardised defoiniiosa,d aod etnoe-Fte teed by diffreo ..u. tic t          ...l...t   ob  b~at.  The dots tee,toe
theless, useful nodsoheoderht  egitode, indicate trrsdt,te   ohrtorte. ereain to mjor dtteero    esoe    vocl
The refrreste geope ore (1) the sam  lo-ttry group of the suj cto-tory sod (2)a   uuny grop with s..meohet htgherr aegeI.come than.the country grop
ofthe  njo    outy(st    for "CepittI Surplus Oil  opE.               os  grop wher Middle Enre  Noreb Afotcs end Middle East" is chosen Ienauss  of .srongr
mooto-culurl  sf5 ttir).   Sttsrfirn                 ropdn the a-erege  ar  popoliti-o osighted ariheiceal                      o    ah Indicator end shoes only sette en
least  half of thm  connotre ins grtt FPhoe data fdorinhtan  edtcato.  Stocs nhe crorrag   of ous.otem  sang  theindicantr  deponds on the e-ilebility o
data sod is ton notforscatio         aot h         Inreie   to relanogar-ragee  of toe iodicoInI           soter   Thtearrgos are ony o..efo1 inoeportng she rains
of too iedloator en a time omong the .tnotry end ref-rs.c. groups.
LASNS ARiA (thousan.d oqAm.)                                                                     Ptit o- o  l'h--:zot-rouae-tio  00014-  iy .u...r us p-ateting pty.-
Total - Total sorface area c-mpising land area anod istsod eaters.                               ainla-  quolif-rd -rn   ndica1 n-hoo  at uniter..ity Se-e.
Xarit-1tural - Etu1timt  sO ngrtolntrl area need temporarily or perestroly                     Foenlatien cofp    renafeo  - Poptltion dioldod by number of prscticisg
for crops, putu ,  aket sod kitchen gardoos or no lie fall_;I lip  data,                      male aId feae  grad -ao  nacrs, prtlelnua,P_i              sodaesratnra.
GNP PER CAPITA (US$) - CNP P-1 c-Pit- --ti-C'trutatioonteearkotritat.ged-1-noteBad - t                                 etal.     ur.l  . _I pots t e foetel.
1SFPERCAPtA  II)  -ISPpercapte  stmats a  onreo  mrhs  pooss    s-         ohbn. an  rra) dinided hy their respeo rio  namhar of hoopiet1 hede
oultatd hy sn  cooerion method as Wnrld Bank Atlas (1976-78 bacis); i960,                        arilehl  in pnhlio sod prinans gSeri cod apeeisliasd hsI'li  In r-
ido.ad1970 dots.                                                                              hahlitatioe  atester.  Htapitslts. aretbnsltshmese pesmssttpsafe
hy an Mten one physlinta    fEstbihebmetn   preridig ptrtncpelly custdial
ENERGYt CONSUMPFTION Fit CAPITA - Aentl coseuption of   mmrial energy (conel                       nare are not Ecdd.           ural. hospitals. h-wrs, iclade h..n   ndmdie
snd ligoite' ptnrlsue, nanteu  gas sod hydro-., . nuolee  red geonheres  eteo-                   ceense nore peemn_ety staffedbyapsnio(uhym edclminst
totit) i  hlogon  o  onl  quialsnpoecaina   160.lOO,sod108              r      d, idwfe, set.) whinh offer ie-ar In eobodttby             red proni
dais.                                                                   ~~~~~~~~~~limitsd rass  o  mdia  fetits .Foeta-tistisd Fnrpsd prha id pi
POPiLATIONO Aim VITAL. SITIYICEhopisl   Ica or rural bfsinlot.. sod medical sod materetv  tetes
Todtal Patu1atine. Mid-Yea  (millinn)-A   fJl  1   91   91   n  17                              dinosco   Osia   r   tona,nesr o a                  dindn soo  discharges
ceap 'olio   eson   fttl   - tAn. of nehae to ettelI                                                                             . papulation;d h.
annngtouonniel 1960, 190, and i978dets.                                      ivsr1o6Eise1of0eneeho1d7(ra  moss ..  -dr hoa      1o and  Bars. ura,ed  re
UForulanine Pr'ttto (ecnt                                                                        A hossild 1nsRostoia ron Ttf1. . tdroaof tbn   hore 1  orttdi quarters
toia  poulaionhy  ge  od  on  nd  hei  moobality toand fprpiltiny     e.              th  hosho. l. dWfor       b atsth.s purobr.fb.
f  orniity Y...ording     ton.. inon   evlac   as aml  plaon'-1ibng . pefrao.         Acs n   icron    oro                 fdeie -1total.furhee  and r                 Ir n
tllat   ou'ltery  isteby  mge   dt  t theme tiePmIain    faraiy                             Cneto          dsltest   lcrndittolingq rers
and fertility  orondo fo  projeorion Puranmen.ao  tal,dran   o  rue..                                       dellng   reapecrinely
maPr   oso    e.Ti  nactndni  after ferofi                   tIityyar   eln ,to,          Adlutd noimno  Alatins
the  epteenot  lonl ofnniretrerodrate,Io as         hren esI gnrte                  rayaho -tsoth-. mate sod fomlsd- Cr,oss s_e   sl  an                    Teml
of' on .dPc me   ...loe   iofoaiy   Teseinr   populathitethimsiwas                             enolmetof...se  a  teprmayleeIa  p_rnetag -n  t  r dptnn
_nnletl.Pounrir  stt.eIIsI..dnatntn                                                                                                      1  -nbolero  mayd ..c..100.ercen
nioer banhTec.opuood.                                                                       teardar sc--opa- totl. male and. feand -. Computeda  senr;n seondary
Por  lattot  rest                         hrd.lie .dnoltioseorsnlas   onTemofepoe    rmsyterot
Pe hn.A. aIcutrlln        optda   kv   o iagrtoult ..  nre P                d.uml   f1   o  7ymso  age; cerepedenc                                     otr ta ar  geerll
tely.                                                                                       TocrenojectinlPserol-biatt.nironrt.Iltyof mrootdmr) -  Ytctrionalb  irnedt-Itn
Pootleeton Ass Oruceure (rerceet)- Cidrn(0i  years),  onbigl-ege          nc (11-       inolud   tetintan,  talodnotrie, rr o       Pb .  Irgosohc    prneidp
thi yean)  and reirode (61 yertoh         ve)a   otnogno   idya  deent  orattopaIdens  f sconary tnmio lon.
aios; 1960,r 1970. sod 1970 data       hyf         f        y     :..    ...  ..        E UCA-TION          rto-rimr.adeeodr       otlouensnoldi
Crede girt  iste (rerthousand) - he"le trabirhsfer  itoes-ofGid-ea
pepulaniean;  2000, 17.and th 970t  fdata.         C-ttulnet-PfTtIOnP..,iI 
trd   ethln   rr hued   -irnlderepr tyonn    fmdya raceng  Cen (rrpitnandeonlat..)-.P.nmgeroar  compieaf
populacuon; 1960, 1970.and 10PM  data.                                coere meaning lee  than   difknfersona; lengthludeq        r onhulseems   feore   n
Crs  erdc io ite-Aarinagoeahe nube  of. deaug -htes- ie nt- io    bea p .isn           mi..try vet hils
her noral reprduotiv  peidiabtneirr   reetsssei  tfr                                    ednOcissIe   ita d oscuIlat ion                 -    t All cy e of. retainers... ford
cPltiry  Dao;usal   in-er  orge  ndnity91.17,an   97                                            iredeosts no  geeral         -1 puii  pe biuat thoffpipianicoo; enldsah
pamily yl...a delrl(nrontofmarho nme)      iroottotfaarie
ofobldheregag  (5-4yern  wo  e  ire-nnto  dvies~               ontie  eoIehe   aientog.                     rte'
almrtrdwoenin stoameael         tp                                                        gessda-  publicdper thforeed pepltasioe;landl.... u1Yitensed1TV reOOive
pndr of. Foo  Productio  PmPraisnt p1b-y k10 ln- ann of0 percaitre anua ofmere Crnlutnio                                     .. (rfer  thosan   ro ful Ptio) d Sie  lie. aveag  _ciro
k                                                                               "~~~~~rdnno   oldssedrdfe   n  ire r  "dil  genra   intres   feepaepe' dfited as a  eic s  pub-
instead   fego)sic    r  eil  anidre to 0ca 4oenrisor   (.gkng.. re 1fenen                   Cinema1Annual AetedIpant roe theme-drse Teargtst    onr          h  nmero
te ar nolded)i.a Aggegteprd Poio             ech  outry- if basd-y ot        o                                        a      n       -,,-Tt1'Idn.i
toIteal    1 averag    produe  prios togt;i6-5   90   n   90dt.ncossl   uigteya.itotgdtmoatrr-nis
pe  dy.Aaiabesuplestnpis    omsntprdnti    ipot  lss              T nal.d Lao   ote(housads)l in        enoreolyaciepro             t,iui..g
ouoto, andt ohatge (ercint mooch      l         n . SnsopIeeocoe   nia  fedtees            aredfoeeed  oopoye  bt n'odc  h                           atoiv,   inudor, et
cdI.io Ge IacI.uinofp.lsi                  ond(P..lTewing 1-t protet oforboat  at            Arplur  eret  -Lbrfrtpnfrig,frsr,-utn   o
househ..old  level;0 1961-h,170,sd17daa,-dfishingll                                                     as,,, pereteg   oftrcnel -lahor.ftcs  1960, 1970 o  ea and 197d ta.
prlde   prten,o.ochi                gnomed9',d-. shudeahe animal.. artrnd.-    esestand   COSMTONtvnytna1erpn d as Pctt                     ti, mal, ad femaler landfroa
nor'id  oo  aunyd16-5,17  and197daa
Per.  ostita   t'oroers    l fees animal a drught- roti  mopl  ofefood  d                       .-.age-sen  r  (tPt., o the.an populanin.. en  lo-:nge tisaresd.pi. A      _tso os
"' 1:.70' 11299-"n!                                        c~~~~~~~anse .aran from  ntioaln eugtprons. _c          _
hrived  f.ree eniei  end. Pulses In gr.n .per- day  196-6. 9II          ad     i97  dt.    fnonDendsrlin-8io fpputint  nde  11ande 65hand 10cr
CIl(ss1-b  A.cntliyOsI 1erthuan)-7nua                           0eab  per t1u9o   it               '         c ishe(Pr t t e....dpplc )-AltP-                     -i..frId
agt gop -lY       am,t  chnnn     ilde- i  hmg-gop  f r  ot.eelpigcon
of biT                                                                                           Prcsth-of-Private Innone (boh is tamf  red.biedI    let-d-ed by rithes
of boPnsehartholds.                         oplI!'~tll,
at birth; 1960, 1971 end 1978nt dines.rid                                                                                          b    -Prabe aone-.
lofansMortaity lssb (er btue Id)-IAnnualfdestheofainfantsnuner one year    POItTYIIAinET
of  onpe tar inod en   line          o.--Idi..I birhs..simted. AbslusaPovrt Ei,ncteLvl YSsn  oimn-uhnen   ue
ucoeso to cafe tater (rerceoc of ttrulstiool - intel. urhan. sod rural -  Absolute poverop  motesV leveli-riu(Parn'hn..e.dlevel teln-ehVcbs.ed        e t t
tudmirf ofd Poei   itl   ra,adrrl    tIrnoal   cost  safe                                       Iu     riierelay adqutedntplsesenta   onfodreueesTV                         s  o
wae  nyir(ouluden tarase   surfae eatrs ortntreaed butanoctti_std                       ufffdebte
eater suel as  Pa fro   poste-.ece,spig,adsntr  tells) etfatimand telaspo PoveryitsrNs Level fY55~:n rr                                             - re hne    - u ion s    ir-os'
lerontae  o   herroprsn   ppndins    n  tura  arseepuh,cd ilt                                  nusEreatv iponsrtp YIt-1  itecm    ee   soentd  feeesprspn
foosao n  ssodcn  loatd  ns   er  tht  11  etrm   eoabuesma  he                  pesonl  seme  f  he   eutry   Ebanleelso  oneddro  oh  res
ocidetred  as,. ben   lhinraebe abase cf- Ithnat house.  I   ua   re                            ee    ihsjsmn   o   ihrvs  ofn_               liog InI unhe         idr    la.
(sully' n nasIllrtiondd.t.d PI                                                                                                               c. da
ptyI plscdunlrd.i..dsItclAn..cioltrte.o



- 25 -
ATTACHMENIT I
Page 4 Of 6
COSTA RICA - ECtlaIC INDICATCRS
Population; 2.110 million (mid-1978)
GNP Per Capita: $1,540 (1978)
Amount             Average Annual Increase (U                       Share of GDlP at Market Prices (S)
Indicator                           (million Colones           (at constant 1966 prices)                            (at current prices)
at current Drices)
1979               1960-70    1970-75   1975-80               1960         1970        1975         19Bo a/
NATIONAL ACCOUNTS
Gross domestic product b/                34,233.3                 6.1        6.o       5.2                100.0        100.0       100.0        100.0
Agriculture                             6,434-4                 5.6        3,4       1.5                 26.0        22.5         20.3         20.6
Industry                                8,947.9                 8.5        9.2       6.4                 19.7        24.2         27.4        26.7
Services                               18,851.0                 5.3        5.6       5.9                 54.3        53.3         52.3         52.6
Consumption                              29,712.4                 5.9        4.5       5.0                 87.3        86.2         86.7         78.1
Gross investment                          8,373.2                 7.6        6.2       9.2                 17.5        20.5         21.6         25.1
Exports of goods and NFS                  9,266.7                10.3        6.8       6.5                 21.4         28.2        30.4         31.2
Imports of goods and NFS                 13,119.0                10.0       3.4        8.4                 26.2        35.0         38.7         34.5
Gross national savings                    3,217.5                 4.1        3.8       4.1                 12.9        12.8         10.7        12.1
Composition of Merchandise Tie (%)
(at current prices)
IpSO        1970         1975        1980
MERCHANDISE TRADE
Merchandise exports                         890.2                10.7        6.8       7.6                100.0        100.0       100.0        100.0
Primary                                   630.8                 5.2        4.8       1.1                 94.0         78.7        72.4         66.5
Manufactures                              259.4                23.1        7.9      13.5                  6.o         21.3        27.6         33.5
Merchandise imports                       1,410.0                10.2        3.0       9.4                100.0        100.0       100.0        100.0
Food                                       90.h1               16.8       -1.5       7.4                  5.0          9.1         8.5         6.9
Petroleum                                 201.0                 7.0        o.4       2.9                  5.4          3.9        10.2         14.9
Machinery & equipment                     395.1                10.0        4.0       9.4                 23.3         24.8        25.5         25.8
Other                                     723.5                 7.8       0.4        7.3                 66.3        62.2         55.8         52.4
1975          1975           1977          1978           1979 c/
PRICES AND TERMS OF TRADE
GDP deflator                                             73.4          85.5           100.0          107.5         118.4
Exchange rate                                             8.57          B.57            8.57           8.57          8.57
Export price index                                       73.2          80.6           100.0           95.1          99.2
Import orice index                                       97.9          95.3           100.0          1O6.5         120.9
Terms of trade index                                     74.6          84.6           100.0           90.2          82.1
As % GDP
(at current prices)
PUBLIC FINANCE                                                            3975          1979
Current revenue                                                        34.6           34.8
Current expenditure                                                     30.6          35.0
Surplus (-) or deficit (-)                                                            -0.2
Capital expenditure                                                     9.1           l0.4
1960-70       1970-75         1975-80
OTHER INDICATCRS
GNP growth rate (%                                                      6.0            5.8             4.8
GNP per capita growth                                                   2.4            3.1             2.3
ICOR                                                                    3.0            3.7             5.0
Marginal savings rate (U                                                7.1            6.8             4.6
Import elasticity                                                       1.S            0.7             1.7
a/ At constant 1977 prices.
b/ At market prices.
c/ Estimates.



- 26 -                                                           ATTACHMENT I
asge 5 OfT6
COSTA RICA - BALiNCE OF PAYMENTS, EXTERNAL CAPITAL AND DEBT
(million US$ at current prices)
Population:  2.11D million (mid-1978)
ONP Per Capita: $1,540 (1978)
Actual                                                             Pr-Jected
1970      1975      1976      1977         1978       1979 e/          1980       1981        i982       1983        1984
BALANCE OF PAYMENTS
Net exports of goods & services                           -66.3   -166.5    -145.6    -167.6        -300.4      -494.1          -458.7    -353.8       -351.0    -278.7       -1y8.3
Exports of goods & services                             280.2     606.1     720.5     959.5       1017.2     1049.1           1179.3     1290.3      1470.4     1702.7      1995.3
Lororts of goods A services                            346.5      772.6     866.1    1137.1       1317.6     1543.2           1827.0     1850.1      2062.6     2257.1     2501.7
Net transfers                                               5.9       9.7      13.2       15.5        16.1       20.0             22.0        24.2       26.6       29.3        33.7
Cumrent accouot balance                                   -74.o    -217.6   -201.5   -225.6         -387.7      -601.6          -625.8      -535.5     -558.9     -511.5      -59.8
Direct private investment                                  26.4      69.0      63.3       83.2        47.1       46.0             53.0       55.2        63.9       71.1        75.0
MLT loans (net)                                             9.0     158.4     156.9      250.3       259.2      196.5            372.6       399.5      191.8      452.5       394.8
Official                                               12.4       63.3      67.4      71.1        107.3       69.2             90.5      129.1       119.5      163.1.     155.1
Private                                                 -3.4      95.2      89.5     179.2        151.9      127.3            282.1      270.4       341.2      289.1      239.4
Other capital                                              26.9      11.1      40.1       20.0        54.6      258.7            100.1       80.0        35.1       55.0        50.0
Change in reserves  j- - inc.)                            11.7      -21.9     -59.1    -107.9         25.8      100.4            112.0        0.0       -51.0      -61.1       -70.1
International reserves                                    26.1       59.2     123.9     232.5        200.0       99.6             -0.4       -0.-        J9.6      109.5      179.6
Reservasasmonths of inoorts                                 0.9D0     0.919     1.717      2.454       1.821      0.774           -1.010     -1.013       0.289      0.583       o.863
Actual
1970      1975      197        177       1978      1979 e /
CR035 DISBUBREMENTS
Official grasts                                                                      3.8        11.0       -         ..         -         -
Gross dilsbrsements of MLT loans                                                    29.6       260.7     276.6     401.7      562.7     493.5
Conce-sional                                                                        10.4        18.4      11.0      11.0       33.0      42.8
Bilateral                                                                          0.8        11.2       5.3       2.8       16.0      18.9
IDA
Other nultilateral                                                                 3.6         7.3       5.7       8.2       17.0      23.9
Naon-oncensiosal                                                                    19.2       242.3     265.7    390.7      529.7     450.7
Official export credits                                                            1.1        24.3      18.7     16.3       31.3      11.7
IBdD                                                                               4.9        12.6      22.2     23.7       21.5      20.5
Other oultilateral                                                                 3.9        15.4      25.1     29.7       35.1      12.1
Private                                                                           10.3       190.0     199.4     321.1      441.9    416.1
EXTERNAL DEBT f/
Debt outstanding and disbursed                                                     134.2       421.3     535.9      735.1     954.3    1272.5
Official                                                                          95.9      241.5      306.2     380.2     493.2      562.0
IBED                                                                            36.1       85.0      101.0     '24.1     140.8      155.5
IDA                                                                              4.6        5.2        5.2       5.1       5.1        5.o
Other                                                                           55.2      151.3      197.0     251.1     347.3      401.5
Private                                                                           38.2       179.9     229.7     354.9      461.2     710.6
Undisbursed Debt                                                                    95.1       319.i     466.1     560.1    467.2       587.7
DEBT SERVICE fl
Pubic debt swrvine pal-ents                                                         27.7        64.3      67.9      86.8      235.8     254.8
Interest                                                                           7.1        23.4      27.5      35.8       62.6      79.8
Payments as % exports                                                                9.9        10.6       9.4        9.0      23.2      24.3
Payments as a     GNP                                                                2.9         4.5       2.9        2.9       6.9       6.6
Average interest rate on maw loans (6)                                               5.1         7.9       7.2        7.4       8.7      11.0
Official                                                                           5.1         5.5       5.7       6.0       6.9        7.3
Private                                                                            6.7         9.8       8.2       8.6       10.4      11.9
Average maturity of new loans (years)                                               23.1        16.7      13.8      12.4       15.3      11.7
Official                                                                          28.2       21.1       24.3      18.5      24.9       15.8
Private                                                                            7.1         5.8       6.5       6.9        8.8       9.6
BAEN C3ROUP EXPOSURE (%) fl
IERD  D/total WD                                                                    26.9        20.2      19.4      16.9       14.8      12.2
IBRD disburse-ents/total gross disbursements                                        16.6        4.8        8.0       5.9        3.8       4.2
IBRD debt service/total debt service                                                14.8        13.4.     15.6      14.5        7.0       7.9
IDA DOD/total DOD                                                                    3,4         1.2       1.0        0.7       0.5       0.4
IDA disburosemnts/total gross disbursemests                                           -          -         -         -          -         -
IDA debt service/total debt service                                                   -          0.2       0.2        0.1       ...       ...
As S of Debt Ootstanding
at End of Most Recent
Year (1979 )
DEBT SIRUCTER1
Maturity structure of debt outstanding (S)
4atories doe within 5 years                                                                             17.2
Maturities due withis 10 years                                                                          70.7
Interest structure of debt outstonding 9%)
Interest due within first year                                                                           7.6
e/ Estigate.
f/Not including the private mon-guaranteed debt.
aNot available.
Less than 0.05 percent.
Note: Details nay sot add to total due to r-onding.



- 27 -
ANNEX I
Page 6 of 6
OFFICIAL LENDING TO COSTA RICA BY MAJOR LENDERS AND SECTORS, 1970-1979
(In Millions of Constant FY80 US Dollars) 1/
IBRD/IDA      IDB     CABEI 2/      AID       TOTAL
Transport                       112.3      124.8    163.5            -      400.6
Power                           117.1      200.7     86.3            -      404.1
Telecommunications               94.0          -      5.7            -       99.7
Education                        12.4       69.9      16.9           -       99.2
Health                              -       54.2         -        11.1       65.3
Housing                             -          -    110.4            -      110.4
Agriculture                      43.5       55.1     25.4         70.5      194.5
Manufacturing                    17.5       20.9       2.1           -       40.5
Urban Development                21.2          -         -        17.1       38.3
Other                               -       14.1      8.0         15.4       37.5
418.0     539.7    418.3         114.1   1,490.1
1/   IBRD commitment deflator used for price adjustments.
2/   Excludes operations with the private sector.



ANNEX II
- 28 -                     Page I of 4
THE STATUS OF BANK GROUP OPERATIONS IN COSTA RICA
A.  STATEMENT OF BANK LOANS AND IDA CREDITS (as of August 31, 1980)
Loan or
Credit
Number    Year      Borrower           Purpose            Bank    IDA /1  Undisbursed
(less cancellation)
Sixteen loans and credits fully disbursed                 118.3   5.5           -
915       1973      Costa Rica         Education            6.2      -         1.1
1006      1974      ICE                Telecommunica-
tions              23.5       -        1.1
1126      1975      ICE                Power               41.0      -         3.4
1187      1976      Costa Rica         Highways            39.0      -        20.8
1410      1977      Costa Rica         Agriculture
Credit             18.0       -        6.4
1491      1977      Costa Rica         Urban Transport   16.5        -        13.0
1532      1978      ICE                Telecommunica-
tions              10.6       -        7.1
1599      1978      Banco Central      Industrial Credit 15.0        -        15.0
1713      1979      ICE                Power              34.0       -        34.0
1845 /2   1980      Costa Rica         Highways           30.0                30.0
Total                                          352.1    5.5       131.9
of which has been repaid                      50.5    0.4
Total now outstanding                          301.6    5.1
Amount sold                     11.1
of which has been repaid    10.5               0.6      -
Total now held by Bank and IDA                 301.0    5.1
/1   Excluding exchange adjustments.
/2   Not yet effective.
B. STATEMENT OF IFC INVESTMENT (as of August 31, 1980)
Year   Obligor                                Type of Business   Loan   Equity  Total
1976   Productos de Concreto S.A.             Concrete products   0.6       -      0.6
1978   Scott Paper Co. de Costa Rica S.A.  Paper Products          2.5      -      2.5
1979   Maricultura S.A.                       Shrimp Farming       1.4    0.7      2.1
Total gross commitments                                     4.5    0.7      5.2
less cancellations, terminations,
repayments and sales                                      0.6     -       0.6
Total now held by IFC                                       3.9    0.7      4.6
Total undisbursed                                           0.6    0.1      0.7



- 29 -                     ANNEX II
Page 2 of 4
C. PROJECTS IN EXECUTION 1/
Loan 915    Education Project:  US$6.2 Million Loan of June 25, 1973; Effec-
tive Date: December 27, 1973; Closing Date: March 31, 1981.
The project is virtually completed except for the construction
of the headquarters of the National Institute of Apprenticeship, which is
scheduled to be finished by January 1981. The secondary schools financed
by this loan are now in operation, and the technical assistance component has
already been implemented.
Loan 1006   Fourth Telecommunications Project:  US$23.5 Million Loan of
June 14, 1974: Effective Date: November 19, 1974; Closing Date:
March 31, 1981.
The project is almost completed without cost overruns. Procurement
arrangements were completed at the end of 1979 but delays in delivery of goods
necessitated the recent extension of the Closing Date to March 31, 1981 in
order to permit final disbursements on small items.
Loan 1126   Fifth Power Project:  US$41.0 Million Loan of June 16, 1975:
Effective Date: December 16, 1976; Closing Date: December 31, 1980.
The four generation components have been completed and commissioned.
Extension of the transmission system was delayed up to 21 months as a result of
late equipment deliveries and slow procurement. The load dispatch center,
which has been delayed by about three years because of slow deliveries, is
expected to be completed by the end of fiscal year 1981. An extension of the
Closing Date is expected for this purpose.
Loan 1187   Fourth Highway Project:  US$39.0 Million Loan of January 14, 1976;
Effective Date: July 30, 1976; Closing Date: December 31, 1982.
The construction of the San Jose-Siquirres road and a branch road
is about half completed, approximately a year behind schedule. Tardy contrac-
tor performance has largely been responsible for this delay. The Government
has acted to help step up the pace of construction, which has begun to improve
recently. Construction should be completed by the end of 1982. Procurement of
vehicles and other equipment is completed, and the technical assistance in
transport planning is nearing its conclusion.
1/   These notes are designed to inform the Executive Directors regarding the
progress of projects in execution, and in particular to report any prob-
lems which are being encountered, and the action being taken to remedy
them. They should be read in this sense, and with the understanding
that they do not purport to present a balanced evaluation of strengths
and weaknesses in project execution.



- 30 -
ANNEX II
Page 3 of 4
Loan 1410   Agricultural Credit and Development Project:  US$18.0 Million
Loan of June 2, 1977: Effective Date: January 23, 1978;
Closing Date: December 31, 1983.
The main part of the project, agricultural loans, has been almost
completely committed. As of July 31, 1980 US$12.7 million of the US$14.6
million allocated to this component had been committed. The remainder of the
project is behind schedule. Bids for seed production and multiplication
equipment were voided and have had to be repeated. On the feeder road compo-
nent, equipment has been received and the municipal authorities are moving
towards construction. The Planning Ministry encountered difficulties in
preparing a rural development project for the Atlantic zone, which led to the
recent decision to enlist the services of the Land Colonization Institute.
Loan 1491   San Jose Urban Transport Project:  US$16.5 Million Loan of
November 4, 1977: Effective Date: March 3, 1978; Closing
Date: June 30, 1982.
The Ministry of Public Works has made good progress and has
continued to improve in carrying out the civil works after a slow start.
Construction of the radial routes is underway, and equipment procurement is
proceeding, both on an agreed revised schedule.
Loan 1532   Fifth Telecommunications Project:  US$10.6 Million Loan of
March 23, 1978; Effective Date: March 9, 1979; Closing Date:
June 30, 1981.
The project is progressing satisfactorily. ICE has already
awarded contracts for 89 percent of the loan, and expects to sign most of
the contracts by December 30, 1980.
Loan 1599   Industrial Credit Project:  US$15.0 Million Loan of July 12, 1978;
Effective Date: September 15, 1980; Closing Date: June 30, 1982.
The Central Bank has established the Industrial Development Fund
and provided it with US$15 million of capital and the required staff. There
are reported to be some $6 million of subloans ready for commitment.
Loan 1713   Sixth Power Project:  US$54 Million Loan of June 25, 1979:
Effective Date: September 16, 1980; Closing Date: June 30, 1983.
ICE has completed most of the bidding documents for the equipment,
materials and services to be procured. It is expected that suppliers will
shortly receive requests for equipment and material purchases, and that awards
for service contracts will be made soon.



- 31 -
ANNEX II
Page 4 of 4
Loan 1845   Fifth Highway Project:  US$30 Million Loan of May 27, 1980:
Terminal Date for Effectiveness: December 24, 1980; Closing
Date: December 31, 1984.
The Assembly has not yet ratified this loan which necessitated
an extension of the effectiveness deadline. At last report, the appropriate
committee of the Assembly had approved the loan which was scheduled for an
early decision by the full legislature. Another extension of the effectiveness
deadline may be needed for this purpose. The Ministry of Public Works has
also requested legislative approval of a national road reclassification law.
Meanwhile, the road rehabilitation planning section has been established; the
rehabilitation work program has been prepared; and the li- of road maintenance
and workshop equipment to be procured under the loan has been sent to the Bank.



- 32 -
ANNEX III
Page 1
COSTA RICA
SAN JOSE WATER SUPPLY PROJECT
SUPPLEMENTARY PROJECT DATA SHEET
Section I - Timetable of Key Events:
(a) Time taken to prepare project: Approximately 14 months.
(b) Project prepared by: AyA with the help of consultants.
(c) First presentation to the Bank: November 1979.
(d) Departure of appraisal mission: May 5, 1980.
(e) Completion of negotiations: October 20, 1980.
(f) Planned Deadline for Effectiveness: May 15, 1981.
Section II - Special Bank Implementation Actions:
None
Section III - Special Conditions
(a) AyA would maintain water tariffs at levels sufficient to achieve a
rate of return on AyA's revalued net fixed assets of not lower than
1.0 percent in 1981, 5.3 percent in 1982; 3.5 in 1983; and 4.5
percent for subsequent years (para. 58); AyA would consult with the
Bank semi-annually on the adequacy of tariff levels to meet the rate
of return targets (para. 58); and prior to March 31, 1981, AyA would
carry out a study of tariff structure revisions and service charges
(para. 58);
(b) Prior to March 31, 1981, AyA would prepare terms of reference for
a study for improving its management and organization; conclude
the study by June 30, 1982; exchange views with the Bank on
the study's recommendations; and agree on a timetable for carrying
these out (para. 47);
(c) Prior to December 31, 1981, AyA would complete its program for
metering service connections and standpipes (para. 46);
(d)  AyA would obtain financing for undertaking preinvestment studies for
a proposed 16 cities water and sewerage project; furnish to the Bank
for comment the studies' terms of reference and conclusions; and
complete the studies by December 31, 1982 (para. 45);



- 33 -
ANNEX III
Page 2
(e)  AyA would furnish to the Bank for comment terms of reference for the
preparation of a master water and sewerage plan and all reports on
the plan's preparation; and complete the plan by August 31, 1983
(para. 44); and
(f) AyA would consult.with the Bank annually, prior to the preparation
of AyA's budget, on the size and composition of AyA's investment
program; the Government would continue its financial assistance to
AyA for implementing this program and meeting its debt service
requirements (para. 60);
(g) Until the project is completed, AyA would consult with the Bank
on any proposed major new sector investment costing over US$2
million in any year; the Government would agree to take all action
to prevent duplication of facilities and unnecessary investment, and
to ensure that all major water and sewerage investment is based on
economically and financially justified proposals and that any pro-
posed expansion will not adversely affect any Bank-financed project
(para. 60);
(h) AyA would obtain the Bank's concurrence before borrowing if its
internal cash generation were less than 1.3 times its maximum
future debt service requirement (para. 60); and
(i) Conditions of effectiveness of the loan would be ratification
by the Controller General of the AyA-ICE agreement on the extrac-
tion of water from the Rio Macho power plant, (para. 41); the
appointment by AyA of a project manager with suitable staff for
supervision of the project (para. 55); and fulfillment of conditions
of effectiveness of the CDC contribution (para. 49).






IBRD 15163
8g'15   7borr¢so/,  . chog-ite  / TovOv,f                                      tTvLaMundu,a                                                             2        864-E                                 SEPTEMBER 1980
NPCA R AGU
Alal                                                                r=                                                                                                                                                                 CARIBEAVN  5EA
-00'          0                        t\                  /              *                     l *    4gF eredia                                                                                                                                      C                                        TTA
v  zU VAS ; |E MULA
In700                                                                                                                                                                                                                             to xjf  Je s t7    ,
SPRING ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~       ~         ~         ~        ~         ~        ~         ~        ~        ~        ~       ~        ~ ~ ~ IAr
M>                                                                                                                   PAChIfC OCEAN                           j  PAiNAM
GUADATUPE TREATMENT PLANT
TRES RIGS M  RE IO  .                                                             p                     Oon  Os, I,o,cur °
. ... ... ... ..                                                                                                                            ... .   _   -    Water    mains   ........... ................. . : s \~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~. ....
G--S34----96---3   Watertransmlssiontunnels   '   z                                           r                                                              \              r                             o~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~o h 'oer o v  rv'rssof i  siohd  hs   rssto   oS od0
C:3   Reservoirs   ,   ,                                                         .                                                                             /~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~trrssarrrsosoo  9 'v  Str o o srror r o,rdroro
rPk,evgniazon
990a 1umpin  2thn                                                                                                                            ~'                                                                                             AAT   A
SpA~X                          Sp5-  A'=                                                                                                                                  1/    
OEGECT   ALTERNATIVEJ-
F l  c. 11t up areas                           =                                  ==ARESERVOIR                                                                          >~~~~~~~~~~~~~Ors, -  ROI
SNORE  ArA  EANE                                                         Scheme~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~shom
CONSTRCTIONPROJE T EPROJC  ESTING            PO ECOWRPLN
--)(--3t---   WaertroltansmeiltGf tounnelsy                                                                                                                                                                                                       0~>,T  
K~~~~~~A                    JOSEMETRO O IA                      EGINRESE0246 IG|    $
Mt                       -t    Dm4      s
8-4---5'        /vCQy- ResoniAYA Servoirs  are
PROJECT   ALTERNATItaIeV-E                                                                                                                                                                                                                       APANIrDA
UNDER  4l                         umin  saton BANK                                                                                                                                                                                               NDINAK
............                      WaSprings n
o  Waells     nsisontnnl 
*     Tranks     tplnt
Dams~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~v
A      Powaersln
0    Selecedrod
Rivers                                                               p,-i                                                    FUTURE
Built-vp areas                                                                                                               RESERVOIR
MetropoliEan Region boundary                                                                                                                                          '
K LOMETERS  C0       2I                                1 
MILES  0             2            4            6
8 015 tO                                                                        ,tod-n/$ItAcv                     8055                                                                                                  Ts-ssdv  80345'



