vvU      S   -LOAN NUMBER 1935 CR
Loan Agreement
(San Josf Metropolitan Area Water Supply Project)
between
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION
AND DEVELOPMENT
and
INSTITUTO COSTARRICENSE DE ACUEDUCTOS Y ALCANTARILLADOS
Dated                              , 1981


﻿LOAN NUMBER 1935 CR
LOAN AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT, dated          1                  ,1981, between
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECOJ TRUCTION 4  DEVELOPMENT (hereinafter
called the Bank) and Instituto Costarricense de Acueductos.y
Alcantarillados (hereinafter called the Borrower).
WHEREAS (A) the Borrower has requested the Bank to assist in
the financing of the foreign exchange cost of the Project des-
cribed in Schedule 2 to this Agreement by making the Loan as
hereinafter provided; and
(B) the Borrower intends to contract a loan from the Common-
wealth Development Corporation (hereinafter called CDC) in an
amount equivalent to not less than thirteen million eight hundred
thousand dollars ($13,800,000) (hereinafter called the CDC Loan)
to assist in financing the Project on the terms and conditions set
forth in a contract (hereinafter called the CDC Loan Contract) to
be entered into between the Borrower and CDC;
WHEREAS the Bank has agreed, on the basis, inter alia, of the
foregoing, to make the Loan to the Borrower upon the terms and
conditions hereinafter set forth;
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
ARTICLE I
General Conditions; Definitions
Section 1.01. The parties to this Agreement accept all the
provisions of the General Conditions Applicable to Loan and
Guarantee Agreements of the Bank, dated October 27, 1980, with the
same force and effect as if they were fully set forth herein (said
General Conditions Applicable to Loan and Guarantee Agreements of
the Bank being hereinafter called the General Conditions).
Section 1.02. Wherever used in this Agreement, unless the
context otherwise requires, the several terms defined in the
General Conditions have the respective meanings therein set forth
and the following additional terms have the following meanings:
(a) "FRAU" means Fondo Rotatorio para Agua Urbana, the
Revolving Fund for Urban Water Supply administered by the Bor-
rower;


﻿-2-
(b) "ICE" means Instituto Costarricense de Electricidad, the
Guarantor's Electric Power Company;
(c) "Investment Program" means the investment program of the
Borrower for the period 1980 through 1984, as such program shall
be reviewed from time to time by the Borrower and the Bank and
revised as agreed to by them;
(d) "Ley" means Ley Constitutiva del Instituto Costarricense
de Acueductos y Alcantarillados Reformada y Anexos (1977) under
which the Borrower was established and operates;
(e) "PAC" means Programa Ayuda Comunal, the Community
Assistance Program administered by the Borrower;
(f) "SJMA" means the San Josg Metropolitan Area; and
(g) "SJMR" means the San Josg Metropolitan Region, which
includes the SJMA and the adjacent areas, including the cities of
Alajuela, Heredia and Cartago.
ARTICLE II
The Loan
Section 2.01. The Bank agrees to lend to the Borrower,
on the terms and conditions in the Loan Agreement set forth
or referred to, an amount in various currencies equivalent
to twenty-six million dollars ($26,000,000).
Section 2.02. (a) The amount of the Loan may be withdrawn
from the Loan Account in accordance with the provisions of
Schedule 1 to this Agreement, as such Schedule may be amended from
time to time by agreement between the Borrower and the Bank, for
expenditures made (or, if the Bank shall so agree, to be made) in
respect of the reasonable cost of goods and services required for
the Project and to be financed out of the proceeds of the Loan and
in respect of interest and other charges on the Loan.
(b) On each of the semiannual interest payment dates
specified in Section 2.07 of this Agreement, the Bank shall, on
behalf of the Borrower, withdraw from the Loan Account and pay to
itself the amounts required to pay, on such date, interest and
other charges on the Loan accrued and payable on or before the
date set forth, and up to the amount allocated, in Schedule 1 to
this Agreement, as such Schedule may be amended from time to time
by agreement between the Borrower and the Bank.


﻿-3-
Section 2.03. Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree,
procurement of the goods and civil works to be financed out of the
proceeds of the Loan, shall be governed by the provisions of
Schedule 4 to this Agreement.
Section 2.04. The Closing Date shall be June 30, 1984
or such later date as the Bank shall establish. The Bank shall
promptly notify the Borrower and the Guarantor of such later
date.
Section 2.05. The Borrower shall pay to the Bank a commitment
charge at the rate of three-fourths of one per cent (3/4 of 1%)
per annum on the principal amount of the Loan not withdrawn from
time to time.
Section 2.06. The Borrower shall pay interest at the rate of
nine and one-fourth per cent (9-1/4%) per annum on the principal
amount of the Loan withdrawn and outstanding from time to time.
Section 2.07. Interest and other charges shall be payable
semiannually on May 1 and November 1 in each year.
Section 2.08. The Borrower shall repay the principal amount
of the Loan in accordance with the amortization schedule set forth
in Schedule 3 to this Agreement.
ARTICLE III
Execution of the Project
Section 3.01. The Borrower shall carry out the Project
with due diligence and efficiency and in conformity with appro-
priate administrative, financial, ecological and public utility
practices.
Section 3.02. The Borrower shall employ consultants whose
qualifications, experience and terms and conditions of employment
shall be satisfactory to the Bank in order to assist the Borrower
in:
(a) supervising construction under Part A of the Project;
(b) reviewing final designs of the transmission main under
Part A (1) of the Project;


﻿-4-
(c) preparing the final design of the Tres Rios water
treatment plant expansion under Part A (2) of the Project;
(d) carrying out Part D of the Project; and
(e) carrying out Part E of the Project.
Section 3.03. The Borrower shall employ a Project Manager,
whose qualifications, experience, terms and conditions of employ-
ment and responsibilities shall be satisfactory to the Bank,
together with an adequate and qualified staff, to supervise the
Project.
Section 3.04. The Borrower shall: (i) not later than
March 31, 1981, prepare terms of reference satisfactory to the
Bank for carrying out, in respect of Part E (1) of the Project, a
study on the Borrower's management and organization; (ii) not
later than June 30, 1982, furnish the Bank for review and comment
the conclusions of such study; (iii) introduce such modifications
to the conclusions as the Bank shall reasonably request; and (iv)
thereafter carry out, on the basis of the conclusions set forth in
such study and agreed to with the Bank, changes in the Borrower's
management support systems, in accordance with a timetable satis-
factory to the Bank.
Section 3.05. The Borrower shall, not later than March 31,
1981, on the basis of terms of reference satisfactory to the Bank,
carry out a study on its tariffs, fees and other charges.
Section 3.06. The Borrower shall:
(a)   not later than December 31, 1981, furnish the Bank for
review and comment the specific targets, together with a proposed
timetable, for achieving reductions in the period between meter
reading and invoicing, the level of accounts receivable, the
amount of unaccounted-for water, and the ratio of employees to
water connections; and
(b)   carry out, on the basis of the targets and timetable
agreed to with the Bank, and thereafter maintain, the reductions
in each of the areas specified in paragraph (a) of this Section.


﻿-5-
Section 3.07. The Borrower shall, not later than December 31,
1981,   carry out its program for the installation of meters on
water service connections and standpipes.
Section 3.08. (a) The Borrower undertakes to insure, or make
adequate provision for the insurance of, the imported goods to be
financed out of the proceeds of the Loan against hazards incident
to the acquisition, transportation and delivery thereof to the
place of use or installation, and for such insurance any indemnity
shall be payable in a currency freely usable by the Borrower to
replace or repair such goods.
(b) Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree, the Borrower
shall cause all goods and services financed out of the proceeds of
the Loan to be used exclusively for the Project.
Section 3.09. (a) The Borrower shall furnish to the Bank,
promptly upon their preparation, the plans, specifications,
reports, contract documents and construction and procurement
schedules for the Project, and any material modifications thereof
or additions thereto, in such detail as the Bank shall reasonably
request.
(b) The Borrower: (i) shall maintain records and procedures
adequate to record and monitor the progress of the Project (in-
cluding its cost and the benefits to be derived from it), to
identify the goods and services financed out of the proceeds of
the Loan, and to disclose their use in the Project; (ii) shall
enable the Bank's accredited representatives to visit the facili-
ties and construction sites included in the Project and to examine
the goods financed out of the proceeds of the Loan and any rele-
vant records and documents; and (iii) shall furnish to the Bank on
a quarterly basis all such information as the Bank shall reason-
ably request concerning the Project, its cost and, where appro-
priate, the benefits to be derived from it, the expenditure
of the proceeds of the Loan and the goods and services financed
out of such proceeds.
(c) Promptly after completion of the Project, but in any
event not later than six months after the Closing Date or such
later date as may be agreed for this purpose between the Borrower
and the Bank, the Borrower shall prepare and furnish to the Bank a
report, of such scope and in such detail as the Bank shall reason-
ably request, on the execution and initial operation of the
Project, its cost and the benefits derived and to be derived from


﻿-6-
it, the performance by the Borrower and the Bank of their respec-
tive obligations under the Loan Agreement and the accomplishment
of the purposes of the Loan.
(d) The Borrower shall enable the Bank's representatives
to examine all plants, installations, sites, works, buildings,
property and equipment of the Borrower and any relevant records
and documents.
Section 3.10. The Borrower shall take or cause to be taken
all such action as shall be necessary to acquire as and when
needed all such land and rights in respect of land as shall be
required for the construction and operation of the facilities
included in the Project and shall furnish to the Bank, promptly
after such acquisition, evidence satisfactory to the Bank that
such land and rights in respect of land are available for purposes
related to the Project.
Section 3.11. The Borrower shall furnish to the Bank for
its review the terms of reference for Part D of the Project, the
interim reports under such Part D of the Project and, not later
than August 31, 1983, the draft of the final report under such
Part D of the Project.
ARTICLE IV
Management and Operations of the Borrower
Section 4.01. (a) The Borrower shall at all times maintain
its existence and right to carry on operations and, except as the
Bank shall otherwise agree, shall take all steps necessary to
acquire, maintain and renew all rights, powers, privileges and
franchises which are necessary or useful in the conduct of its
business.
(b) The Borrower shall operate and maintain all its plants,
equipment and property and from time to time make all necessary
renewals and repairs thereof in accordance with sound engineering
standards, and at all times manage its affairs, operate its plants
and equipment, maintain its financial position and plan its future
expansion, all in accordance with sound business and public
utility practices, under the supervision of experienced and
competent management.


﻿-7-
Section 4.02. The Borrower shall not sell, lease, transfer or
otherwise dispose of any of the property or assets owned or
operated by it, if such sale, lease, transfer or disposition would
materially and adversely affect the efficient carrying out of the
Project.
Section 4.03. The Borrower shall take out and maintain
with responsible insurers or make other provision satisfactory
to the Bank for, insurance against such risks and in such amounts
as shall be consistent with appropriate practice.
ARTICLE V
Financial and Other Covenants
Section 5.01. The Borrower shall maintain records adequate
to reflect in accordance with consistently maintained appropriate
accounting practices its operations and financial condition.
Section 5.02. The Borrower shall: (i) have its accounts
and financial statements (balance sheets, statements of income
and expenses and related statements) for each fiscal year audited,
in accordance with appropriate auditing principles consistently
applied, by independent auditors acceptable to the Bank; (ii)
furnish to the Bank as soon as available, but in any case not
later than June 30, 1981 for the calendar year 1980, and not
later than April 30 for the following years, (A) certified copies
of its financial statements for such year as so audited and (B)
the report of such audit by said auditors, together with comments
on compliance with the covenants set forth in this Agreement,
of such scope and in such detail as the Bank shall have reasonably
requested; and (iii) furnish to the Bank such other information
concerning the accounts and financial statements of the Borrower
and the audit thereof as the Bank shall from time to time reason-
ably request.
Section 5.03. The Borrower shall: (a) carry out the Invest-
ment Program with due diligence and efficiency and in conformity
with appropriate administrative, financial and public utility
practices; and
(b) review with the Bank on an annual basis, prior to
the preparation of its budget, the progress made during the
previous year in carrying out the Investment Program and its plans
for financing the remainder of such Investment Program.


﻿-8-
Section 5.04. (a) Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree,
the Borrower shall take all such action as shall be necessary,
including the setting and maintaining of rates for its water
supply and sewerage services, as shall be required to produce an
annual rate of return on net revalued fixed assets of not less
than 1.0% during the 1981 year, 5.3% during the 1982 year, 3.5%
during the 1983 year and 4.5% in subsequent years, such rates of
return to be calculated in accordance with the method set forth in
Schedule 5 to this Agreement.
(b) The Borrower shall review with the Bank, not later than
June 30 and December 30 of each year, the level of tariffs for its
water supply and sewerage services required to attain the rates of
return set forth in paragraph (a) of this Section.
Section 5.05. Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree, the
Borrower shall not incur any debt unless its net revenues for the
fiscal year next preceding such incurrence or for a later twelve-
month period ended prior to such incurrence, whichever amount is
greater, shall be not less than 1.3 times the maximum debt service
requirement for any succeeding fiscal year on all debt, including
the debt to be incurred. For the purposes of this Section:
(a) the term "debt" shall mean all debt of the Borrower,
including debt of others guaranteed by the Borrower, maturing by
its terms more than one year after the date on which it is origi-
nally incurred;
(b) debt shall be deemed to be incurred: (i) under a loan
contract or agreement or other instrument providing for such debt
or for the modification of its terms of payment, on the date of
such contract, agreement or instrument; and (ii) under a guarantee
agreement, on the date the agreement providing for such guarantee
has been entered into but only to the extent that the guaranteed
debt is outstanding and unpaid;
(c) the term "net revenues" shall mean gross revenues from
all sources adjusted to take account of the Borrower's rates in
effect at the time of the incurrence of debt even though they were
not in effect during the fiscal year or twelve-month period to
which such revenues relate, less all operating and administrative
expenses and provision for taxes, if any, but before provision
covering depreciation, interest and other charges on debt;
(d) the term "debt service requirement" shall mean the
aggregate amount of amortization (including sinking fund payments,
if any), interest and other charges on debt; and


﻿-9-
(e) whenever for purposes of this Section it shall be
necessary to value, in terms of currency of the Guarantor, debt
payable in another currency, such valuation shall be made on the
basis of the prevailing lawful rate of exchange at which such
other currency is, at the time of such valuation, obtainable for
the purposes of servicing such debt.
Section 5.06. Until the Project shall have been completed,
the Borrower shall consult with the Bank on any proposal of the
Borrower to make any capital expenditures (excluding any capital
expenditures included in the Investment Program) if the aggregate
of such capital expenditures and all such other capital expendi-
tures made or to be made in any one fiscal year exceeds or will
exceed the equivalent of two million dollars ($2,000,000).
Section 5.07. (a) The Borrower represents that at the date
of this Agreement no lien exists on any of its assets as security
for any debt except as otherwise currently reported to the Bank
or stated in writing.
(b) The Borrower undertakes that, except as the Bank shall
otherwise agree: (i) if the Borrower shall create any lien on any
of its assets as security for any debt, such lien will equally and
ratably secure the payment of the principal of, and interest and
other charges on, the Loan, and in the creation of any such lien
express provision will be made to that effect, at no cost to the
Bank; and (ii) if any statutory lien shall be created on any
assets of the Borrower as security for any debt, the Borrower
shall grant, at no cost to the Bank, an equivalent lien satis-
factory to the Bank to secure the payment of the principal of,
and interest and other charges on, the Loan; provided, however,
that the foregoing provisions of this paragraph shall not apply
to: (A) any lien created on property, at the time of purchase
thereof, solely as security for the payment of the purchase price
of such property; or (B) any lien arising in the ordinary course
of banking transactions and securing a debt maturing not more than
one year after the date on which it is originally incurred.
Section 5.08. The Borrower shall: (a) not later than
June 30, 1981, furnish the Bank for its approval the terms of
reference for the preparation of preinvestment studies for a
proposed water supply and sewerage service project in about
sixteen medium- and small-size cities outside the SJMA; and
(b) not later than December 31, 1982, carry out and furnish
to the Bank for review and comment such preinvestment studies.


﻿- 10 -
(c) afford the Bank a reasonable opportunity to comment on
the conclusions of such preinvestment studies.
ARTICLE VI
Remedies of the Bank
Section 6.01. For the purposes of Section 6.02 of the General
Conditions, the following additional events are specified pursuant
to paragraph (k) thereof:
(a) The Ley or any provision thereof shall have been amend-
ed, suspended or abrogated, so as to adversely affect the conduct
of the Borrower's operations, financial condition or the perfor-
mance of its obligations under this AgreemrT.t; and
(b) (i) Subject to subparagraph (ii) of this paragraph:
(A) the right of the Borrower to withdraw the
proceeds of the CDC Loan shall have been
suspended, cancelled or terminated in whole or
in part, pursuant to the terms of the CDC Loan
Contract; or
(B) the CDC Loan shall have become due and payable
prior to the agreed maturity thereof.
(ii) Subparagraph (i) of this paragraph shall not
apply if the Borrower establishes to the satisfac-
tion of the Bank that:
(A) such suspension, cancellation, termination or
prematuring is not caused by the failure of
the Borrower to perform any of its obligations
under such CDC Loan Contract; and
(B) adequate funds for the Project are available
to the Borrower from other sources on terms
and conditions consistent with the obligations
of the Borrower under this Agreement.
Section 6.02. For the purposes of Section 7.01 of the General
Conditions, the following additional events are specified pursuant
to paragraph (h) thereof:


﻿- 11 -
(a) any event specified in paragraph (b) of Section 6.01 of
this Agreement shall occur and shall continue for a period of 60
days after notice thereof shall have been given by the Bank to the
Borrower; and
(b) any event specified in paragraph (a) of Section 6.01 of
this Agreement shall occur.
ARTICLE VII
Effective Date; Termination
Section 7.01. The following events are specified as addi-
tional conditions to the effectiveness of the Loan Agreement
within the meaning of Section 12.01 (c) of the General Conditions:
(a) that the Borrower has appointed the Project Manager
and staff referred to in Section 3.03 of this Agreement;
(b) that the Borrower has executed and delivered the
CDC Loan Contract under terms and conditions satisfactory to
the Bank;
(c) that the Borrower has satisfied all conditions of
effectiveness of the CDC Loan Contract, subject only to the
effectiveness of this Agreement if such be the case; and
(d) that the Controller General of the Guarantor has rati-
fied the agreement between the Borrower and ICE, dated September
11, 1980, for the diversion of water from the Rio Macho power
plant penstock.
Section 7.02. The date              / /        , is hereby
specified for the purpose of Sec     12.04 of the General Condi-
tions.
ARTICLE VIII
Addresses
Section 8.01. The following addresses are specified for the
purposes of Section 11.01 of the General Conditions:


﻿- 12 -
For the Bank:
International Bank for
Reconstruction and Development
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Cable address:                      Telex:
INTBAFRAD                          440098 (ITT)
Washington, D.C.                    248423 (RCA) or
64145 (WUI)
For the Borrower:
Instituto Costarricense de Acueductos y
Alcantarillados
Apartado Postal 5120
San Josg, Costa Rica
Telex:
AYA 2724
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their
representatives thereunto duly authorized, have caused this
Agreement to be signed in their respective names in the District
of Columbia, United States of America, as of the day and year
first above written.
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR
RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
By b
Regional Vice President
Latin America and the Caribbean
INSTITUTO COSTARRICENSE DE ACUEDUCTOS Y
ALCANTARILLADOS
By
Authorized Representative


﻿- 13 -
SCHEDULE 1
Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the Loan
1.   The table below sets forth the Categories of items to be
financed out of the proceeds of the Loan, the allocation of the
amounts of the Loan to each Category and the percentage of
expenditures for items so to be financed in each Category:
Amount of the
Loan Allocated         % of
(Expressed in       Expenditures
Category                 Dollar Equivalent) to be Financed
(1) Pipes, materials,
meters, and equipment
(a) Part A(1) of the         7,200,000       80% of foreign
Project (excluding                      expenditures
the access road                         and 68% of local
and tunnel)                             expenditures
(b) Parts A(3), C and        2,800,000       100% of foreign
E of the Project                        expenditures and
and the tunnel in                       85% of local
Part A(l) of the                        expenditures
Project
(2) Civil works
(a) Part A(1) of the         1,800,000       80% of foreign
Project (excluding                      expenditures
the access road                         and 16% of
and tunnel)                             local expendi-
tures
(b) Parts A(3), C            1,800,000       100% of foreign
and E of the                            expenditures
Project and the                         and 20% of
tunnel in Part A(l)                     local expendi-
of the Project                          tures
(3) Consultants' Services         3,000,000       75%
(4) Interest and other            4,300,000       Amounts due
charges on the Loan
accrued on or before
December 31, 1983


﻿- 14 -
Amount of the
Loan Allocated         % of
(Expressed in      Expenditures
Category                 Dollar Equivalent) to be Financed
(5) Unallocated                  5,100,000
TOTAL        26,000,000
2.   For the purposes of this Schedule:
(a) the term "foreign expenditures" means expenditures in
the currency of any country other than the Guarantor and for goods
or services supplied from the territory of any country other than
the Guarantor; provided, however, that if the currency of the
Guarantor is also that of another country from the territory of
which goods or services are supplied, expenditures in such cur-
rency for such goods or services shall be deemed to be "foreign
expenditures"; and
(b) the term "local expenditures" means expenditures in
the currency of the Borrower and for goods or services supplied
from the territory of the Borrower.
3.   The disbursement percentages have been calculated in
compliance with the policy of the Bank that no proceeds of the
Loan shall be disbursed on account of payments for taxes levied
by, or in the territory of, the Guarantor on goods or services,
or on the importation, manufacture, procurement or supply
thereof; to that end, if the amount of any such taxes levied
on or in respect of any item to be financed out of the proceeds
of the Loan decreases or increases, the Bank may, by notice to
the Borrower, increase or decrease the disbursement percentage
then applicable to such item as required to be consistent with
the aforementioned policy of the Bank.
4.   Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 above, no
withdrawals shall be made in respect of payments made for expendi-
tures prior to the date of this Agreement, except that withdrawals
in an aggregate amount not exceeding the equivalent of $500,000
may be made under Categories (2) and (3) on account of payments


﻿- 15 -
made for expenditures under Part A of the Project for advance
contracting of consultants and construction of the tunnel,
before that date but after October 1, 1980.
5.   Notwithstanding the allocation of an amount of the Loan or
the disbursement percentages set forth in the table in paragraph
1 above, if the Bank has reasonably estimated that the amount of
the Loan then allocated to any Category will be insufficient to
finance the agreed percentage of all expenditures in that
Category, the Bank may, by notice to the Borrower: (i) reallocate
to such Category, to the extent required to meet the estimated
shortfall, proceeds of the Loan which are then allocated to
another Category and which in the opinion of the Bank are not
needed to meet other expenditures; and (ii) if such reallocation
cannot fully meet the estimated shortfall, reduce the disbursement
percentage then applicable to such expenditures in order that
further withdrawals under such Category may continue until all
expenditures thereunder shall have been made.
6.   If the Bank shall have reasonably determined that the
procurement of any item in any Category is inconsistent with the
procedures set forth or referred to in this Agreement, no
expenditures for such item shall be financed out of the proceeds
of the Loan and the Bank may, without in any way restricting or
limiting any other right, power or remedy of the Bank under the
Loan Agreement, by notice to the Borrower, cancel such amount of
the Loan as, in the Bank's reasonable opinion, represents the
amount of such expenditures which would otherwise have been
eligible for financing out of the proceeds of the Loan.


﻿- 16 -
SCHEDULE 2
Description of the Project
The Project is part of the Borrower's water supply Investment
Program and consists of the following parts:
Part A:   Orosi Water Supply Scheme
A water supply addition of about 1,800 litres per second to
the SJMA water system by:
(1) construction of about 28 kilometers of raw water trans-
mission line from the existing Rio Macho power project
to the existing Tres Rios water treatment plant to
service the SJMA. The transmission system is to include
about 22 kilometers of 1,050 mm pipe, 5 kilometers of
900 mm pipe, 1 kilometer of tunnel, an access road, a
connection to the Rio Macho power plant penstock and a
connection to the Tres Rios treatment plant;
(2) expansion and up-grading of the said Tres Rios plant
from the present capacity of about 600 litres per second
to a total capacity of about 2,100 litres per second;
and
(3) reinforcement of the treated water transmission system
by the construction of trunk mains of suitable dimen-
sions to permit distribution of the increased water
supply to the areas of existing need and future growth.
Part B:   Distribution System Rehabilitation
Installation of about 24.5 kilometers of mains to replace old
and undersized mains serving the SJMA.
Part C:   Water Meters
Purchase and installation of about 30,000 water meters and
accessories.
Part D:   Master Plan Study
Preparation of a master plan for the provision of water
supply and sewage services to the year 2000 for the SJMA and the
SJMR, such master plan to cover, inter alia, the engineering,
institutional and financial solutions required therefor.


﻿- 17 -
Part E:   Strengthening of the Borrower
(1) Strengthening of the Borrower's organization and management
in the following areas:
(a) investment planning and capital budgeting;
(b) supervision and administration of FRAU and PAC;
(c) standards utilized for the design and construction of
urban and rural water supply and sewage systems,
including subproject selection criteria;
(d) accounting and billing;
(e) organization and management structures including decen-
tralization and regional operations; and
(f) training of staff.
(2) Improvement of the Borrower's unaccounted-for water program.
(3) Strengthening of the Borrower's groundwater development
program.
The Project is expected to be completed by December 31, 1983.


﻿- 18 -
SCHEDULE 3
Amortization Schedule
Payment of Principal
Date Payment Due                           (expressed in dollars)*
On each May 1 and November 1
beginning May 1, 1984
through   May 1, 1995                       1,085,000
On November 1, 1995                              1,045,000
*    To the extent that any portion of the Loan is repayable in a
currency other than dollars (see General Conditions, Section
4.02), the figures in this column represent dollar equiva-
lents determined as for purposes of withdrawal.


﻿- 19 -
Premiums on Prepayment
The following percentages are specified as the premiums
payable on repayment in advance of maturity of any portion of
the principal amount of the Loan pursuant to Section 3.05 (b)
of the General Conditions:
Time of Prepayment                              Premium
Not more than three years
before maturity                                  1.85%
More than three years but not
more than six years
before maturity                                  3.70%
More than six years but not
more than eleven years
before maturity                                  6.80%
More than eleven years but not
more than thirteen years
before maturity                                  8.00%
More than thirteen years
before maturity                                  9.25%


﻿- 20 -
SCHEDULE 4
Procurement
A.   International Competitive Bidding
1.   Except as provided in Part C of this Schedule, goods shall be
procured under contracts awarded in accordance with procedures
consistent with those set forth in the "Guidelines for Procurement
under World Bank Loans and IDA Credits" published by the Bank in
March 1977 (hereinafter called the Guidelines), on the basis of
international competitive bidding as described in Part A of the
Guidelines.
2.   For goods to be procured on the basis of international
competitive bidding, and in addition to the requirements of
paragraph 1.2 of the Guidelines, the Borrower shall prepare and
forward to the Bank as soon as possible, and in any event not
later than 60 days prior to the date of availability to the public
of the first tender or prequalification documents relating there-
to, as the case may be, a general procurement notice, in such form
and detail and containing such information as the Bank shall
reasonably request; the Bank will arrange for the publication of
such notice in order to provide timely notification to prospective
bidders of the opportunity to bid for the goods in question. The
Borrower shall provide the necessary information to update such
notice annually so long as any goods remain to be procured on the
basis of international competitive bidding.
B.   Preference for Manufacturers Established in the Territories
of the Central American Common Market
1.   For the purpose of evaluation and comparison of bids for
the supply of goods: (i) bidders shall be required to state
in their bid the c. and f. (port of entry) price for imported
goods, or the ex-factory price for domestically-manufactured
goods; (ii) customs duties and other import taxes on imported
goods, and sales and similar taxes on domestically-supplied goods,
shall be excluded; and (iii) the cost to the Borrower of inland
freight and other expenditures incidental to the delivery of goods
to the place of their use or installation shall be included.
2.   Bids shall be compared in accordance with the following
rules:
(a) the term "Central American Bid" means a bid submitted by
a manufacturer established in the territories of the Central


﻿- 21 -
American Common Market for goods manufactured or processed to a
substantial extent (as reasonably determined by the Bank) in such
territories; any other bid will be deemed to be a "Non-Central
American Bid";
(b) the bid price under a Central American Bid will be
the sum of the following amounts:
(i) the ex-factory price of such goods; and
(ii) freight, insurance and other costs of delivery
of such goods to the site designated in the speci-
fications; and
(c) for the purpose of comparing any Non-Central American
Bid with any Central American Bid, the price under a Non-Central
American Bid will be the sum of the following amounts:
(i) the c. and f. (port of entry) price of such goods;
(ii) insurance costs to the port of entry;
(iii) half the amount of any taxes on the importation
of such goods into the territories of the Guarantor
which generally apply to non-exempt importers, or
15% of the amounts specified in (i) and (ii) above,
whichever shall be the lower; and
(iv) freight, insurance and other costs of delivery of
such goods from the port of entry to the site
designated in the specifications.
3.   The bidding documents shall clearly indicate the margin of
preference to be granted.
C.   Other Procurement Procedures
Civil works contracts in the amount of not more than the
equivalent of $300,000 and contracts for pipes, materials and
equipment in the amount of not more than the equivalent of
$100,000, up to an aggregate amount for all such contracts of the
equivalent of $2,000,000, may be procured on the basis of com-
petitive bidding procedures locally advertised.


﻿- 22 -
D*   Review of Procurement Decisions by the Bank
1.   Review of invitations to bid and of proposed awards and final
contracts:
With respect to all contracts estimated to cost the equiva-
lent of $100,000 or more:
(a) Before bids are invited, the Borrower shall furnish to
the Bank, for its comments, the text of the invitations to bid
and the specifications and other bidding documents, together with
a description of the advertising procedures to be followed for
the bidding, and shall make such modifications in the said
documents or procedures as the Bank shall reasonably request. Any
further modification to the bidding documents shall require the
Bank's concurrence before it is issued to the prospective bidders.
(b) After bids have been received and evaluated, the Bor-
rower shall, before a final decision oa the award is made, inform
the Bank of the name of the bidder to which it intends to award
the contract and shall furnish to the Bank, in sufficient time for
its review, a detailed report on the evaluation and comparison
of the bids received, and such other information as the Bank
shall reasonably request. The Bank shall, if it determines that
the intended award would be inconsistent with the Guidelines
or this Schedule, promptly inform the Borrower and state the
reasons for such determination.
(c) The terms and conditions of the contract shall not,
without the Bank's concurrence, materially differ from those
on which bids were asked or prequalification invited.
(d) Two conformed copies of the contract shall be furnished
to the Bank promptly after its execution and prior to the delivery
to the Bank of the first application for withdrawal of funds from
the Loan Account in respect of such contract.
2.   With respect to each contract not governed by the preceding
paragraph, the Borrower shall furnish to the Bank, promptly after
its execution and prior to the delivery to the Bank of the first
application for withdrawal of funds from the Loan Account in
respect of such contract, two conformed copies of such contract,
together with the analysis of the respective bids, recommendations
for award and such other information as the Bank shall reasonably
request. The Bank shall, if it determines that the award of the


﻿- 23 -
contract was not consistent with the Guidelines or this Schedule,
promptly inform the Borrower and state the reasons for such
determination.
3.   Before agreeing to any material modification or waiver
of the terms and conditions of a contract, or granting an exten-
sion of the stipulated time for performance of such contract, or
issuing any change order under such contract (except in cases of
extreme urgency or where specifically provided for in the
contract) which would increase the cost of the contract by
more than 20% of the original price, the Borrower shall inform
the Bank of the proposed modification, waiver, extension or
change order and the reasons therefor. The Bank, if it determines
that the proposal would be inconsistent with the provisions of
this Agreement, shall promptly inform the Borrower and state
the reasons for its determination.


﻿- 24 -
SCHEDULE 5
Method for Calculating Rates of Return
1.   The annual returns specified in Section 5.04 of this Loan
Agreement shall be calculated in each calendar semester in respect
of the calendar year in which such review is made and the preced-
ing calendar year, by using as the denominator the average between
the net current values of the fixed assets in service at the
beginning and at the end of each such calendar year and as numera-
tor the operating income generated over the same year.
2.   Any shortfall or overrun in the required annual returns for
the calendar years preceding the calendar year in which the
calculations are to be made shall be carried forward and sub-
tracted or added, as the case may be, from the numerator used for
the last mentioned calendar year.
3.   "Operating income" shall be the difference between all
revenues generated by the Borrower's services, including inciden-
tal revenues but excluding levies and customers' contributions in
aid of construction, and all administrative and operating costs of
the Borrower, including maintenance, adequate provision for
straightline depreciation on the average gross value of fixed
assets in service, and taxes, if any, but excluding interest and
other charges on debt.
4.   The net current value of assets shall at any given date be
their gross value less accumulated depreciation to such date, as
revalued and depreciated in accordance with paragraphs 5 and 6
below.
5.   Until another method, satisfactory to the Bank, for the
maintenance of value of assets of public utilities has been made
applicable to the Borrower, the gross value of the Borrower's
fixed assets in service and its accumulated depreciation shall be
revalued annually in accordance with the corresponding variations
in the construction price index published by the Costa Rican
Chamber of Construction or a similar index approved by the Bank,
to the last month preceding the semester in which the calculation
is to be made.
6.   Depreciation shall be charged on a straight-line basis over
the estimated useful lives of the Borrower's fixed assets, such


﻿- 25 -
useful lives not to exceed the periods specified in the following
schedule:
Tunnels                                             75 years
Dams and reservoirs                                 50 years
Buildings and other structures                      50 years
Electrical and mechanical equipment                 20 years
Cast iron and concrete pipes and sewerage system    50 years
Asbestos cement pipes                               40 years
Steel pipes                                         30 years
Valves, hydrants and standpipes                     20 years
Water meters                                        10 years
Vehicles and maintenance equipment                   5 years


﻿INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
CERTIFICATE
I hereby certify that the foregoing is a true
copy of the original in the archives of the Interna-
tional Bank for Reconstruction and Develop-
ment.
In witness whereof I have signed this Certifi-
cate and affixed the Seal of the Bank thereunto
this  /    Zday of           198  .
FOR SECRETARY


