Report No. PID8290
Project Name                     Eritrea-Eritrea Integrated Early (@)
Childhood Development Project
Region                           Africa Regional Office
Sector                           Primary Education; Other Education;
Basic Health
Project                          ERPE68463
Borrower(s)                      Government Of Eritrea
Implementing Agency              Ministry Of Local Government
Environment Category             C
Date PID Prepared                February 16, 2000
Projected Appraisal Date         January 24, 2000
Projected Board Date             May 17, 2000
1. Country and Sector Background
Evidence from scientific research has established the importance of
early childhood care and development (ECD) interventions that address
young children's basic needs: cognitive stimulation, affection and early
learning, nutrition, protection, and health care. Scientific evidence
confirms that without such interventions, children would not achieve their
potential and, in fact, the effects of malnutrition in young children are
irreversible. In particular, recent brain research findings indicate that
brain development before age one is more rapid and extensive than
previously realized and early experience lays the foundations for later
life in terms of learning abilities, health, and behavioral patterns.
Thus, interventions in the early years of life will generate substantial
economic and social benefits (for example, increased enrollment and
reduced dropout and repetition rates, improved health status, and good
citizenship).
The Government of Eritrea (GOE) recognizes the importance of
investing in young children's growth and development. It has concretely
demonstrated this within the broader policy framework of its Macro Policy
that underscores the importance of mother and child services and the need
to provide children with legal and social protection. The Eritrean
government ratified the Convention on the Rights of the Child (CRC) in
August, 1994. National and regional stakeholder workshops were then
convened to develop guidelines for the implementation of this convention
in Eritrea. The CRC guidelines were translated into six local languages
and distributed to the population. Various sensitization programs have
been broadcast in the radio and television in various local languages.
Based on the overall CRC policy framework, sector specific ECD-
related policies and programs are being implemented by different
ministries with the support of external partners. For example,
The Ministry of Education (MOE) drafted a policy on Early Childhood



Education in 1995 and recently prepared general guidelines on the
promotion and implementation of day care centers. The ECE policy supports:
equal access to and improved quality of ECE interventions, the promotion
of diversified forms of ECE delivery (through both formal, center-based
institutions and nonformal, caregiver type arrangements), and promotion of
low-cost and cost-effective community based interventions that promote and
strengthen community responsibility and control to assure sustainability
of interventions.    There is also a panel for preschool education for ages
5 and 6 that has been established in the MOE. Curriculum has been prepared
and is currently being utilized. A central ECE resource center has also
been established to provide technical and training support.
The Ministry of Health (MOH) has prepared policy guidelines on food
security and nutrition that focus on children and mothers because of their
observed vulnerability to malnutrition. Some of the recommendations for
the five-year Maternal and Child Nutrition Strategy include a small set of
targeted nutrition interventions in the context of integrated health and
nutrition services. For example, it incorporates PHC including EPI-plus
which contains vitamin A supplementation, active promotion and counseling
of mothers on breastfeeding, and IMCI which includes an important
component on counseling mothers/caretakers about nutrition and feeding of
young children, especially those under two years of age.
Food security is a major determinant of health and nutritional status.
In Eritrea's current situation it becomes a more important issue because
of the conflict situation and its impact on the growth and development of
children. The MOH is collaborating with other ministries such as the
Ministry of Agriculture (MOA) and Ministry of Fisheries (MFsh) in
implementing appropriate elements of a comprehensive food security
strategy that successfully addresses institutional and policy constraints.
This strategy will support appropriate interventions that range from
increasing agricultural and livestock production, food distribution, and
improving extension work provided by extension agents from the Home
Economics Unit of the MOA who are actively involved in increasing rural
women's awareness of nutrition and health issues.
The Ministry of Labor and Human Welfare already has programs in place
to strengthen the traditional safety nets for childcare and protection
with a focus on supporting children in difficult circumstances especially
orphans. It is the policy of the government of Eritrea to phase out the
institutionalization of orphans, and to organize their reintegration with
extended families; their adoption by unrelated families; and to provide a
supportive social environment (small group-homes) for orphans who cannot
be placed in other ways. Since 1994, MOLHW been responsible for reuniting
21,000 out of the estimated 100,000 orphans. It has also had considerable
success in working at the village level in setting up sustainable
programs. For example, its Community Development Program has accomplished
a great deal in providing sustainable support for physically and mentally
disabled children and adults and in educating communities about how they
can help care for the disabled.
The National Union of Eritrean Women's (NUEW) activities include
sponsoring preschool and day-care centers in selected areas.     Six of
these centers are permanent; NUEW finances teachers/caregivers for two
years after which the community takes on financing responsibility.
- 2-



Temporary day care centers have been also set up in rural areas in order
to provide care, teaching, and some foods such as milk to young children
of women who are attending NUEW-sponsored training to improve their
income generating skills such as weaving, pottery, and basket making.
The National Union for Eritrean Youth (NUEY) also supports activities
that include children from the ages of 0 to 6. Four of its 14 youth
centers provide health check-ups, health care, family planning services,
and counseling for young mothers and their children. NUEY also assists
teachers in kindergarten and elementary school to engage in activities
such as drama and story-telling that stimulate young children's
creativity, and provide them with lessons. It also sponsors sports
activities for older children 7 to 16 years of age, as well as
vocational/technical education for orphans.
Eritrea has clearly identified and embarked on important ECD
related activities. In particular, its concerted efforts to promote IMCI
have yielded positive results: more children are surviving as a result of
immunization and prevention of early childhood diseases, infant mortality
rate is down to 72 per 1,000 live births (1995) from 91 in 1983, 180 in
1960. Under-five mortality rate has declined from 185 per 1,000 in 1983 to
136 in 1995. However much remains to be done to address the needs of
800,000 young children below 6 years of age; existing programs need to be
expanded and strengthened in order to address the following
Sector Issues
-       The country has very limited early childhood programs to address early
childhood care through health, nutrition, social protection, and early
education. Few mothers in Eritrea get help in providing intellectual
stimulation for their children even though such interaction and activities
promote learning at the preschool level. These aspects are only
marginally addressed, for example, through early religious instruction in
which children begin to learn the alphabet, and in a few pre-schools that
are located mostly in urban areas. Only 5t of children 5 to 6 years of age
attend kindergarten schools. Aside from immunization services, health
interventions reaching young children are not adequate.
-       Ongoing ECE activities tend to be urban-focused.
-       The social indicators show very poor performance:
The 1995 Eritrea Demographic Health Survey results show that:
Chronic malnutrition (low height relative to age) affects 38t of
children from 0-3 years of age
Low weight for age is very high at 44t for children under 3 years of
age
Every fourth child below three years reported illness in the two
weeks preceding the Demographic Health Survey (DHS). The Ministry
of Health (1998) reports that the leading causes of inpatient and
outpatient visits to health facilities for under-five patients are:
acute respiratory infections (ARI, 25%), diarrheal diseases (19%),
and malaria (14%).
-       The Ministry of Education reports that only 5% of 5 to 6 year old
children have access to kindergartens
- 3 -



There are 90,000 orphans as a result of the war of whom 14,000 have
been reunified with extended families.
Within the context of a coordinated multi-sectoral approach, the
Government of Eritrea's proposed Integrated Early Childhood Development
Program seeks to address the above issues with the support of IDA and
other external partners.
For an integrated program such as this program, the National
Decentralization Policy and Framework provides an important aspect in
implementation. This policy aims to devolve responsibility to regions,
sub-regions, and communities as a means of improving performance,
financial transparency and accountability, effectiveness and
sustainability. Under this policy, the private sector, especially
communities are envisioned to play an increasing role in the management
and provision of social services.
2. Objectives
The objective of the five-year project is to promote the healthy
growth and holistic development of Eritrean children under six years of
age, primary school age children and children in need of special
protection. The project will provide services and support young
children's basic needs: health care, nutrition, protection, cognitive
stimulation, affection and early education. The integrated nationwide
program in urban and rural areas will reach about 560,000 children between
zero to six years (including 310,000 primary school children and 32,000
orphans).
3. Rationale for Bank's Involvement
Bank funding will enable the Government to improve and scale-up its
ongoing ECD activities and strengthen linkages and its institutional
capacity to manage the ECD program. Bank financing support will
comprise about 80t of total program funds, with the Government and
external partner such as the Italian Cooperation contributing the rest.
The project complements existing Bank-financed social sector projects
that support human resource development and poverty alleviation in
Eritrea (Eritrea Community Development Fund, Health Project, and the
Human Resource Development Project).
The Bank has provided technical assistance during project preparation,
including funding support for Eritrean participation in the workshop on
Early Childhood Development in Kampala, Uganda and the WBI distance
training course on Strategic Communications for Behavioral Change.
The Bank has been engaged in discussions with external partners to
generate additional funding for the program. The Italian Cooperation
has committed to co-finance the project through a US$ 5 million grant
which will be administered by the Bank.
4. Description
Component 1. Improving Child Health (US$ 11.9) - The objective of this
- 4 -



component is to reduce childhood morbidity and mortality by improving case
management and preventive skills of health staff, empowering communities
and caregivers to improve family child health care practices.
Interventions will include: (a) improving skills of health workers and
care givers through the integrated management of childhood illnesses
(IMCI) program arranged at both the health facility level and at community
level. (b) improving the health system through provision of drugs, medical
equipment and supplies (c) improving family and community practices, (d)
environmental health interventions to control childhood illnesses through
promotion, maintenance and use of safe latrine, improved food safety and
hygiene, water source protection and handling (e) school health
interventions, (f) improving IEC/communications for behavioral change,
(g) supervision, support, monitoring and evaluation and research.
The Ministry of Health will be responsible for the technical supervision
and monitoring of this component.
Component 2. Improving Child and Maternal NutritionComponent (US$ 5.3M) -
This objective of this component is to improve the nutritional status of
children under five, and pregnant and nursing women. The interventions are
mainly in the areas of reducing micro and macro nutrient deficiency by
vitamin A and iron supplementation, therapeutic feeding for growth
faltering children for limited period and increasing availability of low-
cost complementary food for children. The component will also focus on
building capacities of families and communities for improving the
nutritional status of children by institutionalizing a community based
growth-monitoring system and parent/care provider education. Interventions
to improve household food security to targeted households will be
introduced through training for income generating activities. This will be
linked to the credit window of the Ministry of Agriculture supported by
other donors. This component will also support the efforts of the Ministry
of Fisheries in promoting consumption of fish as a measure to improve food
security. Capacity within ministries to implement the nutrition component
will be improved.
The Nutrition Unit of the Ministry of Health, and the Ministry of
Agriculture and Ministry of Fisheries will be responsible for the
technical supervision and monitoring of this component.
Component 3. Improving Early Childhood Education and Care (US$ 13.6M) -
This will improve access and quality of early childhood education, improve
primary school health environment, introduce effective monitoring to
improve systems, and build capacity to undertake ECD activities, and
improve community capacity for child care. The main activities include:
(a) establishment of additional 105 kindergartens in rural areas, and
support to 250 rural caregivers, training and provision of 315
kindergarten teachers, 735 teacher assistants, and 105 directors, and
provision of learning materials and supplies; (b) school health and
sanitation program (c) mobilization and community capacity building for
early childhood education and care, and (d) institutional capacity
building for early childhood care and education.
The Ministry of Education is primarily responsible for the technical
supervision and monitoring of this component.
- 5 -



Component 4. Support for Children in Difficult Circumstances (US$ 12.5 M)
- The objective of this component is to strengthen the traditional safety
nets of child care and protection through community-based reintegration
and psychosocial support for orphans. The main activities under this
component are: (a) psychosocial support and reintegration of 32,000 orphan
children with their extended families (b) support for income-generating
schemes for 12,000 host families, (c) establishment of 10 community group
homes for children who cannot be reunified with relatives, (d) adoption
program for 500 orphans (e) institutional capacity building to support the
above activities, including IEC/communications (f) program monitoring and
evaluation.
The Ministry of Labor and Human Welfare will be responsible for the
technical supervision and monitoring of this component.
Component 5. Project Management, Supervision and Strategic Communications
(US$ 5.9M)- This component will support the over-all management of the
multi-sectoral program; all the other components have their respective
budgets and activities to support institutional strengthening. This
component also includes three important cross-cutting activities (a)
advocacy and awareness for ECD issues which will be achieved through
advocacy and sensitization campaigns in communities by local authorities,
women's groups, youth groups, workers union, employers groups, through the
school system, health system, agricultural extension system, through mass
media including radio and TV, and print media; (b) an Innovation Fund
that supports new activities that are developed at the community, sub-
regional, and regional levels. The rationale for the establishment of
this fund is that most of the activities being supported by the ECD
program are existing ones and this fund will provide some flexibility in
financing innovative interventions that respond to the special needs of
children, as well as in financing the development of guidelines for
appraising these activities for cost-effectiveness and sustainability; and
(c) integrated ECD program evaluation/survey and research.
This activity will be coordinated centrally by the Project Management
Team at the Ministry of Local Government.
5. Financing
Total ( US$m)
Government               4.0
IDA                      40.0
ITALY                    5.0
Total Project Cost       49.0
6. Implementation
This multisectoral project will be implemented within the
decentralized framework of the government. At the national level, a
Central Policy Committee will be responsible for project-related policy
decisions. It will be chaired by the Ministry of Local Governments, with
members including the Ministries of Health, Education, Labor and Human
Welfare, Agriculture , Fisheries, and Information. Day-to-day project
management responsibilities will be handled by a Project Management Team
(PMT) in the Ministry of Local Governments. The PMT will be responsible
for budget preparation and planning, fund flow to the zobas, accounting,
procurement, management of the credit from IDA, ensuring compliance to the
- 6 -



Development Credit Agreement (DCA), project coordination across ministries
and the zonal administration. The PMT will also manage cross cutting
issues related to strategic communications, operations research and
evaluation.
The actual implementation at zonal and subzonal level will be carried
out through the Zonal and Zub-Zonal Administration.
Technical support, monitoring and supervision for all the project
activities will be provided at both the central and local levels by the
Ministries of Health, Education, Labor and Human Welfare, Local
Governments, Agriculture, Fisheries, and Information.
7. Sustainability
general understanding and acceptance of ECD strategy and
interventions by all key stakeholders, especially in rural communities
increased management and implementation capacity at all
administrative levels to be able to supervise and monitor ECD
activities
increased resources allocated to ECD to increase likelihood of
sustainability and expansion of proposed activities.
8. Lessons learned from past operations in the country/sector
It is important to have an integrated, cost-effective, flexible, and
culturally appropriate approach in order to ensure the holistic
development of young children.
Adequate demand and supply analysis
-       It is critical to consider both supply and demand side aspects of
programs for early childhood development..
The project's supply-side interventions will focus on increased coverage
with priority given to rural areas, and quality improvements (equipping
health facilities with adequate drugs and medical supplies, providing
preschool and day care centers with learning materials, training of
teachers, health workers, social workers), and institutional
strengthening. Demand side interventions will be based on the results of
planned assessments of household and community resources, needs, and KAP
(knowledge, attitudes, and practices). These interventions will also be
geared towards increasing the welfare of certain disadvantaged groups
such as young girls, orphans, and poor communities.
Importance of strategic communications for behavioral change and IEC
-       Attention to effective communication and promotion of behavioral change
is crucial. Evidence in bank projects such as those in Indonesia, India,
and Madagascar have confirmed that it is possible to improve weaning and
other household practices.
The project will develop a strong IEC and strategic communications
component that will be based on a KAP (knowledge, attitudes, and
practices) survey to be carried out in the six regions of Eritea.     An
-7 -



over-all advocacy and awareness campaign will be prepared and launched to
create public support for the program. An integrated package of key
messages will be developed and pre-tested, with the objective of improving
parents and caregivers' practices with regard to their children's
physical, nutritional, social, and intellectual development.
Stakeholder participation and institutional strengthening.
-       Participation of key stakeholders is essential because it increases
project ownership and chances of sustainability. In this regard,
involvement of households and communities is key because they are
primarily responsible for the care and development of young children. In
the Uganda Nutrition and Early Childhood Development Project,
participation was encouraged through the establishment of a project task
force, three national client consultation workshops, and participatory
rural assessments. Communities have been involved in this bottom-up
planning process.
The project has been prepared using a participatory process that included
nine ministries, Asmara University, and key stakeholders (National Unions
of Eritrean Women and Youth) who work extensively with communities and
have established strong linkages and networks with them. Workshops will
also be held to discuss the project with the communities.
The Government recognizes the importance of mobilizing community support
and enhancing their capacity to implement and manage ECD interventions and
proposed interventions for advocacy and institutional strengthening will
be planned accordingly. The project will also build on and improve
extension services that have worked in Eritrea and adapt them to
community-level realities based on a consultative process. Assessments
will be undertaken at the beginning of the project to establish baseline
data that will also provide information regarding community and household
characteristics, knowledge, attitudes, and practices.
Strengthening institutional capacity is critical.
The project will be implemented in accordance with the Government's
decentralized framework, underscoring the importance of capacity building
at all administrative levels. The project has an institutional
strengthening component that will address the capacity building needs of
central, regional and local administrative levels to plan, supervise,
monitor and evaluate the progress of the project. Based on each ministry's
assessment of its capacity to implement and manage project activities,
technical assistance, training, and equipment (for example, vehicles,
computers) have been planned and budgeted. Training, extension services,
and resource support will be provided to empower communities to implement
and manage their ECD programs.
Training of field staff, and supervision
-       -he importance of training, particularly in-service field-based
training, supportive supervisory practices and a simple monitoring system
to ensure service quality and coverage (from India's Project in Tamil
Nadu--TINP). TINP had carefully defined recruitment criteria for local
workers, specification of daily and monthly work routines; decentralized
- 8 -



training of local women's groups to support project activities; display of
performance information to clients and workers at the village nutrition
center; and an efficient MIS. The Uganda ECD Project has built-in a
monitoring and evaluation system that will assess and respond to the views
of key stakeholders, including baseline and repeat surveys of
beneficiaries, as well as participatory Monitoring and Evaluation
involving communities and beneficiaries.
9. Program of Targeted Intervention (PTI)     Y
10. Environment Aspects (including any public consultation)
Issues
The project involves no major construction and will only support small
works in the form of kindergartens and group homes in selected
communities. At the same time, the project will support activities that
promote environmental health such as maintenance and use of safe latrines,
improved food safety and hygiene practices, water source protection and
handling, prevention of ARI through indoor air pollution reduction
interventions (e.g. promotion of improved kitchen/household ventilation),
and proper waste disposal at facility and household levels. As part of
the ECE component, health and sanitation clubs will also be piloted in
selected schools to coordinate health and sanitation activities in the
school and community
11. Contact Points:
The InfoShop
The World Bank
1818 H Street, NW
Washington, D.C. 20433
Telephone: (202) 458-5454
Fax:        (202) 522-1500
Task Manager
Marito H. Garcia
The World Bank
1818 H Street, NW
Washington D.C. 20433
Telephone: 202-473-5385
Fax: 202-473-8299
Note: This is information on an involving project. Certain components may not
be necessarily included in the final project.
Processed by the InfoShop week ending February 25, 2000.
-9-



