Document of
The World Bank
Report No: 20373-ER
PROJECT APPRAISAL DOCUMENT
ON A
PROPOSED CREDIT
IN THE AMOUNT OF SDR 29 MILLION
(US$ 40 MILLION EQUIVALENT)
TO THE GOVERNMENT OF ERITREA
FOR THE
INTEGRATED EARLY CHILDHOOD DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
May 15, 2000
Human Development 4
Country Department 6
Africa Regional Office



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
(Exchange Rate Effective for year 1999)
Currency Unit = Nakfa
9.75 Nakfa = US$ 1.00
US$ 1.00 = 9.75 Nakfa
FISCAL YEAR
January - December
ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
APL        Adaptable Program Loan                           MCH      Maternal Child Health
ARI        Acute Respiratory Infections                     MF       Ministry of Fisheries
CAS        Country Assistance Strategy                      MIS      Management Information System
CRC        Convention on Rights of the Child                MOA      Ministry of Agriculture
DANIDA   Danish International Development Assistance        MOE      Ministry of Education
DCA        Development Credit Agreement                     MOH      Ministry of Health
DHS        Demographic Health Survey                        MOI      Ministry of Information
DMK        Doura Flour, Milk, Kebkebe                       MOLG   Ministry of Local Government
EA         Environmental Assessment                         MOLHW  Ministry of Labor and Human Welfare
ECD        Early Childhood Development                      NCEW    National Confederation of Eritrean Workers
ECDF       Eritrean Community Development Fund              NGO      Non-Governmental Organization
ECE        Early Childhood Education                        NUEW    National Union of Eritrean Women
EENT       Eyes, Ears, Nose, Throat                         NUEY    National Union of Eritrean Youth
EMP        Enviromnent Management Plan                      PHARPE Public Health Rehabilitation Programme for Eritrea
EPI        Expanded Program Immunization                    PHC      Primary Health Care
ESAMI    Eastern and Southern Africa Management Institute   PIM      Project Implementation Manual
FAO        Food and Agriculture Organization                PMR      Project Management Report
GDP        Gross Domestic Product                           PMT      Project Management Team
GOE        Government of Eritrea                            PROAPE Programa de Alementacao de Pre-Escolar
1IIV/AIDS  Human Immunodeficiency Virus/Acquired            RCC      Rural Community Caregivers
Immunodeficiency Syndrome
HNP        Health Nutrition Population                      SIL      Sector Investment Loan
IBRD       Intemational Bank for Reconstruction and         TA       Technical Assistance
Development
IDA        Intemational Development Association             TINP     Tamil Nadu Integrated Nutrition Project
IEC        Information Education and Communications         TINP     Tanzania Integrated Nutrition Project
1ECDP      Integrated Early Childhood Development Project   UNDP   United Nations Development Programme
IMCI       Integrated Management of Childhood Illnesses     UNICEF  United Nations Children Fund
IMPACT   Information Management Project for Actions         USAID   United States Agency for International Development
Communications and Training
KABP       Knowledge, Attitudes, Beliefs and Practices      WB       World Bank
KAP        Knowledge, Attitudes and Practices               WBI      World Bank Institute
KG         Kindergarten                                     WDR      World Development Report
LACI       Loan Administration Change Initiative            WFP      World Food Programme
M&E        Monitoring and Evaluation                        WHO      World Health Organization
Vice President:     Callisto Madavo
Country Manager/Director:       Oey Astra Meesook
Sector Manager/Director:      Arvil Van Adams
Task Team Leader/Task Manager:          Marito Garcia



ERITREA
INTEGRATED EARLY CHILDHOOD DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
CONTENTS
A. Project Development Objective                                                       Page
1. Project development objective                                                       2
2. Key performance indicators                                                          2
B. Strategic Context
1. Sector-related Country Assistance Strategy (CAS) goal supported by the project      3
2. Main sector issues and Government strategy                                          3
3. Sector issues to be addressed by the project and strategic choices                  5
C. Project Description Summary
1. Project components                                                                  9
2. Key policy and institutional reforms supported by the project                       9
3. Benefits and target population                                                     10
4. Institutional and implementation arrangements                                      11
D. Project Rationale
1. Project altematives considered and reasons for rejection                           14
2. Major related projects financed by the Bank and other development agencies         15
3. Lessons learned and reflected in proposed project design                           16
4. Indications of borrower commitment and ownership                                   18
5. Value added of Bank support in this project                                        18
E. Summary Project Analysis
1. Economic                                                                           19
2. Financial                                                                          20
3. Technical                                                                          21
4. Institutional                                                                      22
5. Social                                                                             25
6. Environment                                                                        24
7. Participatory Approach                                                             26
F. Sustainability and Risks
1. Sustainability                                                                     26
2. Critical risks                                                                     27
3. Possible controversial aspects                                                     29



G. Main Loan Conditions
1. Effectiveness Condition                                                           29
2. Other                                                                             29
H. Readiness for Implementation                                                         30
I. Compliance with Bank Policies                                                        30
Annexes
Annex 1: Project Design Summary                                                         31
Annex 2: Project Description                                                            37
Annex 3: Estimated Project Costs                                                        44
Annex 4: Economic and Financial Analysis                                                45
Annex 5: Financial Summary                                                              55
Annex 6: Procurement and Disbursement Arrangements                                      56
Annex 7: Project Processing Schedule                                                    65
Annex 8: Documents in the Project File                                                  66
Annex 9: Statement of Loans and Credits                                                 67
Annex 10: Country at a Glance                                                           69
Annex 11: Letter of Sector Policy                                                       71
MAP(S)
IBRD 24604R



ERITREA
Integrated Early Childhood Development Project
Project Appraisal Document
Africa Regional Office
AFTHI
Date: May 15, 2000                                Team Leader: Marito H. Garcia
Country Manager/Director: Oey Astra Meesook       Sector Manager/Director: Arvil Van Adams
Project ID: P068463                               Sector(s): EP - Primary Education, EY - Other Education,
HB - Basic Health
Lending Instrument: Specific Investment Loan (SIL)  Theme(s): Education; Health/Nutrition/Population; Social
Protection
Poverty Targeted Intervention: Y
Project Financing Data
D Loan          1 Credit        E Grant         Cl Guarantee    Cl Other (Specify)
For Loans/CreditslOthers:
Amount (US$m): 40
Proposed Terms:
Grace period (years): 10                               Years to maturity: 40
Commitment fee: 0.5%                                   Service charge: 0.75%
GOVERNMENT                                                      4.00           0.00           4.00
IDA                                                            32.00           8.00          40.00
GOVERNMENT OF ITALY                                             4.00           1.00           5.00
OTHER                                                           0.00           0.00           0.00
Total:                                                         40.00           9.00          49.00
Borrower: GOVERNMENT OF ERITREA
Responsible agency: MINISTRY OF LOCAL GOVERNMENT
Project Management Team based in the Ministry of Local Government (MOLG) with support from Ministry of Education
(MOE), Ministry of Health (MOH), Ministry of Labor and Human Welfare (MOLHW), Ministry of Agriculture (MOA),
Ministry of Fisheries (MF)
Address: Ministry of Local Government, Asmara, Eritrea
Contact Person: Ministry of Local Government c/o Wzo.Wunesh Wolde Selassie (Project Manager)
Tel: 291-1-124699                 Fax: 291-1-120014                Email: ecdfrnis@gemel.com.er
Estimated disbursements ( Bank FY/US$M):
Annual     3.0           7.0         13.0        12.0        5.0
Cumulative     3.0          10.0        23.0        35.0        40.0
Project implementation period: 2000-2005
Expected effectiveness date: 07/28/2000  Expected closing date:  12/31/2005
ODC PAD Form P. Mere, 2000



A. Project Development Objective
1. Project development objective: (see Annex 1)
The goal of the project is to promote the healthy growth and holistic development of Eritrean children. The
project will expand access to and improve the quality of services that address young children's basic needs:
health care, nutrition, social protection, psycho-social stimulation, affection and early childhood education.
The program will cover about: (i) 560,000 children under 6 years of age; (ii) 310,000 primary school-age
children; and (iii) 32,000 children facing especially difficult circumstances (orphans).
2. Key performance indicators: (see Annex 1)
A comprehensive set of performance indicators is proposed in Annex I to assist project implementers at
various administrative levels in monitoring the progress of the program. At minimum, the following key
performance indicators will be used during the joint reviews by the Govemment and the World Bank (WB
or Bank)/donors:
a) Outcome/impact indicators (by June 2005 in project areas)
(i)  20% decrease in case fatality in children from the combined 5 major causes: malaria, acute
respiratory infections (ARI), diarrhea, measles and malnutrition
(ii) 20% decrease in malnutrition (measured by prevalence of underweight in children <6 years
of age)
(iii) 20% decrease in repetition and drop-out rates between grades I and 2
(iv) reunification of 32,000 orphans with their nearest relative
b) Implementation Progress (monitored in July and December of each year)
(i)  Percentage of actual vs. projected disbursement by component
(ii)  Number of health workers trained in the integrated management of childhood illnesses
(IMCI) case management
(iii) Number of health facilities stocked with essential IMCI drugs
(iv) Number of mothers who received special training in food security and nutrition through the
Ministry of Agriculture's (MOA) training program with support from the Ministry of Health
(MOH)
(v)  Number of kindergarten schools established, and the number of children enrolled in the
kindergarten schools
(vi) Number of kindergarten teachers, assistants, directors and community care givers trained
and inducted into the early childhood education (ECE) program
(vii) Number of social workers trained
(viii) Number of group homes established and the number of orphans enrolled in such homes
(ix) Number of villages reached by the project relative to goal
(x)  Number and percent of supervision and evaluation reports completed/submitted as planned
- 2 -



B. Strategic Context
1. Sector-related Country Assistance Strategy (CAS) goal supported by the project: (see Annex 1)
Document number: 15234-ER                Date of latest CAS discussion: 02/05/96
The project supports the development of the human resource base of the country, one of the key objectives
of the Country Assistance Strategy (CAS) for Eritrea. Specifically, the project provides early childhood
care services by targeting young children (0 to 6 years) during the critical period in a child's life when the
potential for brain development is at its peak. This project is also consistent with the high priority given by
the government to institutional development and capacity-building. Furthermore, it complements ongoing
Bank projects in community development (a social fund), health and human resource development. Project
preparation is being coordinated with the proposed malaria and HIV/AIDS project to maximize resources
and minimize duplication of efforts.
2. Main sector issues and Government strategy:
Evidence from scientific research has established the importance of early childhood care and development
(ECCD) interventions that address young children's basic needs: cognitive stimulation, affection and early
learning, nutrition, social protection, and health care. Scientific evidence confirms that without such
interventions, children would not achieve their potential. In fact, the effects of malnutrition in young
children are irreversible. In particular, recent findings indicate that brain development before age one is
more rapid and extensive than previously thought, and that early experience lays the foundations for later
life in terms of leaming capacity, health and behavioral patterns. Thus, interventions in the early years of
life can generate substantial economic and social benefits such as increased school enrollment, reduced
dropout and repetition rates, improved health status and good citizenship.
The Government recognizes the importance of investing in young children's growth and development. It has
demonstrated this within the broader policy framework of its macro-policy that underscores the importance
of mother and child services and the need to provide children with legal and social protection. Furthermore,
in August, 1994, the Eritrean Government ratified the Convention on the Rights of the Child (CRC).
National and regional stakeholder workshops were then convened to develop guidelines for the
implementation of this convention in Eritrea. The CRC guidelines were translated into 6 local languages
and distributed to the population. Various sensitization programs have been broadcast by radio and
television in various local languages.
Based on the overall CRC policy framework, sector-specific, early childhood development (ECD)
related policies and programs are being implemented by different ministries with the support of external
partners. Among these:
a) The Ministry of Education (MOE) drafted a policy on ECE in 1995 and recently prepared
general guidelines on the promotion and implementation of day care centers. The ECE policy
supports equal access to and improved quality of ECE interventions, promotion of diversified
forms of ECE delivery (through both formal, center-based institutions and non-formal, caregiver
type arrangements), and the promotion of low-cost and cost-effective community-based
interventions that promote and strengthen community responsibility and control to assure
sustainability of interventions. A panel for pre-school education for ages 5 and 6 has also been
established in the MOE. Curricula have been prepared and are currently being utilized. A central
ECE resource center has also been established to provide technical and training support.
b) The MOH has prepared policy guidelines on food security and nutrition that focus on children and
mothers because of their observed vulnerability to malnutrition. Some of the recommendations for
the 5-year Maternal and Child Nutrition Strategy include a small set of targeted nutrition
- 3 -



interventions in the context of integrated health and nutrition services. For example, it incorporates
primary health care (PHC) including an expanded program immunization (EPI-plus) which
contains a vitamin A supplement, active promotion and counseling of mothers on breastfeeding,
and IMCI which includes an important component on counseling mothers/caretakers about
nutrition and feeding of young children, especially those under 2 years of age.
c) Food security is a major determinant of health and nutritional status. In Eritrea's current situation,
it becomes even more important because of the conflict and its impact on the growth and
development of children. The MOH is collaborating with other ministries such as the MOA and
Ministry of Fisheries (MF) in implementing appropriate elements of a comprehensive food
security strategy that will successfully address institutional and policy constraints. This strategy
will support appropriate interventions that range from increasing agricultural and livestock
production, financial support through a credit window and training for selected income generating
activities, food distribution, and improving extension work provided by extension agents from the
Home Economics Unit of the MOA who are actively involved in increasing rural women's
awareness of nutrition and health issues.
d) The Ministry of Labor and Human Welfare (MOLHW) already has programs in place to
strengthen the traditional safety nets for childcare and protection with a focus on supporting
children in need of special protection measures, especially orphans. It is the policy of the
Government to phase out the institutionalization of orphans and to organize their reintegration with
extended families. This policy also includes their adoption by unrelated families and the provision
of a supportive social environment (small group-homes) for those who cannot be placed in other
ways. Since 1994, MOLHW been responsible for reuniting 14,000 out of the estimated 90,000
orphans. It has also had considerable success in working at the village level in setting up
sustainable programs. For example, its Community Development Program has accomplished a
great deal in providing sustainable support for physically and mentally disabled children and adults
and in educating communities about how they can help care for the disabled. The MOLHW has
some socio-economic activities related to HIV/AIDS. It is currently drafting a policy for daycare
centers because it plans to engage in the establishment of daycare centers in the near future .
e) The National Union of Eritrean Women's (NUEW) activities include sponsoring preschool and
daycare centers in selected areas. Six of these centers are permanent, and NUEW finances
teachers/caregivers for 2 years, after which the community takes on the financing responsibility.
Temporary daycare centers have also been set up in rural areas in order to provide care, teaching,
and some foods such as milk to young children of women who are attending NUEW-sponsored
training to improve their income-generating skills such as weaving, pottery and basket making.
f) The National Union for Eritrean Youth (NUEY) also supports activities that include children
from the ages of 0 to 6. Four of its 14 youth centers provide health check-ups, health care, family
planning services, and counseling for young mothers and their children. NUEY also assists
teachers in kindergarten and elementary school to engage in activities such as drama and
story-telling that stimulate young children's creativity. It also sponsors sports activities for older
children 7 to 16 years of age, as well as vocational/technical education for orphans.
g) Both NUEW and NUEY are also actively engaged in advocacy efforts that promote the rights and
well-being of women and youth. They have extensive links with communities and have a national
membership of at least 200,000 and 100,000 respectively.
h) Other national organizations that could be potential partners in ECD are the National
Confederation of Eritrean Workers (NCEW) to support daycare or kindergarten (KG) facilities,
-4 -



as well as the Red Cross, Planned Parenthood of Eritrea and private/management and
technical institutions for infornation, education and communications (IEC) and other activities.
As can be seen, Eritrea has clearly identified and embarked on important ECD related activities. In
particular, its concerted efforts to promote IMCI have yielded positive results as more children are
surviving as a result of immunization and prevention of early childhood diseases, infant mortality rate is
down to 72 per 1,000 live births (1995) (from 91 in 1983 and 180 in 1960). Under-five mortality rate has
declined from 185 per 1,000 in 1983 to 136 in 1995. However, much remains to be done to address the
needs of young children below 6 years of age; existing programs need to be expanded and strengthened in
order to address the following areas below.
Sector Issues
a) Limited number of early childhood programs. The country has a very limited number of early
childhood programs to address childhood care through health, nutrition, social protection, and early
education. Few mothers in Eritrea receive support to provide intellectual stimulation for their
children and these areas are only marginally addressed, for example, through early religious
instruction in which children begin to learn the alphabet and in a few pre-schools, located mostly in
urban areas. Apart from the existence of immunization services, health interventions reaching
young children are inadequate.
b) Ongoing ECE activities tend to be urban-focused
c) Social indicators are quite poor. The 1995 Eritrea Demographic Health Survey (DHS) results
showed that chronic malnutrition (low height relative to age) affects 38% of children from 0-3
years of age and low weight for age is very high, 44% for children under 3 years of age.
Additionally, every fourth child below three years of age were reported to be ill in the 2 weeks
preceding the DHS. In 1998, the Ministry of Health reported that the leading causes of inpatient
and outpatient visits to health facilities for under-5 patients were acute respiratory infections (ARI,
25%), diarrhoeal diseases (19%) and malaria (14%).
d) The MOE reports that only 5% of 5 to 6 year old children have access to kindergarten.
e) As a result of the war, there are about 90,000 orphans; 14,000 of whom have been reunified with
extended families.
Within the context of a coordinated multi-sectoral approach, the Government of Eritrea's proposed
Integrated Early Childhood Development Program seeks to address the above issues with the support of the
Intemational Development Association (IDA) and other extemal partners.
For an integrated program such as this one, the National Decentralization Policy and Framework plays a
critical role in implementation. This policy aims to devolve responsibility to regions, sub-regions, and
communities as a means of improving performance, financial transparency and accountability, effectiveness
and sustainability. Under this policy, the private sector and communities are envisioned to play an
increasing role in the management and provision of social services.
3. Sector issues to be addressed by the project and strategic choices:
The project seeks to address all the issues outlined in section 2 through a comprehensive and coordinated
ECD program comprised of 5 key components:
a) improving Child Health
b) improving Child and Matemal Nutrition
- 5 -



c) improving Early Childhood Education and Care
d) support for Children in Need of Special Protection Measures
e) strengthening Project Management, Supervision and Strategic Communications
The Eritrea Integrated Early Childhood Development Project (IECDP) is based on the following strategies:
a) Building on existing, proven successful programs and implementation structures already in
the country. This project will support the phased expansion, quality enhancement, and efficient
implementation of existing activities in early childhood development that have proven to be
successful and cost-effective, while ensuring that they are appropriately adapted to each
community's context. It will support the ongoing IMCI and MCH programs of the MOH that are
currently supported by the World Health Organization (WHO) and complemented by the food
security and nutrition activities of the (i) MOA (ii) MF and (iii) extension agent operations of the
MOA. It will also support the MOLHW's orphan reintegration program, MOE's kindergarten
program, as well as the establishment of ECE resource centers in all six regions to provide more
readily accessible training and technical support to formal and nonformal ECE providers.
Management and implementation of the project will also build on the successful project
management and implementation structure of the Eritrea Community Development Fund (ECDF)
implemented by the Ministry of Local Govemment (MOLG). Sector ministries involved in ECD
will provide support, technical supervision and monitoring. Implementation of the project will be
undertaken within the country's decentralized framework, with community participation facilitated
through a participatory approach that builds on the experiences of ECDF.
c) Utilization of both formal and informal channels to deliver ECD services. To maximize the use
of existing resources, the program will improve access to ECD through formal and nonformal
means. For example, MOE will expand its existing kindergarten program while at the same time,
developing a sub-component for nonformal ECE provision through rural community caregivers.
The MOLHW will continue to run its orphanages while at the same time giving greater priority to
expanding and strengthening its community-based orphan reintegration activities.
d) Strengthening of cross-sectoral linkages and coordination. If the growth and development of
young children is to be addressed in a holistic manner the project, then the establishment of strong
linkages across sectors is crucial. Early childhood development as a multi-sectoral undertaking
focusing on young children, is directly related to community development, women's issues, and
youth. Participatory planning workshops have been conducted with the involvement of key
ministries, agencies, and local National Unions in order to coordinate proposed ECD interventions.
During the course of project implementation, the following measures will ensure that this
multi-sectoral partnership is maintained:
*  Establishment of a Central Policy Committee to provide policy decisions and guidance on
project activities. The Ministry of Local Govemment will chair this Committee, with members
including the Ministries of: Health; Education; Labor and Human Welfare; Agriculture;
Fisheries; Finance; and Information
* The preparation and approval of an Integrated ECD Policy Strategy
*   Involvement of the National Women and Youth Unions, Asmara University, other national and
private organizations, and communities in planning and implementation of activities
Expanding access. Coverage will extend to both rural and urban areas, with priority given to expansion of
services to rural areas and disadvantaged groups. The ECE component will focus on the establishment of
kindergarten schools in Gash Barka, Anseba and Northem Red Sea, while expanding access to other areas.
Special advocacy efforts through a national IEC campaign and through nonformal channels such as
-6 -



sensitization of rural community leaders, elders and parents will take place to encourage increased
enrollment of girls in school.
Age-group coverage. Age-appropriate interventions that define the components of this project will be
arranged according to intensity and type of developmental needs of the various age groups. As young
children develop in the home, in daycare centers, preschools and in the community, their basic needs at
various ages as infants, later as toddlers and as preschoolers (4-6 years) are different. For this reason, the
principal target groups will be divided into the younger age group (0-3 years) and the older group (4 to 6
years). The orphan reunification program will also cover children above age 6 and the school health
program will include primary school-age children.
Interventions. Project interventions have been selected to take advantage of the synergistic relationship
between health, nutrition, and early education to improve young children's growth and development.
Project interventions described are meant to fill program gaps and complement ongoing activities to form a
more integrated approach.
From birth to 3 years of age, when children are most vulnerable to malnutrition, illness and poor
psycho-social and cognitive stimulation, interventions will reach children through:
* Antenatal and matemal care to minimize the incidence of low birth weight infants;
*   Growth monitoring and promotion;
=   Improving breastfeeding practices;
*   Teaching mothers how to prepare and introduce complementary foods;
*   Making better use of available foodstuffs at specific ages, and preparation of oral rehydration fluids
to manage diarrhea;
=   Provision of micro-nutrients;
*   Teaching mothers to identify the danger signals in their children (e.g. dehydration, rapid breathing,
white spots on pupils for vitamin A deficiency, swollen bellies, stunting and wasting); and
*   Encouraging/training mothers and caregivers to provide pyscho-social stimulation to their children.
As a short-termn measure, the project will support the ongoing provision of targeted therapeutic feeding to
malnourished children. Doura Flour, Milk, Kebkebe (DMK), a local, industrially produced, micro-nutrient
enriched weaning food will be used to supplement the diets of young children older than 6 months. By
mitigating protein energy malnutrition, children's capacity for leaming and physical development will not
be impaired and they could benefit from other ECD-related interventions.
From ages 4-6 years, activities will focus on improving the social, mental, psychological and physical
preparedness of children for schooling. The ECE program's curriculum is based on key themes aimed at
developing creativity, cognitive thinking, and awareness/appreciation of one's self, family, community and
environment and healthy practices. It is structured to encourage children's active participation in activities
with the use of locally adapted leaming materials and toys.
Coverage of kindergartens will be extended to rural areas with the poor and under-served regions having
priority. At the same the project will introduce new initiatives such as training and mobilization of Rural
Community Caregivers (RCCs) to provide non-formal ECE through day care and home-based activities.
The project will initially provide support in establishing and running both formal and nonformal operations
with communities being mobilized to manage and finance ECD activities in formal or non-formal ECD care
centers (preschools or improve existing church or madrassah centers). The MOLHW is also drafting a
policy for daycare centers and areas of collaboration with MOE will be defined.
- 7 -



The project will support the establishment of appropriate standards of procedures for training of
kindergarten directors, teachers, teacher assistants and RCCs. Monitoring and supervision, provision of
learning aids and curative inputs will also be included in these activities. The current learning and training
program in place for kindergarten teachers will be updated to become a one-year program in the teacher
training college, while guidelines and training manuals will be developed for the RCCs.
Links to the primary health care system will be established by introducing routine health check-ups in all
KG and lower primary level schools. Provision of potable water, latrines, and garbage disposal facilities
will be incorporated in the school health component in about 30% of rural primary schools.
The project will support the MOLHW in assisting children in need of special protection measures.
Targeting orphans is a strategic choice made by the GOE and is justified based on evidence from numerous
studies that have shown that young children who have lost both parents, been traumatized by war and
displaced from their familiar surroundings, are at greater risk for psychiatric disorders, anti-social behavior
and delayed cognitive and physical development. As mentioned previously, orphans older than 6 years of
age will be direct project beneficiaries. Primary emphasis will be given to promote/improve the quality of
community-based initiatives for the placement of orphans and reunification with close relatives, adoption,
and group home care. A team of professionals from the 3 ministries (MOH, MOE and MOLHW) and other
resource persons will also provide group guidance and counseling to children with psychological problems.
Economic support will be given to needy households and communities through income-generating programs
that will enable them to cope better with increased child care costs due to family reunification and/or
adoption of orphans.
Strategic communication program for behavior change. It is important that the project processes and
activities that to be implemented by each of the ministries, are accompanied by a strong integrated
communications strategy that will support the key interventions and services to encourages positive
behavior change. The IEC program will: (i) deliver coordinated packages of key messages to improve
caregiver knowledge, attitude, beliefs and practices (KABP) with regard to their children's growth and
development; and (ii) generate the support and commitment of policymakers, community leaders, religious
leaders, government workers and the general public for ECD. A KABP survey will be carried across the 6
regions of Eritrea so that a comprehensive baseline assessment of the current status of Eritrea's knowledge,
attitude, belief and practices regarding ECD be available. The same KABP survey will be repeated
mid-term and at the end of the project to measure any changes in caregiver knowledge, attitudes and
practices (KAP). Such data will allow communications strategies to be 'client' driven as the attitudes and
beliefs of the target audience will form the basis for future strategies. Each ministry will coordinate its own
communications plan with assistance from the Project Management Team (PMT) who will assist in the
process of coordinating and integrating individual communications activities to maximize impact.
Furthermore, a Communications Committee will be formed with dedicated members of each of the ministry
teams and other communications partners from the Ministry of Infornation (MOI); similar/linked projects.
Non-governmental organizations (NGOs) such as NUEW and NUEY; national organizations such as Red
Cross of Eritrea and Planned Parenthood of Eritrea; and private organizations to assist the PMT in the
coordination and technical guidance of the communications, advocacy and awareness campaigns.
Capacity-building efforts for better communications will take place at national, zonal, sub-zonal and
community levels.
Enhanced institutional capacity to implement and manage the integrated ECD program. The project
will support capacity-building efforts for effective management of the project at the national, zonal,
sub-zonal and community levels. In particular, it will facilitate community participation through
-8 -



consultations, IEC, training, technical and resource support to implement and manage ECD activities with
the long-term goal of having community financed and managed ECD initiatives. Emphasis will also be
given on improving the planning, supervision, and monitoring and evaluation of project progress within and
across sectors. The establishment of a coordinated management information system (MIS) and
well-designed evaluation process in this project will be critical and will be dealt with accordingly in the
Project Implementation Manual (PIM).
C. Project Description Summary
1. Project components (see Annex 2 for a detailed description and Annex 3 for a detailed cost
breakdown):
1. Improving Child Health          Health             11.90      24.3      10.00      25.0
2. Improving Child and Maternal    Other Population,   5.20       10.6      4.00      10.0
Nutrition                       Health &
Nutrition
3. Improving Early Childhood       Other Education    13.60       27.8     10.30      25.8
Education and Care
4. Support to Children in Need of  Safety Nets        12.40       25.3     10.00      25.0
Special Protection Measures
5. Strengthening Overall Project  Institutional        5.90       12.0      5.70      14.3
Management, Supervision and     Development
Strategic Communications
Total Project Costs                   49.00      100.0     40.00     100.0
Total Financing Required                   49.00      100.0     40.00      100.0
2. Key policy and institutional reforms supported by the project:
The project supports the following key policy and institutional reforms:
a) The development of an integrated policy framework for ECD in Eritrea. In order to increase
the impact of interventions and maximize the use of available resources, a coordinated,
multi-sectoral strategy that deals with health, nutrition and food security, education, human
welfare, and communication/information is necessary.
b) Existing policies and institutional development reforms in ongoing ECD-related policies,
programs and services. This project will support the ongoing implementation of the ECE and
MCH policy guidelines of the MOE and MOH, respectively.
-9-



3. Benefits and target population:
Benefits
The project will support the Government's human resource development and poverty alleviation objectives
by improving access, quality, and management of ECD interventions through a coordinated multi-sectoral
approach. It is expected that economic and social benefits will accrue at national, community, household,
and individual levels as a result of this project.
Economic benefits
a) Use of resources will be maximized by (i) taking advantage of the synergistic effects of integrated
interventions in health, nutrition, education, and social protection and (ii) efficient use of both
formal and non-formal means of service delivery.
b) Improvements in nutrition, health and psycho-social stimulation will boost school readiness and
age at entry at the primary school level. This in turn will result in increased fiscal savings and
reduction of household schooling expenses.
c) Access to ECD by the poorest children will provide leaming opportunities that are likely to
improve their future standard of living.
e   Daycare systems will free mothers to participate in income-generating activities and enable
older siblings, especially girls to go to school.
- Support to reintegrate orphans and provide them with a supportive social environment,
preferably in a family setting, will reduce the likelihood that they will become a burden to
public health and social service budgets.
-   Economic retums from investing in human capital in the early years is very high; each dollar
invested can yield US$ 7 in terms of combined future productivity of these children and
increased cost efficiency in schools and the health care system in Eritrea (this estimates use
retums also found in other countries, such as Latin America and Indonesia).
Social benefits
a) The current urban focus of most interventions such as preschool education will be expanded to give
priority to rural areas and to disadvantaged groups such as mothers and girls.
b) Children who benefit from quality early childhood care and development programs tend to be better
adjusted socially.
c) Parenting and caregiver skills will be enhanced through IEC programs and child care/nutrition
support programs.
d) The project will also assist children in difficult circumstances, focusing on community-based
orphan reintegration activities such as family reunification, adoption, and establishment of group
homes.
-1 0 -



Target groups
The IECDP program beneficiaries are the principal target groups which include about 560,000 children
between zero and six years of age and about 310,000 primary school children. Interventions will be further
divided into age-appropriate categories, i.e. those targeted towards younger age group of 0-3 years and
those aimed at the older age-group of 4 to 6 years. While some interventions such as IEC and IMCI are
expected to cover about 560,000 young children, some activities such as kindergarten provision and
nonformal early childhood education and care are expected to cover only about 31,000 and 90,000 children
respectively. Supplementary therapeutic feeding will target only severely malnourished children. About
32,000 orphans will also benefit from the IECDP program.
The secondary target groups of the program are: mothers, caregivers, families, primary school children,
children facing difficult circumstances over age 6, teachers, agricultural extension workers, social workers,
and health workers.
4. Institutional and implementation arrangements:
Implementation period: 5 years
Executing agencies. The Ministry of Local Government supported by the Ministries of Health, Education,
Labor and Human Welfare, Agriculture, Fisheries and Information.
Project oversight and policy guidance. A Central Policy Committee will be responsible for policy
decisions on project activities. This will be chaired by the MOLG and will include members of the MOH,
MOE, MOLHW, MOA, MF, MOI and Ministry of Finance.
Management of project activities. Figure 1 illustrates the management structure of the project. At the
national level, day-to-day project management responsibilities will be handled by a PMT in the Ministry of
Local Govemment. The Team will be headed by a Project Manager who will report to the Ministry of
Local Governments. The PMT at a minimum should include a project financial management officer and a
procurement specialist. A communications adviser will be attached to the PMT. The financial management
officer should have experience handling extensive financial management and accounting responsibilities.
The PMT will be responsible for budget preparation and planning, flow of funds to the regions, accounting,
procurement, management of the credit from IDA, ensuring compliance to the Development Credit
Agreement (DCA), project coordination across ministries and the regional administration. The PMT will
also manage cross-cutting issues related to strategic communications, operations research and evaluation.
Technical support and monitoring and supervision for all the project activities will be provided at both the
central and local levels by the MOH, MOE, MOLHW, MOLG, MOA, MF and MOI.
At the centml level, a technical support committee that includes high level members of each of the
participating line ministries will function to enhance common understanding on and an integrated
approach to the ECD program, as well as to strengthen interrelationships between the various sectors
including the communities. The committee will also work closely with the PMT to assist in the
implementation planning in the context of refined policies and guidelines set up by the Central Steering
Committee and to provide technical advice related to program implementation, supervision and
monitoring.
- ~11 -



Two additional committees are being proposed to provide technical support to the PMT:
a) A Pyscho-social Support Committee composed of medical and social psychiatrists, ECE
resource people, child specialists, representatives from the faculty of Asmara university will
also be established to assist the PMT as an advisory board. Membership in this committee will
be voluntary.
b) A Communications Committee will be formed out of dedicated members of each of the line
ministries and NGOs, such as NUEW and NUEY for technical input and guidance
These technical ministries support the zonal (zoba) administration. Specifically:
*  The MOH will support implementation of the component for Improving Child Health.
* The MOH, MOA and MF will support respective parts of the component to improve child and
matemal nutrition.
* The MOF will support implementation of the Early Childhood Education and Care Component.
* The MOLHW will support the implementation of the Program to Support Children in Difficult
Circumstances.
* The MOI will support the development communication activities.
This multisectoral project will be implemented within the decentralized framework of the government. The
actual implementation at regional and sub-regional levels will be carried out through the MOLG's
respective zoba administrations. Most of the ECD activities at the regional level are under the umbrella of
the social services department of the MOLG. The director of the social service department who plays a key
role in all activities at the regional level, will manage the implementation of the components of the project
in collaboration with the line ministries under his or her leadership. To enhance the project implementation
capacity of the MOLG at the regional level, the regional project management team will include three staff
members: a project coordinator, an accountant, and a cashier.
Representation of the MOLG at the sub-regional and village (community) levels makes it possible to
supervise the details of program implementation, follow up activities, and cross-sectoral coordination at all
administrative levels.
Project implementation will also involve the active participation in the advocacy and training of the
National Unions of Women and Youth because of their well-established links with communities, existing
community-based organizations and NGOs (whenever available and appropriate). Community participation
will be facilitated, building on successful experiences of the ECDF.
- 12-



Figure 1
Proposed Project Management Structure
Eritrea Integrated Early Childhood Development Project
CENTRAL POLICY COMMITTEE
Ministers of Finance, Local Government, Health,
Education, Labour &Human Welfare, and Information
MOAgr & MOFish                 MOLHW             Pro|ed Management Team               MOE                        MOH
I    TEAM           18          TEAM                      MOLG        X    |         TEAM           ||TEAMl
IZONAL ADMIlTAlN
ECONOMICS DEPT             SOCAL SERVICES
Agriculture (MOA)            Healh (MOH)
Fisheries(MOF)            Education (MOE)
Labor-HW(MOLHR
SubZonal Aministration   Sub- Ztonai Aministration   Sub-Zonal Adminisiatin
Target communities       Target communities        Target communities
&                                                  &
Children                 Childfen                  Children
- 13-



Planning, accounting, financial, reporting and auditing arrangements. The PIM and the financial
procedures manual lay out in detail the planning and financial reporting arrangements.
Monitoring, evaluation and reporting arrangements. A detailed monitoring and evaluation system will
be developed and included in the PIM. The project monitoring and evaluation (M&E) will be based on the
indicators outlined in Annex 1 and the DCA. Project M&E will be undertaken through: (i) bank
supervision missions and annual progress reviews, (ii) regular quarterly meetings of the Project Central
Policy Committee, (iii) quarterly progress reports based on implementation targets defined in the Annual
Work Plan and Budget; (iv) mid-term review of the project no later than 30 months after effectiveness to
identify project successes and issues to be addressed; and (v) baseline and follow-up surveys of
beneficiaries. A project Implementation Completion Report will be prepared within 6 months of the project
closing date.
D. Project Rationale
1. Project alternatives considered and reasons for rejection:
Use of a Sector Investment Loan (SIL) instead of an Adaptable Program Loan (APL) as instrument.
In 1999, the Government developed a Five-Year Programme for ECD (2000-2005) for each of the line
ministries involved in ECD and donors, including IDA, were invited to assist. Nearly all of the proposed
interventions are ongoing and have been tested, and this 5-year program was developed to increase
coverage and integrate the institutional of the 6 ministries. A few interventions need piloting prior to
expansion, such as those related to household-based psycho-social stimulation of young children and the
provision of nonformal care through rural daycare centers and community caregivers. The program fits a
SIL credit instrument for the 5-year planning cycle prepared by the Government. The program does not fit
an APL that would cover approximately a 7 to 10 year program planning period. Opting for an APL would
require another national effort to plan for 10 years which would require a considerable portion of time,
given that Eritrea has only recently produced a 5-year plan and has a previous history of short-term
planning due to conflict and post-conflict history. More importantly, the Government rejected the use of an
APL for the ECD project because they believe that they are very clear about ECD objectives and targets
for their 5-year ECD program and that key policies to help move the ECD program forward are already in
place (stated in the Letter of Sector Policy that was submitted to the Bank). They are also uncomfortable
with the use of an instrument that is new to them and also relatively new to the Bank.
Project management will be the responsibility of the PMT in the Ministry of Local Government as a
deliberate way to promote integration of sub-sectoral programs in health, education and social protection.
The traditional top-down implementation processes by sectoral ministries will now be integrated through
the decentralized regional administration. The Government has appointed MOLG to manage the
day-to-day implementation of this program in line with the new decentralization policy of the government.
The decision to house the project management at MOLG was made by the Government, through
consultations with all the ministries involved in ECD activities. It is also advantageous that MOLG has
extensive experience in managing an IDA-supported multi-ministry project, the Eritrea Community
Development Fund, one of the Government's most successful programs.
Supplementary feeding for children will only be provided on a short-term and therapeutic basis (90 days
maximum). A locally processed, vitamin-fortified weaning food called DMK will be used to ameliorate
the adverse effects of protein energy malnutrition. More emphasis will be given to interventions that have
long-term impact such as communication for behavior change, such as IEC (for example, teaching mothers
- 14-



how to prepare appropriate complementary foods from local ingredients, hygienic practices to prevent
infection) and income-generating activities (through the MOA's credit window which is supported by the
United Nations Development Programme (UNDP) and Danish International Development Assistance
(DANIDA) to improve household food security.
The project will be nationwide in scope but implemented in phases. A significant portion of the
project's first year will be devoted to capacity-building activities. In addition, some interventions will be
more gradually phased because of existing capacity and resource constraints and the time needed to
mobilize community support and strengthen capacity. Only an additional 105 KGs will be established so
that by the end of the project, 31,000 5-6 year old children would be covered by the KG program. MOE's
efforts to expand access to ECE will be complemented by non-formal ECE provision through rural
community caregivers who will be trained and mobilized to cover additional children. Non-formal care
initiatives will also be implemented in a phased manner to allow for testing and learning. MOE will train
rural community caregivers in about 25% of the communities during the course of this project. In support
of non-formal care activities, the MOLHW is currently drafting a policy for daycare centers which will also
define areas of collaboration with the MOE.
2. Major related projects financed by the Bank and/or other development agencies (completed,
ongoing and planned).
::E: LAiest Supervisi-n
-eior Iue                           Prj      :           (.P $R) R   ing
__-__i ___.- ______,____________._                          JBank-fianceed tpsj   nly)
Implementation   Development
Bank-financed                                                  Progress (IP)   Objective (DO)
Effective June 1996; Social Sectors    Community Development Fund  S             S
(ER 39264)
Effective May 1998; Health       Health Project (ER 33124)         S             S
Effective February 1998; Institutional  Human Resource Development  U            S
Capacity Building                (ER 50354)
Planned 2001; Institutional Capacity   Nutrition Information System
Building
Lending 2001; Health             Malaria-HIV/AIDS Project
Other development agencies
Italian Cooperation               Public Health and
Rehabilitation Programme for
Eritrea (PHARPE); MAHZEL
Orphan Reunification
Programme; ECDF
WHO                               IMCI; orthopedic program for
children with special needs
DANIDA                            DANIDA Support to Education
Sector in Eritrea; Food
Security--Support to
Agriculture
USAID                             MCH Health Programme;
- 15-



UNICEF                                 Nutrition Surveillance in IDPs;
Child-Info Database Project;
MAHZEL Orphan
Reunification; School Health;
DMK Expansion; Child Health;
Project for Primary Education
Quality and Female
Participation
WFP                                    Emergency Food Aid--MCH
r                                 r ogr a mms   400 00- 0000400000 W---iEStlLLitESTfi400 --:ftiCt4T l!|! -- ............   . . . . . . . . . . .: 
Programmes
FAO                                    Food  and  Nutrition  Info                        ................ ...  . ......
System; Nutrition Education
iE..   DE   i iiE..iSiLEy     idiLE. -    -r   iR    i ........-  .i   iE ..  E..
IPODO Ratings: HS (Highly Satisfactory), S (Satisfactory), U (Unsatisfactory), HU (Highly Unsatisfactory)
Note: donor activities to be updated during technical mission discussions
3. Lessons learned and reflected in the project design:
Adequate demand and supply analysis for ECD
It is critical to consider both supply- and demand-side aspects of programs for early childhood
development. The project's supply-side interventions will focus on increased coverage, with priority given
to (i) rural areas; (ii) quality improvements (equipping health facilities with adequate drugs and medical
supplies, providing preschool and day care centers with learning materials, training of teachers, health
workers, social workers); and (iii) institutional strengthening. Demand-side interventions will be based on
the results of planned assessments of household and community resources, needs, and knowledge, altitudes,
and practices (KAP). These interventions will also be geared towards increasing the welfare of certain
disadvantaged groups such as young girls, orphans and poor communities.
Importance of strategic communications for behavioral change and IEC
Attention to effective communication and promotion of behavior change is critical. Evidence in World Bank
projects such as those in Indonesia, India and Madagascar, have confirmed that it is possible to improve
complementary feeding and other household practices using these strategies. The Tanzania Integrated
Nutrition Project (TINP) fostered extensive community participation through communications and
community-based growth monitoring. The Madagascar Community Nutrition II Project has an effective
IEC component that has contributed to its successful expansion from 2 provinces in 1993, 4 provinces at
present and to all 6 provinces by 2003.
The project will develop a strong IEC and strategic communications component that will be based on the
results of a KAP survey to be carried out in the six regions of Eritrea. An overall advocacy and awareness
campaign will be prepared and launched to create public support for the program. An integrated package
of key messages will be developed and pre-tested, with the objective of improving parents and caregivers'
practices with regard to their children's physical, nutritional, social and intellectual development.
Stakeholder participation and institutional strengthening
Participation of key stakeholders is essential because it increases project ownership and sustainability. In
this regard, involvement of households and communities is key since they are the ones primarily responsible
for the care and development of young children. In the Uganda Nutrition and Early Childhood Development
Project, participation was encouraged through the establishment of a project task force, three national client
consultation workshops and participatory rural assessments.
- 16-



The project has been prepared using a participatory process that included 9 ministries, Asmara University
and key stakeholders (NUEW/NUEY) that work extensively with communities and have established strong
linkages and networks with them. Workshops will also be held to discuss the project with the communities
involved.
Assessments will be undertaken at the beginning of the project to establish baseline data that will also
provide information regarding community and household characteristics, knowledge, attitudes and
practices. The Government recognizes the importance of mobilizing community support and enhancing
capacity to implement and manage ECD interventions and therefore proposed interventions for advocacy
and institutional strengthening will be planned accordingly. The project will also build on and improve
extension services that have worked in Eritrea and adapt them to community-level realities based on a
consultative process.
Strengthening institutional capacity is critical
The project will be implemented in accordance with the Govemment's decentralized framework,
underscoring the importance of capacity-building at all administrative levels. The project has an
institutional strengthening component that will address the capacity-building needs of central, regional and
local administrative levels to plan, supervise, monitor and evaluate the progress of the project. Based on
each ministry's assessment of its capacity to implement and manage project activities, technical assistance,
training and equipment (for example, vehicles, computers) have been planned and budgeted for training and
extension services; resource support will be provided to empower communities to implement and manage
their ECD programs.
Training of field staff and supervision
Training, particularly in-service field-based training, supportive supervisory practices and a simple
monitoring system to ensure service quality and coverage (from India's Project in Tamil Nadu--TINP) will
be critical to the project's success. TINP had carefully defined recruitment criteria for local workers,
specification of daily and monthly work routines, decentralized training of local women's groups to support
project activities; display of performance information to clients and workers at the village nutrition center,
and an efficient MIS. The Uganda ECD Projects has a built-in monitoring and evaluation system that will
assess and respond to the views of key stakeholders, including baseline and repeat surveys of beneficiaries,
as well as participatory M&E that involves communities and beneficiaries.
Both pre-service and on the job-training will be important sub-components of this project. Support will be
given to improve the quality of existing training programs and assistance will be provided in the
development of new ones such as the non-formal care sub-component of ECE. Given the considerable
training needed for the project, the project team has been advised to prepare "up front", such as selecting
the individuals to sit on the core training committee, having the terms of reference ready for the curriculum
and training plan, and thinking about conducting training efficiently to minimize implementation delays.
Consultants might be hired to do some of the groundwork to get a head start in this area.
A simple monitoring and supervision system that involves the participation of communities will be
established. The MOE is proposing to organize parent committees to monitor and supervise the progress of
kindergarten schools and daycare centers. The project will also link with the World Bank's ECD website
and the newly established Information Management Project for Actions, Communications and Training
(IMPACT) project in Africa for technology training and funds to establish an ECD database based on a
baseline survey and MIS.
-17-



Decentralized implementation
As clear definition of roles and responsibilities is particularly important within a decentralized system, a
PIM that establishes a clear framework for project implementation (including procurement and
disbursement mechanisms and defines accountability across different administrative levels and technical
ministries) is being prepared and will be reviewed during appraisal. Orientation workshops will also be
held to discuss the project concept and procedures with key stakeholders and implementors.
4. Indications of borrower commitment and ownership:
The GOE prepared the project concept and design and has taken the following steps to demonstrate its
strong commitment:
a) It has developed ECD-related policies and strategies in the individual ministries and there is an
expressed willingness to prepare a coordinated ECD policy and strategy in its Letter of Sector
Policy. More importantly, it has been already implementing a number of ECD-related program
activities that would be improved and expanded in this project.
b) It has organized multi-sectoral participatory workshops to prepare this program. In particular,
these workshops involved (i) nine ministries (Education, Health, Labor and Human Welfare, Local
Governments, Information, Agriculture, Fisheries, and Finance) and (ii) key implementation
partners (NUEW, NUEY, Asmara University). The World Bank participated in two of these.
c) The Govemment has already appointed a Project Manager for the project even before appraisal,
and it has set-up a multi-agency task force for the preparation of the proposed program.
The Government will finance about 8 % of the total program with the long-term objective of enabling
communities to eventually manage and finance a number of ECD activities. In its Letter of Sector Policy,
the GOE has agreed that in the short to medium-term, while the capacity of communities to sustain such
activities is being built, it will finance the costs of running ECD activities.
5. Value added of Bank support in this project:
Bank funding will enable the Govemment to improve and scale-up its ongoing ECD activities and
strengthen linkages and its institutional capacity to manage the ECD program. Bank financing support will
comprise about 82% of total program funds, with the Government and other external partners contributing
the rest.
The project complements existing Bank-financed social sector projects that support human resource
development/poverty alleviation in Eritrea (ECDF, Health and Human Resource Development Projects).
The Bank has provided technical assistance during project preparation, including funding support for
Eritrean participation in the workshop on ECD in Kampala, Uganda and the World Bank Institute (WBI)
distance training course on Strategic Communications for Behavioral Change.
The Bank will generate additional funding support for the project by engaging other extemal partners in
discussions about the project, its potential benefits and possible areas of cooperation.
- 18-



E. Summary Project Analysis (Detailed assessments are in the project file, see Annex 8)
1. Economic (see Annex 4):
o Cost benefit    NPV=US$ million; ERR = % (see Annex 4)
O Cost effectiveness
* Other (specify)
The Eritrea IECDP seeks to operationalize the Eritrea Country Assistance Strategy's objective of
improving the country's human resource base as a means to achieving sustained long-term economic growth
and development. In particular, it uses a coordinated multi-sectoral approach to addressing young children's
growth and development needs during the ages when interventions are likely to create the greatest impact,
as shown by scientific evidence and based on sector work done in the Bank.
It also follows through on the recommendations of the 1996 WB Poverty Assessment which underscored,
among others, the need to address both urban-rural inequalities in terms of access to social services, as well
as gender differentials in terms of schooling performance. The IECDP supports the use of targeted
programs and safety nets to assist the most vulnerable groups in society by seeking to expand access to
ECD services to rural areas and disadvantaged groups such as mothers and girls. It will also strengthen the
ongoing efforts of the government to support children facing difficult circumnstances, particularly orphans.
Arnex 4 provides a detailed rationale for implementing this multi-sectoral program that seeks to strengthen
existing local capacity to improve services, and assists parents and communities to provide better care for
their young children in order to improve the poor social conditions and human resource base of the country.
Five reasons justify Govemment involvement:
a) Investments in ECD would compensate for the disadvantages associated with poverty such as poor
nutrition, school under-achievement, and delinquency [Ertrea's per capita gross domestic product
(GDP) is about US$ 200];
b) Aside from income constraints, imperfect markets exist with regard to information. Through IEC
parents will benefit from additional information about better ways to take care of their children
through the adoption of simple, low-cost practices;
c) Higher incidence of malnutrition due to poverty and the ongoing conflict between Eritrea and
Ethiopia, calls for immediate action to arrest the effects of malnutrition on brain development
which are generally irreversible;
d) The number of orphans is expected to increase in Eritrea because of the prolonged conflict between
Eritrea and Ethiopia and the prevalence of HIV/AIDS. If the Government does not intervene this
could lead to the creation of a class of "second-class citizens" and worsen inequalities which could
impinge on economic growth; and
e) Positive extemalities such as reducing the future burden on public resources due to poor health,
delinquency, and the prevalence of out-of-school and unemployed youth.
The integrated multi-sectoral approach proposed by this project will allow public funds to be used more
efficiently because of the following reasons:
a) Economies of scope can be achieved because households and communities will receive a
coordinated package of services such as IEC, training, food supplements and support for income
generating activities that will assist them in caring for their young children;
-19-



b) Contact time between service providers (facility-based or through extension services), caregivers,
and children will be maximized. For example, caregivers who bring their children to health centers
for diarrhea treatment can also get advice on nutrition and healthy practices, micro-nutrient
supplements and other services that allow beneficiaries to save on time and travel costs; and
c) The combined approach has more impact because evidence has shown that disadvantage in one
aspect of development generally tends to reinforce a child's disadvantage in others. The mutually
reinforcing nature of health, nutrition, and psycho-social developmental problems means that
integrated approaches to solving them benefit from synergy and have a much higher payoff than
projects or programs aimed at one aspect of child development.
In order to keep per beneficiary costs low while at the same time achieving its intended goals, the project
utilizes:
(a) cost-effective measures such as (i) an emphasis on primary health care services as most of the
proposed health and nutrition interventions including IMCI, growth monitoring, and the school
health program are not only relatively inexpensive to implement but also generate savings from
more expensive curative care; (ii) combining formal and non-formal channels of delivering ECE
services; and (iii) establishment of group homes instead of large orphanages; and
(b) cost minimizing measures such as (i) reducing food supplementation costs by using locally
produced vitamin-fortified supplementary foods and limiting the duration of supplementary feeding
support to 3 months maximum and (ii) building kindergartens next to primary schools and
including them in the cluster management of schools to maximize the use of available land, spread
supervision costs, and establish strong links between older and younger students and KG and
primary school teachers.
Appraisal focused on the two most critical risks of the project: implementation capacity and financial
sustainability, both of which could become more significant depending on the duration and intensity of the
ongoing border dispute between Eritrea and Ethiopia which could have substantial human and financial
resource implications. Agreements were reached on the following: In order to address possible
implementation capacity concems, the first year of the project will be mostly devoted to capacity-building
activities especially at the zoba level of administration, establishing and maintaining a system that enables
multi-sectoral teams to work together within the decentralized framework of administration, and collection
of important project baseline information.
In addition, taking into account both implementation and financial sustainability concems, total costs have
been reduced by 35% from US$ 76 million to US$ 49 million. As a result of this reduction in total project
costs, the total recurrent costs for the sixth year of the project, taking into account price and physical
contingencies, have been estimated at US$ 4.40 million for the 5 key participating ministries. Efforts will
be made to generate community financing of ECD activities. The Government is confident that the
projected level of recurrent expenditures is affordable because the estimated amount is within the agreed
fiscal framework for expenditures of the five participating ministries. The Government's agreement to
finance recurrent expenditures after the project closes is included as a key provision in the Letter of Sector
Policy for this project.
2. Financial (see Annex 5):
NPV=US$ million; FRR = % (see Annex 4)
The total cost of the 5 year program is US$ 49 million with IDA's contribution at approximately US$ 40
million (82%); Government's contribution is around US$ 4 million (8%), and among other extemal
partners, the Italian Cooperation has pledged approximately US$ 5 million (10%).
- 20 -



The project costs reflect a reasonable balance between capital and recurrent expenditures in order to ensure
that both access and quality concems are addressed. In particular, at least 55% of project costs'are devoted
to equipping, staffing, and maintaining existing and new facilities. In addition, about 17% of project costs
are allocated to training, workshops and technical assistance in order to improve the quality of services.
Fiscal Impact:
A significant portion of project costs will be covered by IDA (82%). The Government 's current share
(8%) will be able to cover project operating costs such as salaries and maintenance although this will be
insufficient to cover other relevant recurrent costs such as materials/supplies and drugs. This is not an
issue during the project implementation period although it will be critical for ensuring program
sustainability assuming that IDA funding ceases after 5 years, and other extemal partners are unable to
provide sufficient funds to cover the potential funding gap. In addition, even if IDA funding continues for a
second phase of the project, these new funds will be used to expand ongoing activities and introduce new
ones. Thus, the availability of local funds (community and/or Govemrnent) to sustain needed recurrent
expenditures to proceed with ongoing activities became an important focus of discussion during appraisal.
The total recurrent costs for the sixth year of the project, taking into account price and physical
contingencies is estimated at US$ 4.40 million for the 5 key participating ministries. Efforts will be made
to generate community financing of ECD activities (for example, financing of rural community caregivers
by the end of the project). Eritrea has a well-established history of community cohesion and involvement in
community self-help activities. However, the extent to which community contributions can be relied on
especially in the short and medium-term might take time so the Government would need to make a
commitment to shoulder recurrent expenses albeit on a declining basis as communities' ability to fund
programs improve. Based on discussions and an analysis of their fiscal situation, the Govemment is
confident that the estimated level of recurrent expenditures needed to continue the program is affordable
because it is within the agreed fiscal framework for expenditures of the 5 participating ministries. The
Government's commitment to finance recurrent expenditures after the project closes is included as a key
provision in the Letter of Sector Policy for this project.
It must be pointed out, however, that the above-estimated recurrent costs take into account only the
expenditures needed to maintain ongoing activities and do not take into consideration expansion or scaling
up of the program (for example, school health activities and both formal and nonformal ECE could be
expanded to other areas) which would necessitate additional capital and recurrent spending and
corresponding sources of financing.
3. Technical:
Most of the interventions being proposed are ongoing programs which have already been tried and tested in
Eritrea. For example, child growth monitoring and promotion, kindergartens, IEC activities, and orphan
reintegration have been implemented in the country for a long time. The new interventions that would be
introduced, such as training and mobilization of rural daycare providers and rural community caregivers,
will be phased in gradually after testing in the first year. Successful experiences on these kinds of programs
in other countries are drawn upon in the design.
Discussions during appraisal included:
a) Whether implementation of interventions across ministries is adequately sequenced in a
complementary fashion to maximize benefits. To the extent possible, the project action plan
especially for the first year of the project is being synchronized across sectors.
- 21 -



b) Establishment of clarity regarding the development of non-formal ECE interventions both in terms
of technical (preparation of guidelines and training program) and implementation aspects. It was
decided during the pre-appraisal mission that MOE will be responsible for technical supervision of
day care centers but there seems to be considerable overlap between MOE and MOLHW activities.
Therefore, there is need to clarify the extent and nature of collaboration between the two ministries.
This is an area that still warrants further discussion between both ministries who have agreed to
work out planning and implementation arrangements.
c) Clarity on implementation procedures for testing/piloting of the new interventions that would be
introduced and implemented in practice; as well as agreement on operational definitions/measures
of program outcomes and acceptable methods of program assessment. For example, how will
cognitive achievement be measured and how will the welfare impact of the orphan re-integration
program be measured? Who will measure these? Thus, it was agreed during appraisal that the
M&E and MIS sections in the PIM would need to be further developed. In this regard, the mission
team also suggested that an integrated MIS could be developed and maintained that links data or
key information across different ministries. This is important for evaluation purposes because of
the interrelationships across components. For example, nutritional status and growth data may be
one of the critical variables contributing to the academic achievement of children who are enrolled
in kindergartens. An additional major advantage of maintaining a central data base would be the
possibility of linking information collected under auspices of the ECD with a large scale data
management system (CHILDINFO system) now in place at UNICEF. This would permit direct
comparisons between the data collected in Eritrea and comparable data sets collected in other
relevant countries.
In terms of additional quality assurance mechanisms, the establishment of an extemal review committee
was also recommended by the mission team to complement monitoring activities to be undertaken by
participating ministries. This committee will be comprised of individuals who will not be directly involved
in the project and who can ideally meet at least once a year to review progress of the various activities and
make helpful suggestions and recommendations.
There is a need to further define how counseling/mental services will be provided to children. A number of
activities call for the counseling of school-age children with psychological difficulties and it is important that a
decision be reached regarding whether such responsibility will fall mainly on the MOH or MOLHW. At
present, the establishment of a Psycho-social Support Committee composed of medical and social
psychiatrists, ECE resource people, child specialists, representatives from the faculty of Asmara University is
being proposed to assist the PMT as an advisory board. Membership in this committee will be voluntary.
4. Institutional:
4.1 Executing agencies:
Overall, a suitable environment exists for the proper operation of the project. There is adequate support for
an accountability culture at high levels of the Government, and staff seem to be dedicated and have a clear
sense of responsibility.
Both the MOLG and MOH have been implementing Bank-funded projects since 1996 and 1998,
respectively, while the other ministries have no experience with Bank projects. In order to ensure that there
is sufficient capacity for project implementation, the project action plan/implementation manual has
included provisions for capacity-building such as recruitment and training to enable the participating
ministries to execute ECD activities as planned.
- 22 -



4.2 Project management:
Project management will be coordinated by the Ministry of Local Government through a PMT. The GOE
has already appointed the Project Manager. Project management is designed along the same structure as
the ECDF, considered to be one of the most successful IDA-supported projects in the country.
In order to address institutional capacity concerns, the project size has been scaled down by 35% from US$
76 million to US$ 49 million within the same project period of 5 years. In order to ensure that institutional
strengthening efforts at the central, regional, and local levels are sufficient to effectively manage and
execute a scaled-up project within the decentralized framework of the Government, it was also agreed that
the first year of the project will focus mainly on capacity building activities at all administrative levels,
especially at the zoba level.
It was also agreed that the PIM would provide a clear picture of project administration at the regional and
sub-regional levels, with a focus on how coordination of activities on a daily basis will be maintained at
these administrative levels. It was also agreed that the PIM will include a definition of roles of the
non-government entities involved in implementation, such as the National Unions of Women and Youth.
These unions have been recognized as important implementation partners by the ministries involved in ECD
and further discussion is needed to concretize implementation arrangements. Finally, given that one of the
goals of this project is to facilitate community participation in the management and management of
projects, it will be important to assess the institutional arrangements that will be in place to ensure that
interventions at the grassroots level meet certain quality standards and can be kept accountable. It was
agreed that the monitoring and evaluation section of the PIM would address this issue of promoting and
maintaining quality standards at various levels of project administration and implementation.
4.3 Procurement issues:
The project though in appearance complex due to the number of ministries involved, has a good probability
of being implemented in a satisfactory way because of the following reasons:
a) Adequate coordination and management structure, leaving to the individual ministries, the full
responsibility for the implementation of their respective sub-components,
b) Good coordination skills by the lead agency (MOLG) with previous satisfactory performance
under Bank-financed proj ects adding to a strong commitment by all participating agencies, and
c) Satisfactory staffing at central level for most leading executing agencies such as MOLG, MOH,
MOF and MOE. Additional staff are being trained at training institutes such as Eastern and
Southern Africa Management Institute (ESAMI) (however, staffing situation needs may change at
mid-project when more qualified staff will be required at the zonal level).
The satisfactory performance of this project is directly related to Bank-monitoring of its first 1-2 years.
This is the reason that close overview of procurement and six-month interval procurement audits are
strongly recommended for that period. In conclusion, the Bank project team will be just as responsible for
the good implementation of the project as the Borrower and its various executing agencies.
4.4 Financial management issues:
Financial management and reporting. Effective project management is essential in monitoring the
achievement of project inputs, outputs, and impact as well as to provide financial accountability with due
diligence to economy, and to conduct transparent procurement procedures in the awarding of contracts. The
PMT will be responsible for ensuring that financial management and reporting procedures for the project
will be acceptable to the Bank. Under the management of the Project Manager, the PMT will be responsible
- 23 -



for the entire financial management, accounting, and disbursement functions of the project, including
management of the Special Account, processing contracts and payments for goods and services.
Consultants will be hired to help the PMT develop a viable financial management system including a
comprehensive manual of financial procedures, chart of accounts, and fully integrated project accounting
structure, using appropriate accounting software. In addition, a suitably qualified and experienced Project
Financial Officer would be recruited to participate in the development of the financial management system,
and to guide and direct the financial management operations of the project.
The financial management system will produce a Project Financial Statement, including a Summary of
Sources and Uses of Funds, Special Account Reconciliation Statement, Cash Withdrawal Statement and
Cash Forecast. The chart of accounts will facilitate the presentation of summary expenditures by
component, activity and disbursement category. The PMT will maintain accounts, make payments for
eligible expenditures and manage the Special Accounts to be opened for the project.
Overall, the project will satisfy the Banks' minimum financial management requirements, but with risks
associated with general capacity limitations in the implementing agencies due to lack of staff with well
developed technical skills and professional accountancy accreditation. There are also organizational risks
associated with lack of clear written standards and procedures that give guidance for intemal control and
accounting, with clear delegation and segregation of duties. These risks may result in unintentional errors,
omissions, miscalculations, late submission of financial statements and financial statements that may not
reach intemational standards. Successful implementation of the financial management action plan will,
however, allow the project to satisfy the Bank's minimum requirements under OP/BP10.02.
Since the designated project accounting system has not yet been developed, there is not in place a financial
management system that can provide the information required by the Bank for the project management
report (PMR) based disbursements as stipulated in the Loan Administration Change Initiative (LACI)
Handbook. Thus, the short-term, existing disbursement procedures, outlined in the Bank's Disbursement
Handbook, will be followed (i.e. direct payment, reimbursement and special commitment, if appropriate).
The appointment of a reasonably qualified and experienced Project Financial Officer as well as the
successful implementation of the financial management system, with the help of financial management
consultants, should facilitate the introduction of PMR-based disbursements within about 18 months of
effectiveness. Actions required to attain LACI compliance were developed and agreed with the borrower at
appraisal. A financial management review of the program should be undertaken by a Bank Financial
Management Specialist within about 12 months of effectiveness to assess progress.
The appraisal mission reviewed the relevant outputs defined in the action plan that were due during
appraisal such as the draft outline of the manual of financial procedures. A revised schedule was discussed
and agreements reached regarding key milestones for Board presentation (for example, the appointment of
the Project Financial Officer and draft manual of financial procedures) and for effectiveness (for example,
establishment of a dedicated financial accounting system).
5. Environmental:                 Environmental Category: C (Not Required)
5.1 Summarize the steps undertaken for environmental assessment and EMP preparation (including
consultation and disclosure) and the significant issues and their treatment emerging from this analysis.
The project involves no major construction and supports only minor works for small kindergarten schools
and group homes in selected communities. At the same time, the project will support activities that promote
environmental health such as maintenance and use of safe latrines, improved food safety and hygiene
- 24 -



practices, water source protection and handling, prevention of ARI through indoor air pollution reduction
interventions (e.g. promotion of improved kitchen/household ventilation), and proper waste disposal at
facility and household levels. As part of the ECE component, health and sanitation clubs will also be
piloted in selected schools to coordinate health and sanitation activities in the school and community. The
project will also develop a strong IEC campaign that will deliver a coordinated, pre-tested set of messages
that include the adoption of health, hygienic, environmentally friendly practices. The IEC campaign
strategy will be based on a baseline KABP survey in all 6 regions.
5.2 What are the main features of the EMP and are they adequate?
N/A
5.3 For Category A and B projects, timeline and status of EA:
Date of receipt of final draft:
N/A
5.4 How have stakeholders been consulted at the stage of (a) environmental screening and (b) draft EA
report on the environmental impacts and proposed environment management plan? Describe mechanisms
of consultation that were used and which groups were consulted?
N/A
5.5 What mechanisms have been established to monitor and evaluate the impact of the project on the
environment? Do the indicators reflect the objectives and results of the EMP?
N/A
6. Social:
6.1 Summarize key social issues relevant to the project objectives, and specify the project's social
development outcomes.
The program is likely to have a positive social impact because it aims to contribute to the improved growth
and holistic development of young children. It also seeks to promote equity by emphasizing services geared
towards rural, under-served areas, as well as disadvantaged groups such as mothers and children,
especially girls. It also supports services for children facing difficult circumstances (orphans).
Health and ECE interventions will seek to target the nomadic populations (about 30% of the total
population in Eritrea is composed of agro-pastoralists). The MOH will expand its present IMCI program
and MOE will also focus on establishing appropriate formal and nonformal early childhood education
interventions. A baseline survey will be undertaken to assist in designing suitable methods of service
delivery, as well as for monitoring and evaluating progress.
6.2 Participatory Approach: How are key stakeholders participating in the project?
The project will benefit the target group of 560,000 Eritrean young children age zero to six, 310,000
primary school children and about 32,000 orphans. It will also benefit mothers, caregivers, families,
primary school children, children facing difficult circumstances who may be older than 6 years of age,
teachers, agricultural extension workers, social workers, and health workers.
Formative research has been undertaken by the MOA to provide information on child care and feeding
practices of rural households in selected sites. The results of the survey were not available during project
pre-appraisal. Additional household and community surveys will be conducted to provide baseline data
- 25 -



that will also give guidance on how to appropriately adapt interventions to effectively address the local
situation and to determine possible cost-sharing mechanisms.
Project preparation involved the participation of nine ministries (including the MOA) which have strong
links with rural households through its extension workers), Asmara University, and key organizations
(NUEY and NUEW) who have worked extensively with communities. NUEY has a membership of about
100,000 and NUEW has a membership of at least 200,000. The project has been discussed with key
external partners such as the Italian Cooperation, DANIDA, UNICEF and USAID. A workshop involving
the zobas has already taken place and additional workshops will be held to discuss the project concept and
draft PIM with other stakeholders and obtain and incorporate their feedback.
6.3 How does the project involve consultations or collaboration with NGOs or other civil society
organizations?
N/A
6.4 What institutional arrangements have been provided to ensure the project achieves its social
development outcomes?
N/A
6.5 How will the project monitor performance in terms of social development outcomes?
N/A
7. Safeguard Policies:
7.1 Do any of the following safeguard policies applv to the project?
t                                      i .   f   -.  l <=s   ..... ER Bi B g ................................................... . . . . . . . . . .... . . . . . . . . . .-. .
E Environmental Assessment (OP 4.01. BP 4.01 GP 4.01)                   Yes 1 No
O Natural habitats (OP 4.04, BP 4.04, GP 4.04)                       El Yes O No
L Forestry (OP 4.36, GP 4.36)                                        L Yes O No
[I Pest Management (OP 4.09)                                          l Yes LI No
L Cultural Property (OPN 11.03)                                     FO Yes ZI No
El Indigenous Peoples (OD 4.20)                                      E Yes 1 No
l Involuntary Resettlement (OD 4.30)                                 El Yes ZX No
l Safety of Dams fOP 4.37. BP 4.37)                                   l Yes O No
Projects in International Waters (OP 7.50, BP 7.50, GP 7.50)        l Yes LI No
EL Projects in Disputed Areas (OP 7.60, BP 7.60. GP 7.60)            71 Yes LI No
7.2 Describe provisions made by the project to ensure compliance with applicable safeguard policies.
N/A
F. Sustainability and Risks
1. Sustainability:
The Government recognizes that the healthy growth and holistic development of young children is a critical
input to its human resource development goal. It has demonstrated its commitment by preparing an
integrated ECD program that expands and improves the quality of ongoing ECD-related activities being
undertaken by various ministries, using a coordinated approach.
- 26 -



Behavior change of parents and families towards better child care is key to the sustainable impact of this
program. Advocacy will be used to generate support and interest from policymakers, communities and
other stakeholders. IEC based on data collected from baseline KABP surveys will be used to enhance
parent and caregiver appreciation and understanding of the benefits of ECD, as well as improve their
knowledge and practices with regard to their children's care and development.
In order to ensure program sustainability, special attention, during appraisal, was addressed to:
(a) Training and capacity building. The scale and scope of the project was reduced by 35% to take
into account implementation capacity concems. It was also agreed that the first year of the project
would focus mainly on capacity building activities based on a review of components that cover
training and capacity-building activities at all administrative levels, at district offices, at facility
levels (health units and childhood centers), and in communities. Furthermore, linkages in
implementation with existing administrative structures, as well as the creation of networks/links
between the NUEW/NUEY and communities will be discussed in the PIM.
(b) Financial sustainability. Project costs were reduced from US$ 75 million to US$ 49 million.
This also resulted in a corresponding decrease in the amount of recurrent expenditures that
would need to be financed locally once the project ceases (i.e. from the sixth year onwards).
The GOE assumes that the share of local funding will increase during the course of the
project as communities are mobilized and trained to manage and finance their own ECD
programs. At present, the GOE has a nation-wide policy that is designed to encourage the
local population (depending on ability to pay) to contribute about 3-5% to the cost of the
activities from savings, income generating activities, service charges, and donations in kind
and in cash. However, should community contributions be insufficient to cover the entire
recurrent financing of ECD activities, the GOE is prepared to shoulder the estimated
recurrent costs of at least US$ 4.40 million to sustain ECD activities. This has already been
discussed among the participating ministries together with the Ministry of Finance and this
amount has already been committed as stated in the GOE's Letter of Sector Policy. This
amount, however, will only take care of financing recurrent costs for ongoing activities of the
project; additional financing would be needed if the project is to be scaled-up.
2. Critical Risks (reflecting assumptions in the fourth column of Annex 1):
Risk                   Risk Rating           Risk Minimization Measure
From Outputs to Objective
Program interventions may fail to deliver  M         The project will build on ongoing ECD
expected results                                     interventions that are working in Eritrea. Most
of the interventions have been tried and tested in
other countries. Care will be taken to adapt
other new interventions to local needs and
situations. Implementation of new interventions
such as nonformal ECE will be phased and
evaluated. Phasing of implementation will also
take into account institutional capacity. M & E
will systematically keep track of program
performance.
- 27 -



Difficulties in changing attitudes and      S        National and local campaigns using all available
practices of parents and caregivers                  channels of communication, especially
home-based visits/extension services. IEC
efforts will be based on results of KAP surveys
and will be pre-tested before being launched
formally. IEC campaigns will be complemented
by home visits and provision of appropriate
resources (water and sanitation, educational
materials, some funds) so that communities
would have the opportunity to apply what they
have learned
Unclear definition of roles and            M         The operational manual will establish clear
responsibilities among all administrative            institutional and implementation responsibilities
levels and slow decision-making and                  at all administrative levels. Accountability will
mechanism for disbursement of funds                  be well-defined.
within the decentralized framework                   A financial procedures manual is being prepared
that will pay special attention to establishing an
appropriate financial management and
administration system that takes into account the
multi-sectoral and decentralized management
and implementation of this project.
The project is building on the implementation
and management set-up of the successful ECDF
project. A Project Management Team in
MOLG will manage the project.
Institutional capacity to manage the program
will be strengthened.
From Components to Outputs
Inadequate capacity/resources to            S        Activities will be phased to take into account
implement a coordinated ECD strategy                 current capacity/resources. If necessary,
throughout the country                               program could be extended to 6 years so that
first year could focus on capacity building
activities.
Delays in preparation and official         N         The government has expressed its commitment
approval of a Coordinated ECD Policy                 towards designing a coordinated, multi-sectoral
and Strategy                                         ECD policy as soon as possible. Separate
ECD-related policies and strategies are already
in place in the key ministries. The National
Five-Year Plan has been prepared by the
different ministries in consultation with each
other, and ECD activities have been clearly
defined and budgeted for.
Inadequate acceptance/support for ECD      M         Inadequate acceptance/support for ECD strategy
strategy and interventions at regional and           and interventions at regional and grassroots level
grassroots level
- 28 -



Overall Risk Rating                          M          Project risks would be minimized through the
preparation of a coordinated ECD strategy that
has the support of key stakeholders (through
consultations and intensive promotional
campaigns). Current capacity for project
implementation and management will be
carefully accounted for in the project design and
activities will be phased accordingly while
institutional strengthening takes place.
Risk Rating - H (High Risk), S (Substantial Risk), M (Modest Risk), N(Negligible or Low Risk)
3. Possible Controversial Aspects:
None
G. Main Loan Conditions
1. Effectiveness Conditions
a) the Borrower has put in place the Financial Management System for the Project in form and
substance satisfactory to the Association;
b) the Borrower has furnished to the Association the Project Implementation Manual in form and
substance satisfactory to the Association;
c) the Borrower has furnished to the Association the Action Plan for the first year of the Project in
form and substance satisfactory to the Association; and
d) the Borrower has paid into the Project Account the Initial Deposit.
2. Other [classify according to covenant types used in the Legal Agreements.]
Board
Letter of Sector Policy finalized and submitted to the Bank.
- 29 -



H. Readiness for Implementation
0 1. a) The engineering design documents for the first year's activities are complete and ready for the start
of project implementation.
1 1. b) Not applicable.
[Z 2. The procurement documents for the firstyear's activities are complete and ready for the start of
project implementation
1 3. The Project Implementation Plan has been appraised and found to be realistic and of satisfactory
quality.
0 4. The following items are lacking and are discussed under loan conditions (Section G):
1. Compliance with Bank Policies
E 1. This project complies with all applicable Bank policies.
El 2. The following exceptions to Bank policies are recommended for approval. The project complies with
all other applicable Bank policies.
Marito  . Garcia                  Arvil Van Ads                      Oey A        Meesook
Team Leader                       Sector Manager/Director            Country Manager/Director
- 30 -



Annex 1: Project Design Summary
ERITREA: Integrated Early Childhood Development Project
Sector-related CAS Goal:   Sector Indicators:        Sector/ country reports:    (from Goal to Bank Mission)
Poverty reduction by      Quality of life measured by    National demographic and    Poverty reduction will require
enhancing human resources  reduction in Infant Mortality  health survey         broad and sustained
through investments and TA   and under-5 Mortality Rates                        development
aimed at improving the
quality and quantity of
services targeted to young
children
Project Development       Outcome / Impact           Project reports:           (from Objective to Goal)
Objective:                Indicators:
Contribute to the holistic  % reduction in the prevalence Baseline, mid-term, and  ECD program is sufficient to
growth and development of   of major child illnesses  project-end review surveys   improve health, nutrition and
560,000 children from 0-6                                                       schooling outcomes
years of age, 310,000 primary 20% reduction in case fatality Reports from sectoral
school children and 32,000   rate of children (five major   ministries
children facing difficult  causes: malaria, ARI,
circumstances (orphans and   diarrhea, measles, and
children with special needs)   malnutrition)
20% decrease in malnutrition
(stunting, wasting, and
underweight) at the
community level
Improvement in learning   Tracer/evaluation studies
achievement) of ECD
participants relative to
non-ECD participants
15% decrease in repetition
and 20% reduction in drop-out
rates of children between
grades 1 and 2 in project areas
Improvement in quality of
social reintegration of
orphaned children in group
homes and of those reunified
with their families
- 31 -



Output from each           Output Indicators:         Project reports:            (from Outputs to Objective)
component:
A. Improve coverage and                                                           Assumes that attitudes and
quality of ECD services                                                           practices of parents,
(health, nutrition, education,                                                    caregivers, and communities
and social protection) to                                                         can be changed by improved
young children atfacility and                                                     awareness through IEC and
household levels                                                                  training
1. Child Health            a. number and % of health    - Training records        - Assumes minimal delays in
workers trained in IMCI at   - progress reports based on   the preparation and
national, regional,        MIS                        establishment of ECD policy
community, and health facility - survey of selected health   framework, and acceptance of
levels (relative to plan)  facilities                 policy and strategy by regions
b. number and % of health    - supervision reports    and communities
facilities stocked with    - evaluation mission reports
essential drugs and medical                           - Assumes adequate support
supplies to treat sick children                       from regions and communities
and mothers                                           to follow through on
c. % of health facilities with                        coordinated approach across
access to safe water supply                           all key stakeholders
d. % of communities and
households reached by IEC    - qualitative participatory  - Clear definition of roles and
messages related to health and - evaluation reports   responsibilities among all
nutrition                                             administrative levels,
e. increased knowledge                                including accountability for
among parents so that at least                        decision-making and
75% of them know the key                              mechanisms for timely
prevention principles for  - PMT and MIS reports      disbursement of funds within
malaria, diarrhea, ARI,    - Survey of schools        the decentralized framework.
measles, and malnutrition
e. number and % of
kindergarten and lower
primary schools that have
functioning school health  - MIS report
program (regular physical    - Health facility records
exams administered by health
workers; counseling services)
f. health facility service  - Beneficiary assessments,
utilization rate
g. level of satisfaction with
service
- 32 -



2. Child and Maternal     a. number of workers and    - PMT and MIS reports
Nutrition                 home and extension agents    - Training records
from MOH, MOA, and        - Supervision mission reports
Ministry of Fisheries who  - Survey of health facilities
received special training in   and schools
nutrition
b. number of communities
monitoring growth of children
c. % of communities that
have received locally adapted,
infant and maternal dietary
counseling (target is 75% of
communities by 2004)
d. number of food insecure
children
e. number of children
weighed by growth monitoring
and promotion program at
community level           - Beneficiary assessments
g. number and% of
mothers/caregivers practicing
proper feeding practices
3. Early Childhood        a. number and % of         - PMT and MIS reports
Education and Care        kindergarten schools and ECE
regional resource centers  - supervision mission reports
established (relative to plan)
b. number and % of teachers, - evaluation reports
teacher assistants, directors,
and rural community       - survey of ECE resource
caregivers trained relative to  centers, kindergartens, and
plan                      nonformal care centers
c. % of ECE centers equipped
with sufficient learning
materials and supplies
d.% of communities and
households reached by IEC
messages related to ECE and
psycho-social stimulation  - Community/beneficiary
(need for play, touch, and  assessments
communication)
g. participation rate of
children in ECE programs
h. net enrollment rate in
kindergartens (4 to 6 year-old
children)
i. gender parity index (ratio of
girls/boys enrolled) in
kindergarten
- 33 -



4. Support for children   a. No. and % of orphans
facing difficult circumstances reunited with their relatives   - PMT and MIS reports
(orphan reintegration     (target is 32,000)         - Supervision mission reports
program)                  b. % of target orphans cared  - Evaluation mission reports
for in home-based facilities   (mid-term and final)
and group homes           - Survey of selected sample of
c. no. of group homes     families and group homes
established
d. % of target households
who are recipients of income
generating funds
e. no. and % of social workers,
community leaders and other
providers of services for
children in difficult
circumstances trained in ECD
and child protection
f. No. and % of communities
sensitized on children's rights
and protection, causes of child
vulnerability and appropriate
preventive measures
B. Strengthen Integrated  a. Integrated ECD strategy    - Progress reports from
ECD program               prepared and approved      central, regional, district
implementation, management b. IEC Strategy Plan for ECD  kcommunity levels.
and strategic communications developed and pre-tested
c. Number of stakeholder
sensitization/ discussion
workshops on ECD held
d. Number and % of
communities implementing
integrated ECD interventions
e. Increase in resources
allocated by regions and
communities to ECD services.
f. % of actual vs. projected
disbursements by major
component
34 -



Project Components        I inputs: (budget for each    Project reports:     (from Components to
Sub-components:           component)                                          Outputs)
1. Improving Child Health   US$ 11.90 million       Quarterly and annual progress Assumes proposed
a. Improving skills of health                       reports, disbursement reports  capacity-building and
personnel                                                                     resources are sufficient to
b. Improving health system                                                   implement a coordinated,
c. School health                                                              multi-sectoral ECD program
d. Environmental health                                                      throughout the country
interventions
e. Community empowerment,
communications for behavior
change, IEC
f. Monitoring, supervision,
evaluation
2. Improving Child and    US$ 5.20 million
Maternal Nutrition
a. Improvement in household
food security
b. Improve Nutritional Status
c. Empower Targeted
Community
d. Capacity building in MOA
and MOH for nutrition.
e. Project supervision
3. Improving Early        US$ 13.60 million
Childhood Education and
Care
a. Establishment of 105
additional kindergartens,
provision of materials,
training of preschool teachers,
and support for caregivers.
b. Promoting quality by
establishment of 6 regional
resource centers, improving
leaming materials,
professional support
c. School health and sanitation
program
d. Mobilization and
community participation
e. Institutional capacity
building to support early
childhood education and care,
and IEC/communications
- 35 -



4. Supportfor Children in    US $ 12.40 million
Difficut Circumnstances
Reintegration of 32,000
orphans program (including
group home, orphanage
managed programs,
microenterprise scheme)
Institutional capacity building
5. Project Managenent,   US$ 5.90 million
Evaluation and Strategic
Communications
- 36 -



Annex 2: Project Description
ERITREA: Integrated Early Childhood Development Project
The main objective of the IECDP is to promote the healthy growth and holistic development of children
under 6 years of age, primary school age children, and children in difficult circumstances. The project will
provide services and support for young children's basic needs: health care, nutrition, social protection,
cognitive stimulation, affection and early education. The program will equip parents, mothers, caregivers
and the community with knowledge and services to support child growth and development, targeted at
vanous stages of the young child's development in the critical early years. Mothers and caregivers will be
provided with knowledge on how to deal with childhood illnesses, improve existing nutrition behaviors, and
the value of cognitive stimulation in the early years. Health clinics will be equipped to address the major
childhood illnesses. Access to early childhood education through kindergartens will also be improved.
Orphans from the long civil conflict and AIDS will be assisted. Health services for children in the primary
schools will also be provided.
The program will be nationwide in scope, reaching about: 560,000 children between 0-6 years; 310,000
primary school-aged children; and 32,000 orphans over a 5-year project implementation period
(2000-2005). Interventions will be divided into age-appropriate categories, i.e. those targeted towards the
younger age group of 0-3 years and those aimed at the older age-group of 4 to 6 years. While some
interventions such as IEC are expected to cover about 560,000 young children, some activities are expected
to cover subsets of these children; for example kindergarten provision and nonformal early childhood
education and care will target about 31,000 and 90,000 children respectively; the orphan reunification
program will target about 32,000 children, and supplementary therapeutic feeding will target severely
malnourished children.
The secondary targets of the program are mothers, caregivers, teachers, agricultural extension workers,
health workers, and families.
The Eritrea IECDP will implement this multi-sectoral ECD program within the Government's decentralized
fiamework. It involves the participation of 6 ministries (MOLG, which will serve as the lead implementing
agency; MOE; MOH; MOA; MF; MOLHW; and MOI) together with key organizations such as those of
NUEW, NUEY and Asmara University.
The total cost of IECDP is estimated at US$ 49 million of which about 82% US$ 40 million) is expected to
be funded by IDA.
IECDP is grouped into 5 major components for implementation and budget purposes:
1. Improving Child Health
2. Improving Child and Matemal Nutrition
3. Improving Early Childhood Education and Care
4. Support for Children in Need of Special Protection Measures
5. Project Management, Evaluation and Strategic Communications
- 37 -



By Component:
Project Component I - US$11.90 million
Improving Child Health. The objective of this component is to reduce childhood morbidity and mortality
by improving case management and preventive skills of health staff and empowering communities and
caregivers to improve family/child health care practices. Interventions will include:
a) improving skills of health workers and caregivers through the IMCI program provided at health
facility and community levels. This will be achieved through:
(i) On-the-job/operational level training. At the national level, experts will be identified to
provide support for planning, training, evaluation, and monitoring. The use of IMCI focal
points will be encouraged. At the regional level, Regional Health Management Teams will be
trained on IMCI in order to provide the needed support for IMCI implementation at the health
facility. The strategy will be part of the regional plan of action. At the health facility level all
health workers who are involved in health care of children will be equipped with skills for
proper treatment, counseling and prevention of diarrhea, ART, malaria, measles, and
malnutrition. At the community level, the capacity of community health workers, agricultural
extension workers, and teachers will be improved through appropriate training, monitoring and
supervision of their activities
(ii) Pre-service training as another means of improving health worker skills will be provided by the
Health Sciences Institute of the Ministry of Health and the Health Sciences faculty of Asmara
University.
b) improving the health system to enhance child health through provision of drugs, medical
equipment and supplies and strengthening procurement, storage and distribution mechanisms
c) improving family and communitv practices with the focus on strengthening the links between
households and health facilities, as well as between caretakers/parents and trained health workers.
Support will be given through training and IEC to promote appropriate and consistent adoption of
healthy practices such as exclusive breasgfeeding, improved complementary feeding practices,
adequate micro-nutrient intake or supplementation, safe waste disposal, appropriate care-seeking
and correct treatment of infections will be strengthened.
d) environmental health interventions to control childhood illnesses through promotion, maintenance
and use of safe latrines, improved food safety and hygiene, water source protection and handling,
prevention of ARI through indoor air pollution reduction interventions (e.g. promotion of improved
kitchen/household ventilation), and improved collaboration (a combined malaria and HIV/AIDS
project is being prepared by the Government for IDA funding) in the prevention of malaria and
other vector bome diseases
e) school health interventions which MOH will manage in collaboration with the Ministry of
Education. Key health messages will be included as part of teacher training and Life skills training
in the school curriculum. Regular provision of primary eye care, oral health, EENT examinations,
skin examinations and mental health care will be undertaken by trained health workers and
technicians when available in nearby health facilities.
f) improving IEC/communications for behavioral change which will focus mainly on
parents/caregivers while at the same time creating a supportive environment for ECD through a
national and regional level advocacy campaign on child health and nutrition. These m_ssages will
be developed as a package together with other messages that deal with matemal health and
nutrition, environmental health, and HIV/AIDS. Capacity-building for effective communication
- 38 -



skills will be carried out at national, regional and sub-regional levels to improve interpersonal
communication skills of both health workers and other partners involved in message dissemination.
g) supervision, support. monitoring and evaluation and research. The regional health offices under
the regional administration will be responsible for the implementation of this component. The
MOH will be responsible for the technical supervision and monitoring of this component.
Project Component 2 - US$5.20 million
Improving Child and Maternal Nutrition. The objective of this component is to improve the nutritional
status of children under 5 years, and pregnant and nursing mothers. Interventions will include:
a) building capacities of families and communities for improving the nutritional and health status of
children through parent/care provider education, institutionalizing a community based
growth-monitoring system, targeted supplementary feeding, and improving the referral system for
sick and malnourished children (will be closely linked with IMCI under the Improving Child
Health component).
b) reducing micro and macro-nutrient deficiencv bv vitamin A and iron supplementation and
increasing iodized salt consumption, therapeutic feeding for growth faltering children within a
limited period of time (approximately 3 months), and increasing availability of low-cost
complementary food for children.
c) interventions to improve food security especially for children in the target population. Project
funds will be used to support preparatory (baseline) and training activities that will be linked, in
tum, to the credit window of the Home Economics Unit of the MOA that is being supported by
other donors. Through this sub-component, women will be selected for special training sessions
that will equip them with skills in improving household level nutrition and in a selected income
generating activity such as poultry, bee keeping, home gardening, goat/sheep rearing, and
horticulture. This component will also support the efforts of the MF in promoting increased
consumption of fish as a measure to improve food security and nutrition. This sub-component will
include training of home extension agents to teach women to include fish in household diets.
d) building capacity within ministries to implement the nutrition component, as well as the capacity
for research, analysis and development of new approaches will be improved.
Implementation will be decentralized through the regional health offices, agriculture offices, and fisheries
within the zoba administration. The Primary Health Care (PHC) division of the MOH, together with the
Home Economics Unit of the MOA and MF will be responsible for the technical supervision and
monitoring of this component.
Project Component 3 - US$ 13.60 million
Improving Early Childhood Education and Care. This component seeks to:
a) improve access to and quality of early childhood education (ECE)
b) improve primary school health environment
c) enhance institutional capacity of all administrative levels, especially that of communities, to
undertake childcare and ECE and effectively supervise and monitor ECE activities
- 39 -



Interventions will include:
a) increasing access to early childhood education and care which requires the provision of learning
facilities, adequately trained teachers and staff, and development of non-formal provision of ECE.
This sub-component will support the establishment of (i) additional 105 kindergartens in rural
areas; (ii) training and provision of 315 preschool teachers, 735 teacher assistants, 105 directors
and 250 community caregivers; and (iii) provision of learning materials and supplies.
The training program for teachers will cover one academic year while teacher assistants will be
trained for 3 months. Initial training for rural community caregivers will be for one month. The
training of directors will be used as a basis for creating a strong network system of trainers to be
used for local support. Efforts will also be made to integrate ECE management and organization in
the training programs for directors and supervisors because ECE institutions will be part of the
cluster management organization of schools.
Community caregivers will participate in organizing children in a nonformal way to play together,
listen to stories, sing together, and participate in creative activities using locally available
materials. The community caregivers will also be involved in educating parents about the benefits
of ECE and ways to cognitively stimulate their children.
The support for caregivers will be managed and administered by the sub-regional education
authorities. Workshops will be organized in the regional resource centers. Workshop discussions
will be participatory and caregivers will have the opportunity to reflect on their experiences and
discuss ways to address problems they encounter in their work. The workshops will also discuss
innovative methods developed by the caregivers.
Continuous discussions, seminars and evaluations of the activities and ways of developing them
through the active participation of the communities will be sought. The caregivers will be
beneficiaries of the regional resource centers. The resource centers will organize three-day skills
upgrading workshops for caregivers twice a year to assess their performance and improve their
skills.
b) Improved quality of early childhood education and care will be achieved through the
development of enhanced learning materials and teaching aids and by providing continuous support
to teachers to help them adapt the ECE program to their own local situation, introduce innovations,
and develop their own supplementary leaming materials and aids. Support for teachers and
community caregivers will be provided mainly through the six regional resource centers that will be
established. The regional resource centers will be used for evaluating the activities of all the staff
deployed in ECE, and will be used as venues for the sharing of experiences and the reproduction of
innovations. Regular workshops will be conducted in these centers. Guidelines will be prepared for
use in the centers for training purposes.
Kindergartens will be part of the cluster management of schools. ECE staff and rural community
caregivers will be locally trained through the professional support of the local supervisors. The
School Pedagogic Resource Centers established in each cluster of the school system will be used
for ECE training.
c) School health and sanitation program. This sub-component will address the hygiene and
sanitation situation of children in about 30% rural primary schools and KG centers by establishing
deep pit latrines and garbage disposal areas in each school and center. To maximize the effective
use and cleanliness of the latrines and address other hygiene and sanitation problems in schools,
each school will establish a health and sanitation club. The health and sanitation clubs will be used
as effective tools for influencing the children in KG centers and the community as well. In
- 40 -



connection with the primary health care system established, routine health check-ups of children in
both KGs and lower primary level schools will be provided by trained staff from MOH. Potable
water in schools will be provided. Establishment of supplementary feeding programs in schools to
improve the nutritional status of disadvantaged children will be reviewed.
d) Institutional capacitv building for management and supervision of early childhood care and
education. Mechanisms for collecting and analyzing data and a well-functioning MIS will be
established. Efforts will be made through advocacy (IEC) and training to engage the participation
of parents and communities in the management, control and financing of the ECE process and to
strengthen the relationship between parents and ECD providers (teachers, assistants, daycare
providers, and community caregivers).
The Regional Education Offices, working within the zoba administration, will implement the
activities in collaboration with the NUEW and NUEY. The MOE will be primarily responsible for
the technical supervision and monitoring of this component. through the Department of General
Education. This is done through the Curriculum Division of the General Education Department.
The Pre-school Education Panel in this division will be responsible for supervision of project
activities. There will be close collaboration with the University of Asmara in the areas of research
and training.
Project Component 4 - US$12.40 million
Support for Children in Need of Special Protection Measures. The objective of this component is to
strengthen the traditional safety nets for child care and protection through community-based reintegration
and psycho-social support for orphans. It specifically seeks to:
a) reintegrate 32,000 orphans - including disabled, displaced and expelled orphans as well as
abandoned street children
b) minimize the long-term social and psychological problems of Eritrean orphans
c) strengthen the ability of families to financially cope by means of income-generating programs
d) increase awareness of the communities about the need for community based interventions for
orphans and to encourage and strengthen community-based initiatives to support these orphans
e) build the capacity of personnel at the national, regional and community level involved in offering
services, with special emphasis on the recruitment of appropriate personnel at the local community
level
f) improve program supervision, monitoring and evaluation by establishing a computer base
information system for monitoring the condition of the orphans and their families, to document the
progress of their reintegration, to assess the efficacy of the psycho-social interventions, to carry out
long-term follow up studies in order to evaluate the program as a whole, and to perform
longitudinal research .
The project will provide services for 3 separate groups of orphans who are currently living in different
social circumstances:
a) children for whom extended families can be reunified with extended families
b) children who cannot be reunified and who will be placed in group-homes that will attempt to
emulate an extended family environment
- 41 -



c) very young orphans (infants) who are perhaps, most urgently in need of a family environment, and
who cannot wait for reunification or placement in group-homes. A dedicated adoption program will
be initiated and implemented to provide humane care for these infants.
Interventions will include:
a) psycho-social support and reintegration of 32,000 orphan children with their extended families
b) support for income-generating activities for 12,000 host families
c) establishment of 10 community group homes for children who cannot be reunified with relatives
d) adoption program for 500 orphans
e) institutional capacity building to support the above activities, including IEC/communications
f) program monitoring and evaluation.
The regional offices of the MOLHW, which are part of the z oba government administration of the MOLG
will be responsible for the execution of planned activities. The Child and Family Welfare sections of the 6
regions will be responsible for tracing families and reintegrating children, as well as supervising the
construction of group homes. They will also provide group guidance, psychological counseling for children
with emotional problems, follow-up the developmental progress of the reintegrated children and send a
quarterly progress report to the project director at a national.
The Ministry of Labor and Human Welfare will be responsible for technical supervision and monitoring of
this component. At the national level the child and family welfare director within the Department of Social
Welfare, with the support of the Research and Human Resource Division of the Ministry, will design work
plans, prepare guidelines, procedures and formats. The project director supported by his staff will conduct
regular field visits to the project sites to follow-up the activities of the project. The Research and Human
Resource division of the Ministry will also organize training programs for staff and participate in the
evaluation of the overall program.
Project Component 5 - US$5.90 million
Project Management, Evaluation and Strategic Communications. This component will support the
over-all management of the multi-sectoral program; all the other components have their respective budgets
and activities to support institutional strengthening. This component also includes 3 important
cross-cutting activities:
a) advocacy and awareness for ECD issues which will be achieved through advocacy and
sensitization campaigns in communities by local authorities, women's groups, youth groups,
workers union, employers groups, through the school system, health system, agricultural extension
system, through mass media, including radio, TV and print
b) an Innovation Fund that supports new activities that are developed at the community, sub-regional,
and regional levels. The rationale for the establishment of this fund is that most of the activities
being supported by the ECD program are existing ones and this fund will provide some flexibility
in financing innovative interventions that respond to the special needs of children, as well as in
financing the development of guidelines for appraising these activities for cost-effectiveness and
sustainability
- 42 -



c) integrated ECD program evaluation/survey and research. Baseline and follow-up surveys will be
undertaken together with the regular project supervision and progress reviews. Preparations are
underway for the development of an Integrated Management Information System that links key
information across participating ministries, regions, and other relevant data websites such as
UNICEF's CHIILDINFO system. In terms of additional quality assurance mechanisms, the
establishment of an external review committee to complement monitoring activities to be
undertaken by participating ministries was suggested by the appraisal mission and is being
considered by the Government.
These activities will be coordinated centrally by the PMT at the Ministry of Local Government.
- 43 -



Annex 3: Estimated Project Costs
ERITREA: Integrated Early Childhood Development Project
Improving Child Health                                    6.00          4.50        10.50
Improving Child & Matemal Nutrition                       4.20          0.40         4.60
Improving Early Childhood Education & Care               11.50          0.30        11.80
Support for Children in Need of Special Protection Measures  11.40      0.30        11.70
Project Management, Evaluation & Strategic Communication  4.40          1.05         5.45
Total Baseline Cost                                      37.50          6.55        44.05
Physical Contingencies                                   1.00          1.00         2.00
Price Contingencies                                      2.50          0.45         2.95
Total Project Costs             41.00          8.00        49.00
Total Financing Required             41.00          8.00        49.00
nlig   .    ........   .........ig                     Tota
Goods (Equipment, Furniture, Vehicles, Materials,           7.50          5.75         13.25
Therapeutic Feeding and Drugs)
Works                                                       7.70                        7.70
Consultant's Services, Studies, Training and Innovative     7.90          0.80          8.70
Activities
Special Grants                                              9.30                        9.30
Operating Costs (Salaries, Maintenance, Fuel)               5.10                        5.10
Physical Contingencies                                      1.00          1.00          2.00
Price Contingencies                                         2.50          0.45          2.95
Total Project Costs    41.00          8.00         49.00
Total Financing Required     41.00          8.00        49.00
- 44 -



Annex 4
ERITREA: Integrated Early Childhood Development Project
Economic and Financial Analysis
The Government of Eritrea has demonstrated its commitment to human resource development through the
establishment of policies and strategies that seek to mitigate the decades of lost opportunities for growth
because of thirty years of war prior to 1991. In particular, it has undertaken concrete steps to address its
poor social conditions (the 1999 UN Human Development Report ranked Eritrea 167th out of 174
countries in terms of its human development index) through various sector specific policies and programs
that target young children. The Government now aims to adopt a more strategic approach to addressing
young children's needs through an integrated Early Childhood Development Program that coordinates the
various existing sector-specific policies and programs. This program will be nationwide in scope with an
emphasis on expanding access to rural areas and disadvantaged groups such as poor households and girls.
This economic analysis of the Eritrea IECDP will:
a) examine the links between the proposed project and the World Bank's Country Assistance
Strategy for Eritrea and other sector work
b) determine the rationale for public intervention and the World Bank's involvement
c) estimate the costs and examine the benefits of the project
d) ascertain the fiscal impact of the proposed project given available funds and other constraints
e) assess the constraints and risks in the sustainability of the project.
Links with the CAS and available sector work
The project is fully consistent with the latest Country Assistance Strategy (CAS) for Eritrea. The
Eritrea CAS seeks to improve the country's human resource base as a means to achieving sustained
long-term economic growth and development. In particular, this project is based on a multi-sectoral
strategic framework that seeks to address young children's growth and development needs during the
ages when interventions are likely to create the greatest impact, as shown by scientific evidence
(Young, 1995) and based on sector work done in the Bank (Young, 1995; Colletta and Reinhold 1997).
A number of these interventions have been tried and tested in Eritrea and the proposed new ones
(school health and nonformal early childhood education) have been demonstrated to be effective in
other countries.
The 1996 WB Poverty Report for Eritrea underscores the significant regional variations in all social
indicators such as access to schools and health facilities that reflect a clear urban bias. It also
highlights existing gender differentials in terms of girls having higher schooling repetition and lower
progression rates than boys. Significant differences also exist in test achievement, with only 56% of
girls and 80)% of boys having passed the 1995 Grade 7 national exam.
This project supports the use of targeted programs and safety nets to assist the most vulnerable groups
in society by seeking to expand access to ECD services to rural areas and to disadvantaged groups
such as mothers and girls. It will also strengthen the ongoing efforts of the government to support
children facing difficult circumstances, particularly orphans.
- 45 -



Rationale for public intervention
A large scale multi-sectoral program that strengthens existing local capacity to improve services, and
assists parents and communities to provide better care for their young children is essential in order to
improve the poor social conditions and human resource base of the country.
The following reasons justify the need for public intervention:
a) Poverty and inequality. With household per capita incomes estimated at US$ 200 most
Eritrean households are constrained from investing in socially optimal amounts of education
and health given their current income constraints and imperfect access to credit markets.
Investments in ECD would likely compensate for the disadvantages associated with poverty
such as poor nutrition, school under-achievement, and delinquency. For example, early
childhood development services can provide children with a healthy start and better prepare
them for schooling, potentially closing the gap between their perfonnance and that of their
economically advantaged peers. ECD programs are therefore excellent instruments to directly
attack poverty, in a sustainable way.
b) Need for immediate action. Poverty coupled with the ongoing conflict between Eritrea and
Ethiopia has resulted in a pressing need for supplementary/therapeutic feeding due to the
higher incidence of malnutrition. Addressing young children's nutritional needs is crucial
because scientific research has shown that the effects of malnutrition (especially during the
first years of life) are usually irreversible.
c) Imperfect information. Aside from income constraints, imperfect markets also exist with
regard to information. Parents generally want the best for their children's health and well being
but they may not always know how best to address their children's needs. An example is
incorrect complementary feeding practices. Thus, parents could benefit from additional
information about better ways to take care of their children through the adoption of simple,
low-cost practices such as washing hands prior to food preparation and feeding; proper
breastfeeding; and introduction of nutritious, low cost, locally available complementary foods.
d) Positive externalities. The project also yields positive externalities. For example, investment
in care of orphans and efforts to reintegrate them with their families and communities are likely
to reduce the future burden on public resources due to delinquency and poor health. Likewise
the increased schooling and completion as a result of ECD programs will reduce the number of
out-of-school youth (some studies such as Ainsworth's have shown that AIDS orphans are less
likely to be enrolled in schools and are more likely to experience malnutrition).
e) Need to address orphans from the war and HIV/AIDS. The number of orphans is expected to
increase in Eritrea because of the prolonged conflict between Eritrea and Ethiopia and the
prevalence of HIV/AIDS. If the Government does not intervene this could lead to the creation
of a class of "second-class citizens" and exacerbate future inequalities which could adversely
impact economic growth.
An integrated multi-sectoral approach will allow public funds to be used more efficiently. Investments
will be targeted to young children during the years when there is greatest potential for brain
development. A healthy and nurturing environment provides a strong foundation for children's further
growth and development through improved readiness for schooling, better learning and health,
enhanced socialization skills and productivity -- all of which are essential for achieving Eritrea's human
resource development and poverty alleviation goals.
- 46 -



The Govemment of Eritrea is committed to providing ECD services, supporting most of the costs of
such services (with a minimum required contribution from communities of about 3-5 %). One of its
long-term objectives is to improve the awareness and strengthen the capacity of communities to manage
and implement ECD activities, until they themselves are able to fully finance them.
Rationale for Bank involvement
IDA is requested to provide about 80% of total program funds. Without IDA's involvement, available
local resources interventions would only allow implementation to proceed at a significantly slower
pace: program coverage would be substantially less and quality improvements in terms of training,
provision of adequate facilities, equipment, and supplies will be delayed. Aside from supply-side
interventions, Bank resources will also finance important baseline studies and assessments that will
provide further insights into households' knowledge, attitudes, practices, and constraints towards
caring for young children that could improve the design and delivery of interventions, and increase their
effectiveness from a demand-side perspective.
Data collection and analysis will also be used to forecast and enhance the sustainability of ECD
interventions (for example, willingness and ability to pay of households).
Financial analysis
The total cost of the five-year program is US$ 49 million with IDA's contribution at approximately
US$ 40 million.
Financing of IECDP by Source, 2000-2005
Financing Source              Amount            Percent of Total Cost
(in US$ Million)
Government                              4.0                     8
Other Donors                            5.0                     10
IDA                                    40.0                     82
Total Project Costs                    49.0                    100
(including contingencies)
The initial program cost proposed by the GOE was significantly larger in scale and scope (i.e. US$ 76
million and targeting about 800,000 children from 0 to 6 years of age). During appraisal, the sustainability
of the project became a critical issue for discussion because of the possible drain in resources as a result of
the border conflict with Ethiopia coupled with the limited capacity of the relevant government institutions
to implement the project given its original size. After exploring a number of financing and implementation
options, it was agreed that the original project cost of US$ 76 million had to be reduced by about 35% to
take into account both fiscal affordability or the ability of local sources of funds to sustain the proposed
program activities as well as existing implementation capacity. Thus the program cost was reduced to US$
49 million, targeting about 560,000 children for most activities and a smaller number for certain
interventions (for example, the number of orphans to be targeted has been reduced from 40,000 to 32,000
and the number of children to be reached by formal ECE activities has been reduced from 50,000 to
- 47 -



31,000). It was also agreed that the first year of the project would be devoted mainly to capacity building
activities as well as the establishment of key baseline information to assist in service delivery.
The project costs reflects a reasonable balance between capital and recurrent expenditures. At least 55% of
project costs are devoted to equipping, staffing, and maintaining existing and new facilities. In addition,
almost 17% of project costs are allocated to training , workshops, and technical assistance in order to
improve quality of services.
Recurrent cost financing after the end of the fifth year of the project when IDA support ceases was also
discussed and a recurrent cost requirement of about US$ 4.4 million was estimated to be needed to
finance recurrent costs for the sixth year of the project. This estimate is conservative, taking into
consideration the following: that only the minimum targets of the project would be met (for example,
reduction in supplementary feeding target population by about 50% instead of 100% that financing of
drugs would be entirely covered by local financing (this is a very conservative assumption given that, at
present, a significant proportion of drug supplies are covered by other external partners), incremental
salaries, supplies, equipment, and price and physical contingencies of about 15%.
The Government is assuming that community participation will be facilitated such that they would be
willing and able to finance most of the interventions (such as financing of rural community caregivers)
by the end of the project. Eritrea has a well-established history of community cohesion and
involvement in community self-help activities, and there is an ongoing policy that requires
communities, depending on their resources, to contribute at least 3-5% of program costs. The extent to
which community contributions can be realistically relied on in both the short and medium tern was
discussed during appraisal. Different financing options to increase the ability of communities to
shoulder running costs of ECD activities were explored. For example, in order to finance the recurrent
costs of group homes, the Ministry of Labor and Human Welfare is proposing to assist communities in
establishing income generating activities; one such activity is the operation of a peanut butter
manufacturing factory in one of the regions. However, it was also agreed that given the extent of
poverty in the country that it would not be realistic in the medium term to expect communities to be
able to fully cover the recurrent costs of running the ECD activities. Based on discussions among the
participating technical ministries and the Ministry of Finance, it was agreed that the GOE will commit
to financing any funding gap in recurrent costs in order to sustain ECD activities from the sixth year of
the program. The GOE has confirmed in its Letter of Sector Policy that the estimated cost of US$ 4.4
million is affordable within the country's overall macroeconomic framework and projected resource
envelope that will be shared among the five key participating ministries. It must be emphasized,
however, that this US$ 4.4 million will only cover ongoing ECD activities and that additional resources
to finance both capital and recurrent costs would be needed should the program be expanded or scaled
up.
Benefits
The complex nature of an integrated, multi-sectoral early childhood development program makes
quantification of benefits in one standard unit difficult.
There are 3 dimensions to the allocation of resources that are relevant to assessing benefit/impact:
a) Integrated approach. The integrated approach enables economies of scope to be achieved
because households and communities will receive a coordinated package of services such as
IEC, training, food supplements, and support for income generating activities that will assist
them in caring for their young children. It uses an integrated approach to address the health,
- 48 -



nutrition, education, care, and protection needs of 0-6 children, thus maximizing the benefits of
ongoing interventions at a lower cost. For example, a strategic communications package for
the whole program is more cost effective than developing separate messages and modes of
delivery for each sector (health, education, labor and social welfare, agriculture) that target the
same households.
The integration of services can maximize the contact time between service providers
(facility-based or through extension services), caregivers, and children. For example,
caregivers who bring their children to health centers for diarrhea treatment can also get advice
on nutrition and healthy practices, micro-nutrient supplements and other services that allow
beneficiaries to save on time and travel costs.
The combined approach has more impact because evidence has shown that disadvantage in
one aspect of development generally tends to reinforce a child's disadvantage in others. For
example, children who are malnourished are more likely to fall ill and vice versa. A child's
risks of death or disadvantage combine geometrically rather than arithmetically. A child who
is ill and severely malnourished has more than twice the risk of dying than a child who is only
ill does. The mutually reinforcing nature of health, nutrition, and psycho-social developmental
problems means that integrated approaches to solving them benefit from synergy and have a
much higher payoff than projects or programs aimed at one aspect of child development
(Pelletier 1995; Heaver and Hunt 1995).
b) Poverty and rural focus. By expanding ECD services into rural areas, where the majority of
the poor live, the project will increase access to essential health, education and social
protection services for young children and supportive services for their families. In tum, with
increases in access and utilization (based on better quality services and improved IEC), there
will be a reduction in the burden of disease and improved educational achievement. Annual
MOH reports (1998) indicate that the leading causes of under-five inpatient and out-patient
visits to health facilities are acute respiratory infections, diarrhea, and malaria. The proportion
of malnourished children under three years of age is also high. The two major causes of child
illness and death are (i) immediate causes resulting from inadequate dietary intake and
prevalent infections and (ii) underlying causes due to inadequate child care and weaning
practices, water supply and environmental sanitation, and lack of education/ information/
awareness. Thus, because child illness and death in Eritrea are due to largely preventable
causes, the focus on expanding primary care, IMCI and MCH services nationwide is thus well
directed. In addition, by increasing the coverage of ECE services into rural areas (at present,
ECE coverage is only 5% and mainly urban-based) with a focus on the three disadvantaged
regions of Gash Barka, Northem Red Sea, and Anseba,; by targeting orphans and providing
complementary feeding to severely malnourished children this project is likely to yield greater
benefits because the main target beneficiaries of the project are economically and socially
disadvantaged groups. The expected costs to the poor is marginal because the Govemment has
a history of exempting them or for only asking for some token fee for services.
Without this project, the educational performance of poor, disadvantaged groups is likely to be
below average because of a combination of poor pre-natal and post-natal conditions together
with disadvantaged circumstances due to poverty. In a similar ECD program in India, it has
been shown that the poorest benefit the most. Primary school dropout rates for lower-caste
children who have had ECD is only 9% compared to children without ECD at 35% while the
difference is only marginal for higher caste children: 7% for those who have had ECD and 8%
for those without ECD.
- 49 -



c) Cost-effectiveness and long-term economic impact of ECD programs. In selecting the key
interventions for the project, priority is given to cost-effective measures that have been already
proven to work in Eritrea and in other countries. About 90% of the proposed activities to be
funded are already being successfully undertaken in Eritrea albeit on a significantly smaller
scale.
(i) The program invests in interventions that address illnesses (diarrhea, acute respiratory
infection, malaria, measles and malnutrition) that impose the heaviest burdens of disease
for young children in Eritrea at low cost. It directly addresses the underlying causes of
child morbidity and mortality: inadequate coverage and quality of health services,
insufficient knowledge of care and feeding practices, and poor environment. In particular,
it seeks to increase the coverage and quality of child survival and development
interventions through IMCI which combines both preventive (infant feeding advice,
immunization, and micro-nutrient supplementation) and curative (using affordable
essential drugs) measures -- a highly cost effective strategy that is supported by the WB
WDR (1993) and the WB HNP Sector Strategy (1997). Most of the proposed health and
nutrition interventions including growth monitoring and the school health program are not
only relatively inexpensive to implement but also generate savings from more expensive
curative care. In addition these are also beneficial on equity grounds because it is usually
children from poor and disadvantaged households who seem to disproportionately suffer
from ill health and malnutrition.
(ii) While a large share of program funds will be allocated to low cost, more sustainable
interventions such as impro- .ing feeding and hygienic practices, about US$ 3.0 million
(about 4% of total project costs) will be channeled to support targeted, therapeutic feeding
in order to address more immediate needs of malnourished children from poor households.
While food supplementation is generally acknowledged to be a relatively expensive way of
addressing poor nutrition compared to low cost, preventive measures, its total cost is still
lower compared with the severe repercussions of malnutrition on brain development in
young children.
In order to minimize food supplementation costs, a locally produced vitamin-fortified
supplementary food will be distributed to households with malnourished children (targeting
of households and selection criteria was during appraisal and will be clearly outlined in the
PIM). Duration of supplementary feeding support will last for three months at most. In
order to ensure longer-term food security within households, caregivers will receive advice
on appropriate complementary feeding practices coupled with instruction on preparing
low-cost weaning foods from readily available foodstuffs.
- 50 -



(iii) Care of orphans in group homes versus orphanages. Over the past 2 years, the MOLHW
has constructed 2 small group homes, each of which accommodates 12 children of mixed
ages. The first 2 group homes were intended as pilot studies to test the efficacy of such a
placement for orphans who cannot be reunified. The project calls for the construction of 10
additional group homes over the coming 5 years, with at least 1 home in each of the 6
regions. Preliminawy studies (Wolff 1999, MOLHW 1999) indicate that group homes offer
the deprived children a viable alternative that is superior to residential care in a large
institution such as an orphanage. The cost per child in group homes has been estimated to
be nearly half (55%) of the cost of caring for a child in an orphanage mainly because of
the higher administration costs of running and managing an orphanage. This cost does not
take into account the likely benefits of improved attention and care that children in group
homes receive relative to children in orphanages that shelter about 100 to 150 children.
(iv) Combining formal and nonformal care would increase ECD access at lower cost than
relying solely on formal channels that would require building kindergartens and the longer
training mandated for service providers (teachers and teaching assistants). Given the
demand for ECD services in Eritrea, both formal and nonformal channels will be used to
deliver services. For example, in the provision of Early Childhood Education (ECE), the
mobilization and training of community caregivers will be undertaken, with the aim of
involving the extended family system and community support. Women and men with
experience and demonstrated commitment to children will be trained for about a month and
receive regular refresher courses in nonfomnal care. These community caregivers will be
responsible for organizing children in a non-formal way to interact with each other, e.g.
play, sing, tell stories, and be involved in other creative activities using simple, locally
available materials. The community caregivers would also be involved in parenting
education regarding proper child psycho-social stimulation and care.
The expansion of the formal kindergarten system will be phased to take into account both
financial and implementation constraints. Teacher and teaching assistants will cover about
31,000 children from 5 to 6 years of age by the end of the project. This will be
complemented by the nonformal care ECE system; rural community caregivers will cover
at least 90,000 young children (0 to 6 years of age) by the end of the project. Aside from
being a relatively inexpensive way of delivering ECD services (estimated by the project to
be about 15-25 percent of the costs of formal ECE care), available evidence shows that
nonfomial interventions appear to focus more effectively on intended target groups, have a
wide spectrum of long-lasting benefits, and are cost-effective.
Experience from Turkey has shown that benefits can be gained from an optimal
combination of home-based and center based custodial and educational daycare services
for very young children. Assessment of learning results based on the different techniques
used in its Early Enrichment Program have shown that while educational daycare got the
best results in terms of psycho-social development, the children whose mothers also
received training and outside support also exhibited significant gains. Training of
mothers/caregivers was done via the Mother Enrichment Program through
para-professionals who conducted biweekly home visits and held group meetings on
altemate weeks. Aside from improved leaming achievement of children, trained mothers
also benefited from the program because they seem to be treated with greater respect
within their communities, they were observed to talk more, and show greater awareness
and responsiveness to their children's needs.
- 51 -



Mexico also has a positive experience in training and mobilizing community educators
through its 5-year Initial Education Project assisted by the Bank. Young parents or health
providers living in the community were hired to visit parents on a weekly or biweekly basis
to improve their knowledge regarding child development, positive parenting practices,
health, nutrition, hygiene, and family planning. Parents report that the training has changed
their attitudes regarding child rearing; some areas have also reported changing their
perceptions of gender roles in child-care resulting in an increased involvement of fathers.
(v) Locating kindergartens beside primary schools and inclusion of KGs in the cluster
management of schools. Aside from having a flexible Government policy regarding school
size and structure due to the varied topography and differing population densities, the
attachment of KGs with primary schools is being proposed to:
-  maximize the use of available land
-  spread supervision costs so that ECE staff will be provided local training and
professional support by local supervisors through the school cluster management
system
-  establish strong links between older and younger students, as well as teachers that
could help ease transition from preschool to primary school for young children.
While the above are already cost-minimizing measures, further savings could be generated
if kindergartens could be built as annexes to existing primary schools instead of building
them in the same compound as separate structures, this is an alternative which needs to be
further looked into and its feasibility assessed during project implementation .
(vi) Evidence in other countries has shown that early child development projects are
cost-effective with the costs of early intervention more than offset by savings resulting
from various interventions. For example:
-  The PROAPE ECD program in Brazil not only pays for itself but also results in
primary school cost savings in the first year over and above the costs of the program
(cost of producing a first grade graduate is at least $41 less for PROAPE children than
for children without preschooling ; this per child saving is higher than the PROAPE
cost of $28).
-  The Shishu Kaksha Preschool Program in Nepal has contributed to a decline in grade
1 wastage with a savings estimated to be at least US$ 3.5 million. In Kenya,
benefit-cost ratios for early childhood education were estimated to be around 5:1.
-  Based on very conservative assumptions, PROFILES estimates of benefits solely from
nutrition interventions in Uganda is expected to yield a 1.4:1 benefit cost ratio.
-  For the Philippines, the estimated benefit-cost ratio of improved protein energy
nutrition in terms of health expenditure savings and adult productivity gains from its
integrated ECD project is 4:1 ($4 per $1 invested).
-  In the United States, a longitudinal study has estimated gains to be $7 per $1 invested
in integrated ECD interventions for inner-city disadvantaged children.
-  Good quality early education programs for disadvantaged children as well as
nutritional supplementation for malnourished children have been shown in other
countries to have long-term and cost-effective effects in school retention rates, school
performance and long term earnings.
- 52 -



(vii)Project design and implementation builds from what has been tried and tested in Eritrea.
particularly organizational structures that are successful in delivering services to
communities. This project will use the approach used in the Eritrea Community
Development Fund, another IDA project where activities are organized so that they can
converge on families in need in a coordinated manner.
In terms of target beneficiaries:
-  By the end of this proposed project, about 560,000 children from 0 to 6 years of age
would have been reached, including their mothers/caregivers. School health programs
will reach about 310,000 primary school children.
-  About 32,000 orphans would have been reached through the orphan reintegration
program
-  105 kindergarten facilities would have been established in rural areas, complemented by
quality improvements in the number of directors, teachers, teaching assistants trained,
together with the provision of locally adapted learning materials. Six ECE resource
centers, one in each region would have been established to provide technical support and
guidance for ECE providers. About 250 rural community caregivers would have been
trained to provide non-formal integrated child development services in 25% of the
poorest communities.
-  Explicit targeting of interventions to young girls (for example, sensitizing communities
to the benefits of sending young girls to school, locating preschool nearer to communities
to minimize travel costs, establishing daycare facilities to enable girls to be freed from
caring for younger siblings, constructing pit latrines in schools with each school having a
ratio of 2:1 latrines for girls and boys) would also help increase their school participation
rates
-  Women would also be direct beneficiaries through the MCH program and through
project contribution to expanding employment opportunities and via access to day care,
enabling mothers of children to work and improving their knowledge of education,
health, and nutrition. The project by its completion would have trained and employed
some 250 rural community caregivers, most of whom are expected to be women.
-  Strengthened capacity of the Government and communities to implement and manage
ECD programs.
Project risks and risk mitigating actions
During appraisal, there were uncertainties over the ability of GOE to absorb project-generated
recurrent costs over the project life and to sustain investments over the medium and long-term. This
could be a significant risk depending on the duration and intensity of the ongoing border dispute
between Eritrea and Ethiopia.
Risk mitigating actions. The project appraisal addressed this concern and as a result the scale of the
project was reduced by almost 35%. In addition, in the event that the Government's expectation that
communities would fully manage and finance local ECD programs might take time, the govemment has
made a commitment in its Letter of Sector Policy to shoulder recurrent expenses albeit on a declining
basis as communities' ability to fund programs improve. It must be emphasized, however, that
additional resources would be needed should the program be expanded especially for components that
are carefully phased such as the preschool/kindergarten programs and those that are being piloted such
as the rural community caregiver/nonformal ECE program.
- 53 -



During appraisal, the phasing of total project expenditures of the proposed program was revisited
because there was a projected, significant increase in expenditures from the first year to the second
year (more than double). While most of these costs will be covered by IDA, it is important to ensure
that capacity building efforts during the first year of the project are sufficient to implement the
activities from the second year onwards.
Risk mitigating action. To address this concem, the project phasing for year I and 2 were adjusted
accordingly in the program action plan, and the first year of the project would focus primarily on
capacity building/training activities and establishment of key baseline infonnation for the project.
Improvements in welfare status of children may not be fully achieved because of low demand by
households and/or their failure to maintain improved healthy practices such as better dietary intake at
household level.
Risk mitigating action. Use of strategic communications based on KAP survey to make sure that
communities are sensitized to the benefits of ECD. Participatory assessments will take into account
household needs and constraints to improve design and delivery of services. Caregivers will be properly
trained to identify malnourished children and supplement their food intake, and also adopt healthy
practices such as handwashing , proper food preparation, and maintaining a clean and sanitary home
environment. Household food security enhancing measures such as income generating activities are
also being supported by the project.
Inadequate institutional capacity to implement a scaled-up program that necessitates coordination
across sectors
Risk mitiating actions. Overall scale and scope of the program was reduced by 35% and the phasing
of the program was reviewed to ensure that capacity building efforts are synchronized with other
proposed activities within and across participating ministries/sectors. Over-all coordination and day to
day management and implementation of the program will be better defined in the revised the draft
project implementation manual.
- 54 -



Annex 5: Financial Summary
ERITREA: Integrated Early Childhood Development Project
Years Ending
_  ___S                                      g_k~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~.1. 1
T   Year i  5   Year 2    Year 3            .Year 4    Year 5       .         0.r 7
Total Financing Required
Project Costs
Investment Costs               4.5         8.4        14.3        11.5        4.3         0.0         0.0
Recurrent Costs                0.5         0.8         1.5         1.5         107         0.0        0.0
Total ProjectCosts               5.0         9.2        15.8        13.0         6.0         0.0        0.0
Total Financing                 -0.0         9.2        15.8        13.0         6.0         0.0        0.0
Financing
IBRD/IDA                      3 .0        7.0        13.0        12.0         5.0        0.0         0.0
Government                    0.5         0.7         0.8         1.0         1.0        0.0         0.0
Central                   0.0         0.0         0.0         0.0         0.0        0.0         0.0
Provincial                0.0         0.0         0.0         0.0         0.0        0.0         0.0
Co-financiers                 1.5         1.5         2.0                                0.0         0.0
User Fees/Beneficiaries       0.0         0.0         0.0         0.0         0.0        0.0         0.0
Others                        0.0         0.0         0.0         0.0         0.0        0.0         0.0
Total Project Financing         5.0         9.2        15.8        13.0         6.0        0.0         0.0
Main assumptions:
Note: IDA's portion estimated at US$ 40.0 million.
Recurrent costs include salaries, maintenance, and fuel while investment costs include civil works, goods and
materials, equipment, drugs, and training.
- 55 -



Annex 6: Procurement and Disbursement Arrangements
ERITREA: Integrated Early Childhood Development Project
Procurement
Procurement for all IDA-financed activities will be carried out in accordance with the Bank's Guidelines for
Procurement under IBRD Loans and IDA Credits (January 1995, revised in January and August 1996,
September 1997, and January 1999. Consulting services by firms or individuals financed by IDA will be
awarded in accordance with the Bank's Guidelines: Selection and Employment of Consultants by World
Bank Borrowers (January 1997, revised in September 1997).
Civil works, equipment, vehicles, supplies as well as drugs will be bulked to the extent possible and
procured as follows:
a) individual contracts for the purchase of goods estimated to exceed US$ 100,000 and US $200,000
(only for furniture available locally) equivalent will be procured by Intemational Competitive
Bidding (ICB) using the Bank's appropriate standard bidding documents.
b) individual contracts for the purchase of goods with an estimated value above US$ 30,000
equivalent, up to an aggregate amount not exceeding US$ 200,000 will be procured under National
Competitive Bidding (NCB) following procedures acceptable to the Bank.
c) individual contracts for goods estimated to cost less than US$ 30,000 will be procured through
national shopping; by comparing at least three price quotations from qualified suppliers
IAPSO may be used for the purchase of up to 2 vehicles and units of office/school equipment needed at the
start of the project.
Civil works
Due to the relatively small volume and size of construction works, and their geographical dispersion, civil
works under the project are unlikely to attract intemational competition, apart from foreign contractors
already located in Eritrea who will be allowed to bid. Individual contracts are expected to cost less than
US$ 100,000 and will be procured through NCB procedures up to an aggregate amount of about US$ 10
million equivalent. NCB will be also used for packages of contracts such as construction of kindergartens
located in neighboring areas, since the value of the contract (US$ 1.5-2 million) is small and unlikely to
attract intemational competition. Smaller contracts mostly of rehabilitation, estimated to cost less than US$
75,000 may be procured through simplified procedure acceptable to the Bank. Contracts of less US$
30,000 may be procured through community participation procedures if local capacity will be deemed
adequate for the purpose.
Consultants
All consultants will be hired in accordance with the Bank Guidelines on Consultants. For firms, Quality
and Cost based Selection (QCBS) will be used for all contracts above US$ 100,000; Fixed Budget
selection method may be used for TA contracts for training or capacity building since their cost estimate is
well known. Qualifications selection method may be used for small contracts at community level, estimated
to cost less than US$ 100,000. These include assignments for the establishment of micro-enterprises and
community group homes; and communications campaign in rural areas.
All individual consultants will be hired based on qualifications.
- 56 -



Procurement management
Procurement will be coordinated and monitored at headquarters by the PMT which will include a full-time
Procurement Specialist and at regional levels by local project management offices. The Operational Manual
will clearly outline the procurement rules for project activities. These will be cleared with Bank
procurement specialists and will also conform with national regulations.
All members of the PMT must be knowledgeable of World Bank procurement procedures, as intemal
control issues and the incurring of liability on behalf of the PMT will be matters of particular concern to
the financial management function. A Procurement Management Report (under LACI), showing
procurement status and contract commitments, will be prepared quarterly for the information of PMT.
Procurement risk rating, supervision and planning
The procurement risk rating for this project is low. The implementing ministry of this project (MOLG) has
implemented an IDA-assisted project (ECDF), which has a very good track record in procurement
management.
Procurement supervision will be undertaken every six months during the implementation of the project.
A procurement assessment of the implementing agency was carried out by IDA, and procurement plans and
actions were agreed with the implementing agency.
Prior review thresholds
All contracts for civil works greater than US$ 500,000 and goods greater than US$ 100,000 will be subject
to prior review by the Bank.
For consulting services, all TORs are subject to prior review by the Bank. All contracts above
US$ 100,000 for firms and US$ 50,000 for individuals will also be subject to prior review.
Disbursement
Review of financial management systems. A Financial Management Capacity Assessment was carried out
during Pre-Appraisal/Appraisal to determine the borrower's and implementing agencies' capacity to
maintain financial management systems, including accounting, financial reporting, and auditing systems --
adequate to ensure that they can provide to the Bank accurate and timely information regarding project
resources and expenditures, in accordance with OPIBP 10.02. The review focused on the assessment of the
relevant agencies, Ministries of Health, Education, Labor and Human Welfare and Local Govemment, as
well as arrangements for financial reporting and accountability for project funds by the Eritrea Community
Development Fund (ECDF), which is implementing a World Bank funded project with substantial
community-based operations and regional focus.
Internal control systems. Due to capacity limitations in the country as a whole, the government ministries
have not hired professionally trained and qualified accountants. All the project financial officers working in
the project accounting units in the ministries lack professional accreditation, and have little experience in
systems development. As a result, the Project Accounting Units in the various ministries have not
developed written standards and guidelines for internal control and financial accounting, with clear
delegation and segregation of duties that can be replicated for the project. With the help of consultants, the
PMT has developed manuals of financial procedures and adequate internal control mechanisms in order to
- 57 -



guide staff and minimize risks of errors and omissions, as well as delays in transactions, recording and
reporting. The written standards and procedures clarify responsibilities, including levels of authority, clear
control over assets, cash and bank accounts, easily available access to supporting documentation, and
timely and accurate financial reporting.
Project accounting system. The PMT has developed a project-dedicated accounting system that will be
used by the project. The project accounting structure is fully integrated to reflect the type of project,
sources of funds, and the relevant expense accounts, broken down into various types of expenditures for the
project. A Chart of Accounts was developed to ensure availability of information required and consistency
in account classification.
The Chart of Accounts allows project costs to be directly related to specific work activities and outputs of
the project, and consistency with expenditure categories in the DCA.
Project planning and budgeting. The project financial management system is documented in the Manual
of Financial Procedures, covering Financial Policies and Procedures, Accounting and Internal Control
Systems, Budgeting System, Procurement And Contract Administration and Monitoring System, Financial
Reporting, Flow of Funds, and Auditing Arrangements. The Manual contains statements and explanations
of the project's budgetary policies and procedures; describing responsibilities for budget preparation,
adoption, execution, monitoring and reporting.
Disbursements, replenishments and documentation. Although it is desirable to have PMR-based
disbursement from the beginning of the project, there is not in place a financial management system that
can provide the information required by the Bank's LACI-based, Project Management Reporting (PMR)
disbursement mechanism. Thus, in the short-term, existing disbursement procedures, as outlined in the
World Bank's Disbursement Handbook, i.e. Direct Payment, Reimbursement and Special Commitment (if
appropriate), will be followed. During the transition period (about 18 months) disbursement of funds would
be made against Withdrawal Applications with full documentation or against Statements of Expenditure
(SOEs) submitted by the borrower.
To facilitate the flow of funds to the project, the PMT will open bank accounts as follows:
- Special Account in US Dollars for IDA funds
-  Project Account in Nakfa for Counterpart funds and local expenditures. Transfers to the regions
will also be made from this account
-  Special Accounts in US Dollars for funds from other partner agencies, as may be appropriate.
Transfer of funds to regions and sub-regions will be through the imprest system; following submission of
request for funds based on approved work plans, together with accountability for previous advances, if any.
Once the necessary documentation is reviewed and approved by the PMT, funds will be transferred from
the Project Account to the regional bank account, either by issuing a check or bank transfer. Details on
surrender of imprests issued to the zobas and accountability of the funds will be included in the Manual of
Financial Procedures.
Financial reporting. The financial reports are designed to provide quality and timely information to
project management, implementing agencies, and various stakeholders on project performance.
- 58 -



The main reports include financial statements (e.g. sources and application of funds; expenditure classified
by project components, disbursement categories, expenditure types and comparison with budgets;
short-term forecasts of expenditure; unit costs for key items; etc.). Annual Financial Statements and
Annexes for the project will be subject to audit by independent auditors, and submitted to the Bank within
six months after the end of the fiscal year.
Audit arrangements. In order to comply with Bank reporting requirements, an independent and qualified
audit firm, with experienced staff, will carry out an audit of the project accounts. A contract, renewable
annually and subject to satisfactory performance, for the life of the project will be concluded between the
borrower and the selected audit firm. Terms of Reference for the annual audits will cover the Bank
requirements for audit of the project accounts and review of intemal control systems, inter-alia, for
reliability of PMRs. Any firm of auditors appointed to carry out the audit should meet the Bank's
requirements in terms of independence, qualifications and experience.
Detailed report of the financial management capacity assessment was submitted to and discussed with the
Government, together with an action plan to remedy financial management deficiencies. Successful
implementation of the Action Plan will ensure that the project operates in a healthy environment, under
existing disbursement arrangement. Financial management consultants were hired to help the PMT develop
a viable financial management system, including comprehensive manual of financial procedures, Chart of
Accounts, and a dedicated project accounting structure, using appropriate accounting software. In addition,
a suitably qualified and experienced Project Financial Officer was recruited to participate in the
development of the financial management system, and to guide and direct the financial management
operations of the project. It is expected that the project will convert to PMR-based disbursement procedures
within eighteen months of credit effectiveness.
In summary, the development of the financial management system will have two phases: interim and final.
The interim phase will involve setting up financial management and accounting structure that meets
minimum financial management requirements under OP/BP 10.02. This will be a manual
(spreadsheet-based) system, and should be in place when the project becomes effective, tentatively July
28, 2000. The final phase will involve setting up a fully integrated computerized project accounting system,
using an appropriate accounting software, in readiness for adoption of PMR-based disbursements, by
December 31, 2000. An action plan that provides the actions to be taken during each of the two phases
and the dates that they are due to be completed, was included as an attachment in the appraisal
aide-memoire.
- 59 -



Outline of Financial Management Action Plan
Actions to satisfy minimum Bank requirements: project financial management
Required Action                     Date                Comments
Appropriate banking arrangements to be made,  June 30, 2000    Authorized bank signatories to
e.g., opening of Special Accounts in US Dollars              be communicated to IDA.
and project accounts in Nakfa, at Head Office
and regions.
Appointment of an independent external auditor    June 30, 2000    Draft Terms of Reference
in accordance with Terms of Reference                        discussed at appraisal.
acceptable to the Bank.                                      Shortlist to be agreed with the
Bank by Board presentation.
Actions required to achieve LACI compliance
The table below details the required actions to be taken in order to comply with LACI requirements for
PMR-based disbursement procedures.
Actions                        Target Date                Comments
Development of a fully integrated financial    December 31, 2000   Minimum financial management
management system using an appropriate                            systems in place. System to run
accounting software.                                              parallel to the manual system for
at least 3 months.
Project reporting formats to be determined and  December 31, 2000   Initial capacity building
agreed with the Bank, including:                                  completed on preparation of
Sources and Application of Funds statement;                     PMRs.
Special Account reconciliation;
Contract and other procurement information;
Project progress information; and
forecasts for subsequent 6 months period.
Transition to PMR-based disbursement           June 30, 2001      More training as required.
Conversion to PMR disbursement                 Sept. 30, 2001     FMS to review and initiate
process of conversion to PMR
mechanism.
Quarterly PMRs used as basis for disbursement  December 31, 2001   Written statements and
NB: Effective budgetary control procedures in                     explanations of budgetary
place. Quarterly and annual program financial                     policies and procedures, to be
statements (budgets) to be prepared as basis for                  included in the Manual of
spending project funds.                                           Financial Procedures.
Variance analysis, with explanations for
significant variations, to be part of periodic
management reports.
- 60 -



Successful implementation of the above plan of action will allow the project to satisfy the Bank's minimum
requirements under OP/BP10.02. Actions required to attain LACI compliance were developed and agreed
with the borrower at appraisal. The engagement of financial management consultants and appointment of
the Project Financial officer will enable the PMT to establish effective fnancial management and
accounting systems, which should facilitate the introduction of PMR-based disbursements within about 1 8
months of project effectiveness. Further assessment will be undertaken within twelve months of Credit
Effectiveness to assess progress made.
The LACI integrates project accounting, procurement, contract management, disbursement and audit with
physical progress through the PMR. The adoption of LACI will enable the project to move away from
time-consuming voucher-by-voucher disbursement methods to quarterly disbursements to the Project's
Special Account, based on the PMRs. It requires an integrated system to keep track, collect and provide
information on procurement, expenditure, source of funds and outputs, measured by monitoring indicators.
Procurement methods (Table A)
Table A: Project Costs by Procurement Arrangements
(US$ million equivalent)
1. Works                            1.80           6.00           1.30          0.00           9.10
(1.30)        (4.50)         (0.90)         (0.00)         (6.70)
2. Goods                            8.00           5.00          2.00           0.00          15.00
(6.40)        (4.00)         (1.60)         (0.00)        (12.00)
3. Services                         0.00           0.00          9.30           0.00           9.30
(Consultants, Studies,             (0.00)         (0.00)        (9.00)         (0.00)         (9.00)
Training & Innovative
Activities)
Special Grants                      0.00           0.00          10.00          0.00           10.00
(0.00)         (0.00)        (8.50)         (0.00)         (8.50)
5. Operating Costs (includes        0.00           0.00          0.00           5.60           5.60
Salaries, Maintenance & Fuel)      (0.00)         (0.00)        (0.00)         (3.80)         (3.80)
Total                            9.80          11.00          22.60          5.60          49.00
(7.70)         (8.50)        (20.00)        (3.80)        (40.00)
t' Figures in parenthesis are the amounts to be financed by the IDA Credit. All costs include contingencies
21 Includes civil works and goods to be procured through national shopping, consulting services, services of
contracted staff of the project management office, training, technical assistance services, and incremental
operating costs related to (i) managing the project and (ii) re-lending project funds to local government
units.
- 61 -



Table Al: Consultant Selection Arrangements (optional)
(US$ million equivalent)
A. Firms           3.00      0.00      0.00      0.00      3.00      0.00       0.00      6.00
(3.00)             (0.00)    (0.00)    (3.00)    (0.00)    (0.00)    (6.00)
B. Individuals     0.00      0.00      0.00      0.00      0.00      3.30       0.00      3.30
(0.00)    (0.00)    (0.00)    (0.00)    (0.00)    (3.00)    (0.00)    (3.00)
Total   3.00     0.00      0.00       0.00      3.00      3.30      0.00      9.30
(3.00)    (0.00)    (0.00)    (0.00)    (3.00)    (3.00)    (0.00)    (9.00)
1\ Including contingencies
Note: QCBS = Quality- and Cost-Based Selection
QBS  Quality-based Selection
SFB = Selection under a Fixed Budget
LCS = Least-Cost Selection
CQ = Selection Based on Consultants' Qualifications
Other = Selection of individual consultants (per Section V of Consultants Guidelines),
Commercial Practices, etc.
N.B.F. = Not Bank-financed
Figures in parenthesis are the amounts to be financed by the Bank Credit.
- 62 -



Prior review thresholds (Table B)
Post review ratio: One in 6 contracts for each sub-component of the project initially (first year), phasing to
one in 8/10, depending on results of the post review procurement audit.
Table B: Thresholds for Procurement Methods and Prior Review'
1. Works                         >100                     ICB               All contracts for ICB
<100                     NCB               Only first 5 contracts
<75           Community Participation
2. Goods                         >100                     ICB               All contracts for ICB
Furniture                      >30<100                   NCB                Only first 5 contracts
<30                      NS
3. Services                      >75                     QCBS                       All
<75                     Other               First 5 contracts
Total value of contracts subject to prior review:
Overall Procurement Risk Assessment
Average
Frequency of procurement supervision missions proposed: One every 6 months (includes special
procurement supervision for post-review/audits)
Frequency of procurement supervision missions will be phased eventually to every 12 months after
satisfactory results proved by post-review audits.
Thresholds generally differ by country and project. Consult OD 11.04 "Review of Procurement
Documentation" and contact the Regional Procurement Adviser for guidance.
- 63 -



Disbursement
Allocation of credit proceeds (Table C)
Note: costs exclude operating costs comprised of salaries and maintenance
Table C: Allocation of Credit Proceeds
Civil Works                                6.70                         90%
Equipment (Goods)                          5.40                     100% of foreign
80% of local for all goods
Vehicles (Goods)                           0.85                     100% of foreign
80% of local for all goods
Furniture (Goods)                          0.10                     100% of foreign
80% of local for all goods
Drugs (Goods)                              3.15                     100% of foreign
80% of local for all goods
Materials (Goods)                          0.60                     100% of foreign
80% of local for all goods
Therapeutic Feeding (Goods)                1.50                     100% of foreign
80% of local for all goods
Services (Consultants, Studies,            8.70                         100%
Training & Innovative Studies)
Special Grant                              8.30                         100%
Operating Costs                            3.70                         70%
Unallocated                                1.00
Total Project Costs                        40.00
Total                                      40.00
- 64 -



Annex 7: Project Processing Schedule
ERITREA: Integrated Early Childhood Development Project
Time taken to prepare the project (months)
First Bank mission (identification)             06/30/99                     06/30/99
Appraisal mission departure                     01/24/2000                   01/24/2000
Negotiations                                    05/05/2000                   05/05/2000
Planned Date of Effectiveness                   07/28/2000
Prepared by:
Prepared by: Ministries of Health; Education; Labor and Human Welfare; Agriculture; Fisheries; Local
Government; Finance; Information in collaboration with Asmara University; National Union of Eritrean
Women; and National Union of Eritrean Youth
Preparation assistance:
Norwegian Trust Fund
Bank staff who worked on the project included:
NameSe at
Marito Garcia                     Task Team Leader, Africa Region ECD Team Leader
Christine Pena                    Human Resources Economist
Yordanos Seium                    Program Assistant
John Ogallo                       Financial Management Specialist
Francesco Samo                    Principal Procurement Specialist
Said Al Habsy                     Senior Legal Counsel
Palitha Wijesinghe                Senior Disbursement Officer
E.V. Shantha                      ECD and Nutrition Specialist
Cecilia Versoza                   Information, Education, and Communications Specialist
Alan Pence                        Early Childhood Education Specialist
Peter Wolff                       Child Psychiatrist
Caroline Pond                     Communications Specialist
Francis Onyango                   Public Health Specialist, WHO
Donald Bundy                      Knowledge Coordinator, School Health
Elena Glinskaya                   Economist
Quality Assurance Team: Eduardo Velez (Sector Leader, LCC1-Mexico), Mary Eming-Young
(Knowledge Coordinator for ECD, HDNED) , and Flavia Bustreo (Public Health Specialist, HDHNP)
- 65 -



Annex 8: Documents in the Project File*
ERITREA: Integrated Early Childhood Development Project
A. Project Implementation Plan
Completed April 15, 2000
B. Bank Staff Assessments
*   Identification Mission Aide-Memoire (June 1999)
*   Pre-appraisal Aide-Memoire (November 1999)
*   Technical Note on MOE ECE Plan (November 1999)
*   Technical Note on MOLHW Orphan Reintegration Plan (November 1999)
*   Country Assistance Strategy (1996)
*  WB Poverty Report for Eritrea (1996)
C. Other
*   Ministry of Health. Program Proposal for Improved Child Health (November 1999)
*   Ministry of Health, Ministry of Agriculture, and Ministry of Fisheries. Program Proposal for
Improved Child and Maternal Health (November 1999)
*   Ministry of Education. Program Proposal for Support for Early Childhood Development and Care
(November 1999)
*   Ministry of Labor and Human Welfare. Program Proposal for Support for Children in Difficult
Circumstances (November 1999)
*Including electronic files
- 66 -



Annex 9: Statement of Loans and Credits
ERITREA: Integrated Early Childhood Development Project
Difference between expected
and actual
Original Amount in US$ Millions          disbursements'
Project ID    FY   Borrower                       Purpose                                     IBRD       IDA       Cancel.   Undisb.       Orig   Frm Rev'd
P039264       1996 Eritrea                    COMMUNITY DEVELOPMENT FUND                         0.00      16.09       0.00      5.08       313        0.00
P043124       1998 Eritrea                    HEALTH PROJECT                                     0.00      18.27       0.00      1707       5.54       0.17
P050354       1998 Eritrea                    HUMAN RES. DEV.                                    0.00      53.52       0.00      50.51     15.12       0.00
P034154       1998 Ertrea                     PORTS                                              0.00      30.46       0.00      16.80      5.46       0.00
P044651       1997 Ertrea                     ROAD ENGR. CREDIT                                  0.00       5.98       0.00      2.65       2.84       0.00
Total:       0.00      124.32        0.00       92.11     32.09       0.17
- 67 -



ERITREA
STATEMENT OF IFC's
Held and Disbursed Portfolio
In Millions US Dollars
Committed                        Disbursed
IFC                             IFC
FY Approval        Company                        Loan  Equity   Quasi   Partic    Loan  Equity   Quasi  Partic
1997               SEF Tesinma                    0.73    0.21    0.00    0.00    0.40    0.21       0.00    0.00
1998/99            AFP Prevision                  0.00    0.20    0.00    0.00    0.00    0.00      0.00    0.00
1997/00            CESSA                          0.00    0.37    0.00    0.00    0.00    0.37       0.00    0.00
1998               CUSCATLAN                     25.00    0.00    0.00    0.00    7.90    0.00       0.00    0.00
1998               SEF Baterias                   2.00    0.00    0.00    0.00    2.00    0.00      0.00    0.00
1997/99            SEF IMACASA                    0.00    0.20    0.00    0.00    0.00    0.20      0.00    0.00
1994/96            TELEMOVIL                      7.00    0.00    0.00   10.50    7.00    0.00      0.00   10.50
Total Portfolio:        34.73    0.98    0.00    10.50   17.30    0.78     0.00   10.50
Approvals Pending Commitment
FY Approval        Company                          Loan    Equity      Quasi    Partic
Total Pending Commitment:         0.00     0.00       0.00     0.00
- 68 -



Annex 10: Country at a Glance
ERITREA: Integrated Early Childhood Development Project
Sub-
POVERTY and SOCIAL                                           Saharan       Low-
Eritrea    Africa   income      Development diamond'
1998
PoDulation mid-vear (millions)                          3 9       628     3 515                  Life expectancy
GNP ner canita (Atlas method USSi                      200        480       520
GNP (Atlas method. USS billions)                       0 78       304      1.844
Averarie annual arowth. 1992-98
PoDulation (%l                                          2.7        2.6       17
1 ahorforne(%l                                          27        928        19      GNP                               Gross
Most recent estimate (latest vear available. 1992-98i                                capita                         prnimrynt
Povertv (% of DoDulation below national oovertv line)
Lirhan nonijlation (% oftotal DoDulation)                18        33        31
Life exDectancv at birth (vears)                         51        51        63
Infant mnrtalitv (oer 1.000 live births)                fi9        91        fi9
Child malnutrition (% of children under 5)               44                                    Access to safe water
Acce.ss tn safe water (% of conulation)                   7        47        74
Illiteranv (% of Dooulation aae 15+)                    8n         42        32
Grnss nrimarv enrollment (% of school-aoe ooDulation)    53        77       18         -Entrea          Low-income group
Male                                                  59         84       113
Female                                                48         89       103
KEY ECONOMIC RATIOS and LONG-TERM TRENDS
1977     1987       1997      1998
Economic ratios'
GDP (USS billions)                                                n 69     n065
Gross domestin invesitment/GfnP                                   40)9      4n 9
Fynorts of noods and sr.rvinaeslGnP                               3n 8      199                      Trade
Gross domestic savincslGDP                                       -17.4     -29 0
Grnss natinnal savinoslGnP                                        353        70
Current arooint balanoelGfrP                                      -3 2     -33 3            .         /A.
Interest navmentstnP                                              0 1        06nf    Domestc                      Investment
Total debtlGDP                                                    11 6      222      Savings
Tntal debt servicrlexnorts                                         n1        1 4
Present value of debtlGDP                                          5 5
Present valie of debtleynorts                                      9 0
Indebtedness
1977-87  1988-98     1997       1998   1999-03
(averace annual orowth I
GDP                                            5 2      7 9        3.0                       Eritrea     Low-income group
GNP ner nanita                                 2 2     104        -67 7
EXDorts of ooods and services                  4 7      4 7      -33 5
STRUCTURE of the ECONOMY
1977     1987      1997       1998     Growth rates of output and investment (%)
(% of GDP)
Acriculture                                            20 4        9.3
(ndijtrv                                               357       995                1S
Manufacturino                                        32.2       15 6
Services                                               439       61 2
Private consumotion                                               84 8      809      -            3    9    56   97  95
General novernment consumnotinn                                  32 6i      48n                      GoD      ii*GOP
lmDorts of ooods and services                                    89.0      89.7
(averace annual orowth)                   1977-87  1988-98       1997      1998      Growth rates of exports and imports (%)
Arrintltijre                                                                         80
tndustrv                                                                                     \
Manijfactj,rinn                                                                    40
Services
Privrate nnsiimntion                                                                        9    N94      7    S      R 95    9 7
General aovernment consumDtion                                                         j
Gross dinmestic investment                                                          40
imDorts of ooods and services                          163         58        41                    Exports     elImports
Gross national nrmdiint                                 50        13 5      -4 0
Note: Due to the ongoing border conflict with Ethiopia, projections are outdated.
* The diamonds shnow foir kev indinatnrs in the nnijntrv (in hnidl nomnared with its inrome-nrolun averane If data are missinn the diamond will
be inoomnlete
- 69 -



Eritrea
PRICES and GOVERNMENT FINANCE
1977    1987       1997      1998      Inflation (%
Domestic prices                                                                     4
(% charnge)                                                                         4
Consumer prices                                  .       ..       4.6       7.0     30
Implicit GDP deflator                           ..       ..       2.7      -0.9    20
Government finance                                                                  10
(% of GDP, indudes cunent grants)                                                    o
Current revenue                                 ..       ..      41.7      33.8    n-0      93   94    95   93   97   9a
Current budget balance                          ..       ..      11.1    -16.7                    GDP deflator    eCP
Overall surplus/deficit                         ..       ..    -13.2    -38.4
TRADE
(USS millions)                               1977    1987        1997     1998      Export and import levels (USS millions)
Total exports (fob)                             ..       ..        53        30    eo
Fuel
Diamonds
Manufactures                                            -        21
Total imports (cif)                                               490       494
Food                                                             9
Fuel and energy                               ..       ..         7
Capital goods                                 ..       ..       161         ..      0
92   93   94   99   9s   97   95
Exoort onrice index (1995=100)                  ..
Imnort nrice index (1995=100)                   ..       ..         .         .                Exports      *Imports
Terms of trade (1995=100)                       ..
BALANCE of PAYMENTS
(USS mi/lonsl                                1977     1987       1997     1998      Current account balance to GOP ratio (%
Exports of goods and services                   ..      ...       201       129     15
Imports of goods and services                   ..       ..       583      583
Resource balance                                                 -382     -454       0-
Net income                                      .        ..        -3         0
Net current transfers                           ..       ..       364       237     15 -
Current account balance                                   ..      -21      -216    -30
Financing items (net)                           ..       ..        71       109
Changes in net reserves                         ..                -50       108       -
Memo:
Reserves includino oold (USS millions)          ..       ..       305       198
Conversion rate (DEC. IocaLUSS)                      .             7.2      7.4
EXTERNAL DEBT and RESOURCE FLOWS
1977     1987      1997      1998
fUSS millons)                                                                       Composition of total debt. 1998 (USS millions)
Total debt outstanding and disbursed            ..       ..        76       144
IBRD                                          ..       ..         0        0
IDA                                           ..       ..        29       37
Total debt service                              ..       ..         1         4
IBRD                                                    .         0         0
IDA                                                               0         0
E: 69
Compositon of net resource flows
Official grants                               ..       ..        57
Official creditors                            .        ..        33        65
Private creditors                                                33 0       0
Foreign direct investment                     .        ..         0 
Portfolio equity                              *        *          0
World Bank program
Commitments                                                      55       53      A -      IBRD                   - Bilateral
Disbursements                                 ..       ..         4         6     B- IDA    D - Other muGlatral   F - Srt-ste
Principal repayments                          ..       ..         0         0     c- IMF
Net fows                                      .        ..         4         6
Interest payments                             .        ..         0        0
Net transfers                                  .                  4        6
Development Economics                                                                                                 9/21/99
- 70 -



The State of Eritrea
Ministry of Finance
DATE-- May 10, 2000
REF:- MO/CI/0752/00
Mr. James D. Wolfensohn
Pre5ident
Thc World Bank
1818 H Stteet, N. W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
USA
1Re:- ERITREA-INTEGRATED EARLY CH]ILDHOOD DEVELOPMENT
PROGRAM 2000 - 2005 LETrER OF SECTOR POLICY
Dear Mr. Wolfensohn:
1. Tntroduction
The Government of Eritrea hereby submits a request for a World Bank (IDA) Credit to
implement an integrated, multi-sectoral program on Early Childhood Development (ECD). The
major strategies of the program are: 1) to improve the quality and expand the scope of the
ongoing activities of the six participating ministries (Ministries of Education, Health, Labor and
H-uman Welfare, Agriculture, Fisheries, and Information); 2) to coordinate the activities of the
various ministries at central, regional, and sub-rcgional levels; and 3) to introducc new initiatives
that will improve the overall quality of life of Eritrean children. H7umilani capital formation is an
integral party of the development policy of the Eritrean government, and physical health,
nutrition, educationi and psychosocial developmcnt of youing children are among its critical
elements.
2. General Policy Framework
As paTt of its broad-based growth strategy, the tGovcrnment of Eritrea (COF.) regards equial access
to basic education, preventive and curative health serviccs, and the psychosocial protection of
vulnerable children as a fundamcntal condition to achieving its long range goal of reducing
-71 -



poverty, disease, and other factors that hinder the social, cultural and economic advancement of
its entire population. In line with this principlu, lhe GOE has not only ratified the convention on
the Rights of the Child (CRC), but has also drawn up an intlgrated program of Early Childhood
Development (ECD) that will be carmed out nationwide, with the first phase covering the period
2000-2005. This program will build on existing activitics and interventions that have been
developed sincc the time of liberation. At the samc time it will also pilot some promising new
initiatives.
To maximize the impact of the program, the expanded scope of activities will be integrated across
sectors. The emphasis on cross-scctoral cooperation will help avoid duplication of efforts and
mnnecessary expenditures.
'Ihe program emphasizes the creation of an organizational structure that encourages and
facilitates coordination and cooperation at all administrative levels (central, regional, sub-
regional, and community levels). Emphasis on coordination at the regional and sub-regional
levels is in keeping with the GOE's general policy of decentralization of all economic, and social
activities and the participation of the people in such activities.  Tn addition to furthering the
decentralization process, the proposed ECD program has a number of stratcgic advantages over
earlicr practiccs. For cxamplc, it will cmpowcr thc population at the community lcvcl to adapt the
activities and intervetitionis in suchi a way as to ensure 1hat they are appropriate for local
conditions. Likewise, the program is designed to cncourage financial contributions (depending
on ability to pay) from communities and households who benefit from the activities, thereby
laying thc groundwork for financial sustainability of the activities.
3. Program Description
The program comprises five major components: Expansion of current programs in Early
Childhood Education and Care, Child H4ealth, Child and Maternal Nutrition, and Socio-economic
Suppurt for Children in especially difficult circumstances, and Strengthening of ECD Program
Managemcnt, Supervision, and Strategic Communications.
During the first phase of the ECD Program (2000 - 2005), the Early Clhildhood Education and
Care Component will: a) expand access to formal early childhood education to 31,000 children
by establishing 105 kindergartens; b) provide access to ECE t:hrough nonformal means to 90.000
- 72 -



3
pre-school children through rural community carcgivers (R.CCs); c) improvc thc school health
and sanitation environment in 30% of rural primary schools, d) increase the enrollment of girls in
kiniedrgarten from the 6% to 23%; and e) train 315 kindergarten teachers, 681 teaching assistants,
105 kindergarten directors, and 250 rural community caregivers.
The Socio-economic Spport for Children in Especially DifficultCircwustances Component of
the program will cxpand current reunification activities that have already placed 14,000 orphaned
children with extendcd families. The plan is to: a) reunify an additional 32,000 children with
extended families during thc course of the project; b) provide income-Pnerating support for the
12,000 host famnilies; c) construct 10 additional group-homes, each of which will provide a home
for 12 children of mixed ages who are in need of special protection but who cannot be reunified;
and d) advocate for the adoption of very young children without families by means of focusscd
public awartness campaigns.
The Child Health Cornponent of the program will also build on, and expand current activities in
order to cover 560,000 children (about 70% of c;hildren uncer 6 years of age). It seeks to: (a)
reduce the child deaths due to diarrhea, acute respiratoty infection, malaria, measles and
malnutrition by 40% in the project areas; and (b) reduce malnutrition measured by prevalence of
underweight children by 33% in the project areas. This wii] be achicvcd by training all health
workers in the principles of lintegrated Management of Chiildhood Diseases (TMCI); increasing
the availability of essential drugs and cquipment; strengthening the capacity for supervision of
ongoing activitics; and implementing an operational researchi program to improve the quality of
services at both the regional and central Icvels.
The Child and Matemal Nutrition Component will introduce a preventive approach to reducing
malnutrition and under-nutrition among children below the age of 3 years who are most
vulnerable to the adverse effects of malnutrition. The cuommunity-based gowth monitoring
activities will focus on improving home care practices at household and community levels, as a
means of empowering communities to identify maJnutrition and to implement effective
interventions that will meet the dcvelopmcntal nccds of children. Duringthe firttwo years ofthe
project, the feasibility as well as the asstunptions regardiog tbe proposud institutionalized growth
monitoring approach will be tested in about 240 communitits (one "Kababi " or community in
each sub-region). During years 3 and 4 of the project, this actiyity will be expanded to cover an
additional 720 communities. The growth monitoring activities will be linked to the household
- 73 -



4
food security improvement programs of the Home Economics unit of the Ministry of Agriculture
and the Ministry of Fisheries, to cnsurc that the intervenLions reach the targeted families
effectivcly.
The project as a whole is also designed to strcngthcn tile capacity for overall management and
supervision of the ECD progm, with the ultimate aim of empowering key stakeholders such as
local institutions, communities, and households by providing them with goods and services that
will improve their ability to meet thc needs of young childtren. To optimize the impact of the
program's intended goals, a strategic information, cducation, and communications (lEC) program
will be dcvcloped and implemented.
4. Coordination of the Program
An essential f:ature of the project will be the horizontal intcgration and coordination of activities
at all administrative levels. Coordination will be accomplished in the following manmer. At the
central level, a steering committee composed of a high official from each of the participating line-
ministries, as well as a reprcsentacive of the Ministry of Finance, will be established. The
functions of this committee will be to develop and refine policies and provide advice related to
program activities.
At the national level, all project management responsibilities will be handled by a Project
Management Team that will be established in the Ministry of Local Government, which is the
major coordinating ministry for decentralii.ation and rcgional administration. In this regard, the
Ministry of Local Government (MLG) has already appointec a project management team (PMT)
at the central level that consists of thrce key personnel: the project manager, a financial officer,
and a procurement officer.
During the course of the project, the PMT will be responsible for coordinating all cross-sectoral
interventions, including monitoring, evaluation, quality improvement research and IEC activities.
The PMT will lhave tIlt ultimate responsibility for assessing the impact of the project in both
qualitative and quantitative terms, and for conducting periodic workshops at regional and sub-
regional levels where experiences can be shared, current problems discussed, and quality
improvements can be planned and implemented.
-74 -



5
At the regional level, the Executive Director of the Regional Office of Local Govemment will
oversee and coordinate the activitiu of the various Ministries, includiing those reponsible for
food production (Ministries of Agriculture and Fisherics); health, cognitive development, and
social protcction services (Ministrics of Education, Health, and Labor and Pluman Welfare), and
infrastructure development (Engineering and Project management, Communication). Most of the
ECD activities at the rcgional level are under the umbrcila of the social services departinnt of the
MLG. The director of the social service department, who plays a key role in all activities at the
regional level, will manage the implememation of the components of the project in collaboration
with the linc ministries. o enhance the project implemerntation capacity of the MLG at thc
regional level, the regional project managemcnt tcam will include three staff members: a project
coordinator, an accountant, and a cashier.
Representation of the MLG at the sub-regional and village (community) levels makes it possible
to supervise the details of program impicmcnation, follow up activities, and cross-sectoral
coordination at the community level. A concerted effort will be made to keep management
person.nel to a minimum in order to minimize overhead cost and to eliminate duplication of work.
Tt is envisaged that, in the long run, all PMT personnel to be employed by the regions can be
phased out over the five year period, and that thereafter existing local government personnel and
communities will manage and sustain the activities of the ECD program.
S. Overall policy environment for the implementation of ECD
The national policies on human resources development and food security tbrm thc two
comerstones of the overall policy of the GOE which is aimed at thc eradication of poverty and the
fostering of economic growth.
There are important elements in the Eritrean policy on health that reinforce these cornerstones.
These include: a) minimizing and eveitually eliminating easily controlled diseases; b) the
equitablc distribution of hcalth and social services to rural and urban areas, c) primary health care
atnd i,r!fTIur1iiAtion prugrams; and d) improvement and e>:pansion of mother and child-carc
services.
- 75 -



6
With respect to psycho-social prograrns to support chil6ren and adults in nced of special
protection, currcnt state policy acknowledges the necessity of empowering vulnerable groups to
enable them to bccome productive members of society.
Support ror the social cultural integration of mothers and young children into the mainstrcam of
society through pre-school programs, as well as ensuring that all children receive basic education
are essential aspects of this national policy. In full recognition of the impact of good nutrition on
human physical and mental development, the Eritrean policy on food security places emphasis on
the modemization of the existing infrastructure and technology in agriculture, fisheries and other
sectors of the national cconomy to maximize food production.
All of the above activities underscore the need for active and strategic advocacy and public
disscmination of knowledge and practices that promote the growth and development of young
childrcn.
6. Sectoral Policies to be followed in the Course of Project Implementation
6.1 Early Cbildbood Education and Care Policy
In the field of education, the policy of the MOE emphasizes the importance of providing
equal access to quality education for all nationals, With regard to early childhood
education (ECE), it seeks to promote the cognitive development of children and to
improve thcir social, psychological and educational preparedness for school entry. The
ECE policy supports equal access to and iinproved quality of early childhood
intcrvcntions, the promotion of diversified forms (fomTnal and nonforrnal) of ECE
delivcry, and adoption of low cost and cost effective community based interventions that
strengthen community participation and managemenit responsibility, thereby improving
the likelihood of program sustainability.
During ihe course of this program, policy guidelines for nonformal education that will bc
provided by rural community caregivers will be established and a curriculum will be
developed.
- 76 -



7
6.2 Child Health Policy
The national health policy gives priority to the provision of Primary Health Care (PHC)
for all Eritreans. The basic principles of PHC inclutie promotion of health, reduction or
diseases, and reduclion of morbidity and mortality. One of the majior tasks to be
accomplished by the MOH during the course of the overall program is the reduction of
the five main diseases that cause childhood morbidity and mortality, namely; diarrheas
acute respiratory infections (ARI), malaria, measles, and malnutrition. The strategies to
be employed to improvc the health of children will include: a) continuous improvement
of health services; b) assessing whether quality and cost effectiveness of health services
are optimal; and c) improving the skills of all health care workers through training
programs that cover the major causcs of child mortality and morbidity. In addition, the
training programs will emphasizc the critical dependence of child health on maternal
health, prcventive health care, and the special health .1eeds of the most vulnerable groups.
Advocacy and networking within the MOH and sectoral Ministries will be accomplished
by the following strategies: a) making extensive use of TEC techniques to promote the
P1-C program, and including IEC techiiques in the NJational Health Plan; b) monitoring
the coordination and follow-up of health scrvics for children by the Family and
Community Healttl Unit of the MOH; c) facilitating close collaboration across the various
divisions of the MOH (EPI, IEC, Nutrition, Reproductive health and CDC) as they
impact on implcmentation oFr C0; d) conducting growth monitoring programs (GMP) at
all health facilitics and at the community level, using WHO standards for malnutrition as
criteria; and e) wnducting and supervising therapeutic (referral) feeding and home
follow-up interventions.
6.3 Policy on Nutritioa and Food Security
The vverall objectives and targets of the policy guidelines on nutrition and Food security
are: a) to ensure food security in all household and improvw the nutritional status of the
population, especially women and children: b) eliminate iodine dcficicncy disorders by
2000; c) eliminate vitamin A deficiency by 2003; d ) reduce iron deficiency anemia by
33% by 2003; c) achicvc food security at the national level in the coming five years; f)
incorporate food and nutritioni objectivu3 within health, agriculture, poverty alleviation,
education, industry, and other sector priorities; and g) develop and maintain the
- 77 -



8
necessary technical, managerial, and institutional capacity to accomplish the above
objectives.
Short-terni strategies include the following: a) focusing on the first three years of life (i.e.
cncouraging mothcrs to cxclusivcly brcastfecd their infants for about six months and to
introduce ntritious and hygienically prepared variable weaning foods no sooner than
four months of age); b) training health workers in optimal infant feeding and introduction
of weaning foods; c) improving child-feeding behaviors related to illness; d) improvc the
energy balance of all women and in particular pregnant and lactating women by
improving dietary quality and quantity and by reducing energy expenditure; e) improving
access to and use of reproductive health services to allow women to space their birth to at
least two years apart. This will improve the probability of child survival and alsu permit
women time to recuperate nutritionally betwcen ,rregnancies: and f) reinforcing the
integrated management of childhood illness.
Long-tem  strategies includc the following: a) improving access to educational
opportunities for female children, because maternal education is strongly associated with
the nutritional status of both mothers and children; b) promoting income-caming
opportunities for women to improvc thc ccononiic status of households, thereby
improving the nutritional staLus of wumcn and uhildrtn; and c) improving access to water
and sanitaticn, and overall environmental and lhousehold hygiene. This will reduce
exposure to diarrhea, a direct cause of malnutrition in children.
6.4 Policy on Child Welfare
'The overall policy is based on the premise that the psychosocial and physical needs of
vulnerable children must be met by interventions at the community level. Thc strategies
to be followed include: a) building on past experience, to expand and improve
community bas d programs for the reunification of childrxn in nced of special protection
with extended families; b) providing host families of the reunification program with
locally detenmineid incomc gencrating materials that will strengthen thcir economic
capacity; c) building on past experience, to expand the construction of small group homes
for children of mixed ages who arc in need of special protection but, for various rsons,
can not be reunified with extended familics; d) creating a systematic program for the in-
-78 -



9
quntradoption af the most vulnerable young children who for various reasons can
neither be reunified nor placed in group homcs; e) training appropriatc persons to provide
counseling and psychological support lo vulnerable childrcn with psychological
difficulties; f) expanding community-based systenms of monitoring that ensure thc
psychosocial protection of targeted vulnerable children; and g ) utilizing specialized
strategies of the IEC component to advocatc for children in need of special protection, to
increase public awarcness of the Rights of the Child, to overcome cultural resistance to
the adoption of biologically unrelated infants and children, and to encourage the adoption
of such children.
7. Sources of Finance for thc Project and Financial SustUinability
TIhe estimated cost of the projcct is US$ 49 million, which is expected to he financed by a World
Bank credit of UJS$ 40 million, GOE contribution of US$ 4 rnillion and a pledge from the Italian
Cooperation amounting to US$ 5 million. Other contribiutors (WH0, DANIDA, UNICEF,
'USAID, WFP and others) that are now funding on-going programs in the same or similar areas
will hopefully provide additional funds for soinc of thc sub-components.
In addition, the GCE has implcmented a nation-wide program that is designed to encourage the
local population (depending on ability to pay) to share about 3-5% of the cost of the activities
from savings, income generations, service charges, donatiors, and the like. The purpose of this
initiative is to strcngthen the commitment of the local population to the activities that serve their
interests by involving them actively in the financing, management and monitoring proccsses. In
this way, the rcSponsibility for financing the various activitit:s will gradually be shlifted from Lh
center to the local level, and the sustainability of the various programs will be strengthencd. This
initiative is in line with the general policy of the GO1M fnr cconomic empowermrent and self-
sufFlciencv, and the elimination of subsidies that perpetuate dependency.
While the capacity of communities to manage and firance progam  activities is being
strengthened, the GOE will cover program costs until the wmmunities have become self-
sufficient and can sustain the program on their own. Recurrert costs (salaries, supplies, materials,
and contingcncics) for the sixth year of the ECD project are currently estimated to bc US $ 4.4
million and this will be spread across the five participating ministries.
- 79 -



lo
8. ECD Sub-Sectoral Policv
The preceding sections have highlighted the overriding irnportance of integrating education,
health and nutritional services for mother and chi ldcare senrices, and social support for children
in need of special protection. Many of thc activities to be implemented by the various ministerial
components under the ECD project are, in effect, major expansions and refinements of programs
that have been carricd out effectively for a number of years. A major advance of the proposed
ECD project, in addition to the overall cxpansion and improvement of activities, will be the
systematic coordination of thc various interventions on early childhood health, cducation,
nutrition services and the social rehabilitation of vulnerab]e children, under one management
structure across central. regional and sub-regional administrative levels.
The proposed intcgration and coordination of activities will be achieved through capacity
building not only at management level, but also at the level of local institutions and the
community. The focus on regional and sub-regional management of activities and interventions is
expected to have a direct impact on the improvement of health and health services, on the
protection of vulnerable children, and on the early education of childrcn bcfore and shortly after
they enter the primary grades.  Tn other words, the supervision, continuous monitoring and
periodic evaluations/assessments to ensure quality improveinent at a level where the activities
have the major impact will help achieve the GOE policy obj.ectives of decentralization and local
participation.
The integration of activities at the regional level will also have a nimber of additional strategic
advantages. It will improve communication and coordination across sectors and administrative
levels, ensure the transparency of disbursements during the procurement and implementation
phases, increase the efficiency of utilizing limited resource;3, and facilitate monitoring, quality
improvement and evaluation.
- 80 -



9. Cauciusihndvlp7&cunre,weete
Iath  ba~   osse fs    f a  societY , especia lY  in  ecr     theY
ildre n~    a rpoe fl~ l f r e b h the  huge abdeas etslop nm cntal  t W;k    tb.it  lies   ahead.    G u aranltee )~   h
the hug develomna                    ITs 
chialh   h~'  n  rnelt deePeto  hAtai hSip~"    is for ihis basic
meta de-eOpen of1 ofi the inu 
heiacple thatyi   acods top prioritY to Child care 'h. inplefent     of    t
Principle ta td    OS 5-6tr"a   pe o lrd is t oP   oh ver  the   next    -rive  yeaTS, will    contn- lt
i   Oiies of thwe Go-verr'Tent          oavacnfoa
:theal- avnd csu'~&e~ of tlie eil5s being inadc to cnhanceY1huntan  P no jnaslidtvua  like
ecoft                   pm growth and devC1 tte And Erittea smks the suol)port
the V'orId Bank and foreign govn titfn tob cau
ol likc   to  take  thii  opp tW'Y   to  tha :k the  WOrld   Batk for
cIsad 5upPO  of aridTi   5 develOP
'+our SincerelY,
Head Tre  >Y Departmrt
- n -






IBRD 246041
-18'            37                     38'                    309                   40'                     4142                                               18'-
Ig   '                                                                       < .         SAUDI ARABIA
S U D A N           j<.ruXj oF;ferUcTeclol  -                                                 \                                                                     E R I T RAErA
Y~~~~~MFc.                                                                                                                  17
-'   ---    l  >'',,1                     -                              fi                            'jI?'
-17              )       /So                                                                                                                                                            MAJOR ROADS
'3'                                    ____ ~~~~~~~~~~~~SECONDARY ROADS
I                                         ' 1 '03,,  ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~-'---~~~~~~~~~~ ~RAILROADS
FeiNt    NATO -3i *p                                                                      0 .                                         - " - -  ,    .   RIVERS
INTERMITTRNT STREAMS
C   SELECTED TOWNS
II,   . f.;   ;;   y .    .  X f j | i,, Q. *      ..<'1                                                                                                  *    NATIONAL CAPITAL
/:Gule --I.  a                                                                                                                    x At    Ae0       -       INTERNATIONAL BOUNDARIES
A( r\'                                                            X,  ,        r,,!    fi-                      rJ,,.       ;               {E RIn
)                                                                                \-                2    ffi Bchled         '1           \  IS'        /   * \-. > \ RyEEPmEONF ,~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~.hl  16
-16'~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~6
A REA                 I             .6~    M T I   I44.1   H                       '                    "                                     1
17\w                                                                 X           | <-4 \ r /, SOMAL A
n.6.'fi  ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~550                                                         100        1 50
.yk.t.                                                                                                                            KI~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~r  LOMETERS
N,n.y   enaeOeaeS A                                   SaNcho           K.I
IS'                                                                                                                 rn
A7                              M." F. 4p              41'                     44S
T.-O    Ad, A-        SAra                 Dar6
TaAS,AI,ra,  TaA4,'0col  9  DffNKFI  Abeaher.                                                V  ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~o' ~~ SAUDIARARIA   >9'- -SADI'AABI
14'  .1                                                          N.                 Ad.                                                !KI'Y;~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~Af-~~~~~~~~~~-' 1,~~-5  RP O  5
A                                                                                                 OaI.Iad       I.                                       *,  RJ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~P~~~~~OJ  10'~~~~~~h.l  E E
AlamO  ,'  '                  ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~SUDAN   '.
A                                                                    C~ ,,!
/~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~C /
13'~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~-0
ETHISOMALI
30'       ~~~E  T  H  I 0   P  I AYK                                                  .ht JRTIPA'0
adele                            '  ~~~~~~~INDIAN
T.~ L.gy.                    <UGANDA)               I       -       OCEAN
319~~~~                                                      DJIBOUTI 43-                              0.~~~~~7' N-S          5'
37'  39'               40                                             42'   7    DJIBOUTI                     '~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~icloria   ~~~~~~~  h10~~~~ NOVEMEER I 99~NVEBER19



