                               Document of
                              The World Bank




                                                  Report No:ICR0000336




          IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION AND RESULTS REPORT
                         (IDA-34030, ITAL-24927)




                                  ON A

                                 CREDIT

                    IN THE AMOUNT OF SDR 29 MILLION
                      (US$ 40 MILLION EQUIVALENT)

                                 TO THE

                         GOVERNMENT OF ERITREA

                                  FOR A

        INTEGRATED EARLY CHILDHOOD DEVELOPMENT PROJECT




                               May 31, 2007




Human Development 1
Country Department 6
Africa Region

                   CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS

               Exchange Rate Effective for year 2007

                     Currency Unit = Nakfa (Nf)

                      15.00 Nakfa = US$ 1.00

            FISCAL YEAR: January 1st ­ December 31st.


              ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS

ARI         Acute Respiratory Infection.
BCC         Behavior Change Communication
C-GMP       Community-Growth Monitoring Program
C-IMCI      Community-Integrated Management of Childhood Illness
CAS         Country Assistance Strategy
CCG         Community Caregiver
CFR         Case Fatality Rate
CHW         Community Health Worker
CNSP        Children in Need of Special Protection
CPPR        Country Portfolio Performance Review
ECD         Early Childhood Development
ECE         Early Childhood Education
EDHS        Eritrea Demographic and Health Survey
EENT        Eye, Ear, Nose and Throat
EPI         Expanded Program on Immunization
FMR         Financial Monitoring Report
GOE         Government of Eritrea
GMP         Growth Monitoring Promoters
HAMSET      HIV/AIDS; Malaria; Sexually Transmitted Diseases; Tuberculosis
HDNED       Human Development Network- Education Cluster
HFA         Health Facility Assessment
HIV/AIDS    Human Immunodeficiency Virus/Acquired Immune Deficiency
            Syndrome
HH          Household
IBRD        International Bank for Reconstruction and Development
ICR         Implementation Completion Report
IDA         International Development Association
IECDP       Integrated Early Childhood Development Project
IMCI        Integrated Management of Childhood Illnesses
IMR         Infant Mortality Rate
ISN         Interim Strategy Note
KABP        Knowledge, Attitude, Beliefs and Practices
KG          Kindergarten

M&E              Monitoring and Evaluation
MF               Ministry of Fisheries
MoA              Ministry of Agriculture
MoE              Ministry of Education
MoH              Ministry of Health
MoLG             Ministry of Local Government
MoLHW            Ministry of Labor and Human Welfare
MTR              Mid-Term Review
NRS              Northern Red Sea Zoba
NSS              Nutrition Surveillance System
SRS              Southern Red Sea Zoba
UNICEF           United Nations Children's Fund
USAID            United States Agency for International Development

VHC              Village Health Counselors
VWG              Village Working Group
WFP              World Food Program
WHO              World Health Organization
WB               World Bank




           Vice President: Obiageli Katryn Ezekwesili
         Country Director: Colin Bruce
          Sector Manager: Dzingai B. Mutumbuka
      Project Team Leader: Christopher D. Walker
        ICR Team Leader: Carla Bertoncino

                                              ERITREA
       INTEGRATED EARLY CHILDHOOD DEVELOPMENT PROJECT




                                             CONTENTS




Data Sheet
   A. Basic Information
   B. Key Dates
   C. Ratings Summary
   D. Sector and Theme Codes
   E. Bank Staff
   F. Results Framework Analysis
   G. Ratings of Project Performance in ISRs
   H. Restructuring
   I. Disbursement Graph

 1. Project Context, Development Objectives and Design............................................... 1
 2. Key Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcomes .............................................. 7
 3. Assessment of Outcomes.......................................................................................... 10
 4. Assessment of Risk to Development Outcome......................................................... 21
 5. Assessment of Bank and Borrower Performance ..................................................... 22
 6. Lessons Learned ....................................................................................................... 24
 7. Comments on Issues Raised by Borrower/Implementing Agencies/Partners ........ 245
 Annex 1. Project Costs and Financing.......................................................................... 26
 Annex 2. Outputs by Component ................................................................................. 28
 Annex 3. Economic and Financial Analysis................................................................. 34
 Annex 4. Bank Lending and Implementation Support/Supervision Processes ............ 36
 Annex 5. Beneficiary Survey Results......................................................................... 378
 Annex 6. Stakeholder Workshop Report and Results................................................... 39
 Annex 7. Summary of Borrower's ICR and/or Comments on Draft ICR..................... 40
 Annex 8. Comments of Cofinanciers and Other Partners/Stakeholders....................... 41
 Annex 9. List of Supporting Documents ...................................................................... 42
 MAP

A. Basic Information

                                                                      Integrated Early
Country:                Eritrea                 Project Name:         Childhood
                                                                      Development Project
                                                                      IDA-34030,ITAL-
Project ID:             P068463                 L/C/TF Number(s):
                                                                      24927
ICR Date:               10/01/2007              ICR Type:             Core ICR
                                                                      GOVERNMENT OF
Lending Instrument:     SIL                     Borrower:
                                                                      ERITREA
Original Total
                        XDR 29.0M               Disbursed Amount:     XDR 28.1M
Commitment:
Environmental Category: C
Implementing Agencies:
Ministry of Education
Cofinanciers and Other External Partners:
italian cooperation


B. Key Dates

      Process             Date             Process          Original Date   Revised / Actual
                                                                                 Date(s)
Concept Review:        10/26/1999    Effectiveness:         09/27/2000         09/27/2000
Appraisal:             01/24/2000    Restructuring(s):
Approval:              07/27/2000    Mid-term Review:                          01/19/2004
                                     Closing:               12/31/2005         03/31/2007


C. Ratings Summary
C.1 Performance Rating by ICR
Outcomes:                                       Satisfactory
Risk to Development Outcome:                    Substantial
Bank Performance:                               Satisfactory
Borrower Performance:                           Satisfactory


C.2 Detailed Ratings of Bank and Borrower Performance (by ICR)
         Bank                   Ratings                Borrower               Ratings
Quality at Entry:       Moderately Satisfactory Government:           Moderately Satisfactory

Quality of Supervision: Satisfactory            Implementing
                                                Agency/Agencies:      Satisfactory

Overall Bank                                    Overall Borrower
Performance:            Satisfactory            Performance:          Satisfactory




                                               i

C.3 Quality at Entry and Implementation Performance Indicators
    Implementation                              QAG Assessments
      Performance              Indicators           (if any)               Rating

Potential Problem Project No                  Quality at Entry
                                                                    None
at any time (Yes/No):                         (QEA):
Problem Project at any                        Quality of
                          Yes                                       None
time (Yes/No):                                Supervision (QSA):
DO rating before          Moderately
Closing/Inactive status:  Satisfactory


D. Sector and Theme Codes
                                                             Original          Actual
Sector Code (as % of total Bank financing)
General public administration sector                             4                4
Health                                                          35               35
Other social services                                           25               25
Pre-primary education                                           23               31
Primary education                                               13                5


Theme Code (Primary/Secondary)
Child health                                                  Primary          Primary
Education for all                                            Secondary         Primary
Improving labor markets                                      Secondary        Secondary
Nutrition and food security                                   Primary          Primary
Social safety nets                                           Secondary         Primary


E. Bank Staff
         Positions                     At ICR                         At Approval
Vice President:           Obiageli Katryn Ezekwesili       callisto madavo
Country Director:         Colin Bruce                      oey meesook
Sector Manager:           Dzingai B. Mutumbuka             van adams
Project Team Leader:      Christopher D. Walker            Marito H. Garcia
ICR Team Leader:          Carla Bertoncino
ICR Primary Author:       Peter A. Gaius-Obaseki



F. Results Framework Analysis

Project Development Objectives (from Project Appraisal Document)
The objectives of the project are:


                                             ii

  (i) to promote healthy growth and development of children under six years of age;

  (ii) to expand access to, and improve the quality of, services that address the basic
needs of young
  children;

  (iii) to support orphans and children facing especially difficult circumstances;

  (iv) to improve health and nutrition of children in primary schools.

Revised Project Development Objectives (as approved by original approving authority)




(a) PDO Indicator(s)

                                            Original Target      Formally      Actual Value

   Indicator         Baseline Value          Values (from         Revised       Achieved at
                                                approval          Target      Completion or
                                               documents)         Values       Target Years

Indicator 1 :   case fatality rate (CFR) in <6 children from the combined 5 major causes:
                malaria, ARI, diarrhea, measles, and anemia + malnutrition in project areas.
                                                                            Malaria (1.5%);
                                                                            ARI (1.5%);
                CFR: malaria (2.5%);                                        diarrhea (1.8%);
                ARI (3.3%); diarrhea                                        measles (0%);
Value           (4.5%); measles (0%);                                       malnutrition
quantitative or malnutrition (10.3%); and  Reduction of 20%                 (4.8%); and
Qualitative)    combined rate (5.15%).     of all types of CFR              combined rate
                Data sou rce: Ministry of                                   (2.4%). Data
                Health, HMIS                                                source: Ministry of
                                                                            Health, HMIS

Date achieved 12/29/2000                   10/31/2006                       10/31/2006
Comments
(incl. %        Cumulative 53.4% reduction in CFR for malaria,measles,malnutrition,ARI and

achievement)    diarrhea.

                % of underweight (weight for age) children under 6 years of age in project areas
Indicator 2 :   (see PDO rating explanation for the reason why this indicator needs to be
                revised)
Value
quantitative or 39.2%                      Reduction by 20%                 41.7%
Qualitative)
Date achieved 12/31/2003                   12/31/2006                       03/31/2006
Comments
(incl. %        6.4% Increase.
achievement)



                                                iii

Indicator 3 :  repetition and dropout rates from primary grade 1 to grade 2 in project areas

               25.97% repetition rate     15% decrease in                   18.24% and 8.79%
Value                                                                       for repetition and
quantitative orand 13.7% dropout rates repetition rate and                  drop-out
Qualitative)   from grade 1 to grade 2. 20% decrease in
                                          drop out rate                     respectively.

Date achieved 05/15/2000                  12/31/2006                        10/31/2006
Comments
(incl. %       29.77% drop in repetition rates and 35.84% drop in dropout rates
achievement)
Indicator 4 :  Successful reunification of orphans with nearest relative(s)
Value
quantitative orzero orphans through the   32,000                            31,556

Qualitative)   project

Date achieved 04/29/2000                  12/31/2006                        10/31/2006
Comments
(incl. %       98.7% achievement
achievement)

(b) Intermediate Outcome Indicator(s)

                                           Original Target     Formally        Actual Value

   Indicator        Baseline Value           Values (from                       Achieved at
                                               approval         Revised        Completion or
                                              documents)     Target Values     Target Years
Indicator 1 :  % of health workers trained in IMCI case management by ECD project
Value                                                                       1096 Health
(quantitative  None                       150                               workers
or Qualitative)
Date achieved 04/20/2000                  12/31/2006                        10/31/2006
Comments
(incl. %       631% achievement
achievement)
Indicator 2 :  % of facilities stocked with essential IMCI drugs through project.
Value
(quantitative  None                       100%
or Qualitative)
Date achieved 04/29/2000                  12/31/2006
Comments
(incl. %       Values not available at time of ICR.
achievement)
               Number of mothers training in food security and nutrition through the Ministry
Indicator 3 :  of Agriculture training program, with support from the Ministry of Health
               through the ECD project.

Value                                                                       8,667 mothers

(quantitative  13,374 trained mothers     N.A.                              trained through

or Qualitative)                                                             project




                                               iv

Date achieved 03/31/2000                12/31/2006                      10/31/2006
Comments
(incl. %
achievement)
Indicator 4 :  Cumulative enrolment in Kindergartens and Child Care Givers

Value                                   31,000 and 50,000               31,653 and 50,425
(quantitative  12,436                   respectively (see               respectively
or Qualitative)                         IP rating
                                        explanation)
Date achieved 04/29/2000                12/31/2006                      10/31/2006
Comments
(incl. %       102.1% and 100.9% respectively
achievement)
Indicator 5 :  Number of social workers trained
Value
(quantitative  zero through the project 90 (see IP rating               36

or Qualitative)                         explanation)

Date achieved 04/29/2000                12/31/2006                      10/31/2006
Comments
(incl. %       60% achievement
achievement)


G. Ratings of Project Performance in ISRs

                                                                             Actual
 No.     Date ISR
         Archived               DO                        IP             Disbursements
                                                                         (USD millions)
  1     10/14/2000          Satisfactory              Satisfactory                  0.00
  2     01/08/2001          Satisfactory              Satisfactory                  1.00
  3     06/21/2001          Satisfactory              Satisfactory                  1.67
  4     12/21/2001          Satisfactory              Satisfactory                  3.46
  5     04/29/2002          Satisfactory              Satisfactory                  4.99
  6     09/17/2002          Satisfactory              Satisfactory                  6.17
  7     01/16/2003          Satisfactory              Satisfactory                  6.31
  8     07/23/2003          Satisfactory              Satisfactory                  7.31
  9     12/01/2003          Satisfactory            Unsatisfactory                 10.14
  10    05/12/2004          Satisfactory            Unsatisfactory                 15.27
  11    11/17/2004          Satisfactory            Unsatisfactory                 20.90
  12    01/06/2005          Satisfactory            Unsatisfactory                 22.40
  13    05/05/2005    Moderately Satisfactory Moderately Satisfactory              26.73
  14    12/19/2005    Moderately Satisfactory Moderately Satisfactory              33.33
  15    04/07/2006    Moderately Satisfactory         Satisfactory                 35.89
  16    10/30/2006    Moderately Satisfactory         Satisfactory                 39.98
  17    03/29/2007          Satisfactory              Satisfactory                 41.64




                                             v

H. Restructuring (if any)
Not Applicable




I. Disbursement Profile




                             vi

1. Project Context, Development Objectives and Design
(This section is descriptive, taken from other documents, e.g., PAD/ISR, not evaluative)

1.1 Context at Appraisal
(Brief summary of country and sector background, rationale for Bank assistance)

Over the period between Independence (1992) and the identification and design of the Eritrea
Integrated Early Childhood Development Project (from now on "the Project") in 1999/2000,
Eritrea's economy was growing rapidly with annual GDP growth rate averaging 5.4 percent. The
gross primary school enrolment rate increased from 36.3% to 64%, access to health services
doubled from 30%, the Expanded Programme on Immunization (EPI) coverage increased by
125%, and basic social infrastructure was rehabilitated. The government was focused on building
the foundations for long-term growth and development. Within that context, a set of policies
aimed at strengthening the country's human resources was formulated. However, the resumption
of the armed conflict with Ethiopia in May 1998 seriously undermined Eritrea's chances of
economic and social success. By the time the hostilities ceased, in June 2000, the war had
caused: (i) some US$600 million damage in property including the destruction of US$225 million
in livestock and 55,000 homes; (ii) the disruption of the agriculture cycle in the country's most
productive region causing national food production to drop by as much as 60%; and (iii) one third
of the population to be without water, sanitation or shelter.

The War and its aftermath had severe effects on the nation's children, especially since over 70%
of the population comprise of children and women of child-bearing age. The health status
declined with malaria, Acute Respiratory Infection (ARI) and diarrhea being the primary causes
of mortality and morbidity in children under 5 years. Infant and under 5 mortality rates were 72
and 135 per 1000 respectively in 2000. The nutritional status was also poor with 10% of children
wasted, 66% stunted and 41% underweight. It is in this context that the Project and the Eritrea
Interim Support Strategy (ISN, 2000) were conceived.

The ISN prioritized the development of the human resource base of the country. In particular, the
Government of Eritrea (GoE) recognized the importance of investing in young children's growth
and development within its macroeconomic policy framework. It underscored the importance of
mother and child services and the need to provide children with legal and social protection. A
series of initiatives were already being implemented, providing a platform for the Project to build
upon:

     · The Ministry of Agriculture (MoA) in collaboration with the Ministry of Health (MoH)
         had developed a food security strategy supporting interventions that included increasing
         agricultural and livestock production, financial support to farmers through a credit
         window, and training for selected income generating activities for households. Guidelines
         for the implementation of the strategy were also prepared which incorporated Public
         Health Centers (PHC), Expanded Program on Immunization (EPI)-plus and Integrated
         Management of Childhood Illnesses (IMCI).
     · The MoE drafted a policy on Early Childhood Education (ECE) in 1995 which, among
         other things, promoted diversified forms of ECE delivery through formal and non-formal
         methods including Kindergartens (KGs) and Community Caregivers (CCGs) and
         provided guidelines on setting up and managing day-care centers.
     · The GoE, through the Ministry of Labor and Human Welfare (MoLHW), had a firm
         policy seeking to phase out the institutionalization of orphans while promoting their re-


                                                  1

         integration with extended families. At that time, the MoLHW had re-integrated 14,000
         children over the previous six years.

In spite of these efforts, significant challenges remained: a very limited supply of early childhood
programs, ECE activities only available in urban areas, a mere 2% of 5-6 year olds enrolled in
KGs, and a high number of orphans (90,000) due to the war. These became the areas of
intervention for the Project. A majority of the interventions that were envisaged were ongoing
and had been tested. Thus the Project was multi-sectoral and decentralized, and was developed to
increase coverage and foster the institutional integration of the ministries involved. These latter
were initially six: Ministry of Agriculture (MoA), Ministry of Education (MoE), Ministry of
Health (MoH), Ministry of Fisheries (MF), Ministry of Local Government (MoLG) and the
Ministry of Labor and Human Welfare (MoLHW). However, the Project was actually
implemented by four ministries as the MoA absorbed the MF and, for the Project's purposes, the
Ministry of National Development (MOND) took over the MoLG's functions.

The Project was financed with resources provided by IDA, the GoE, and the Italian Cooperation.
The Italian Cooperation contributed to the Project through a trust fund allocation of US$5 million.
The agency first expressed its interest during the pre-appraisal phase and remained engaged
throughout the life of the Project, including after the trust fund closed at the end of 2004. This
ICR also serves as the Implementation Completion Memorandum for the Italian Trust Fund.
Strong technical assistance ties were established from the beginning with World Health
Organization (WHO), United States Agency for International Development (USAID), United
Nations Children's Fund (UNICEF) and the Partnership for Child Development (UK).

1.2 Original Project Development Objectives (PDO) and Key Indicators (as approved)
The objectives of the Project are: (i) to promote healthy growth and development of children
under six years of age; (ii) to expand access to, and improve the quality of, services that address
the basic needs of young children; (iii) to support orphans and children facing especially difficult
circumstances; and (iv) to improve health and nutrition of children in primary schools.

The PDOs are summarized in Table 1.

Table 1. PDO Indicators and Targets

Component                                  Indicator                             Target
Child Health                               Combined Case Fatality Rates          20% reduction
                                           (CFR)
Child and maternal nutrition.              Prevalence of underweight             20% reduction
                                           children less than 6 years of age.
Early Childhood care and education.        Repetition and Dropout rates          20% reduction
                                           between grades 1 and 2.
Support for Children in need of            Reunification of orphans with         32,000 orphans
special protection measures.               close relatives.

1.3 Revised PDO (as approved by original approving authority) and Key Indicators, and
reasons/justification

There were no revisions to the PDOs.




                                                   2

The original indicator for malnutrition was changed to monitor the prevalence of children under
three years from the earlier indicator that monitored children under six years. Had the Growth
Monitoring and Promotion (GMP) program become operational very early in the life of the
Project, it would have been possible for it to have an impact on children older than threei.
However, on realizing that the implementation had been irrevocably delayed, the current Project
team decided that for any impact to be measurable, the indicator had to be modified to focus on
children under three.

1.4 Main Beneficiaries

Children were the primary beneficiaries, with a focus on 6 years olds and younger.
The secondary beneficiaries of the Project were mothers, caregivers, teachers, agricultural
extension workers, social workers and health workers. The Project was implemented in all the
six zobas (regions) in the country, and in a subset of the 59 sub-zobas (sub-regions), where it
reached 588 villages out of a total of 2,606.

1.5 Original Components (as approved)

Component 1
Improving Child Health (US$10.5 million)

The objective of this component was to reduce childhood morbidity and mortality by improving
case management and preventive skills of health staff and empowering communities and
caregivers to improve family/child health care practices. Interventions included:

Improving skills of health workers and caregivers; improving the health system; improving
family and community practices; environmental health interventions; school health interventions;
improving Information Education and Communication (IEC) for behavioral change; and
supervision, support, monitoring, evaluation and research.

The inputs for this component were:

    · National strategic guidelines for school based delivery of health and nutrition and
        operations manual.
    · Implementation workshops at zoba level.
    · Training of health workers and teaching staff in case management and implementation
        support for community Integrated Management of Childhood Illnesses (C-IMCI).
    · Training of Community Health Workers (CHWs) and Volunteer Health Counselors
        (VHCs) in C-IMCI.
    · Training of 101 health workers and 15 for implementation support of the community
        level activities.
    · Drugs and medical equipment for the health facilities.
    · Equipment and training, at health facility and school level, for Participatory Hygiene and
        Sanitation Transformation (PHAST).




iIt is worth noting that underweight for age is not a suitable indicator of malnutrition for
children older than three.



                                                 3

    · Other equipment for health facilities (36 laundry machines, 8 generators, 30 health
         facility kitchen stoves, beds, blankets, bed sheets and chairs).

Component 2
Improving Child and Maternal Nutrition (US$4.6 million)

The objective of this component was to improve the nutritional status of children under 6 years,
and pregnant and nursing mothers. Interventions included:

Building capacities of families and communities for growth monitoring and promotion; reducing
micro and macro-nutrient deficiency by vitamin A and iron supplementation; interventions to
improve food security especially for children in the target population; and building capacity
within ministries to implement the nutrition component.

The inputs for this component were:

    · Sensitization of families and communities for the GMP program.
    · Development and distribution of a manual, counseling cards, registers, growth cards,
         referral sheet and minimum expected weight gain to all GMP volunteers.
    · Intensive practical training of the GMP volunteers on basic nutrition, principles and
         objectives of the GMP, weighing, plotting, interpreting growth patterns, counseling
         mothers, how to organize sessions and what to do about children who require special care.
         Refresher training to GMP promoters was also provided.
    · Basic GMP training for mothers, health workers, sub-zoba (sub-regional) home agents
         (MoA) as well as GMP coordinators.
    · Food security inputs: water pumps, chicks, smokeless stoves.
    · Training of mothers for improved food security at the household level.

Component 3
Improving Early Childhood Education (ECE) and Care (US$11.8 million)

The objective of this component was to:

Improve access to and quality of ECE; improve primary school health environment; and enhance
institutional capacity of all administrative levels, especially that of communities, to undertake
childcare, ECE and effectively supervise and monitor ECE activities.

The inputs for this component were:

   ·    Development of policy and procedural guidelines.
   ·    Development and printing of curriculum materials.
   ·    Training of kindergarten teachers, assistant kindergarten teachers, community caregivers,
         directors, supervisors and resource centre coordinators has taken place.
   ·    Construction of, and equipment for kindergartens (KGs) and ECE Resource Centers
   ·    Establishment of community caregivers (CCGs) in rural areas
   ·    Research studies conducted and properly utilized

Component 4
Support for Children in Need of Special Protection Measures (US$11.7 million)



                                                   4

The objective of this component was to strengthen the traditional safety nets for child care and
protection through community-based reintegration and psycho-social support for orphans. It
specifically sought to:

Reintegrate 32,000 orphans - including disabled, displaced and expelled orphans as well
abandoned street children; minimize the long-term social and psychological problems of Eritrean
orphans; strengthen the ability of families to cope financially by means of income-generating
programs; increase awareness of communities about the need for community based interventions
for orphans and to encourage and strengthen community-based initiatives to support these
orphans; build the capacity of personnel at the national, regional and community levels involved
in offering services, with special emphasis on the recruitment of appropriate personnel at the
community level; and improve program supervision, monitoring and evaluation.

The inputs for this component were:

    · Grants to reunified households for income generating activities.
    · Equipment for the MoLHW office at the zoba level.
    · Two skilled personnel employed at the children play material and production center
         workshop.
    · Development and distribution of the orphan children reintegration and reunification
         manual.
    · Training of middle level social workers on the resource manual.
    · Development and distribution of the Group home Mother's manual.
    · One Project officer at the MoLHW headquarters to help in the Implementation and
         follow up of the entire ministry activities funded under ECD

Component 5
Project Management, Evaluation and Strategic Communications (US$5.45 million)

The objective of this component was to support the overall management of the multi-sectoral
program and the cross-cutting activities. Its subcomponents were:

The Project Management Team (PMT) for overall project management and coordination,
including planning, budgeting, procurement and financial management, and M&E; advocacy and
awareness for ECD issues to be achieved through advocacy and sensitization campaigns; an
Innovation Fund to support new activities that are developed at the community, sub-regional, and
regional levels; and integrated ECD program evaluation/surveys and research.




                                                   5

                                              Figure 1
                                 The Project's organizational chart

                                                Policy Steering Committee
                                                         (Ministers)


                     Project Management Team                         National Technical Steering
                                                                             Committee


        Zoba Working Group                  Zoba Technical Steering Committee




                               Sub-zoba Working Group




                                                         Village Working Group



Policy Steering Committee (PSC): highest decision making body for the Project, which
consisted of ministers from all the involved ministries and was chaired by the MoE.
Technical Steering Committee (TSC): national and zoba, consisted of the technical heads of
each participant ministry.
Working groups: Zoba, sub-zoba and village, consisted of line-ministry and community
representatives at each of these levels.
Project Management Team (PMT): comprised full time employees and was responsible for
overall coordination as well as national level activities and was headed by a coordinator.

1.6 Revised Components

None of the components were formally revised.

1.7 Other significant changes

Scope:

The planned expansion of the coverage of the nutrition component was not carried out in
recognition of limited implementation capacity as illustrated by the considerable delays in
material development and training that were pre-requisites for the introduction of GMP in all



                                                  6

zobas. This decision, taken at the MTR, was one of the risk mitigating measures outlined in the
PAD.

Implementation arrangements and schedule:

        Effectiveness, originally planned for June 2000, was delayed into September 2000 due to
        the intensification of the war in May 2000.
        In 2002, the MoE assumed leadership of both the PSC and the TSC from the MoLG. This
        was cordially agreed to at both senior Committees.
        In 2003 the representation from each implementing ministry in the TSC was upgraded to
        the Director General level.
        The therapeutic feeding activity of the nutrition component was taken over by UNICEF
        and the savings realized from this in the Project were used to train more GMP promoters.

Funding allocations:


        Due to the sharp increase in the cost of building the KGs, the allocation for civil works
        increased from the original US$9.2 million to US$13.9 million, with corresponding
        decreases in the allocations for consultants, training and operating expenses.
        Also, due to inflation, income generating grants were increased from Nf 6,000 to Nf
        10,000.
        US$900,000 was reallocated within the nutrition component for distribution of DMK
        (supplementary feeding rations) during a food security emergency in 2003. However,
        this intervention encountered logistical difficulties resulting in substantial under spending
        and delays in distribution. Finally the GoE and the Bank agreed to use the balance
        (US$700,000) to provide high energy biscuits to children in KGs.

2. Key Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcomes
2.1 Project Preparation, Design and Quality at Entry

The three most positive factors were that (i) the PDO and the components were well aligned both
with the developmental priorities of Eritrea and the ISN, in particular the support for the holistic
development of children and the development of the human resource base of the country
respectively; (ii) several of the Project activities built on the government's prior engagement in
the participant sectors, e.g. re-integration of orphans with relatives, thus augmenting the efforts of
the government while introducing new interventions, e.g. the GMP and its integration with
community-IMCI (C-IMCI); and (iii) the deep commitment of the GoE. A negative factor was the
choice of project design which was too complex for the environment and which was prepared in
three months. The choice of project design was influenced by: (i) the great enthusiasm generated
during the early successful years of independence; and (ii) the expectation that the war would not
last long.

As to taking into account lessons learnt from previous operations, this was the first social sector
engagement in Eritrea and hence there was scarce operational experience on the ground to draw
from. The Project design, however, was based on international experience from the integrated
approach to ECD, especially from South Asia. Considering the particularly acute food insecurity
that characterized Eritrea at the time, the design probably should have put more emphasis on food
security rather than GMP. This issue will be discussed in section 3.1 as part of the assessment of
the relevance of the Project design.


                                                    7

Integrated approach: The Project embraced the GoE's priority of providing an integrated
package of interventions necessary for childhood development. This it did by providing a
platform through which the GoE's ongoing individual line ministry ECD interventions could be
jointly implemented with some innovations, e.g. GMP.

Community involvement: Including a partnership with the major Community Based
Organizations i.e National Union of Eritrean Women (NUEW) and the National Union of
Eritrean Youth (NUEY) in the Project design led to a very high level of community involvement,
especially during the last two years of the Project

Ambitious PDO targets for three main reasons: (i) The Bank had no previous Social Sector
involvement in Eritrea, hence there were no direct precedents to learn from; (ii) Eritrea had just
emerged from a protracted war which had caused severe internal displacement; and (iii) Capacity,
as noted in the PAD, was markedly low and subsequent events showed that it needed significantly
more attention than was originally planned. Even if the Project's interventions could reach the
communities immediately after effectiveness, the Project period was too short for the integrated
ECD (GMP, ECE, and other Project activities) to have an impact on children of primary school
age. Cognitive development in particular would take even longer to manifest than higher school
entry and retention. The Project performed well in spite of this because of a high level of
commitment by the GoE and the extraordinary level of coordination with the other development
partners.

Underestimation of risks: Although several critical risks were identified during the Project
design process, some were underestimated, particularly the inadequate capacity to implement a
coordinated IECD strategy throughout the country and the unclear definition of roles and
responsibilities among all administrative levels.

Expedited Project preparation: While preparing such a complex Project in three months is
commendable, it affected readiness for implementation. This is demonstrated by the fact that it
took three years to build any significant capacity for implementation. The underlying rationale
for fast-tracking will be discussed in section 5.1 on Bank performance.

Quality at Entry was not assessed by QAG either during preparation or after effectiveness. Based
on project preparation and design, Quality at Entry is rated Moderately Satisfactory.

2.2 Implementation
(Including any project changes/restructuring, mid-term review, Project at Risk status, and actions
taken, as applicable)

The first two years of the Project were very challenging as neither the Bank nor the Borrower had
any previous experience of implementing a complex operation in a "no war no peace"
environment. The following two years saw the PMT gain considerable traction in harmonizing
the activities of the different line ministries towards achieving the PDO. However, in the last two
years concerted efforts were made towards implementing an integrated package of ECD services
at the community level as was originally planned.

The most important positive factor during implementation was the GoE's and the Bank's
commitment to make the Project work. On the negative side, the main factors affecting




                                                   8

implementation were: (i) the "no war no peace situation" that prevailed since the Peace Accord
was signed in December 2000ii; (ii) the GoE's lack of capacity for structured, long term project
planning; (iii) the prolonged drought; and (iv) the difficulty involved in ensuring the integrated
ECD package reached the village level with the limited resources available.

Factors (ii) and (iv) were overcome with consistent engagement by the partners throughout
implementation, whereas the other two issues caused the Project irreversible damage. While the
Project was conceived and prepared during the war, the Cessation of Hostilities signed in June of
2000 led to the belief that Eritrea had entered the post conflict phase and was on a steady path to
recovery. Instead, a "no war no peace situation" ensued which had an adverse impact on the
country's reconstruction, economic recovery, and overall development process by absorbing a
substantial amount of financial and human resources in an already challenging environment.

During the first three years of the Project, inflation substantially affected implementation. As a
consequence of soaring building costs, the GoE changed the design of KG's at an advanced stage
of planning, causing a delay of more than two years in the roll out and construction of the KGs.
Also the income generating grants to the households reunified with one or more orphans had to
increase from Nf 6,000 per family at appraisal to Nf 10,000. Rising prices, combined with
nominally fixed travel allowances, the severe shortage of fuel and many other supplies, and
relative unavailability of vehicles negatively affected local supervision and implementation
support particularly during the last two years of the Project, when the activities on the ground
intensified.

The factors discussed above, coupled with the need to change the Project Manager and the TORs
for the TSC during the early stage of implementation significantly delayed progress, especially in
the nutrition component. As a consequence, after the mid-term review, the Project went into "at
risk" status. The discussions during the CPPR that took place shortly thereafter were
instrumental in turning around the Project, in the sense that the Borrower was finally persuaded
that integration at the village level was the key to the Project's success and therefore had to be
given priority over any other consideration. The mid-term review had also been useful, pointing
out among other things that CCGs seemed to be more cost effective than KGs, and that the
Project was now ready to bring the integrated ECD package to the villages. While the GoE was
receptive to the first message, integration of the services at the community level proved more
challenging.

The Project came out of "at risk" status about one year later, upon fulfillment of the Action Plan
the GoE had committed to during the CPPR. At that point it was too late to try and realize
integration in all the Project villages, so a subset of communities was selected, on the basis of
objective criteria, to carry out a pilot within the Project. In that context a decision was taken to
extend the operation by one year to give the pilot a minimal amount of time for impact ­ if any ­
to show. A procurement delay during the latter stages of the Project necessitated a second
extension of three months.




iiThe agreement called for the withdrawal of the Ethiopian army from Eritrean territory and the deployment of a UN
peacekeeping force along a 25-kilometer Temporary Security Zone between the two countries to remain until a neutral
Boundary Commission demarcated the border. Progress towards the border demarcation process has since been stalled
for seven years.




                                                         9

The drought affected the outcomes of Project substantially. It started while the Project was being
prepared and did not end until 2006. Its effects were likely compounded by the GoE's decision to
convert the free food distribution into a food-for-work program in 2005. Finally, in the same year,
USAID left the country; the agency was very active in capacity building for C-IMCI at all
administrative levels.

2.3 Monitoring and Evaluation (M&E) Design, Implementation and Utilization

The M&E component was intended to incorporate activities from all participant line ministries to
form an integrated M&E framework towards evaluating Project progress and outcomes. Both
intermediary and outcome indicators chosen were adequate. However, the availability of data
from the different ministries was uneven at different phases of the Project as some project
components were more advanced than others. Most interventions in ECE, CNSP and MCH were
already active at the time of commencement and the line ministries involved had experience in
collecting and interpreting data for those respective components. However, the GMP, C-IMCI
and rural KG programs were new and capacity and experience for theses activities was low.

As a consequence, while baseline data collection and regular progress were adequately addressed
for the established components, the new components lagged behind for significant portions of the
project life. GMP baseline data were not collected until 2003/2004 and became available in 2005
with the result that the final impact evaluation was also the first. The ICR team could not access
data on the duration of the GMP sites to verify the hypothesis that "older" sites had more impact
than "younger" ones. This is discussed further in section 3.2. Other impediments to timely data
collection and analysis included the lack of transport and adequate manpower as well as of a good
M&E officer in the unit for approximately one third of the Project's life.

However, over the last two years of the Project, the M&E component greatly improved, as did
general Project implementation. The PMT was able to secure a full time M&E officer, the
collection of information and its flow from the village to the national level improved, timely
quarterly reports were produced and, to a greater but still inadequate extent, decision making was
based on M&E reports.

2.4 Safeguard and Fiduciary Compliance
(Focusing on issues and their resolution, as applicable)

The Project was given a C rating for environmental safeguard purposes. From the fiduciary point
of view, there were no reported issues of significance; the only exception being that the plan to
switch to FMR based disbursement was not realized due to lack of capacity.

2.5 Post-completion Operation/Next Phase

During the last year of the Project, the GoE approved the national IECD Policy for Eritrea
outlining the responsibility of each Ministry towards young children which incorporated much of
the Project components (adopting the implementation of the Project). In spite of this, as at the
time of the last supervision/ICR mission, no substantive transitional arrangements had been made
and no decision had been taken on any follow up project. While the GoE indicated its willingness
to finance the core incremental costs of the Project, funding for these has seemed to cease after
December 2006. Coupled with Eritrea's current poor economic state, this raises some significant
concerns about the preservation of the gains made through the Project. This is discussed further in
section 4.



                                                 10

3. Assessment of Outcomes

3.1 Relevance of Objectives, Design and Implementation
(to current country and global priorities, and Bank assistance strategy)

The PDO remains relevant given the GoE's priority to provide its youth with all amenities
necessary for healthy growth and development, and the EFA (Education for All) initiative.

Were a similar operation to be designed with the same objectives today, two aspects would
probably change significantly:

    · The underlying rationale for the structure of the project components. The complexities
        associated with the implementation of a multi-sectoral, decentralized project could be
        minimized by designing the components based on the level at which they need to be
        implemented (household, community, region, centre) rather than on the type of
        intervention they offer. In fact, this approach makes the planning phase easier as well,
        and it was recently applied to the costing of the national IECD Policy; and

    · The relative emphasis placed on food security and GMP. While it has long been
        recognized that malnutrition in developing countries can only be effectively addressed by
        a combination of GMP and food security interventions, this Project showed that the
        balance between the two elements depends largely on the country specific circumstances.
        In a country at high risk of severe food insecurity, for instance, the food security portion
        of a nutrition component should get the lion's share vis a` vis GMP, especially if GMP is
        being introduced for the first time. In the case of Eritrea, an effective solution would
        have been combining sensitization and awareness creation at the community and
        household levels about the importance of GMP with a range of short-, medium- and long-
        term food security interventions. This is discussed further in section 3.2

As to project implementation, the financial and human resources available at the time were
inadequate to offer an integrated package of ECD services to every village in the country. It is
important to note that, as the Project took off just after a sustained war, equity issues were
predominant and hence the decision to "spread" the Project inputs widely. However, as
implementation progressed, it was found that both equity and development impact could be
attained by expanding the integrated package gradually, zoba by zoba. As shown in Table 11 in
Annex 2, zoba Debub, where C-IMCI and c-GMP interventions were integrated, saw a marked
decrease in malnutrition with respect to the national average. Those zobas that had less
integration e.g. the Northern Red Sea and Southern Red Sea zobas experienced an increase in
malnutrition rates. A strategy of rolling out a full complement of interventions, when funds
become available, would seem the most effective approach. As the village is the center around
which all the activities revolve, the implementation arrangements, designed on the strengths of
the decentralization structure, remain relevant.

3.2 Achievement of Project Development Objectives
(including brief discussion of causal linkages between outputs and outcomes, with details on
outputs in Annex 2)
The Project Development Objectives and indicators are detailed in Section 1.2.
With technical assistance from the Bank, the Borrower designed and conducted the Project final
impact evaluation from which the results presented in the ICR are drawn.




                                                  11

The final evaluation report comprised both quantitative and qualitative assessments, based on two
main sources:
     · special studies drawing on primary data (the impact of integration on the orphans'
         psychosocial status, a tracer study for the ECE component, and a GMP impact
         evaluation); and
     · line ministries' information systems

The qualitative assessment was participatory, based on the step-wise methodological approach
recommended for participatory evaluations: (i) review of documents; (ii) field survey; (iii)
structured interviews and focus group discussions; and (iv) direct observation. The field work
took place in October 2006 and the results were shared with the Bank during the last
supervision/ICR mission.

The main results are presented in Table 2.

Table 2: PDO achievement
Component                    Indicator                   Target                    Results
Child Health                 Combined Case               20% reduction             53.4% reduction
                             Fatality Rates (CFR)
Child and maternal           Prevalence of               20% reduction             6.4%iii increase
nutrition.                   underweight children
                             less than 3 years of
                             age.
Early Childhood care         Repetition and              20% reduction             36% reduction in
and education.               Dropout rates between                                 dropout rates and
                             grades 1 and 2.                                       30% reduction in
                                                                                   repetition rates.
Support for Children         Reunification of            32,000 orphans            31,556 orphans
in need of special           orphans with close                                    reunified
protection measures.         relatives.

The intermediate outcome indicators to monitor progress towards the PDO achievement are
detailed in Annex 2, Table 1. The results obtained in all components were a product of
collaborative efforts between the Project and its development partners (WHO, UNICEF, USAID)
and local civil society organizations. Considering the fact that these achievements occurred in an
ongoing conflict environment without any previous multi-sectoral experience, the Project
provided a platform through which the various institutional strengths- both the GoE's and
development partners'- could be leveraged into producing the results attained. The multi-sectoral
nature of the Project, as well as the strong presence of other development partners, makes
attribution of outcomes difficult.

Throughout the following discussion, the figures in parentheses represent the Project's targets (see
Annex 2, Table 1).




iiiThis figure represents the percentage change in the un-weighted averages of the malnutrition rates from
baseline collection to final evaluation. As baseline averages per zoba were not weighted, the ICR team
decided to utilize simple averages to maintain consistency.




                                                      12

Component 1
Improving Child Health

The achievements under this component are summarized in Annex 2, Tables 1-4 and Figure 1.
The achievements in this component were made possible by the improvement in the quality of
care due to continued IMCI training, as well as the synergetic effect of the Project with a number
of maternal and child health programs within the MoH supported by many development partners.

The core contributions of this component to the overall achievement of the PDO are: (i) training
of 1096 health workers (150); and (ii) the procurement and distribution of US$10 Million worth
of drugs and equipment

Additional interventions included;

    (i)      C-IMCI: training of 39 Community Health Workers (CHWs) and 41 Volunteer
             Health Counselors (VHCs) in 17 pilot villages to implement IMCI at the community
             level with a focus on provision of primary health care in households for children
             aged 2 months to 5 years;
    (ii)     Environmental Health: construction of 85 school latrines (125), 39 health facility
             latrines as well as 2366 latrine slabs and training of teachers in all zobas in
             Participatory Hygiene and Sanitation Transformation (PHAST).;
    (iii)    School Health: in partnership with the MoH and the MoE, developed national
             strategic guidelines for school based delivery of health and nutrition services,
             training and equipping of 30 school health teams as well as KG and Elementary
             teachers for ophthalmic, dental and Ear Nose and Throat (ENT) diagnosis and
             treatment.

The interventions had a significant impact:

    · The Health Facility Assessment (HFA) done in 2003 showed that the percentage of
         children inappropriately treated with antibiotics reduced from 46.8% to 31.8% and that
         for children whose weight was checked against a growth chart increased from 2.1% to
         53.3%.
    · The HFA also showed that stock outs of essential drugs reduced significantly between
         2000 and 2003 as is shown in Annex 2, Figure 1; as a result of the C-IMCI intervention,
         in the intervention areas, 40% of the interviewed sought treatment and care within 48
         hours of noticing a child's sickness, compared to less than 20% in the control villages. In
         addition, ORS use during diarrhea episodes was higher in intervention villages than in
         control villages - 78% vs. 47%.
    · With regard to environmental health and hygiene, 28 of the 30 schools evaluated
         (93.33%) were found to have access to water and sanitation facilities funded by the
         Project.
    · Iron supplementation had remarkable impact on anemia in Northern Red Sea where the
         prevalence of anemia fell from 12% to 3% between 2001 and 2006.
    · A life skills curriculum was introduced into junior and secondary schools. Between 2001
         and 2006, knowledge of malaria, TB, as well as general health and hygiene increased in
         primary school children; and
    · As a result of improved communication, by-laws were initiated by communities that e.g.
         oppose and prevent female circumcision (genital mutilation) and promote changes in



                                                 13

         sanitation habits (see Table 15 in Annex 2).

The aforementioned clearly establishes a strong link between the achievements of this component
and the PDO's for the following reasons: (i) the major childhood illnesses were effectively
addressed by improvements in the quality and access of health workers as a result of the training
given; and the (ii) the positive impact on educational development through the activities of the
school and environmental health sub-components.

The impact could have been much more significant had the C-IMCI been operational earlier in
the Project. As was shown later on, C-IMCI effectively complements interventions at the health
facility and school levels. Moreover, C-IMCI has the potential to provide a more sustainable
entry point to influence broader issues that affect the development of healthy behavior in children
i.e. social, economic, and environmental factors.
The human resources developed in the MoH and the MoE, coupled with the strengthening of the
health system will ensure some measure of sustainability past the Project's life. Based on the
previous discussion, this component performance was satisfactory.

Component 2
Improving Child and Maternal Nutrition

The achievements under this component are summarized in Tables 5-13 in Annex 2. The results
as measured by the indicator for malnutrition are relative to the GMP baseline data collected in
2003/04 which were not significantly different from the figures in the EDHS 2002.

Malnutrition increased by 6.4% instead of decreasing by 20% as was the Project's target,
primarily owing to a severe, protracted drought combined with the stoppage of the World Food
Program (WFP) feeding program (see section 2.2) which were beyond the control of the Project.
Also, as the GMP program was a new and complex intervention, it needed a substantial amount
of training and supervision which resulted in a short duration of the intervention. Finally, the
prevailing harsh macro-economic environment negatively affected this as the costs of supervision
and training continued to rise (e.g. fuel costs).

This component's major contributions to the overall achievement of the PDO were the training of
(i) 8,667 mothers in food security and nutrition; and (ii) 2544 GMP promoters in 659 GMP sites.

Additional Interventions included:

     · 130 water pumps for irrigation were provided to groups of ten women in select villages.
     · 82,668 chicks were distributed to 3,307 households.
     · 15,962 smokeless stoves were distributed.

The superficially poor result at the national level conceals considerable variations across zobas as
well as between integrated vs. non- integrated villages (see section 2.2).

     · In zoba Debub, where GMP started early and was then complemented by the C-IMCI
         pilot in 2005, the malnutrition rate declined by 27.3%, clearly showing the benefits of
         integrating health and nutrition interventions at community level. In zobas Northern Red
         Sea (NRS) and Southern Red Sea (SRS), the malnutrition rate increased substantially -
         27% and 19% respectively. Considering that these latter are the most food insecure
         zobas in the country, it is likely that the final outcome of the Project was heavily



                                                 14

        influenced by the interruption of the free food distribution program in mid 2005.
    · The malnutrition rate in non-integrated sites remained virtually unchanged at 39.1%,
        while integrated sites had an average malnutrition rate of 43.8%. This could be explained
        by the fact that the average GMP site in the pilot integrated villages had been functional
        for a shorter period of time compared to its analogue in the non integrated villages.
        Indeed, the proportion of mothers attending regular weighing sessions - a decisive
        intermediate indicator - was very similar in the two kinds of sites (70.6% vs. 71.4%).
        However, this hypothesis could not be verified as the ICR team was unable to obtain the
        necessary data.
    · Behaviorally, about 85% of mothers exclusively breastfed for the first six months in
        2006, a major achievement with respect to the 52% reported in the EDHS 2002.
    · The smokeless stoves were extremely popular, and the qualitative evaluation found that
        more than 90% of the respondents were satisfied with this innovation, including reduced
        smoke as well as less wood and time consumption.
    · Capacity was built within the MOH in nutrition as evidenced by the establishment of the
        Nutrition Surveillance System (NSS) whose reports are published bi-annually.
    · 75% of recipients in the integrated villages and 70% in non-integrated villages reported
        that the grants given were used for interventions that were still productive.
    · The emergency food distribution intervention is discussed in detail in section 1.7 above.

The impact of the poultry (chicks) and water pump distribution depends on the productivity and
survival of the chickens and the presence of rains respectively. In light of the degree of
malnutrition nationwide and the lack of explicit feeding programs for the poorest, these
interventions are not deemed sustainable towards realizing its intent.
The intent of this component with regard to promoting holistic healthy childhood development
was compromised by the insufficient emphasis put on food security in the design. While
relatively substantial capacity was built, both in the number of GMP promoters and mothers
trained, the late start and prolonged drought jeopardized the achievements that could have been
realized. The stoppage of the food-aid, which was in effect at the Project's commencement, also
negatively affected the nutritional status of the most vulnerable, hence limiting the positive
effects other project interventions might have made. In conclusion, this component is rated
unsatisfactory as its implementation did not yield the intended results.

Component 3
Improving Early Childhood Education and Care.

The achievement under this component surpassed its targets.

This component contributed to the overall achievement of the PDO's by: (i) constructing 105
(105) KG's and 286 (250) CCG's; and (ii) training 230 (315) KG teachers and 304(250) CCG
teachers (see Annex 2, Table 14).

Additionally:

    · 97% of these preschools were established in the rural areas and equipped with trained
        teachers/caregivers.
    · An ECE Resource Center was built in each zoba (6), for training purposes.

Impact was positive:




                                                  15

    · Enrollment of children in preschools increased by about 6 times over the level in the
         1999/2000 academic year, and the net enrolment rate went from about 2% to over 10% -
         still below the developing countries average, but approximately double the average for
         sub-Saharan Africa. (See Annex 2, Table 1).
    · In addition to the substantial decrease in repetition and dropout rates in Grade 1, teachers
         interviewed during the qualitative assessment reported that the academic achievement of
         children in the experimental group in grade one was rated between "very good' and
         good" in 75% of the cases, compared to 36% in the control group (children who did not
         have pre-primary education).

In spite of the implementation delays experienced due to inflationary pressures (see section 2.2),
this component significantly increased access to education for Eritrea's children, mostly through
the CCG intervention in rural areas. The training of teachers, sanitation interventions as well as
the introduction of life skills and the updating of the school curriculum will provide the children
access to positive health, and behavioral and educational benefits, all of which contribute
positively to early childhood development.

The GoE's decision as advised at the MTR to increase the investment in the more cost-effective
CCGs as well as the availability of 6 resource centers for training suggests a high likelihood of
continuity beyond the Project's life. Based on these considerations, this component is rated as
satisfactory.

Component 4:
Support for Children in Need of Special Protection Measures.

Under the MOLHW's leadership, 14,000 orphans had already been reunified with their relatives
prior to the Project's start. The Project provided an opportunity to expand coverage.

This component contributed to the overall achievement of the PDO by: (i) integrating 31,556
(32,000) additional orphans with 11,820 Host Families (close relatives of orphan children); (ii)
training 36 (90) social workers; and (iii) constructing 10 group homes with 95 children enrolled
(see Annex 2, Table 15).

Additionally:

    · Host families were given grants for income generating activities, from poultry to petty
         trading enterprises, and training on how to manage them.
    · 1000 street children were enrolled in regular schools in five zobas and provided with
         learning materials and uniforms, while 494 older children received vocational training.
    · 567 families of street children received income generating assistance.

Achievements were positive:
    · 93% of the school age orphans attended school regularly and reported having sufficient
         liberty to socialize, both within and outside the group homes, as well as interacting
         pleasantly with the group home mothers.
    · 65% of the GH children were reportedly performing above average in school.

Challenges included fuel scarcity and lack of transportation to find relatives as well as an
insufficient pool of social workers. These jointly hampered the psychosocial follow up of the
children and resulted in weak support for commercial/entrepreneurial skills of the beneficiary



                                                  16

families.

Children reached under this component were given access to shelter, food, education and care-
benefits that would have eluded most of them had the Project not been in place. The GHs
provided a normalized environment for these children to grow and interact thus increasing their
chances of growing up in a healthy environment and becoming productive members of society.
This component was heavily dependent on the monthly stipend given to the GH mothers which
stopped in December 2006, the continuity of this, at least at the standards attained during the
Project's life, is in doubt. This component is rated as satisfactory.

Component 5:
Project Management, Evaluation and Strategic Communications.

Project Management:

The organizational structure described in section 1.5 was effective. The initial difficulties in
project management mainly impacted progress in the nutrition component ­ the most challenging
in the Project for a variety of reasons. A new PMT leadership and increasing clarity of
responsibilities across the stakeholders markedly improved cohesion and determination during
the last two years of the Project. This enabled the Project to reach 588 villages and contributed to
marked improvements during the last two years of the Project and increased the likelihood of
achieving the PDO (see Annex 2, Table 16).

M&E is discussed in section 2.3.

Advocacy and strategic communication activities were intended to mobilize support and raise
awareness of parents and caregivers towards early childhood development issues. This started
late since an integrated communications strategy was not developed until early 2004.

Communications:

    · The PMT was staffed with a full time communication officer.
    · A resource manual with 33 integrated project messages was developed with the input of
         stakeholders and was translated from English to Arabic, Tigrigna, Tigre and Kunama.
         6000 posters, 23,000 calendars, 25,000 brochures and 20,000 T-shirts were produced and
         distributed to ECD service providers for distribution to the communities.
    · Billboards were made and placed in 116 selected integrated villages and translated into
         the 6 local languages.
    · 50 radio programs, 54 live children's programs and 43 print messages in the local
         languages were disseminated and the national cultural troupe staged drama and music
         shows in 35 selected sites throughout the country.

Behavioral changes resulting from these inputs are discussed throughout section 3.2.
An Innovation Fund was instituted and 20 proposals were submitted from ministries, zobas, sub-
zobas, individuals and groups, of which 4 were selected: (i) strengthening the Asmara toy and
play materials workshop; (ii) strengthening the Sheka-Fertit recreation center for children; (iii)
rehabilitation of street children; and (iv) the Indigenous Knowledge (IK) study. All have been
fully implemented.

As mentioned earlier, the disparity in preparedness of the different components affected the



                                                   17

homogeneity of the M&E system. However, these evened out within the last two years of the
project and sufficient capacity has been developed to monitor the activities of all components.
The development of an integrated communications strategy in 2004, which was adopted by the
participating line ministries, preserves the "all-inclusive" nature of the integrated message in
future communication activities.

Project management does raise some concerns. While significant efforts were made to develop
very substantive capacity at the PMT, its future is uncertain. Whether these skills will be retained
in the PMT, absorbed into the various line ministries or lost to emigration, raises some concerns
about the sustainability of the Project inputs. In view of the achievements attained, this
component is rated as satisfactory.

On the basis of the information presented in this section, the PDO achievement is rated
Satisfactory.



3.3 Efficiency
(Net Present Value/Economic Rate of Return, cost effectiveness, e.g., unit rate norms, least cost,
and comparisons; and Financial Rate of Return)
The Project was a long-term investment in Eritrea's work force. Significant investments were
made towards providing an enabling environment through which Eritrean children could develop
into healthy wage-earners. Hence, benefits were designed to materialize far into the future.
Considering the lack of an appropriate overall baseline, and the duration of the Project,
particularly the short-lived availability of the integrated package at the community level, an
analysis towards determining the economic benefits of the Project would be neither robust nor
reliable.

Over the last ten years a large body of international evidence based on longitudinal studies has
accumulated that unequivocally points to high economic returns from investing in ECDiv. It is
estimated that over 200 million children under 5 years ­ mostly in South Asia and sub-Saharan
Africa ­ do not reach their potential in cognitive development because of poverty, poor health and
nutrition, and deficient care. Recent estimates indicate that investing in these children yields
benefit-to-cost ratios substantially above 1. Seven characteristics common to the most successful
interventions were also identified. In the ICR team's assessment, currently the Project scores
high on five of the seven attributesv - the weakest being "Sufficient intensity and duration,
including direct contact with children beginning early in life".

A fair evaluation of the integrated or life-cycle approach to ECD means that the experimental
cohort must benefit from the services uninterruptedly from the prenatal stage to five years of age,
and then be followed up at least up to completion of the lower primary cycle ­ a total of seven to
eight years. This is confirmed by the average life of the evaluated programs worldwide, which is
about ten years. The ICR team noted that a Bank-Netherlands Partnership Program (BNPP)
approved a trust fund allocation for a rigorous, forward looking impact evaluation conditional on



ivSee The Lancet, Vol. 369 January six, 2007 for the most recent comprehensive review and
analysis of the research on the subject.

v See The Lancet, Vol. 369, January six, 2007, Page 234.



                                                   18

the Project interventions being sustained. This provides an incentive for the GoE to continue the
activities initiated by the Project, as well as an entry point for an adequate economic analysis.

In terms of cost-effectiveness of the education component, the ICR team's assessmentvi indicates
that: (i) with everything else being equal, the investment will start paying off financially once a
further combined reduction of 32% of the repetition and dropout rates is attained; and (ii)
investing in CCGs would be much more cost-effective relative to the KGs. The details are in
Annex 3.

The smokeless stoves were probably the most cost effective of the food security interventions as
they require a minimum investment (approximately US$30), bring significant health and
environmental benefits, and are much less time-consuming than the regular stoves. The
environmental impact is particularly impressive as the smokeless stoves reportedly need about
25% less firewood. The investment in water pumps was seemingly not very efficient in the
lowlands as the latter's lifestyle and sparse distribution of inhabitants do not match the communal
use intended for the water pumps. Finally, considering that eggs are an expensive commodity in
Eritrea, the benefits from the chicks are likely to affect the beneficiaries' income significantly as
well as their food security status.

Regarding the grants, the majority of the families benefited from and were able to sustain their
income generating schemes as well as to improve their daily food intake. Of those who
preferred small-scale business, 70.4% had increased their capital value and generated sustainable
income to support their families.

Based on the considerations above and the discussion in section 2.1, this aspect of the Project is
considered satisfactory.

3.4 Justification of Overall Outcome Rating
(Combining relevance, achievement of PDOs, and efficiency)

As the discussion above highlighted, this was a complex project to design, plan and implement.
The results achieved are substantial taking into consideration: (i) the "no war no peace" situation;
(ii) the prevailing poor macroeconomic conditions during implementation; (iii) the incipient
difficulties in executing the integrated package at the community level without any significant
experience, especially at this scale; (iv) the drought; (v) stoppage of food aid; and (vi) the
ambitious targets.

Based on the relevance (see section 3.1), PDO achievement (see section 3.2) and efficiency (see
section 3.3) of the Project, the overall outcome is rated as Satisfactory.

3.5 Overarching Themes, Other Outcomes and Impacts
(a) Poverty Impacts, Gender Aspects, and Social Development:




viThe data are from a draft Eritrea Education Public Expenditure Review, and the costing of the
Eritrea Integrated ECD policy.



                                                   19

Poverty:
Grants: Besides being a source for food, the products of the grants and assistance given to host
families of orphans provided a sustainable source of income if supervised and managed well.
Group Homes: Orphans placed in group homes go to school and have an opportunity to grow up
in a more normal environment thus increasing their prospects of meaningful employment in the
future.
Food Security: Improved macro- and micro-nutrition as well as IMCI interventions, gave the
children a better chance of living a healthy childhood. This reduced the associated costs of
managing morbidity that would be borne by the parents. Food security interventions like water
pumps and poultry distribution provided the women and their families in the village food to eat in
the short term and farming income in the longer term.
ECE: Long term benefits will accrue from a more productive population through sustained
education interventions.

Gender: A majority of the interventions had women as the secondary beneficiaries, since all
childhood interventions except the CNSP, were carried out with mothers as co-participants. The
NUEW played a major role in the implementation of this project as they were represented at
every administrative level. They were extremely influential in selecting women as CCG's, for
agricultural interventions and for GMP promoters. Also, a majority of the group homes and host
families were headed by women.

Over the period 1999-2002, the dropout rate for girls in the first grade was higher than for males.
In 2005/06, however, the dropout rate for girls drastically fell to 1.6% as compared to 5.15% for
boys. In general, the findings indicate that females repeat grades less.

Social Development: The strong community involvement required by the Project and the
substantial investment made to build capacity at the community level suggest that significant
social capital development is likely to have taken place.

(b) Institutional Change/Strengthening
Institutional strengthening has been significant. As a result of the numerous training and
implementation activities, capacity within the line ministries has significantly improved at the
national, zoba, sub-zoba and village levels. Most significantly, the different line managers and
technical experts have learnt how to work across ministries to achieve common outputs. These
synergistic effects have come at an opportune time as Eritrea strives to rebuild its economy. The
country has a severe shortage of trained personnel but staff usually accept postings irrespective of
the location. The ECE Resource Centers are available to produce more teachers and trained
volunteers e.g. GMP agents and these are not capital intensive.

(c) Other Unintended Outcomes and Impacts (positive or negative)
An unintended but positive outcome of the Project was the development of an integrated ECD
policy. Leadership for this effort was provided by the MoE which drew on experience from the
Project in all the line ministries. The policy provides a framework for Government, communities,
families, and international & national Development Partners for investing in and implementing
integrated ECD programs.
Seven policy objectives were outlined and include: (i) the establishment of a national framework
of institutional capacities; (ii) advocacy and awareness creation; (iii)capacity building for
stakeholders and service providers; (iv) strengthening of the health system to promote child and
maternal health including VCT for HIV/AIDS; (v) developing and implementing quality formal




                                                  20

and non-formal preschool curricula; (vi) improving household and community level food
security; and (vii) promoting environmental hygiene, sanitation and access to safe water.

Of note is that the fact that the institutional arrangements more or less follow what was tried and
worked well in the Project.

The policy document clearly defines the roles and responsibilities of all the stakeholders in ECD.

3.6 Summary of Findings of Beneficiary Survey and/or Stakeholder Workshops

Not applicable.

4. Assessment of Risk to Development Outcome

In the Letter of Sector Policy signed at appraisal the Borrower committed to covering the
program recurrent costs once the Credit was exhausted, until the communities had become self-
reliant. However, as at the time of project closure in March 2007, no arrangement was in place
for the GoE to be able to meet even the core incremental costs (salaries and allowances) except
for the KG/CCG teachers whose salaries it was agreed would be covered by the Education Sector
Investment Project. It was also unclear which ministry/agency would take responsibility for
coordinating the interventions both at national and zoba levels.
The coordinating activities of the PMT can arguably be described as the glue that held the
different pieces of the Project together. Capacity developed in project management and M&E has
been very significant as the Project progressed. Coordination between line ministries is
commonly a difficult task, one which the current PMT has been able to manage. At the time of
Project closure, concrete transitional and reassignment arrangements had yet to be made by the
GoE, casting doubts on the incorporation of these skills within the administration. The GoE is in
the process of deciding what project activities will be absorbed by individual ministries and
whether a full follow up project will be requested. Political commitment remains high as
demonstrated by the participation of four implementing Ministers in the last wrap-up meeting of
the Project.

While there have been substantial gains in setting up the policy framework and in building
institutional capacity (through training etc.), a great deal may be lost because of lack of funds to
(i) train more teachers, health and social workers; (ii) build more KGs; and (iii) pay group home
mothers may. Ultimately, the financial sustainability of the Project development outcomes rests
with the GoE's own ability to: (i) increase domestic resource allocations for project interventions;
and (ii) further expand ECD activities. However, in light of the exceptional level of commitment
that the GoE has consistently shown, there is reason to be somewhat optimistic.

In light of the aforementioned, as well as the poor state of the economy, the very limited public
resources available for childhood development interventions and the prevalent poverty levels, the
risk to development outcomes is Significant.




                                                    21

5. Assessment of Bank and Borrower Performance
(Relating to design, implementation and outcome issues)

5.1 Bank Performance

(a) Bank Performance in Ensuring Quality at Entry
(i.e., performance through lending phase)

The Project was designed on a tight schedule, especially considering that there was no precedent.
The financial, technical and institutional considerations were appropriate as was the amount of
resources made available for Project preparation, and the lending instrument. As discussed in
section 2.1, the Bank underestimated the risks associated with implementing a complex project in
a conflict environment. After the approval of the ISN which emphasized the need for emergency
interventions on basic social services, it would have been advisable to simplify the design of the
Project and to put more emphasis on food security.

The Bank performance in ensuring quality at entry is considered to be moderately satisfactory.

(b) Quality of Supervision

The Bank demonstrated substantial engagement in supporting effective implementation
consistently throughout the Project. Supervision missions were regular and the expertise of team
members was of high quality throughout. Though leadership of the task-teams was changed thrice
during the Project life, disruptions were minimal. Supervision reports focused on achievement of
objectives, were informative and identified key issues that needed to be addressed by the Bank
and the Borrower. The ratings were realistic and reflective of project progress.

In spite of the increasingly limited financial resources available for supervision, its quality never
suffered, with technical inputs being provided steadily in-between missions. Furthermore, the
Bank was instrumental in bringing about the decision to implement integration at the village level.
The Bank also exercised good judgment in reversing its decision to switch to FMR based
disbursement, thus avoiding implementation delays that would have likely been fatal to the
Project outcome. The Bank also provided support in hosting an International ECD conference in
Eritrea. Procurement processes were smooth; however there were some delays during the latter
stages of the Project, resulting in the second extension of the closing date by three months. In
anticipation of the Project's completion, the Bank team initiated discussions a year in advance
with the GoE regarding possible follow-up alternatives ranging from a follow up project to a
ministry absorption strategy of the different project components.

The multi-sectoral coordination required was difficult particularly as there were no precedents of
projects of this type. However, considering the results of similarly designed programs within the
continent and other social programs within Eritrea, the challenges have been well handled as
observed by the remarkable progress made since the MTR. The Bank could have mitigated the
high risk for the nutrition outcome of the drought and the stoppage of WFP's food distribution
program WFP by putting more emphasis on food security, especially in the lowlands. The Bank
performance in supervision is rated satisfactory.

(c) Justification of Rating for Overall Bank Performance

Based on the discussion in (a) and (b) above, the overall Bank performance is rated Satisfactory.



                                                  22

5.2 Borrower Performance

(a) Government Performance

The Government of Eritrea prepared well for this project. The preparation process was swift and
focused as the planned interventions were mostly predicated on on-going activities in health,
social protection and education. PSC meetings were regular and were committed to project
success and to improved project implementation. Initially, the TOR's for the TSC did not require
a hands-on approach to implementation support. However, appropriate changes were made early
enough for the TSC to be able to supervise Project implementation more effectively.
Reflective of this was the change in leadership of the PMT, largely as a result of poor
performance by both the PSC and TSC.

However, the decision to stop WFP's food distribution program raised significant concerns
regarding the undesired consequences on the achievement of the nutrition outcome, particularly
in light of the macro-economic decline and the drought. Also of concern is the inability of the
GoE to articulate a transition plan and its possible consequences on sustainability of the Project
outcomes.

The Borrower deserves special recognition for its unwavering commitment to the Project in spite
of the extraordinarily difficult circumstances. Based on the preceding discussion, the Borrower's
performance is rated moderately satisfactory.

(b) Implementing Agency or Agencies Performance

The Implementing Agency was the MoE and implementation activities were coordinated through
the PMT. The lack of capacity was recognized at the outset and efforts to address this at the PMT
level became paramount. Significant capacity building was carried out in financial management,
procurement, communication and leadership amongst others. Leadership of the PMT was initially
problematic and was significantly implicated in the shortcomings of the nutrition component.

Change in the PMT's leadership caused considerable delays in planning and implementation
hence stunting the Project's progress. With the new (and current) leadership consultation and
coordination steadily improved between the PMT and the ministries. The TSC and PMT
developed an effective synergy in following up project activities. As discussed previously,
positive behavioral change achievements were made in every component.

Concerted activities aimed at promoting an integrated package of delivery, such as the
preparation of an integrated communication strategy and training manuals and multiple joint
training activities were carried out. These activities all had a focal point of strengthening
relationships among project partners. The major shortcoming of the PMT stems from the
inadequate attention given to M&E. These are detailed above. Implementation might have been
more effective if weaknesses in M&E activities had been promptly addressed, e.g. delayed and
improperly completed Output Monitoring Reports, a prolonged period to recruit an M&E expert,
delayed baseline data collection as well as inconsistent reporting. Based on the above discussion,
Implementing Agency performance is rated as satisfactory.

(c) Justification of Rating for Overall Borrower Performance




                                                  23

Considering: (i) the outstanding implementation ability the Borrower showed; and (ii) the
constraining environment in which the Borrower had to operate, the overall Borrower
performance is rated Satisfactory.

6. Lessons Learned

National ownership and buy-in is important in achieving development outcomes. Clearly, the
achievements realized in this project result from the GoE not viewing its role as purely that of a
beneficiary or facilitator. The commitment and responsiveness shown by the GoE was that of a
majority shareholder whose development interests were the paramount considerations in all
deliberations made and decisions taken.

PMTs can be functional if focused and adequately supported. The Project proved that PMTs
are not necessarily an outdated concept of implementation. The ongoing conflict coupled with the
complexity of the integrated, multi-sectoral approach justified the PMT in this project. Although
the implementing agency was the MoE, day to day project coordination was carried out by the
PMT. Performance was shaky at the beginning, but as management changed and the link
between the TSC and PMT grew stronger, the Project performed better. Coordination was also
strongly supported by the high level of access the PMT had upstream, i.e. with the TSC and PSC,
as well as downstream with the line ministries and zoba coordinators.

Monitoring and Evaluation. It is very common to underestimate the risk of insufficient M&E
capacity, especially in multi-sectoral, decentralized operations as these require both horizontal
and vertical links, in turn calling for a complex/integrated M&E framework. A thorough,
systematic needs assessment of the capacity to operationalize such a framework, including the
relative readiness of the participating line ministries, and a corresponding risk mitigation strategy
should be mandatory in projects of this type. This is particularly relevant for Eritrea because it
was their first multi-sectoral experience. Finally, impact evaluation should be planned as part of
Project design.

Component Design. Considering the intent of delivering an integrated package of services, it
would be advisable to design project components around the level of implementation (e.g.
community, regional, national) as opposed to the lines of the interventions, as was the case here.
This was particularly relevant for the Project in light of the amount of time and resources spent in
getting a project to provide integrated services at the community level. While the present design
might have been relevant initially, considering the capacity level on the ground and the new
interventions being implemented e.g. GMP, future engagements would benefit more from a more
integrated approach. Finally, in a country at high risk of severe food insecurity, a component
aimed at reducing the prevalence of malnutrition should put more emphasis on food security
relative to GMP interventions.

Development Partners Engagement and Coordination. Last but not least, of the three self-
standing ECD projects in Sub-Saharan Africa (Kenya, Uganda and Eritrea) this is the only
successful one. A major lesson to be learnt from the evaluation of the three operations is that a
formal, well coordinated partnership among all the involved development partners, local and
international, is necessary for a successful outcome. This was not the case in any of these
projects. However, in Eritrea an informal partnership worked because of: (i) the Project almost
exclusively built on existing interventions supported by the GoE and other development agencies;
(ii) the small number of development partners; and (iii) the GoE's unwavering commitment and
consistent guidance. Considering the richness of the experience and knowledge gained from



                                                  24

these projects, the ICR team recommends that a special, comparative study be conducted to
capture all the valuable lessons.

7. Comments on Issues Raised by Borrower/Implementing Agencies/Partners
(a) Borrower/implementing agencies

(b) Cofinanciers

(c) Other partners and stakeholders
(e.g. NGOs/private sector/civil society)




                                             25

Annex 1. Project Costs and Financing

(a)    Project Cost by Component (in USD Million equivalent)



Component              Appraisal Estimate   Actual/Latest      Percentage of
                       US$ Million          Estimate           Appraisal
                                            US$ Million
IMPROVING CHILD
HEALTH                         10.5                14.3               136%

IMPROVING CHILD
AND MATERNAL                   4.6                  3.8               83%
NUTRITION
IMPROVING
EARLY
CHILDHOOD CARE                 11.8                15.2               129%

AND EDUCATION
SUPPORT FOR
CHILDREN IN
NEED OF SPECIAL                11.7                12.4               106%

MEASURES
Total Baseline Cost           44.05                51.7               117%
Physical
Contingencies                  2.00

Price Contingencies            2.95
Total Project Costs            49.0                51.7               106%
Front-end fee PPF              0.00                0.00
Front-end fee IBRD             0.00                0.00
Total Financing
Required                       49.0                51.7               106%


(b) Financing
Source of Funds        Type of Co-financing Appraisal Estimate Actual/Latest
                                            US$ Million        Estimate
                                                               US$ Million
BORROWER               Counterpart Funding          4.0                5.1
 ITALY, GOV. OF
                       Bank Executed Trust
(EXCEPT FOR DEV.               Fund                 5.0                5.0
COOP. DEPT. - MOFA)
 INTERNATIONAL
DEVELOPMENT                   Credit               40.0               41.6
ASSOCIATION
FOREIGN SOURCES
(UNIDENTIFIED)
 TOTAL                                             49.00              51.70




                                          26

(c) Project Financing by Category (in US$ million equivalent)
      Category                 Appraisal Estimate                Actual/Latest               Percentage of
                                                                   Estimate                     Appraisal
                           IDA     ITALY       GOE          IDA     ITALY     GOE        IDA      ITALY    GOE

Civil Work                  7.6     1.0         0.6        10.7      1.0        2.2     141%       100%   367%
Goods                      12.0     1.1         1.8        16.6      1.1        1.4     138%       100%     78%
Services                    8.6     0.8          0.0        4.3      0.5        0.0       50%       63%     0.0
Consultant,
studies, Training &
innovation
Activities
Grant                       8.1     1.9         0.0           8      2.2       0.0        99%      116%    0.0
Operating cost              3.7     0.2         1.6           2      0.2        1.5       54%      100%     94%
Total Baseline Cost         40      5.0         4.0        41.6      5.0        5.1     104%       100%   128%



(d) Project Cost by Procurement Arrangement (Actual/Latest Estimate) (in US$ million
equivalent)

                 Category                          Procurement Methodvii              N.B.F       Total Cost
                                                  ICB          NCB       Othersviii
Civil Work                                        0.00         13.9        0.00        0.00         13.90
                                                 (0.00)      (10.70)      (0.00)      (0.00)       (10.70)
Goods                                             11.4          7.7        0.00        0.00          19.2
                                                (10.90)       (5.70)      (0.00)      (0.00)       (16.60)
Services Consultant, studies,                     0.00         0.00        4.80        0.00          4.80
Training & innovation Activities                 (0.00)       (0.00)      (4.30)      (0.00)        (4.30)
Grant                                             0.00         0.00       10.20        0.00         10.20
                                                 (0.00)       (0.00)      (8.00)      (0.00)        (8.00)
Operating cost                                    0.00         0.00        3.70        0.00          3.70
                                                 (0.00)       (0.00)      (2.00)       0.00         (2.00)
                    Total                        11.40        21.60       18.70        0.00         51.70
                                                (10.90)      (16.40)     (14.30)       0.00        (41.60)




vii Figures in parenthesis are the amounts to be financed by the IDA Credit. All other costs are inclusive of
contributions by the GoE and the Italian Cooperation. All costs include contingencies.
viiiIncludes civil works and goods to be procured through national shopping, consulting services, services
of contracted staff of the project management office, training, technical assistance services, and incremental
operating costs related to (i) managing the project, and (ii) re-lending project funds to local government
units.




                                                      27

Annex 2. Outputs by Component
Table 1
  Indicators                                             Measurement
                        Baseline Value                  Progress To Date       End-of-Project Target
                                                                                       Value
                 Number            Date             Number or       Date     Number or        Date
                  or text                               text                    text
Intermediate
outcome
indicator(s)
1. # of health   None        04/20/2000            1096 Health   10/31/2006 150           12/31/2006
workers                                            workers
trained in
IMCI case
management
by ECD
project
2. Number of     13,374      03/31/2000            8,667         10/31/2006               12/31/2006
mothers          trained                           mothers
training in      mothers                           trained
food security                                      through
and nutrition                                      project
through the
Ministry of
Agriculture
training
program, with
support from
the Ministry of
Health through
the ECD
project.
3. Cumulative    12,436      04/29/2000            31,653 and    10/31/2006 31,000 and    12/31/2006
enrolment in                                       50,425                   50,000
Kindergartens                                      respectively             respectively
and Child Care
Givers
4. Number of     zero        04/29/2000            36            10/31/2006 90            12/31/2006
social workers   through
trained          the
                 Project
Source: Implementation Support Report of February 2007




                                                      28

                                Additional tables referenced in text:

                                Child and Maternal Health:

                                Table 2:
                                Assessment and treatment performance indicators
                                Indicator                                       Percentage Index 2000 Percentage Index 2003
                                Children checked for three danger signs         0.0                   36.9

                                Underweight children who are assessed for 0.0                         21.1
                                feeding problems
                                Children whose weight is checked against a 2.1                        53.3
                                growth chart
                                Children whose vaccination is checked           18.5                  58.0

                                Percent of children who are inappropriately 46.8                      31.8
                                treated with an antibiotic
                                Children who did not get needed vaccinations    15.8                  7.0
                                Source: MOH, HFA, 2003 Report



                                Table 3: Distribution of equipment
                                Zoba                   Equipment
                                                       Laundry         Generator    Health
                                                                                    Facility
                                                                                    stoves
                                Anseba                 7               2            7
                                Debub                  8               2            8
                                Gashbarka              5                            5
                                Maakel                 8               2            4
                                NRS                    7               2            6
                                SRS                    1
                                Total                  36              8            30
                                Source: ECD Final Evaluation Report, 2007

                                Figure 1: Stock out level of essential drugs


B e n z y l p e n i c i l l i n



        G e n t a my c i n



      P a r a c e t a mo l                                               2003
                                                                         2000
                   V i t . A



              F a n s i d a r



                       O R S


                               0      20      40         60    80   100

                                             % o f facilities




                                                                             29

Source: MOH, HFA, 2003 Report


Table 4
Distribution of Constructed Water points and Latrines in Health Facilities (HF) by
Zoba
Zoba           Rain Water Reservoirs in                    Protected         HF Latrines Slabs
               Health Facilities                           Water Wells
               Pipeline          Rain    WaterTotal
               Connection        Reservoirs
               HF (Qty)           HF (Qty)    HF (Qty)     (Qty) Villages    Quantity    Quantity
Anseba         -                 3            3            2                 6           600
Debub          5                 3            8                              4           350
G/Barka        1                 -            1            2                 10          600
Maekel         18                -            18                             10          700
NRS            3                 -            3                              9           -
SRS            1                 6            7                              -           116
Total          28                12           40           4                 39          2366
Source: ECD Output Monitoring Table Dec.2006



Child and Maternal Nutrition:

Table 5: Prevalence of Children Underweight in all the Sampled Villages
CHARACTERISTICS       SEVERE           MODERATELY    NORMAL   TOTAL UNDER      TOTAL
                      UNDER            UNDER                  WEIGHT
                      WEIGHTED         WEIGHTED
SEX                      #      %         #    %         #     %      #   %      #
MALES                   77     16.6      130   28.0     257   55.4   207  44.6  464
FEMALES                 55     11.8      126   27.0     286   61.2   181  38.8  467
ZOBA
ANSEBA                  30     15.2      61    30.8     107   54.0   91   46    198
DEBUB                   19      8.8      50    23.3     146   67.9   69   32.1  215
GASH BARKA              42     14.6      90    31.3     156   54.2   132  45.9  288
MAEKEL                  16     13.8      22    19.0     78    67.2   38   32.8  116
N/R/SEA                 20     22.7      20    22.7     48    54.5   40   45.4   88
S/R/SEA                  5     19.2      13    50.0      8    30.8   18   69.2   26

TOTAL                  132     14.2      256   27.5     543   58.3   388  41.7  931
Source: (c-GMP Impact Evaluation, 2007)



Table 6: Selected Food Security and Nutrition Inputs
                  High Energy            Water      Chicks     Fish Nets
         Zoba     Biscuits Pkts          pumps
Anseba            167.03                 7          12,500
Debub             195.58                 46         25,000

Gash Barka        186.74                 12         12,500
Maekel            204.60                 30         10,667
NRS               132.43                 11         18,167
SRS               43.62                  24         3,834      19
Total             930.00                 130        82,668     19
Source: ECD Final Evaluation Report, 2007




                                                 30

Table 7: Mass Vitamin A supplementation
Zoba                       Number of children          Total children          Est. percent
                           supplemented                (2003-04)               children
Anseba                                        48267                       75244             64%
Debub                                              0                    191924               0%
Gash Barka                                    65028                       99705             65%
Maekel                                           336                    144385               0%
Northern Red Sea                              37660                       40580             93%
Southern Red Sea                               6458                        7255             89%
Total                                        157749                     559093              28%
 Source: Eritrean School Health and Nutrition Program Evaluation Report, 2007



Table 8: Mass iron supplementation
Zoba                       Number of children          Total children          Est. percent
                           supplemented                (2003-04)               children
Gash Barka                                    36561                       99705             37%
Northern Red Sea                              40055                       40580             99%
Southern Red Sea                               6261                        7255             86%
Source: Eritrean School Health and Nutrition Program Evaluation Report, 2007


Table 9:
Percent of children who reported malaria in the last two weeks in each zoba
Zoba                    Number Percentage
Debub                            0                0
Gash Barka                     57            17.43
Maekel                           0                0
Northern Red Sea                 2              0.5
 Source: Eritrean School Health and Nutrition Program Evaluation Report, 2007



Table 10:
Anemia prevalence in those who did and did not report malaria illness
                    Anemia prevalence
Did not report      6.91%
malaria
Reported            20.75%
malaria
Source: Eritrean School Health and Nutrition Program Evaluation Report, 2007




                                                      31

Table 11: Prevalence of malnourished children in the Total sampled villages by
           Zoba.

Zoba                    Project Baseline (%) Final (%)            Change (%)
Anseba                  53.8                   46.0               14.5
Debub                   38.1                   32.1               15.7
Debubix                 38.1                   27.7               27.3
(IMCI+GMP Pilot)
Gash Barka               45.3                  45.9               1.3
Maekel                  30.7                   32.8               6.8
N/Red Sea                35.7                  45.4               27.2
S/Red Sea               58.3                   69.2               18.7
National Average        39.2                   41.7               6.4
Source: c-GMP Impact Evaluation, 2007


Table 12: Prevalence of malnourished children in the Total sampled villages by
            Integration status.

Village Type            Project Baseline (%)   Final (%)          Change (%)
Integrated              39.2                   43.8               11.7
Non-Integrated           39.2                  39.1               0.3
National Average        39.2                   41.7               6.4
Source: c-GMP Impact Evaluation, 2007


Education:
Table 13: ECCE Project Output 2001-2006

Early     Childhood      Care      and Planned  Actual  Percent Remarks
Education
KG Constructed                         105      105     100.0
Communities     with      functioning 250       286     114
CCG
KG Directors Trained in basic 105               150     143
management and pedagogy
KG Teachers Trained                    315      230     73.0
CCG Teachers Trained                   250      304     121.6
Resource Centers Established           6        6       100.0
School Latrines Constructed            125      85      68.0
Protected water points Constructed              76              No planned target available in
                                                                PIM
School garbage disposal Units          147      19      12.9



ixRepresents a separate pilot with joint c-GMP and C-IMCI interventions only for 17
villages in Zoba Debub.



                                              32

Children Enrolled in KGs                   31.000       31,653  102.1
Children Enrolled in CCGs                  50,000       50,425  100.1
Source: Tracer Study; ECD Final Evaluation Report, 2007




Table 14: Children in Need of Special Protection
Zoba                    Reintegrated          Orphan       GroupH     Children
                        Host families         Unified      omes       placed    in
                                                                      Group Homes
Anseba                  2582                  7182         2          12
Debub                   3200                  8752         4          48
Gash Barka              950                   2216         1          11
Maekel                  1970                  4627         2          12
NRS                     2048                  6277         1          12
SRS                     1070                  2502         0          0
Total                   11820                 31,556       10         95
Source: ECD Final Evaluation Report, 2007



Communication Strategy:

Table 15: Behavioral changes achieved by the sanitation project
        Behavioral changes                    Integrated          Non-
                                                Villages        Integrated
                                                                 Villages
                                           (N=23) %           (N=8) %
Open defecation is avoided                              91.3            87.5
Proper hand washing is practiced                        47.8             100
Use of Clean water storing                                 0              50
containers
Proper Use Of latrines                                  56.5              50
No change                                                4.3             100
Source: ECD Final Evaluation Report, 2007




                                                      33

Annex 3. Economic and Financial Analysis
(Including assumptions in the analysis)

As mentioned in section 3.3, a meaningful economic assessment of the Project's benefits is not
feasible at this time due to its short lived presence on the ground. In the future such analysis will
be possible if (i) a baseline is collected in the integrated villages, with a control group to match;
and (ii) the GoE sustains the integrated package for at least another five years. A BNPP trust
fund allocation is available to fund the baseline data collection if the GoE commits to sustaining
the Project activities in the integrated villages. However, it is possible to estimate the cost
effectiveness of the education component by comparing savings derived from the intervention
with its annual recurrent costs.

The amount saved by the GoE from a reduction in dropout rates i.e. a reduction in the "sunk cost"
spent for a child who eventually drops out of grade 1 as well as the amount saved by reducing the
number of years a pupil remains in school due to the lower repetition rate is computed as follows:

The estimated annual unit cost at the elementary level is 300 Nakfa.

In the baseline year, 2000, the parameters were:

Repetition rate in 2000 = 25.97%
Dropout rate = 13.7%

In 2006 there were 73,222 children in grade 1:

Total cost to GoE was 73,222*300 Nakfa = 21,966,600 Nakfa.

Repetition rate in 2006=18.24%
Dropout rate = 8.79%

Savings from the lower repetition rate =

(0.2597-0.1824)*21,966,600

=1,698,018.2 Nakfa or US$113,201.21

Savings from the lower dropout rate= (0.137-0.879)*21,966,600)

=1,078,560.1 Nakfa or US$71,904.00

Assuming that the repetition and dropout rates remain stationary, every year the total savings
amount to US$185,105. Subtracting the annual recurrent costs for the KGs and CCGs, estimated
at US$396,642, yields an annual loss of US$211,537. It was calculated that in order for this
investment to break even, the repetition and dropout rates would have to continue decreasing until
they reach a combined 12.67%. This would entail replicating the Project's achievement, or
accumulating a 68% combined reduction vis a` vis the baseline in 2000. Considering that most of
the KGs and CCGs had been functional for a maximum of three years at the time of the final
project evaluation, the benefits are likely to continue accruing at a fast rate even without an
expansion of the program. This means that, everything else being equal, the further decline of the



                                                    34

repetition and dropout rates could occur in a short period of time. Moreover, the high annual
costs are largely driven by the KGs whose unit recurrent cost is almost six times its analogue for
CCGs. If the GoE starts expanding the program giving priority to the provision of CCGs, the
recurrent cost would go down gradually but substantially over time. Since the tracer study
showed that CCGs seem to prepare the children as well as the KGs, the shift towards more CCGs
would greatly increase the profitability of the investment. Finally, this kind of analysis is
extremely "myopic" as it does not take into account the effects of improved cognitive
development.




                                                 35

Annex 4. Bank Lending and Implementation Support/Supervision Processes


(a) Task Team members

           Names                       Title                Unit   Responsibility/
                                                                     Specialty
Lending
Marito Garcia           Economist                         AFTH-1
Christine Pena          Health Specialist                 AFTH-1
Lesley Drake            Consultant
Marylou Bradley         Operations Adviser                AFTH-1
Caroline Pond           Consultant
                                                           Italian
Paola Viero             Child and Youth Coordinator       Cooperati
                                                             on
Sam Muziki              Medical Officer                    WHO
Ghirmai Andemichael     Family Health Program Adviser      WHO
John Ogallo             Financial Management Specialist    AFTQK
Francis Onyango         Public Health Specialist           WHO
Simon Kerpal            ECD Specialist                    HDNED
                                                           Italian
Erasmo Macera           Public Health Specialist          Cooperati
                                                             on
Alan Pence              Consultant
Yordanos Seium          Operation's Analyst               HDNVP
Krishna Pidatala        Information Specialist             AFTQK

Supervision/ICR
Christopher D. Walker
Carla Bertoncino        Economist                          AFTH1
Donald A. P. Bundy      Lead Specialist                   HDNED
Christine Lao Pena      Senior Human Development Econo LCSHH
E. V. Shantha           Consultant                         AFTH1
Saba Solomon Tekle      Executive Assistant               AFMER
Sofia Woldu             Team Assistant                    AFMER

Peter Wolff                                               HRSSD-
                                                            HIS
Peter Gaius-Obaseki     Research Analyst                   AFTH1
Efrem Fitwi             Procurement Analyst                AFTPC
Francesco Sarno         Procurement Specialist             AFTPC
Rogati Kayani           Procurement Specialist             AFTPC
Janne Lexow             Consultant                         AFTH1
Moses Wasike                                              AFTFM
Brighton Musungwa       Sr Financial Management Specialist AFTFM
Rajat Narula            Senior Finance Officer             LOAG2 Rajat Narula



                                        36

(b) Staff Time and Cost
                                 Staff Time and Cost (Bank Budget Only)
Stage of Project Cycle
                                No. of staff weeks   USD Thousands (including
                                                     travel and consultant costs)
Lending
  FY00                                 42                       140.90
  FY01                                   3                        7.13
  FY02                                                            0.00
  FY03                                                            0.00
  FY04                                                            0.00
  FY05                                                            0.00
  FY06                                                            0.00
  FY07                                                            0.00
                        Total:         45                       148.03
Supervision/ICR
  FY00                                   9                       22.22
  FY01                                 16                        74.97
  FY02                                 20                       130.63
  FY03                                 23                       112.81
  FY04                                 21                       103.11
  FY05                                 20                       107.76
  FY06                                 22                       101.47
  FY07                                 15                        57.39
                        Total:        146                       710.36




                                    37

Annex 5. Beneficiary Survey Results
(if any)




                                    38

Annex 6. Stakeholder Workshop Report and Results
(if any)




                                  39

Annex 7. Summary of Borrower's ICR and/or Comments on Draft ICR




                                   40

Annex 8. Comments of Cofinanciers and Other Partners/Stakeholders




                                    41

Annex 9. List of Supporting Documents

  1. World Bank. Project Appraisal Document on a Proposed Credit in the amount of
     SDR 29 Million (US$ 40 Million Equivalent) to the Government of Eritrea for the
     Integrated Early Childhood Development Project. Report No. 20373-ER.
     Washington, D.C. 2000.
  2. World Bank. Aide-Memoirs' from the Project Identification Mission in 1999 to
     the last Supervision Mission in February, 2007. Washington, D.C.
  3. World Bank. Implementation Status and Results for Investment Projects. Eritrea
     IECDP (Sequence 1-18). Washington, D.C.
  4. World Bank. Back To Office Reports for ER-IECDP. Project ID: P068463.
     Washington, D.C.

  5. Final Project Evaluation Report. "Reaching the Chilled Through an Integrated
     Approach". SDCS Consultants, Asmara Eritrea.
  6. Eritrea School Health and Nutrition Evaluation Report. Ministries of Education
     and Health of Eritrea and the Partnership for Child Development, Imperial
     College, London. January, 2007.
  7. Five year Report, 2000-2005, ECD, 2006.
  8. Final year Report, 2005-2006, ECD, 2007.
  9. "Early childhood development: the global challenge" Richard Jolly, Lancet
     2007; 369:8-9.
  10. Health Facility Assessment, Ministry of Health, 2003.
  11. Implementation Completion Report (IDA-3440 PPFI-Q2210) on a Credit in the
      amount of US$40 Million to the State of Eritrea for a HIV/AIDS, Malaria, STD
      and Tuberculosis (HAMSET) Control Project. Report No. 37558. June, 2006.




                                         42

