                                         Documentof
                                        The WorldBank

                                 FOROFFICIALUSEONLY

                                                                           ReportNo: 39580 - ML




                                       PROJECTPAPER

                                             ON

                      A PROPOSEDADDITIONAL.FINANCING CREDIT

                           INTHEAMOUNTOFSDR 10MILLION
                               (US$15 MILLIONEQUIVALENT)

                                           TO THE

                                    REPUBLICOF MALI


                                            FORA

                  SECOND EDUCATIONSECTOR INVESTMENTPROGRAM

                                        April 30, 2007




HumanDevelopment I1
Africa Region


This documenthas arestricteddistributionandmaybeusedbyrecipientsonly inthe performance
o f their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank
authorization.

                                                     2


                                       CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS

                                 (ExchangeRateEffectiveas ofMarch2007)

                                     CurrencyUnit = CFAF
                                         CFAF510 = US$]
                                             US$1 = CFAF510

                                              FISCALYEAR
                                           January 1-December31


                                  ABBREVIATIONSAND ACRONYMS

ADARS  Direct Supportto ImproveSchoolProductivity        Appui Direct h 1'Amdlioration des Rendements Scolaires
AfDB   AfricanDevelopmentBank                            Banque Afiicaine de Ddveloppement
ANICT  NationalInvestmentAgency ofTerritorial            Agence Nationale d 'Investissement des Collectivitds
       Authorities                                       Territoriales
CAS     CountryAssistance Strategy                       Stratdgie d'Assistance au Pays
EFA     EducationFor All                                 Education Pour Tous
EFA/FTI EducationFor AlVFast-Track Initiative            Education Pour Tous/ProgrammeAccdldrd
EMEP
ESIP   EducationSector InvestmentProgram                 Programme d'Investissement Sectoriel de 1'Education
IDA    InternationalDevelopmentAssociation               Association Internationale de Ddveloppement
IFM    Teachers' TrainingInstitute                       Institut de Formation des Maitres
KfW    GermanDevelopmentBank                             Kreditanstaltjiir Wiederaujhau
LDM    Bachelor-Master-Doctorate                         Licence-Maitrise-Doctorat
MDG    MillenniumDevelopmentGoals                        Objectiji de Ddveloppement du Milldnaire
MTEF   MediumTermExpenditureFramework                    Cadre des Ddpenses Ci Moyen Terme
PAD    ProjectAppraisalDocument                          Rapport d'Evaluation de Projet
PDO    ProjectDevelopmentObjective                       Objectifde Ddveloppement du Projet
PISE   EducationSector InvestmentProject                 Programme d 'Investissement Sectoriel de I'Education
PRSP   PovertyReductionStrategyPaper                     Document de Stratdgie de Rdduction de la Pauvretd
GPRSF  GrowthandPovertyReductionStrategyFramework        CadreStratdgique pour la Croissance et la Rtduction de
                                                         la Pauvretd
SWAP    Sector Wide Approach                             Approche Sectorielle




                                 ActingVice President:       HartwigSchafer
                                     Country Director:       James P. Bond
                                       SectorManager:        EvaJarawan
                                   Task TeamLeader:          Atou Seck

                                                                                             FOROFFICIAL USEONLY



                                                                       3


                                                     REPUBLICOFMALI
                            SECONDEDUCATIONINVESTMENT PROGRAM
                                                ADDITIONAL FINANCING




                                                               CONTENTS

           A
           B Background andRationale for Additional Financing.............................................
            ..  Introduction.............................................................................................................      5

                                         ...................................................................................................   5

           D Consistency with CAS andGPRSF........................................................................
           C.   Proposed Changes                                                                                                               7
                                                                                                                                               8
           E..                                                                                                                                 8
           F. ExpectedOutcomes
                Economic Analysis o f Financing Gap ....................................................................
                                                                                                                                              9
           G Benefits andRisks
             .                              ................................................................................................
                                         ...................................................................................................  9
           H. FinancialTerms andConditionsofAdditional Financing                                         .................................... 10
           Annex 1: Costs   ..............................................................................................................
           Annex 2: Economic analysis.........................................................................................                11
                                                                                                                                              12
           MAP No 33443
                    .




This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance o f
their official duties. Its contents may not be otherwise disclosed without World Bank authorization.


                                                4




Project Paper Data Sheet
Date: 04/30/2007                                       Team Leader: Atou Seck

Project Name: Additional Financing- Mali Second
Country: Mali                                          Sector Directormanager: Eva Jarawan
                                                       Country Director: James P. Bond
Education InvestmentProgram                            Environmental Category: B
Proiect ID:P105291
Borrower: Republic o f Mali
Responsible agency: Ministryo f Education




policies?
Have these been approved by Bank management?

Revisedproject development objectives/outcomes.

The Project development objective i s not beingrevised.


Does the scaled-up or restructured project trigger any new safeguard policies? N o
                                    For Additional Financing
[ ] Loan   [XICredit    [] Grant
For Credit:
        Total Bank financing (US$m.): 15.0
        Proposed terms: 3 years

                                    FinancingPlan (US$m.)
                      Source                             Local       Foreign          Total
Borrower
IBRD/IDAo fwhich                                       27.30      22.7            50
         Original credit                               20         15              35
         Additional credit                             7.30       7.70            15
Others


                                                   5


A.       Introduction

This Project Paper seeks the approval o fthe Executive Directors to provide Additional Financing
in the amount o f SDR 10 million (US$15 million equivalent) for Phase I1of the Education
InvestmentProgram(ESIP I1or the Project), presently financed under IDA Credit 4222-MLI.

The proposed additional financing i s required to complete the original project activities inview o f
a new financing gap that has emerged over the past year related to expected parallel financing for
primary education. The original project development objective remains the same: to increase the
proportion of Malian children completing a quality first cycle o f basic education and improve the
overall efficiency o f resources used in the education sector. N o changes to the components, key
performance indicators, or implementation modalities o f the project are being proposed. A one-
year extension o f the closing date i s proposed to allow for a full implementation of the project
activities.

The Project's original objective, design and scope remain unchanged. It i s using the same
implementation and partnership arrangements that were used successfully under Phase Io f the
ESIP, and activities under the Additional Financing will do the same. Fourteen bilateral and
multilateral donors are working in partnership with the Government o f M a l i to support this
secondphase o f the Mali Education Sector InvestmentProgram (2006-2009).

B. Background and Rationalefor Additional Financing

Country and Sector Background: Mali is one o f the poorest countries in the world, ranking
 174' in the United Nations Development Program's 2004 Human Development Index. Over the
past ten years, the Government of Mali and fourteen technical and financial partners have worked
together to develop an education sector investmentplan. The plan focuses on increasing access to
primary education and improvements in the quality o f services delivered at all levels o f the
education sector.

So far, the implementation of the education program has been satisfactory in terms o f increased
access to education and decentralization o f the education sector management. Over the last few
years, increased access to education in Mali has been the highest among sub-Saharan African
countries. Inthe past decade, Mali has experienced an 8.5 percent growth in primary education
enrollment, 14.4 percent in lower secondary, 8 percent in upper secondary education and
21percent in higher education. Education sector management i s being decentralized: the
management o f contractual teachers has been transferred to local governments, and all school
construction i s now the responsibility o f local authorities. Inaddition, communities receive direct
transfers o f funds from the central Government to purchase furniture necessary to improve the
quality o f education. The Government has demonstrated its willingness to give more priority to
education by increasing its contribution to ESIP I1 and the share o f the primary level in the
overall budget from 35 percent in2005 to 40 percent in2006.

Despite clear progress and concrete interventions, the education sector still faces important
challenges. First, disparities persist in primary education. Seventeen percent o f students attend
community schools that are entirely financed by poor parents, the lowest income households,
mainly in rural areas. The public sector can hardly satisfy the demand for primary education and
the enrollment in community schools i s progressing more rapidly than the public facilities the
MOE can provide. Moreover, regarding enrollment, the gender gap remains high and fell only
slightly, from 21.5 points in 2005 to 20 points in 2006. Second, the quality o f education is still
low. The high level o f repetition has hindered further progress o f the primary completion rate

                                                     6


(43%). Finally, despite efforts to decentralize education management, M a l i lacks sufficient
institutional capacity to handle the issueresulting from the explosive demand for education and to
ensure an efficient delivery o f the education services.

Project Background: The proposed Additional Financing will support the implementation o f
Phase I1 o f the Education Sector Investment Program (ESP II).            The original Credit, in the
amount o f SDR 24 million (US$35 million equivalent) for E S P 11, was approved on
July 16,2006, and the Project was declared effective on March 2, 2007. The delay in Project
effectiveness was due to the time needed for the National Assembly to ratify the legal agreement
for the Credit. The Closing Date o f the Project i s December 31, 2009.

The objective o f ESIP I1(2006-09) i s to provide increased and equitable access to a higher quality
education.     The World Bank support to this SWAP, in coordination with 14 technical and
financial partners, focuses on increasing the proportion of Malian children completing a quality
basic education cycle and improving the efficient use o f resources inthe education sector. Project
oversight i s the responsibility o f the Ministry o f Education.

The ESIP I1has three components. The original project consists o f the following activities:

 Component I:Improving the quality of basic education: (i)        increasing reading practice through
the setup o f a reading area in 25 percent o f the classrooms o f schools in the first cycle o f basic
education (4,600 classes to be equipped); (ii)    provision o f libraries and school textbooks in five
Teacher Training Institutes (Instituts de Formation de Maitres, IFMs)(2,000 textbooks per IFM);
(iii) supportthroughgrantstoallschoolsinthefirstcycleofbasiceducationhavingan
      direct
operational School Management Committee for purchasing school supplies; (iv) a 60-working-
day in-service training for the certification o f 3,000 community school teachers and a 60-
working-day accelerated training program and 60-day in-service follow-up (Alternative Teaching
Staff Recruitment Strategy) for 1,800 new teachers.

Component 2: Increasing access to education: (i) construction o f schools at the first and
                                                         the
second cycles o f basic education (970 classrooms with furniture, water supply and latrines);
(ii) constructionandequipmentofageneralsecondaryschool(for600students); and(iii)
     the                                                                                           the
support o f apprenticeship programs inkey areas for employment o f out of school youth.

Component 3: Strengthening institutional management capacities of the education sector:
(i) management o f human resources, including managers' evaluation, training and alignment to
job profiles; (ii)  improvement o f resource allocation and efficiency through strengthening o f
budgetary and financial management, regulatory framework for the autonomous management o f
technical and vocational secondary public schools and financing private education, elaboration o f
an instrument, including school mapping, to allocate resources more efficiently and reduce
inequalities; (iii)annual audits, including the assessment o f school construction and management
o f textbooks; (iv) set-up o f an Integrated Education Management Information System; and (v)
program coordination and management, including learning assessment in 2007 and at the end o f
the project.

Achievement of Project DevelopmentObjective(PDO):

Despite the delay in effectiveness o f the Bank project due to delays inthe National Assembly, the
implementation o f the overall program started on schedule and i s still in line with the first year
action plan. The Government and the donors havejust completed ajoint supervisionmission and
the implementation has been rated "satisfactory" overall.         De-concentrated and decentralized

                                                   7


authorities have started implementing activities to effectively address quality, equity and access
issues. The transfer to local government o f the responsibility for school construction, the
decentralization o f in-service teacher training, and the transfer o f resources directly to schools for
the supply o f quality inputs are being implemented effectively. The donor community is
providing strong technical support to deliver the entire program.

Rationale for Additional Financing: During the appraisal o f the Second Education Sector
Investment Program (ESIP II),     total expenditures for the whole sector and financing gap were
estimated. At that time, there was still a financing gap o f about CFAF 21.6 billion (about US$41
million) that the Ministry o f Education expected to make up with additional external resources.
During the eight-month period since the appraisal o f E S P 11, the financing gap o f E S P I1has
been reduced from CFAF 21.6 billion to 12.5 billion (about US$23.5 million) as a result o f :
(i) Government'scommitmenttoincreaseitscontributionin2006fromCFAF116.4billionto
   the
CFAF 122.2 billion; and (ii)an increase in technical and financial partners' contribution,
especially with the additional resources from the African Development Bank (AfDB) o f about
CFAF 4.4 billion (about US$9 million). The remaining gap was expected to be financed largely
by the Education for All Fast Track Initiative (EFA/FTI) Catalytic Fund, which now appears
unlikely in view of a change in EFA/FTI eligibility criteria. The Government i s discussing
currently with KfW to fill the remaining financing gap.

With this financing gap, the Malian Government would be unable to fully achieve the PDO:
universal completion o f a quality first cycle o f basic education and improving the overall
efficiency o f resources used in the education sector. The proposed additional IDA allocation
would reduce this financing gap to CFAF 4.2 billion (approximately US$8.5 million) and ensure
achievement o f the original outcome measures set out in the Project's results framework. The
Government would continue to pursue additional fundingfrom other development partners for the
remaining gap, or scale back some elements o f E S P I1 that would not affect project
implementation andor achievement o f the PDO.

The economic and financial assessment o f the Project Appraisal Document (PAD) stated that the
three-year Medium-Tern Expenditure Framework for implementing the ESIP I1i s consistent
with: (a) the current macroeconomic framework for stability and growth; (b) the PRSP goals for
priority sectors; as well as (c) the sustainable scenario that was selected to achieve the
MillenniumDevelopment Goals by 2015.

C.       Proposed Changes

The Project development objective, outcomes indicators and design will not be modified. The
activities that would be financed by additional resources were already appraised and set out inthe
PAD o f Phase I1o f the ESIP. A comprehensive sectoral action plan to implement the entire E S P
11,that is, under the Credit for the original project as well as the Additional Financing, has been
discussed and agreed with the government.

Specific activities within each component that would benefit from the proposed Additional
Financing are also described below. Implementation o f the activities i s and will continue to be
carried out by a variety o f directorates both at central, de-concentrated and decentralized levels,
including local authorities for construction o f schools.

The Additional Financing would support (in addition to the support provided to these activities
through the Financing for the original project):

                                                8


Component 1: Improving the quality of basic education: (i) provision o f textbooks to
                                                                    the
primary students attending schools implementing the new curriculum; and (ii)    the improvement
o f reading practice by implementing a reading area in each o f 5,000 additional primary
classrooms.

Component 2: Increasing access to education: (i)         construction and equipping o f 400 new
primary classrooms in poor rural areas; and (ii)    building two (2) secondary schools in areas
without secondary schools and a Teacher Training Institute.

Component 3: Strengthening institutionalmanagement capacities of the education sector:
(i) development and implementation o f a school mapping system; (ii)   training o f staff at central
and decentralized levels; (iii)piloting the improvement o f resource management in one
department o f the Bamako University.

The legal agreement o f the Additional Financing amends the legal agreement of the original
Credit in the following manner:      it changes the name o f the Project to "Education Sector
Investment Program" to align it with other Project documents; it extends the Project closing date
to December 31, 2010 (currently December 31, 2009); and modifies a performance indicator
under the Project development objective.

The revised outcome indicator i s a refinement o f the original indicator which now includes the
assessment o f learning achievements at the end o f primary school grades 2, 4 and 6, instead o f
grades 3 and 5, in order to be more consistent with the new curriculum.

The project effectiveness was delayed due to the time needed for the National Assembly to ratify
the legal agreement for the Credit. Therefore, a one-year extension o f the closing date from
December 31, 2009 to December 31, 2010 i s proposed to allow for an effective implementation
o f all activities

D.        Consistency with CAS and GPRSF

The Project i s fully aligned with the Country Assistance Strategy (CAS) which selectively
focuses on three themes: (i) promoting growth; (ii)  developing human resources; and (iii)   public
finance management and governance. These themes are consistent with the project development
objective as well as with the Government strategy to invest in schooling that would result in
producing qualified and productive individuals and have positive impact on poverty alleviation.

The Project i s consistent with the Government's macroeconomic policy.         The Growth and
Poverty Reduction Strategy Framework (GPRSF) aims at improving the welfare o f Malian people
through pursuingefforts insocial service delivery and reinforcing implementation o f program and
reforms towards achieving the Millennium Development Goals (MDGs). Finally, the economic
and financial assessment o f the PAD stated that the three-year Medium T e r n Expenditure
Framework for implementing the E S P I1 i s consistent with the current macro-economic
framework o f stability and growth and the sustainable scenario that has been selected for the
achievement o f the MDGs in2015,

E. Economic Analysis of Financing Gap

The economic analysis conducted during the appraisal o f Phase I1 o f the Education Sector
Investment Program remains valid. This analysis was carried out to assess whether the entire
project was realistic and sustainable. The investment in schooling in Mali will help produce

                                                   9


qualified productive individuals and would have a positive impact on poverty alleviation. The
private return i s about 10 percent for the first years o f schooling and substantially increases with
the number of years o f education - about 15 percent for those who complete primary education
and about 25 percent for those who complete a secondary cycle. The impact o f education in
alleviating poverty, improving literacy and transmitting inter-generational access to education i s
positive and significant in Mali, particularly in reducing fertility rates and improving both
reproductive and children's health. The completion o f the first cycle o f primary education has
been shown to reduce total fertility rates by 25 percent and under-five mortality by 33 percent.

Withinthe current macro economic framework of stability and growth, and based on the selected
scenario to achieve the MDGs in 2015, the updated Medium-term expenditure framework and
financing plan remain suitable and valid. The policy choices that guide the implementation of
ESP I1as assessed in the PAD remain compelling, and the Government has already started
implementing most o f them. The activities that would be financed by additional resources were
already assessed in the PAD o f the second phase o f the Mali Education Sector Investment
Program. The remaining financing gap o f US$8 million will be definitely closed thanks to the
project under preparation with KfW.

F.       Expected Outcomes

Thanks to activities financed under the Additional Financing, the Malian Government will be able
to fully achieve the PDO. By building schools in rural areas, supplyingtextbooks to all children,
and providing reading areas, the additional financing will improve the demand for schooling from
the poorest population. This will be done by reducing school fees that impede school attendance
inrural areas, andbyimproving the quality and achievement levels.

The achievement o f the project objective will be measured through the following two outcome
indicators: (i)the primary-school completion rate has increased from 43.2 percent as o f December
31, 2005 to 56.4 percent by the end o f the 2008-09 school year; and (ii) percent o f students in
                                                                            60
second, fourth and sixth grades have acquired required competency in reading and mathematics
bythe end o fthe 2008-09 school year.

G.       Benefits and Risks

The Project design puts a premium on social, economic, pedagogical, managerial and financial
sustainability. The Project will mainly benefit the most disadvantaged children in rural areas,
those who are currently among the 30 percent o f children without any access to education
services. This will have a positive impact on demand, particularly inthe area o f girls' education.
In addition, the right distribution and programming of school construction would reduce
disparities with the perspective o f reaching universal primary education by 2015 and allow poor
children inrural areas to receive free basic education.

On the pedagogical side, by financing the training o f staff at central and decentralized levels; and
by providing school materials and textbooks, the additional financing would contribute to further
lowering the cost o f schooling for families. Furthermore, with the provision o f textbooks and
reading areas, the emphasis on teacher training, the supplemental financing would contribute to
accelerating the implementation o f teaching reforms, which would result in helping students read
better.

On the managerial side, the planned activities relate to better targeting and improving the
efficiency o f public resources through an institutional strengthening program which includes

                                                10


management o f human resources, school mapping, and reinforcement o f budgetary and financial
management. These are in line with the objectives o f the Additional Financing and those o f
reachingE S P 11, EFA and eventually the MDGs.

There i s no additional risk associated with the Additional Financing that might jeopardize the
achievement o f the project's development objectives.           Since the additional financing i s
completely aligned with ESIP 11, the overall rating o f the Project's riskremains moderate and will
be mitigatedby the same measures described inthe PAD o f E S P 11.

H.        Financial Terms and Conditionsof Additional Financing

The Additional Financing o f US$15 million equivalent would be provided as a Credit. This
Credit would be provided on standard IDA terms, that is, a 40-year repaymentperiod, including a
ten-year grace period, a commitment charge o f up to 0.50 percent, and a service charge o f up
to 0.75 percent.

Where effectiveness o f the proposed Additional Financing i s concerned, there are no operational
conditions. There are, however, two standard legal conditions o f effectiveness, as follows: (i)
                                                                                               due
ratification or authorization by the Malian government o f the legal agreement for the Additional
Financing; and (ii)submission o f a satisfactory legal opinion from satisfactory counsel
confirming such government action in light o f applicable Malian legal and administrative
requirements.

There i s also a disbursement condition concerning Part 2 (a) o f the Project, to be implemented by
the National Investment Agency o f Territorial Authorities (Agence Nationale d 'Investissement
des Collectivitb Territoriales, ANICT). Due execution and delivery o f a satisfactory subsidiary
agreement between the Malian government and said entity for purposes o f implementation of this
part o f the Project are requiredbefore any funds can be disbursed under it.

Retroactive financing - that is, for expenditures incurred prior to the signing o f the legal
agreement for the Additional Financing - to the tune o f US$150,000 equivalent will be
authorized under the proposed Additional Financing, but this would be limited to eligible
expenditures incurred under Part 2 (b) and (c) o f the Project on or after April 15,2007.

                                                        11


                                                   Annex I: Costs
                                                                                 Cost(USD)
                                                                                  Additional
Component Activity                                                   ESIPI1       financing    Total
I.Improvingthequalityofbasiceducation                                 $10,077,665 $3,582,178  $13,659,843
      (i) Incresasingreadingpractice
      Librairies inTeacher Training Institutions                        $165,714                $165,714
      Readingareas for classrooms inbasic education                   $1,752,381  $1,800,990   $3,553,371
      Provision of Textbooks                                                      $1,781,188   $1,781,188
      (ii) Supportto SchoolManagementCommittees
      Grants to School to improve their productivity                  $3,999,570               $3,999,570
      (iii) Recrutementof qualifiedteachers
      Training o f Community school teachers                          $2,600,000               $2,600,000
      Acceleratedtrainingprogram for new teachers                     $1,56O,OoO               $1,560,000
11.Increasingaccessto education                                       $21,855,182 $10,179,768 $32,034,950
      (i)SchoolconstructionandequipmentinBasiceducation               $19,411,754 $6,732,673  $26,144,427
      (ii)Constructionandequipmentofgeneralsecondaryschools           $1,243,428   $2,574,257  $3,8 17,685
      (iii)Vocationaltrainingthroughapprenmticeship                    $1,200,000              $1,200,000
      (iv) Constrcution ofa teacher training institute                               $872,838   $872,838
111.Strengtheninginstitutionalmanagementcap ofthe educ sector          $1,904,762    $693,070  $2,597,832
      (i)ManagementofHumanresources                                     $500,000                $500,000
      (ii)Improvementinfinancialresourcesallocationandefficiency        $425,000     $396,040   $821,040
      (iii)SetupofanIntegratedEducationManagementInformationSystem      $400,000     $297,030   $697,030
      (iv) Programcoordination and management                           $579,762

            BASECOST                                                  $33,837,609 $14,455,016 $48 292 625
                                                                                                 , ,
            Contengencies(price andphysical)                           $1,162,391    $544,984  $1,707,375

            TOTALCOST                                                 $35,000,000 $15,000,000 $50,000,000

                                                  12


                                   Annex 2: Economic analysis

1.The ESIP 2 program, with support o f the proposed credit aims at increasing the proportion o f
Malian children completing a quality basic education cycle and at improving the efficient use o f
resources inthe education sector. An economic analysis was done duringthe appraisal o f ESIP 2.
The current update of this analysis demonstrates the continued viability o f the project. This annex
has been includes the following: (i)  the assessment o f the links to the CAS and to sector works;
(ii) evaluationofthesocialandeconomicimpactofeducationinvestment;(iii) analysisof
    the                                                                                 an
the financing o f education; and (iv) an analysis o f different scenarios to update a comprehensive
medium-term expenditure framework.

Links to Country AssistanceStrategy (CAS) and Sector Work

2. The Additional financing of the ESIP 2 is coherent with the CAS for Mali that
emphasizes and supports three main components of Mali's Poverty Reduction Strategy
Paper (PRSP):(i)     the promotion o f economic growth; (ii) development o f human resources;
                                                               the
and (iii)improved management o f public finances and governance. The Education Country
Status Report carried out to support the preparation o f ESIP 2 identifies several policy measures
that might help Mali improve the outcomes o f its education sector with a view toward achieving
the Millennium Development Goal o f ensuring that all boys and girls have access to and complete
a full course o f primary education. Even though investments inthe other two education levels are
important, a particular emphasis should be given to the first cycle o f the primary education, since
the completion rate inM a l i was about 43 percent in2005.

Social and Economic Impact of Education Investment
3. Education's impact in alleviating poverty, improving literacy and transmitting inter-
generational access to education is positive and important-in             particular, for changing
women's behaviors in terms of fertility, reproductive health, and children's health. The
analysis shows that the first cycle o f primary education generates the largest amount o f social
impact. The completion o f the first cycle o f primary education has been shown to reduce total
fertility rates by 25 percent and under-five mortality by 33 percent. Investment in schooling, in
terms o fmobilizing resources (public and private, financial) so as to produce qualified individuals
for productive life, has a high rate o f return in Mali. The rate o f return o f education i s about 10
percent for the first years o f schooling and substantially increases with the number o f years o f
education (15 percent for a complete primary education and about 25 percent at the secondary
level). The return o f one year o f professional experience i s 12 percent; however, it decreases
when more experience is acquired. Income structure also shows that, with comparable school
characteristics, men receive a considerable higher income than women. On average, they make
60 percent more than women. This difference i s especially high in Mali. In terms o f gender
iniquities in accessing education, one finds a combination o f inequities in the range of income
available on the labor market for the same level o f education.

Financing Education

4. Mali's macroeconomic i s favorable. Based on the latest Bank and Fund assessments, Mali
could average a broad-based 5.5 percent annual growth in the medium term, assuming broadly
unchanged terms o f trade and no major extended supply shocks. From 2000 to 2006, Mali's
Gross Domestic Product (GDP) averaged annual growth at a rate o f 5 percent. The government o f
Mali's internal revenue increased considerably, from CFAF 237.9 billion to CFAF 384 billion

                                                 13


between 2000 and 2004 inordinary monetary values, and from CFAF 283.7 billion to CFAF 384
billion inconstant monetary values.

5. The overall budget allocation to the education sector is still low and efficiency in the use
of the resources needs to be improved. Recurrent education expenditures represented 24
percent o f the government total recurrent expenditures excluding debt. The measurement o f
education expenditures inratio o f the country GDP (3.06 percent) remains moderate inthe intent
of reaching the millennium development goals. An average 3.8 percent i s observed in a group o f
most performing countries vis-&vis universal primary education. Mali marginally distinguishes
itself from other countries in the region with a structure o f recurrent expenditures per level o f
education that i s quite particular: (i)the share of recurrent expenditures for primary education
level (35.0 percent intotal) i s low in comparison with what i s observed inother countries, where
an average figure o f 49.3 percent i s recorded; (ii)secondary education (second cycle o f primary
education, secondary general and technical education) with share estimated at 43.5 percent, has
the highest share o f recurrent expenditures for these levels o f education than other countries
considered in the comparison (the average value for the 10 countries i s 31.3 percent); (iii)        in
accordance to PISE Ipredictions, there was a relative reduction inthe share o f higher education
as a percentage o f total education expenditure-from      17.7 percent in 1999 to 16.3 percent in
2004.

6. The unit cost in the first cycle and second cycle of primary education inM a l i is very close
to the average observed in other countries, but there are significant differences at other
levels: (i)spending per student in higher education i s relatively lower (16 percent) compared to
the average inFrench-speaking countries; and (ii)   on the other hand, spending per student i s much
higher (95 percent) in secondary general (2ndcycle secondary in international terms) and in
technical and vocational education (76 percent). Regarding the allocation o f recurrent
expenditures per category, 58.7 percent o f recurrent budget i s devoted to salaries, 29 percent in
operating costs, and 12.3 percent inscholarship and transfers.

7. Equity remains a major concern.          The analysis done by using the 2001 Mali poverty
assessment (EMEP) demonstrates that the share o f education expenditures provided by families i s
very highat low levels o f education ,and very low at higher levels from 46 percent inpreschool to
17 percent inprimary, 4 percent in secondary and less than 3 percent inhigher education. Inthe
case o f Mali, it i s estimated that 10 percent o f the well-educated absorb 47 percent o f public
resources allocated to education. Analyses show the following: (i)   76 percent o f children who are
not enrolled in schools are from rural areas, and most o f them are poor; and (ii)      girls have less
access to education, with three girls for every four boys enrolled in the first cycle o f primary
education, and only three girls for five boys enrolled in higher levels o f education;         (iii)38
percent of students in secondary education and 50 percent o f students in higher education are
from the wealthiest quintile o f the student population, and only 5 percent of total enrollments in
higher education are from the lowest quintile; and (iv) 93 percent o f students enrolled in the
second cycle o f secondary education have parents who reside inurban areas.

Scenario towards the Millennium Development Goals and the Sustainability of Education
Development

8. To update Mali's Medium-Term Expenditure Framework (MTEF) and prepare the ESIP
11, a scenario for the development sector was chosen by the government of Mali and policy
measures to reach these objectives were defined in the education policy letter. This scenario
retained an objective aiming at: (i)  improving first grade intake rate o f the first cycle of primary
education from 66.6 percent in 2004 to 82.2 percent in 2008 to reach 90 percent in 2015; (ii)         a

                                                14


transition rate from second cycle primary education to secondary education from 40 percent in
2004 to 33.6 percent in2008, and 22 percent in2015; and (iii) admission rate to baccalaureate
                                                                an
of 34 percent in 2008 and 50 percent in 2015. The completion rate of the first cycle o f primary
education will increase from 41 percent in 2005 to 56.4 percent in 2008 and to 82.5 percent in
2015.

9. In the first cycle of basic education, the major variables of this policy are the following: (i)
                                                                                                  a
reduction of studenuteacher ratio, which was estimated at 63.5 per teacher in 2004 to 58.6
students per teacher in 2008 and to 50 students per teacher in 2015; (ii)a recruitment of
contractual teachers with an excellent pedagogical profile; (iii)a significant increase in the
financing of community schools teachers, the unit cost of public financing will increase from 1
time the GDPper inhabitantin2004 (CFAF 25,000 over 9 months) to 1.4 times the GDP in2008.
According to this scenario, the number o f enrolled students in this cycle will increase from 1.4
million in2004 to 1.8 million in2008 and 2.5 million in2015. Over the same period, the number
of teachers in the public sector (including existing community sector) will improve from 18,000
to 25,000 in 2008 to 42,000 in 2015, implying an average annual recruitment o f 2,500 teachers
comparatively to an average of 3,040 in the selected scenario. Regarding teachers' pre-service
training, a cycle of two years will be implemented at the horizon in 2010 instead o f a cycle of
four years as initially planned. Therefore, graduates from grade 9 would easily access Teacher
Training Institutes (IFMs) by 2006, whereas those who are already in the system would have an
opportunity to complete it successfully. The targeted population to be admitted in IFMs will be
highschool graduatesor those fromhighereducationinstitutions.

10. I n the second cycle of basic education, the following policy options have been considered:
(i) reductionofrepeaters'ratefrom23.9percentin2004to 18.8percentin2008andto 10
    the
percent in 2015; (ii)the improvement of students/classroomratio from 73 in2004 to 64.7 in2008
and to 50 in 2015; (iii)the maintenance of teacher instructionalhours to 24 hours, and areduction
of students' weekly hours from 28 hours in2004 to 27.3 in2008 and to 26 hours in2015 over the
nine months of the school year; (iv) the costs for this level of education will be mastered by
controlling expenditures other than teachers' salaries; which will decrease from 44.1 percent o f
total primary education expenditures in 2004 to 40.4 percent in 2008 to 34 percent o f the total
expenditures in 2015, through preserving a level of pedagogical expenditures and a necessary
support to ensure the quality of teaching.

11. In secondary general education, with the transition rate between the second cycle of
primary education and secondary cycle with a level estimated at 40 percent in 2004, the number
o f students in secondary general will considerably increase. The government has decided to
decrease it to 33.6 percent in2008 and to 22 percent in2015.

12. I n higher education, the scenario was based on the following hypotheses: (i)     orientation of
90 percent of grade 12 graduates; (ii)   maintenance of the budget for social activities within a
planned amount (the share of social activities' budget in the total budget will decrease from 50
percent in2004 to 41 percent in2015); (iii) percentage of students receiving scholarships will
                                            the
remain constant (at 51 percent over the period); and (iv) the promotion o f private higher
education. In2008, the operating budget i s estimated at 16.9percent o f the total education budget
comparativelyto 14.9 percent in2004.

TheMedium-Term Expenditure Framework (MTEF)

13. Based on this scenario, the Medium-term expenditureframework hasbeenupdated, but
the original objectiveremains unchangeddespite the fact that a financing gap has emerged

                                                 15


over the pastyear regardingexpectedparallelfinancing for primary education. To cover
this financing gap, the government has decidedto increaseits contributionto the education
program from 24% o f its recurrent budget in2005 to 27% in2009. External donors have been
requestedto increase their contribution to the program. The Afiican Development Bank (AfDB)
and the Aga Khan Foundation agreed to provide additionalresources. Currently, the Government
i s negotiating with the KfW to fulfill the remaining financing gap o f $8.5 million after the IDA
additional financing.

             Table 2. Financing ESlP 2 (000,000 CFAF
                                                                         Updated plan
             National budget                                           II396,624
             Donors including Technical Assistance (TA)                I 175,752
             Technical Assistance                                        22,855
             Donors without TA                                           152,897
             Local Government                                            23,956
             Total Available resources                                   573,477
             Cost of ESlP 2                                              577,713
             Remainingfinancing gap                                      4,236
             Remaining financing gap in USD (000,000)                    8.5

14. The overall internal budget allocation remains unchanged. Basic education is still the
priority with approximately 60% o f the entire education funding, including domestic and external
resources.    It is expected that, combined with efficiency measures mentioned in the policy
framework, this budget allocation will cover the needs and help achieve the program objective.
                     Table 2: The Medium-Term ExpenditureFramework (MTEF)


                                                                                                                                                                                               IBRD 33443

                                                                                       MALI

                                                 SELECTED CITIES AND TOWNS                                            MAIN ROADS

                                                 PROVINCE CAPITALS                                                    RAILROADS

                                                 NATIONAL CAPITAL                                                     PROVINCE BOUNDARIES

                                                 RIVERS                                                               INTERNATIONAL BOUNDARIES




                                                                                   5°W                                           0°

                                                                                                                                   0                  100         200        300 Kilometers


                                                                                    TTo
                                                                                     o
                                                                                Chenachane                                         0                50        100    150        300 Miles

                                                                                                                                                                                                         25°N

                          MALI
                                                            To
                                                            To
                                                        El Mreîti
                                                            Mreîti

                                                                  S a h         a r a              D e s e r t                                    A L G E R I A

                                                                 To
                                                                 To
                                                              El Mreîti
                                                                 Mreîti
                                                                                      Taoudenni
                                                                                                                                                  To
                                                                                                                                                  To
                                                                                                                                     Poste Maurice
                                                                                                                                                 Cortier




                                                                                 T O M B O U C T O U                                                                                   To
                                                                                                                                                                                       To
                                                                                                                                                                               Abalessa
20°N                                                                                                                               Tessalit                                                              20°N


             M A U R I T A N I A                                                                                                                     K I D A L

                                                                                           Araouane                                ValéeduTilemsi             Kidal




                                                                                             Tombouctou       Gourma
                                                                                                               Rharous
                                                                                               (Timbuktu)                       Bourem                G A O
                                       To
                                       To                                                                   Niger
             To
             To                      Ayun                                                                                          Gao
             Kifa                 el ''Atrous
                                     Atrous                                           Niafounke            Lac Niangay                                                             Vallée de L'Azaouak
                                                                   To Néma
                                                                      Néma                                                                                    Menaka
                                                                                                               Hombori
                                                                                         Lac                     Tondo
                                                                                                               (1,155 m)        Ansongo
                            Nioro                    Nara              Nampala          Débo
                                                                                        Débo
                                                                                                                                                                           To
                                                                                                                                                                           To
15°N                      du Sahel                              R O                                                                                                                                      15°N
                                                                                         M O P T I       Douentza                                                        Abala
                                                                                                                                                            To Niamey

                 Kayes
    To
    To                                                                                                                                                               N I G E R
  Goudiry        BafingK AY E S
                                 Baoulé    Kolokani   U L I K O                        Mopti         Bandiagara
                                                                    Niono

                                                                      S É G O U                                 To
                                                                                                                To
                                                                         Ségou
                                                                         Ségou    Ba ni                     Ouahigouya

         To
         To                                        K O     Niger                       San
      Kédougou
      Kédougou                Kita                                                                To
                                                                                                  To
                 Kenieba
                                     BAMAKO            Koulikoro                                Nouna       B U R K I N A
                                                                        Koutiala                                 F A S O
                                   To
                                   To
                                  Siguiri                 Bougouni
                                                                                Sikasso   To
                                                                                          To
                                                                                         Bobo
          G U I N E A                                S I K A S S O                     Dioulasso

                                           To
                                           To                                                                                                                 B E N I N
                                         Kankan

10°N                                                                            To
                                                                                To
                                                                             Korhogo                                                                                                                     10°N
                                                                                                                   G H A N A                                           This map was produced by
                                                                                                                                                                       the Map Design Unit of The
                                                                                                                                                                       World Bank. The boundaries,
  S I E R R A                                                                                                                                                          colors, denominations and
                                                                                                                                                                       any other information shown
   L E O N E                                                     C Ô T E D ' I V O I R E                                                                               on this map do not imply, on
                                                                                                                                                                       the part of The World Bank
                                                                                                                                                                       Group, any judgment on the
                                                                                                                                                        TOGO           legal status         of any territory,
                                                                                                                                                                       or any endorsement or
                                                                                                                                                                       a c c e p t a n c e        o f s u c h
                           10°W                                                    5°W                                           0°                                    boundaries.


                                                                                                                                                                                            NOVEMBER 2004

