Page  1
CONFORMED COPY 
 
CREDIT NUMBER 4222-1-MLI 
 
Financing Agreement 
 
(Additional Financing for Second Education Sector Investment Program) 
 
between 
 
REPUBLIC OF MALI 
 
and 
 
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION 
 
Dated June 5, 2007 
Page  2
CREDIT NUMBER 4222-1-MLI 
FINANCING AGREEMENT 
AGREEMENT dated June 5, 2007, entered into between REPUBLIC OF MALI 
(“Recipient”) and INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION 
(“Association”) for the purpose of providing additional financing for the Original Project 
(as defined in the Appendix to this Agreement). 
The Recipient and the Association hereby agree as follows: 
ARTICLE I 
—
GENERAL CONDITIONS; DEFINITIONS 
1.01. 
The General Conditions (as defined in the Appendix to this Agreement) 
constitute an integral part of this Agreement. 
1.02. 
Unless the context requires otherwise, the capitalized terms used in this 
Agreement have the meanings ascribed to them in the General Conditions, in the 
Appendix to this Agreement, or in the Original Financing Agreement. 
1.03. 
The Original Financing Agreement is amended as set out in Section II of the 
Appendix to this Agreement. 
ARTICLE II — FINANCING 
2.01. 
The Association agrees to extend to the Recipient, on the terms and conditions 
set forth or referred to in this Agreement, a credit in an amount equivalent to  
ten million Special Drawing Rights (SDR 10,000,000
)
(“Financing”) to assist in 
financing Parts 1 (a), 2 (a) and (b), and 3 (a) and (b) of the project described in 
Schedule 1 to this Agreement (“Project”). 
2.02. 
The Recipient may withdraw the proceeds of the Financing in accordance with 
Section IV of Schedule 2 to this Agreement. 
2.03. 
The Maximum Commitment Charge Rate payable by the Recipient on the Un-
withdrawn Financing Balance shall be one-half of one percent (1/2 of 1%) per 
annum.  
2.04. 
The Service Charge payable by the Recipient on the Withdrawn Credit Balance 
shall be equal to three-fourths of one percent (3/4 of 1%) per annum. 
Page  3
2
2.05. 
The Payment Dates are March 1 and September 1 in each year.
 
2.06. 
The principal amount of the Credit shall be repaid in accordance with repayment 
schedule set forth in Schedule 3 to this Agreement. 
2.07. 
The Payment Currency is the Dollar. 
ARTICLE III 
—
PROJECT
 
3.01. 
The Recipient declares its commitment to the objective of the Project and the 
Program.  To this end, the Recipient shall carry out the Project through its 
ministry at the time responsible for education in accordance with the provisions 
of Article IV of the General Conditions. 
3.02. 
Without limitation upon the provisions of Section 3.01 of this Agreement, and 
except as the Recipient and the Association shall otherwise agree, the Recipient 
shall ensure that the Project is carried out in accordance with the provisions of 
the Schedule to this Agreement. 
ARTICLE IV — REMEDIES OF THE ASSOCIATION
 
4.01. 
The Additional Event of Suspension consists of the following: 
A
situation has arisen which shall make it improbable that the Program, or a 
significant part thereof, will be carried out. 
4.02. 
The Additional Event of Acceleration consists of the following: 
The event specified in Section 4.01 of this Agreement occurs.
 
ARTICLE V — EFFECTIVENESS; TERMINATION 
5.01. 
The Effectiveness Deadline is the date ninety (90) days after the date of this 
Agreement.
 
ARTICLE VI — REPRESENTATIVE; ADDRESSES
 
6.01. 
The Recipient’s Representative is the minister at the time responsible for finance. 
Page  4
3
6.02. 
The Recipient’s Address is: 
Ministry of the Economy and Finance 
P. O. Box 234 
Bamako 
Mali 
 
Telex: 
  Facsimile: 
 
2559MJ  223-222-14-88 
223-222-07-93 
 
6.03. 
The Association’s Address is: 
 International 
Development 
Association 
 
1818 H Street, N.W. 
Washington, D.C. 20433 
 
United States of America 
 
Cable: 
  Telex: 
  Facsimile: 
 INDEVAS 
 248423 
(MCI) 
 1-202-477-6391 
 Washington, 
D.C. 
 
Page  5
4
AGREED at Bamako, Mali, as of the day and year first above written. 
 
REPUBLIC OF MALI 
 
By /s/ Abou-
Bakar Traoré 
 
Authorized Representative 
 
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION 
 
By /s/ Alassane Diawara 
 
Authorized Representative 
Page  6
5
SCHEDULE 1 
Project Description
 
The objective of the Project is to increase the proportion o
f
the Recipient’s 
children completing quality first-cycle basic education and improve the overall efficiency 
of resource use in the education sector. 
The Project consists of the following parts: 
1. 
Improving Quality of First Cycle of Basic Education
(a) 
Establishment of reading areas, including necessary textbook stocking 
devices and books, in approximately 50 percent of classrooms in schools 
in first cycle of basic education (approximately 9,600 classrooms), and 
equipping of libraries in five 
(5) Teacher Training 
Institutes 
(approximately 2,000 textbooks per Institute), through 
acquisition of goods such as books, shelves and storage equipment. 
(b) 
Implementation of Direct Support to Improve School Productivity 
scheme for purpose of purchase of school supplies for schools having an 
operational School Management Committee. 
(c) 
Support to training and in-service training: 
(i) 
provision of 60-day in-service training for certification of 
approximately 3,000 community school teachers; and 
(ii) 
provision of accelerated training and in-service training, each of 
60 working days, to approximately 1,800 new teachers. 
2. 
Increasing Access to Education
(a) 
Construction and equipping of classrooms in first and second cycles of 
basic education (approximately 1,370 classrooms), including provision 
of furniture and water adduction and construction of lavatories. 
(b) 
Construction and equipping of three (3) general secondary 
schools (approximately 600 students each) and one (1) Teacher Training 
Institute. 
Page  7
6
(c) 
Support to apprenticeship programs in key areas of youth employment. 
3. 
Strengthening of Institutional Management Capacities in Education Sector, and 
Program Coordination
(a) 
Strengthening of human resource management, including evaluation of 
central-level and decentralized managers and their adaptation to job 
profiles and training of said managers. 
(b) 
Improvement of allocation and efficiency of resources through 
strengthening of budgetary and financial management, establishment of 
regulatory framework for independent management of public entities of 
technical and professional education, promotion of private education, 
establishment of instrument integrating school map facilitating more 
efficient resource allocation and inequality reduction, carrying out of 
annual audits of school construction and textbook management, and 
piloting of resource management improvement program in one (1) 
Bamako University department. 
(c) 
Establishment of integrated education management information system. 
 
(d) 
Program coordination and management, including financing of Project 
Operating Costs, and carrying out of Learning Assessments. 
Page  8
7
SCHEDULE 2 
Project Execution 
Section I. 
Implementation Arrangements
A. Institutional 
Arrangements
 
1. 
The Recipient’s ministry at the time responsible for education shall coordinate 
Project implementation through its technical directorates. 
2. 
The Recipient shall maintain, under its ministry at the time responsible for 
education, throughout Project implementation, the following entities, with terms 
of reference, personnel, resources, and functions satisfactory to the Association 
and as further detailed in the Project Implementation Procedures Manual: 
(a) 
The Cabinet Council
,
headed by the Minister at the time responsible for 
education, which shall provide overall guidance in Project 
implementation and ensure that Project activities are consistent with the 
Recipient’s policy objectives in the sector. 
(b) 
The Steering Committee
,
headed by the Secretary General of the 
ministry at the time responsible for education, and comprising the 
technical units involved in Program implementation, which shall be 
responsible for evaluation of technical projects under the Program and 
for preparation of said projects for submission to the Cabinet Council for 
approval. 
(c) 
The Planning and Statistics Unit
,
which shall be responsible, 
inter alia
,
for: (i) provision of assistance to the technical departments of the 
Recipient’s ministry at the time responsible for education, Academies of 
Education and Pedagogical Activity Centers in: (A) development and 
implementation of their annual work programs; (B) preparation and 
submission of Program implementation progress reports to development 
partners; (C) updating of outcome and results indicators of Program 
implementation; and (D) the carrying out of audits referred to in 
Section 
V.C.3 of this Schedule and implementation of the 
recommendations of said audits; (ii) coordination of technical and 
financial partner actions in the sector; and (iii) provision of 
administrative services to the Cabinet Council and Steering Committee. 
(d) 
The Academies of Education
,
whose Directors shall coordinate Project 
implementation and monitoring at the regional level.
 
Page  9
8
3. 
Other Project implementation entities:
 
(a) 
The National Directorate of Basic Education
shall be responsible for 
implementation of Part 1 (a) and (c) of the Project, including 
Part 1 (c) (i) in collaboration with Teacher Training Institutes
.
(b) 
The School Management Committees
shall be responsible for the 
implementation of Part 1 (b) of the Project. 
(c) 
The National Investment Agency of Territorial Authorities
shall be 
responsible for the channeling of resources to local governments for 
implementation of Part 2 (a) of the Project. 
(d) 
The School Infrastructure and Facilities Division
shall be responsible for 
implementation of Part 2 (b) of the Project. 
(e) 
The Vocational Training and Apprenticeship Support Fund
shall be 
responsible for implementation of Part 2 (c) of the Project. 
(f) 
The Administrative and Financial Directorate
shall be responsible for 
implementation of Part 3 of the Project.
 
B. Subsidiary 
Agreement
 
1. 
To facilitate the carrying out of Part 2 (a) of the Project, the Recipient shall make 
part of the proceeds of the Financing available to the National Investment 
Agency of Territorial Authorities under a subsidiary agreement between the 
Recipient and said entity, under terms and conditions approved by the 
Association
 (“Subsidiary Agreement”), which shall include the following: 
(i) 
Absent communication of an objection by the Recipient’s ministry 
responsible for education to the National Investment Agency of 
Territorial Authorities within two (2) weeks of submission to said 
ministry of an application for withdrawal of proceeds of the Financing by 
said Agency, said Agency shall proceed to transmit the application for 
withdrawal of proceeds to the Association for processing. 
(ii) 
In the event of such an objection, the Recipient’s ministry responsible for 
education and the National Investment Agency of Territorial Authorities 
shall collaborate in order to reach an agreement in form and substance 
satisfactory to the Association. 
Page  10
9
2. 
The Recipient shall exercise its rights under the Subsidiary Agreement in such 
manner as to protect the interests of the Recipient and the Association and to 
accomplish the purposes of the Financing.  Except as the Association shall 
otherwise agree, the Recipient shall not assign, amend, abrogate
 
or waive the 
Subsidiary Agreement or any of its provisions.
 
C. Manual
 
Except as the Association shall otherwise agree, the Recipient shall: (i) carry out 
the Project in accordance with the Project Implementation Procedures Manual; 
and (ii) except as the Association shall otherwise agree, not amend, abrogate, or 
waive, or permit to be amended, abrogated, or waived, the aforementioned, or 
any provision thereof, in a manner which, in the opinion of the Association, may 
materially or adversely affect Project implementation or achievement of the 
objective thereof. 
 
D. Anti-Corruption 
 
The Recipient shall ensure that the Project is carried out in accordance with the 
provisions of the Anti-Corruption Guidelines. 
E. Safeguards 
 
The Recipient shall ensure that the Project is implemented in accordance with the 
provisions of the Environmental and Social Management Framework Plan, and, 
except as the Association shall otherwise agree, the Recipient shall not amend, 
abrogate, or waive, or permit to be amended, abrogated, or waived, any provision 
of the aforementioned if such amendment or waiver may, in the opinion of the 
Association, materially or adversely affect Project implementation or 
achievement of the objective thereof. 
Section II. 
Project Monitoring, Reporting and Evaluation 
A. Project 
Reports 
1. 
(a) 
The Recipient shall monitor and evaluate the progress of the Project and 
prepare Project Reports in accordance with the provisions of 
Section 4.08 of the General Conditions and on the basis of the indicators 
set forth below in sub-paragraph (b) of this paragraph.  Each Project 
Report shall cover the period of one (1) calendar quarter, and shall be 
furnished to the Association not later than 45 days after the end of the 
period covered by such report.
 
(b) 
The performance indicators referred to above in sub-paragraph (a) 
consist of the following:
 
Page  11
10
Indicator 
December 31, 2005 
End of 2008-09 
School Year 
Project Objective: 
 
(1) Completion rate in first 
cycle of basic education 
(Percentage) 
43.2 56.4 
(2) Proportion of students in 
second, fourth and sixth 
years of first cycle of 
basic education, relative 
to such students 
classified by gender, 
Academy of Education, 
urban area, and rural 
area, having acquired 
basic competency in 
reading and mathematics
(Percentage) 
n/a
 
60
Part 1 of Project: 
 
(1) Proportion of repeaters 
(Percentage): 
(a) First cycle of primary 
education 
(b) Second cycle of primary 
education 
 
18.6 
23.9 
 
13.7 
18.8 
(2) Number of classrooms 
in first cycle of basic 
education having 
satisfactory reading area 
0
9,600
Page  12
11
 
Indicator 
December 31, 2005 
End of 2008-09 
School Year 
Part 2 of Project: 
 
(1) Gross intake in first 
cycle of basic education 
(Percentage) 
66.6 80 
(2) Proportion of girls 
relative to total 
enrolment in first cycle 
of basic education 
(Percentage) 
43.8 46.2 
(3) Proportion of girls 
relative to total 
enrolment in second 
cycle of basic education 
(Percentage) 
40 44 
(4) Number of students with 
access to secondary 
education following 
construction of three (3) 
secondary schools under 
Part 2 (b) of Project 
0
1,800
B. 
Financial Management, Financial Reports and Audits
 
1. 
The Recipient shall maintain or cause to be maintained a financial management 
system in accordance with the provisions of Section 4.09 of the General 
Conditions. 
2. 
Without limitation on the provisions of Part A of this Section, the Recipient shall 
prepare and furnish to the Association, as part of the Project Report, interim un-
audited financial reports for the Project covering the quarter, in form and 
substance satisfactory to the Association.
 
Page  13
12
3. 
The Recipient shall have its Financial Statements audited in accordance with the 
provisions of Section 4.09 (b) of the General Conditions.  Each audit of the 
Financial Statements shall cover the period of one (1) fiscal year of the Recipient.  
The audited Financial Statements for each such period shall be furnished to the 
Association not later than six (6) months after the end of such period. 
Section III. 
Procurement
A. General
 
1. 
Goods, Non-Consulting Services, and Works.
 
All goods, non-consultant 
services, and works required for the Project and to be financed out of the 
proceeds of the Financing shall be procured in accordance with the requirements 
set forth or referred to in Section I of the Procurement Guidelines, and with the 
provisions of this Section. 
2.
 
Non-Consulting Services.
 
All non-consulting services required for the Project 
and to be financed out of the proceeds of the Financing shall be procured using 
bidding documents in form and substance satisfactory to the Association, and 
under contracts awarded on the basis of National Competitive Bidding.  Each 
contract for Non-Consulting Services estimated to cost the equivalent of $50,000 
or less may be awarded on the basis of Shopping. 
3. 
Consultants’ Services.
 
All consultants’ services required for the Project and to 
be financed out of the proceeds of the Financing shall be procured in accordance 
with the requirements set forth or referred to in Sections I and IV of the 
Consultant Guidelines, and with the provisions of this Section. 
4. Definitions.
 
The capitalized terms used below in this Section to describe 
particular procurement methods or methods of review by the Association of 
particular contracts, refer to the corresponding method described in the 
Procurement Guidelines, or Consultant Guidelines, as the case may be. 
B. 
Particular Methods of Procurement of Goods, Non-Consulting Services, and 
Works
 
1. 
International Competitive Bidding.  
Except as otherwise provided in 
paragraph 2 below, goods and works shall be procured under contracts awarded 
on the basis of International Competitive Bidding.
 
2. 
Other Methods of Procurement of Goods, Non-Consulting Services, and 
Works.  
The following table specifies the methods of procurement, other than 
International Competitive Bidding, which may be used for goods, non-consulting 
services, and works.  The Procurement Plan shall specify the circumstances 
under which such methods may be used: 
Page  14
13
Procurement Method
 
(a) National Competitive Bidding 
(b) Shopping 
(c) Direct Contracting 
(d) Procurement Agent 
C. 
Particular Methods of Procurement of Consultants’ Services 
 
1. 
Quality- and Cost-based Selection.
 
Except as otherwise provided in 
paragraph 
2
below, consultants’ services shall be procured under contracts 
awarded on the basis of Quality- and Cost-based Selection.
 
2. 
Other Methods of Procurement of Consultants’ Services
.
The following table 
specifies methods of procurement, other than Quality- and Cost-based Selection, 
which may be used for consultants’ services.  The Procurement Plan shall specify 
the circumstances under which such methods may be used. 
 
Procurement Method
 
(a) Selection Based on Consultants’ Qualifications 
(b) Least Cost Selection 
(c) Selection Based on a Fixed Budget 
(d) Single Source Selection 
(e) Selection of Individual Consultants 
(f) Use of Non-Governmental Organizations 
(g) Procurement Agent 
D. 
Review by the Association of Procurement Decisions 
 
Except as the Association shall otherwise determine by notice to the Recipient, 
the following contracts shall be subject to Prior Review by the Association: 
(a) each contract procured for goods or non-consulting services estimated to cost 
the equivalent of $200,000 or more; (b) the first three (3) contracts for goods, 
non-consulting services, or works procured on the basis of National Competitive 
Bidding or Shopping, respectively; (c) each contract for goods, non-consulting 
services, or works procured on the basis of Direct Contracting; (d) each contract 
for works estimated to cost the equivalent of $500,000 or more; (e) each contract 
for consultants’ services provided by a firm estimated to cost the equivalent 
of $100,000 or more; (f) each contract for consultants’ services provided by an 
individual consultant estimated to cost the equivalent of $50,000 or more; 
(g) each contract for consultants’ services (provided by a firm or an individual) 
procured on the basis of Single Source Selection.  All other contracts shall be 
subject to Post Review by the Association. 
 
Page  15
14
Section IV. 
Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the Financing
A. General 
1. 
The Recipient may withdraw the proceeds of the Financing in accordance with 
the provisions of Article II of the General Conditions, this Section, and such 
additional instructions as the Association shall specify by notice to the Recipient 
(including the “World Bank Disbursement Guidelines for Projects” 
dated May 2006, as revised from time to time by the Association and as made 
applicable to this Agreement pursuant to such instructions), to 
finance 100 percent of Eligible Expenditures. 
2. 
The following table specifies the categories of Eligible Expenditures that may be 
financed out of the proceeds of the Financing (“Category”), the allocations of the 
amounts of the Credit to each Category, and the percentage of expenditures to be 
financed for Eligible Expenditures in each Category:
 
Category 
Amount of the 
Credit Allocated 
(Expressed in SDR) 
Percentage of 
Expenditures to be 
Financed 
(Exclusive of Taxes) 
(1) Improving 
Quality of First 
Cycle of Basic 
Education 
(Part 1 of Project) 
2,400,000 100 
(2) Increasing Access 
to Education 
(Part 2 of Project) 
(a) Ministry at the 
time responsible 
for education 
(b) National 
Investment 
Agency of 
Territorial 
Authorities 
 
2,290,000 
 
4,450,000 
100 
Page  16
15
 
Category 
Amount of the 
Credit Allocated 
(Expressed in SDR) 
Percentage of 
Expenditures to be 
Financed 
(Exclusive of Taxes) 
(3) Strengthening of 
Institutional 
Management 
Capacities in 
Sector, and 
Program 
Coordination 
(Part 3 of Project) 
460,000 100 
(4) Unallocated 
400,000 
 
TOTAL AMOUNT 
10,000,000  
B. 
Withdrawal Conditions; Withdrawal Period 
 
1. 
Notwithstanding the provisions of Part A of this Section, no withdrawal shall be 
made for payments: 
(a) 
made prior to the date of this Agreement, except that withdrawals for 
Eligible Expenditures up to an aggregate amount not to exceed $150,000 
equivalent under Category (2) (a) may be made for payments made prior 
to this date but on or after April 15, 2007; and 
(b) 
under Category 2 (b), unless an agreement, in form and substance 
satisfactory to the Association, has been signed between the Recipient 
and the National Investment Agency of Territorial Authorities for the 
purpose of implementation of Part 2 (a) of the Project by the latter, as set 
out in Section I.B.1 of this Schedule. 
2. 
The Closing Date is December 31, 2010. 
Section V. 
Other Undertakings
A.
 
Annual Work Plans and Budgets
 
The Recipient shall furnish to the Association as soon as available, but in any 
case no later than September 1 of each year, an annual work plan and budget for 
the Project for the following year, in form and substance satisfactory to the 
Association and of such scope and detail as the Association shall have reasonably 
Page  17
16
requested, except for the annual work plan and budget due no later than 
September 1, 2007, which shall be furnished no later than October 1, 2007 or 
thirty (30) days after the Effective Date, whichever is sooner. 
 
B. Midterm 
Review
 
The Recipient shall: 
 
1. 
(a) 
carry out jointly with the Association, no later than twelve (12) months 
after the Effective Date, a midterm review to assess the status of Project 
implementation, as measured against the performance indicators referred 
to in Section II.A.1 (b) of this Schedule.  Such review shall include an 
assessment of the following: (i) overall progress in Project 
implementation; (ii) implementation of annual work plans and budgets; 
(iii) progress on procurement and disbursement; and (iv) results of 
monitoring and evaluation activities; and 
(b) 
make adjustments to the Project and reallocate funds to improve 
performance, if needed. 
2. 
Prepare and furnish to the Association, three (3) months before such review, a 
report, in form and substance and scope and detail satisfactory to the Association, 
needed to undertake the review, integrating the results of the monitoring and 
evaluation activities performed pursuant to paragraph 1 (a) of this Section on the 
progress achieved in the carrying out of the Project during the period preceding 
the date of said report and setting out the measures recommended to ensure the 
efficient carrying out of the Project and the achievement of the objective thereof 
during the period following such date; and 
3. 
Review, jointly with the Association, the report referred to in paragraph 2 of this 
Section, and thereafter take all measures required to ensure the efficient 
completion of the Project and the achievement of the objective thereof, based on 
the conclusions and recommendations of said report and the Association
’s views 
on the matter. 
C. Other 
1. 
The Ministry of the Recipient at the time responsible for education shall, no later 
than October 31 of each year of Project implementation, submit to the 
Association and to other development partners an annual action plan, in form and 
substance satisfactory to the Association, for the subsequent calendar year, 
setting out the activities to be carried out during the year and the cost of such 
activities. 
Page  18
17
2. 
The Ministry of the Recipient at the time responsible for education shall, no later 
than October 31 of each year of Project implementation, submit to the 
Association for approval an annual action plan, in form and substance 
satisfactory to the Association, in respect of training of personnel of said 
Ministry and teachers in the subsequent calendar year. 
3. 
The Recipient shall transmit to the Association, no later than May 31 of each 
year of Project implementation, the results, in form and substance satisfactory to 
the Association, of the annual audits of school construction and textbook 
management carried out in the territory of the Recipient during the preceding 
12 months. 
4. 
The Recipient shall transmit to the Association, no later than August 31, 2007 
and 2009, the results, in form and substance satisfactory to the Association, of the 
Learning Assessments carried out in the territory of the Recipient during the 
preceding two (2) years. 
Page  19
18
SCHEDULE 3
 
Repayment Schedule 
Date Payment Due 
Principal Amount 
of the Credit repayable 
(Expressed as a 
percentage)* 
On each March 1 and September 1: 
 
Commencing September 1, 2017 to and including 
March 1, 2027 
 
1
%
Commencing September 1, 2027 to and including 
March 1, 2047 
 
2
%
*The percentages represent the percentage of the principal amount of the Credit to be 
repaid, except as the Association may otherwise specify pursuant to Section 3.03 (b) of 
the General Conditions.
 
Page  20
19
APPENDIX
 
Section I. 
Definitions
1. 
“Anti-Corruption Guidelines” means the “Guidelines on Preventing and 
Combating Fraud and Corruption in Projects Financed by IBRD Loans and IDA 
Credits and Grants”, dated October 15, 2006. 
2. 
“Category” means a category set forth in the table in Section IV of Schedule 2 to 
this Agreement. 
 
3. 
“Consultant Guidelines” means the “Guidelines: Selection and Employment of 
Consultants by World Bank Borrowers” published by the Bank in May 2004 and 
revised in October 2006. 
4. 
“General Conditions” means the “International Development Association 
General Conditions for Credits and Grants”, dated July 1, 2005 (as amended 
through October 15, 2006). 
5. 
“National Directorate of Basic Education” means the Recipient’s entity, under 
the supervisory authority of the ministry at the time responsible for education, 
responsible for basic education. 
6. 
“Operating Costs” means the incremental expenses incurred by the Recipient  
on account of Project implementation, management, and monitoring, including 
for office space rental, utilities, and supplies, bank charges, communications, 
vehicle operation, maintenance, and insurance, building and equipment 
maintenance, advertising expenses, travel and supervision, salaries of contractual 
and temporary staff, but excluding salaries, fees, honoraria, and bonuses  
of members of the Recipient’s civil service. 
7. 
“Original Financing” means the amount in various currencies equivalent to 
twenty four million Special Drawing Rights (SDR 24,000,000) made available by 
the Association to the Recipient, on the terms and conditions set forth in the 
Original Financing Agreement (as hereinafter defined). 
8. 
“Original Financing Agreement” means the financing agreement for an 
Education Sector Expenditure Program (Phase II) between the Recipient and the 
Association, dated September 1, 2006, as amended to the date of this 
Agreement (Credit No. 4222-MLI). 
9. 
“Original Project” means the Project described in the Original Financing 
Agreement. 
Page  21
20
10. 
“Procurement Guidelines” means the “Guidelines: Procurement under IBRD 
Loans and IDA Credits” published by the Bank in May 2004 and revised in 
October 2006. 
11. 
“Procurement Plan” means the Recipient’s procurement plan for the Project, 
dated April 12, 2007 and referred to in paragraph 1.16 of the Procurement 
Guidelines and paragraph 1.24 of the Consultant Guidelines, as the same shall be 
updated from time to time in accordance with the provisions of said paragraphs.  
12. 
“School Infrastructure and Facilities Division” means the Recipient’s entity, 
under the supervisory authority of the ministry at the time responsible for 
education, responsible for school infrastructure and facilities. 
Section II. 
Amendment to Original Financing Agreement
The Original Financing Agreement is amended to read as follows: 
1. 
The name of the project is amended to read as follows: 
 
Second Education Sector Investment Program 
2. 
Section II.A.1 (b) (i) (B) of Schedule 2 is amended to read as follows: 
(B) 
60 percent of all students in the second, fourth, and sixth years of the first 
cycle of basic education, calculated as a proportion of such students 
classified by gender, Academy of Education, urban area and rural area, 
have acquired basic competency in reading and mathematics. 
3. 
Section IV.B of Schedule 2 is amended to read as follows: 
The Closing Date is December 31, 2010.
 
