                                                                                                97322
Mali: Second Education Sector Investment Program                                  September 17, 2010




 IMPROVING ACCESS AND PROMOTING EQUITY

 Helping Malian Children Complete a Quality Basic
 Education inan Overall Improved Education Sector




Overview
The Second Education Sector Investment Program in Mali is helping to increase access and
quality of basic education. Data from 2008/09 shows steady progress. For instance, the gross
enrollment rate in primary education has reached 82 percent from 60 percent in 2000. Primary
education achievement is also improving from 54 percent in 2006 to 55.7 percent in 2008.
However, the gender enrollment gap in primary education is still significant with a difference of
18 percentage points between boys and girls. The repetition rate has been reduced to 13.4
percent from 19 percent in 2004. The student per teacher ratio is down to 64 from 65 in 2004.


Challenge
The absence of a skilled labor force in Mali is a major
                                                                    More Results
constraint for attracting foreign investment and business
formation. The 1996 decentralization law led to the creation

                                                                    1,800
of 703 municipalities, 49 circles, 8 regions and the District of
Bamako. In 2002, the Government adopted the Institutional
Development Program, and later developed an operational
plan for 2006-2009, which aims to improve resources                 additional teachers trained
management. Nevertheless, decentralization is not yet a
reality. In the education sector, the first evaluation of the new


                                                                    2
decentralized management system has recently been
published, stressing the need to improve the effectiveness of
resources transfer, the empowerment of local and regional

                                                                    million
bodies (Academie d’enseignements (AE), Centre d’Animation
Pedagogiques (CAP), Comites de gestion Scolaires (CGS),
etc.) and the capacity of structures in charge of implementing
decentralization, such as the Agence Nationale                      textbooks have been distributed
                                                                    and reading areas established in
d’Investissement des Collectivites Territoriales (ANICT) or the     3,500 classrooms
Cellule d’Appui a la Deconcentration et la Decentralisation
de l’Education (CADDE).


The quality of education in Mali remains a major concern, as
students’ learning achievement scores in reading and
                                                                    82%
mathematics are among the lowest in francophone African             gross enrollment rate for
                                                                    primary education
countries (along with Niger and Chad). The 2005 Learning
Achievement Assessment (PASEC) shows that only 55.2
percent of grade two students in Mali achieved the average
score in mathematics, and only 48 percent in reading                MORE INFORMATION

                                                                     Mali Second Education Sector
Approach                                                             Investment Program
The International Development Association (IDA) has an
ongoing investment lending operation to support
implementation of reforms in the Education Sector (closing in
December 2010). The project objectives aim at increasing both access and quality of basic
education while focusing on sub-sector management through strengthening decentralization.
Increasing access is conducted through the national agency of territorial collectivity investment
(ANICT) which ensures transfer of investment funds to decentralized entities and oversight of
school construction management and control, while the central ministry and its deconcentrated
entities manage school mapping and its day-to-day management. Quality improvement of basic
education, including secondary education is addressed through teachers training (both pre and
in-service), textbooks and learning material acquisition and distribution with implementation of
reading areas inside classrooms, and direct transfers to school to acquire materials locally.
These funds are managed locally by the school headmaster and the locally elected community
body (COGES) to support school functioning and social accountability.

Results

The ongoing program is progressing well towards its development objective of education for all
by 2020. Access to primary education has reached 82 percent (gross enrollment rate). Overall
learning achievement is also improving from 54 percent to 55.7 percent (close to the target of
56.4 percent). However, despite the progress made in girls schooling (gross enrollment rate of
73 percent exceeds the target 68 percent), the gender gap is still significant with a difference
of 18 percentage points between boys and girls. Repetition rate has been reduced to 13.4
percent (below the target of 13.7 percent). An issue that remains to be resolved is related to
the high ratio of 64 students per teacher (much higher than the target 50) and the low quality
in learning achievement as shown by students’ scores in Math and Reading (only 55.2 percent
of grade two students in Mali achieved the average score in mathematics, and only 48 percent
in reading).
The project activities have supported these results through the construction of more than 1,200
classrooms, out of 4,500 in the initial program in primary education, and 130 classrooms in
secondary education. It has contributed to the construction of two teachers training institutes,
which allowed for the training of more than 1,800 additional teachers, and the in-service
training of more than 4,000 teachers. More than 2,000,000 textbooks have been distributed and
reading areas established in 3,500 classrooms across the country. In addition, the project has
reached 1,400,000 students in primary school through direct transfers of funds to decentralized
entities.


Bank Contribution
IDA is supporting policy dialogue and donors coordination in the sector through its operations
and sector work to improve knowledge for policy decision. The Second Education Sector
Investment Project (PISE-II) is financed via the original IDA allocation (US$35 million approved
in 2006), the supplemental IDA allocation (US$15 million approved in June 2007) and an
Education for All - Fast Track Initiative (EFA-FTI) grant in the amount (US$8.7 million approved
in December 2007). With a current disbursement rate of 76 percent, the project objectives aim
at increasing both access and quality of basic education. Concurrently, IDA supported in fiscal
year 2009, the update of the Country Status Report (CSR) as part of the preparation of PISE
III and fully financed by the Education Program Development Fund (EPDF Trust Fund). The
CSR intends to strengthen the knowledge base for the formulation of national educational
policies and the third phase of Programme Décenal de Developpement de l’ëducation
(PRODEC) -the Programme d’Investissement du Secteur de l’ëducation (PISE III). Finally, Mali
is one of eight countries selected in 2008 to receive analytical support from the Africa Early
Childhood Care and Development (ECCD) Initiative, whose primary objective is to ensure that
early childhood development is included as a strong component in PISE III.
Partners
Donor coordination is very strong in Mali. Monthly meetings of the donors coordination steering
committee (Cadre partenarial) occur and usually gather up to 15 donors. Donors are involved in
both budget support and a project approach and the donors are also contributing through
technical working groups on specific topics (such as youth training, fiscal and financial
management, girls enrollment).


Currently, the government, in close coordination with the Local Donor Group (), has prepared
the third phase (PISE III) of the PRODEC for 2010-2012. IDA has assisted the government
with the updating of the CSR and will contribute to the new program through support to higher
education and youth development. In addition, donors and the government have requested that
the Bank be the supervising entity for the next FTI request planned for March 2011. Therefore,
a new operation will be designed this fiscal year using a development policy lending (DPL)
instrument as agreed by the government and donors.

Moving Forward

Moving forward, the emphasis is on full achievement of the project’s objectives. In addition, to
address the need of a skilled labor force for the modern economy and to attract more foreign
investment, IDA is developing a higher education and skills development project. This project
will be aimed at improving the labor force and laying the foundation for a diversified higher
education and technical and vocational education and training (TVET) landscape. In addition, a
youth and development operation will be designed to respond to the need of the mostly young
population and support increased participation in the economy.

Beneficiaries

“This support did a lot last year to help our teachers by enabling us to buy metric geometry
materials” said Abdoul Aziz Sissako, President of a School Management Committee in Segou.
In fact, it was due to this support that some schools had good attendance when schools
reopened for the year. The grants ranged from 50,000 CFAF for schools with less than 100
students, 75,000 CFAF for schools with 100-300 students, and 100,000 Fcfa for schools with
more than 300 students.


According to Mamadou C. Diarra, Director of the Railways School in Markala, the small grants
system has proven to be very useful as it allows schools to purchase essential supplies such
as chalk, rulers, calculators and notebooks. “These grants provide the only funds available in
certain schools and ensure some children receive basic supplies without which they would not
attend school,” he said.


Another School Management Committee President, Mr. Dramane Diafaga, from Niono, added
that the grants supplement what parents are able to contribute towards basic school supplies.
This was confirmed by Babri Gallédou, Director of the Teaching Support Center in Fana, 100
km from Bamako. “These funds,” he said, “helped us begin the school year with fewer
problems, especially as they are provided at the beginning of the year.”
