Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFMICUL USi ONLY
Z W/, ;7w- >5CflA
Repot No. P-4084-
.1.
REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION
OF THE
PRESIDENT OF THE
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
AND THE INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
TO THE
EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS
ON A
PROPOSED LOAN
IN AN AMOUNT EQUIVALENT TO USSi7 MILLION
AND A
PROPOSED CREDIT
OF SDR 75.7 MILLION
TO THE
PEOPLE'S REPUBLIC OF CHINA
FOR A
PISHIHANG-CHAOHU AREA DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Xay 17, 1985
TIi docwment h a resnucftd istubuid. ad may be used by recipients ony in the perfonmnce of
-kr offiCidl dEila Its lob ms  ma    eoerwise be diacesed without World Bank authorizntion.



CURRENCY EQUIV.ALENTS
Calendar 1984                   April 1985
Currency Unit =  Renminbi              (RMB)
US$1.00       =  Y 2.32                Y 2.84
Y 1.00        =  $0.43                 $0.35
(Project cost estimates are based on the Januarv
exchange rate of Y 2.8 per USS1.00)                                      -w
FISCAL YEAR
January 1 to December 31
WEIGHTS AND MEASURES
1 meter (m)         =       3.23 feet (ft)
1 kilometer (km)   =        0.62 miles
1 hectare (ha)      =       2.47 acres
I ton              =        1,000 kg
=       2,205 pounds
1 kilogram (kg)    =        2.2 pounds
1 hectere (ha)      =       15 mfu
PRINCIPAL ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
aAuAFB       -   Anhui Agriculture, Animal Husbandry and
Fisheries Bureau
ABC          -   Agricultural Bank of China
AWRB         -   Anhui Water Resources Bureau
CNTIC        -   China National Technical Import Corporation
GA           -   General Administration
ITC          -   International Tendering Company (of CNTIC)
ICB          -   InternationaL Compecitive Bidding
kV           -   kilovolt
kW           -   kilowatt
LCB          -   Local Competitive 3idding
MCA          -   Main Canal Area
MWREP        -   Ministry of Water Resources and Electric Power
M m3         -   million cubic meter
MW           -   megawatt
m3/sec       -   cubic meter per second
PCB          -   People's Construction Bank
PMO          -   Project Management Office
ppm          -   parts per million
PU           -   Project Unit
SOE          -   statement of expenditure
SPC          -   State Planning Council
sq km        -   square kilometer
SC           -   Steering-Committee
WRB          -   Water Resources Bureau
WSO          -   Work Supcrvision Office



FOR OMCIAL USE ONLY
CHINA
PISHIHANG-CHAOHU AREA DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Loan/Credit and Project Summary
Borrower:       The People's Republic of China
Amount:         US$17 million equivalent IBRD and SDR 75.7 (US$75 million
equivalent) IDA.
Terms:          Loan:   20 years, including 5 years of grace, at standard
variable interest rate.
Credit: Standard
Project
Description:  The main objective of the project is to increase production of
crops and other agricultural products in Central Anhui
Province by developing water resources, reducing flood damage,
developing rural infrastructure and agricultural support
services, and improving Anhui's overall capability to plan and
_ - manage irrigation and flood control schemes. The project
would rehabilitate and complete existing irrigation facili7bies
on 320,000 ha in the Pishihang area.  It would provide flood
protection to 170,000 ha, more reliable irrigation to 220,000
ha and improved drainage to 23,000 ha in an area surrounding
Lake Chao. The project would also upgrade other rural
infrastructure, strengthen support services, and provide
agricultural credit to encourage diversification into
livestock, fisheries and forestry. This would be the first
Bank Croup project in China involving surface irrigation and
would establish a new relationship with a major government
agency, the Ministry of Water Resources and Electric Power.
Main features include construction of control structures,
bridges, drainage culverts, etc., and excavation to increase
canal capacity in the Pishihang area, excavation of flood
channels, construction of control gates and pumping stations
in the Chaohu area; improvement of rural roads and power
facilities; provision of chemical fertilizers; construction of
buildings and provision of laboratory equipment and vehicles
to extension, research and training facilities. Technical
assistance and training would be provided to improve
management of the irrigation and flood control schemes. At
full development, the project would add over one million tons
annually to grain production, and additional amounts to
production of oilseeds, fiber crops, livestock and fisheries
products. The project faces no significant technical or
administrative risks.
Thidocument hs a restriced distibution and may be used by reipients only in the peformance
of theirofficia dutie Its contents may not otherwise be discosed without World Bank authorization.



- LI -
Estimated Cost:                                       Local /a   Foreign    Total
7-UiSS million)
Earthworks, on-farm works, and land
acquisition                                    84.0           -       84.0
Structures                                        19.5         31.8       51.3
Pumps and equipment                                 -           6.9        6.9
Chemical fertilizer                                 -          10.7       10.7
Roads and electrification                          5.1          5.1       10.2
Afforestation                                      5.4          0.1        5.5
Seeds, extension, and research                    13.6          5.6       19.2
Rural credit                                       4.9          2.0        6.9
Training and technical assistance                  5.1          1.9        7.0
Base Cost                                   137.6        64.1      201.7
Physical contingencies                            15.5          4.8       20.3
Price contingencies                               28.6         12.9      41.5
Total Project Cost /a                       181.7        81.8      263.5
Local      Foreign    Total
(US$ million)
Financing RLan:
IDA/IBRD                                          35.6         56.4      92.0
Central government                                15.4          3.7       19.1
Local government                                  51.7         21.7       73.4
Agricultural Bank of China                         2.9          0.0        2.9
Participating farms                               76.1          0.0       76.1
Total                                       181.7        81.8      263.5
Estimated Disbursement:
Bank/IDA FY          1986   1987   1988   1989   1990   1991
S million 
Annual                              22.3   29.9   19.7    9.8    7.9    2.4
Cumulative                          22.3   52.2   71.9   81.7   89.6   92.0
Rate of Return:  36%
Staff Appraisal Report:  No. 5538-CHA, dated May 15, 1985
/a   The project is exempt from taxes and duties.



REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION OF THE
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
AND THE INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
TO THE EXECUTIVE DIRECTORY
ON A PROPOSED LOAN AND CREDIT
TO THE PEOPLE'S REPUBLIC OF CHINA
FOR A PISHIHANG-CHAOEU AREA DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
1.        I submit the following report and recommendation on a proposed loan
and credit to the People's Republic of China to help finance a project for
Pishihang-Chaohu Area Development. The loan for US$17 million would have a
term of 20 years, including 5 years of grace, with standard variabLe interest
rate. The credit, for an amount of SDR 75.7 million (US$75 million equiva-
lent) would be on standard IDA terms.
PART I - THE ECONOMY
2.        A country economic memorandum, entitled "China:  Recent Economic
Trends and Policy Developments" (No. 4072-CHA), was distributed to the
Executive Directors on March 31, 1983. An economic mission that visited China
early in 1984 is preparing a report on long-term development issues and
options, which is expected to be submitted to the Executive Directors later
this month. Basic data on the economy are given in Annex I.
Background
3.        To address economic inefficiency and structural imbalances, the
Government initiated a program of reform and adjustment in 1979. Reform
implementation proceeded most rapidly in agriculture and culminated with the
introduction of the "production responsibility system" (in various forms),
which gave households and smaLl groups autonomy in production and investment
decisions and allowed them to keep most income earned after contracted pay-
ments to the state and collective. By the early 1980s, the vast majority of
production teams in China had implemented such a system. Reform of the urban
economy began much more slowly, but nevertheless significant systemic changes
occLrred, including bonuses for individual workers; profit retention by state-
owned industrial enterprises (at first on an experimental basis); fiscal
decentralization measures, which allowed provinces to share in the benefits of
increased revenues and gave them more freedom in budgeting; and some decen-
tralization of foreign trade authority. Adjustment policies resulted in an
increase in the share of consumption in GDP; a rise in the share of light
industry in total industrial output, substantial improvements in living stand-
ards, rapid growth of foreign trade (particularly manufactured exports), and
relatively modest (in relation to past trends) GDP growth.
4.        A number of problems emerged in the process of reform and adjust-
ment, including Large budget deficits in 1979 and 1980, deterioration of the
external position and a significant current account deficit in 1980, infla-
tionary pressures and some overt price increases, and excessive investment



demand resulting from decentralization of investment decision making and
financing. In response to these difficulties the Government imposed a stabil-
ization program in early 1981, which relied mainly on administrative con-
trols. It resulted in a slowdown in growth, a reduction in price inflation
(to around 2X p.a.), a sharp cutback in budget-financed investment, a lower
budget deficit (1Z of GDP in 1981); and a current account surplus of $1.5 bil-
lion in 1981 and $5.6 billion in 1982.
Economic Performance, 1981-84
5.        Economic growth picked up in 1982 with the resumption of rapid
growth of heavy industry and the rebound in investment. Overall performance
has remained strong, with real GDP growth averaging over 8% p.a. from 1981 to
1984. Shortages of energy, many producer goods, and construction materials
were exacerbated by the rapid growth of demand, yet price increases were
limited by further strengthening of administrative price controls (particu-
larly in 1983). Government budget revenue grew very slowly in 1982 (1.3%) but
much more rapidly in 1983 (7.9%) and 1984 (as much as 10%), due to a new tax
on enterprise retained funds and extrabudgetary incomes of Government organi-
zations. This permitted an increase in budget expenditures on investment of
17% in 1983 and a further rise in 1984, while maintaining a relatively small
budget deEicit (less than 2% of GDP in 1983). Growth of subsidies was largely
stemmed by stopping increases in most of the agricultural pr-curement prices.
6.        Gross industrial output value grew at over 10% p.a. between 1981 and
1984, with heavy industry growing somewhat faster than light industr (12% vs.
9Z), a reversaL of the 1978-81 pattern. The energy constraint on industrial
growth was eased by rising coal output (8Z p.a. in 1981-84), consistent annual
crude oil output at over 100 million tons, and improvements in the efficiency
of energy utilization (primary commercial energy consumption grew only 60X as
fast as GDP in 1981-83). Agriculture has continued its very scrong perfor-
mance, with gross agricuLtural output value rising at 9% p.a. in 1981-84 and
grain output at 7% p.a. (reaching over 400 million tons in 1984). Cash crops
and animal husbandry, stimulated by rising demand and attractive prices, have
aLso grown very rapidly.
7.        There have been impressive increases in personal incomes throughout
the period 1978-83. Average per-capita income in rural areas rose by about
12% p.a. in real terms and urban incomes by about 5% p.a. Rural income growth
was mainly due to production increases, efficiency improvements, and growth of
employment in nonagricultural activities, as well as substantial agricultural
procurement price increases (through 1981). Urban income growth, on the other
hand, can be attributed primarily to wage and benefit inc-eases, which have
exceeded growth of labor productivity.
8.        Control of the aggregate level of investment and its composition has
continued to be a serious problem. Enterprise and local government investment
continued to increase sharply in 1982, far exceeding plan guidelines. In
1983, more stringent measures brought this part of investment under control
(though it stiLl exceeded plan targets). But investment-outside the rural
sector remains rather inefficient, and improvements in efficiency have been
hindered by administrative controls. Construction costs have risen continu-
ously (10% p.a. in 1978-83).



-3
9.        China has maintained a strong external position.  The dollar value
of both exports and imports stagnated in 1981-83, but this masked considerabLe
increases in the volume of foreign trade.  Since 1983, imports have grown more
rapidly than exports, and in 1984, exports rose by an estimated 1OZ while
imports increased by 25%. Manufactured export growth was slower in 1981-84
than ja 1978-81, but it started from a much higher base and occurred in the
face of worsening world market conditions. Foreign debt and debt service
ratios remained at very low levels ($6.4 billion and 5.5% respectively in
1983); China's foreign currency reserves (excluding gold) rose to $17 billion
(over 7 months' imports) by mid 1984 and have stabilized at that level since
then. The value of the Chinese renminbi declined by about 36% against the SDR
between the end of 1981 and late 1984 (60% against the US dollar).
Recent Reforms
10.       Rural reforms have continued to progress more rapidly than reforms
elsewhere in the economy. There has been a remarkable spread of nonagri-
cultural activities like processing, transport, and commerce. "Specialized
households" (which concentrate on one undertaking - often cash crops, animal
husbandry, or nonagricultural activities) and pooling of capital by small
groups of households in various types of ventures are becoming increasingly
common forms of economic organizacion in China's rural areas. Wholesale
markets for some agricultural products have emerged. To encourage investment
in land improvement and development, farming contracts between collectives and
peasant households (which typically had been fixed for no more than 3-5 years)
can now be extended to as long as 15-20 -ears.  In early 1985, it was
announced that planned procurement quotas for agriculturaL commodities will be
abolished; more methods of financing investment in rural nonagricultural
activities will be permitted (including tax exemptions, local government
bonds, higher interest rates to attract more saving, etc.); and the growth of
the agricultural processing industry in coastal areas will be promoted.
11.       The momentum of urban reforms has revived, with significant progress
on several fronts. Since early 1984, the focus has been on broadening and
delineating the decision-making authority of urban enterprises. Profit reten-
tion now extends to virtually all state-owned industrial enterprises and to
nonindustrial sectors like transport, commerce, construction, and other ser-
vices. Urban collectives and individual enterprises, as well as a variety of
joint ventures between them and state enterprises, have grown rapidly (the
number employed in urban individual enterprises rose from 150,000 in 1978 to
2.31 million in 1983).
12.       In financial reforms, the most important new development was the
implementation of a profit tax system to replace profit remittances by state
enterprises to the Government budget. Though most enterprises have switched
to this system, the benefits have been limited because of the application of a
different effective tax rate for each enterprise, to offset the impact of
distorted reLative prices and other factors. Similar problems have resulted
in the abandonment of an attempt to impose a fee or charge on the fixed capi-
tal provided to state enterprises by the Go-ernment, and they have hindered
the shift from grant to loan financing of new fixed investment, despite strong
Government support. Financial discipline at the enterprise level remains



-4-
weak, in spite of efforts to strengthen accounting and auditing systems and
more strictly enforce existing fin ancial regulations.
13.       In the crucial area of price reform, a major price adjustment for
cextiles and textile raw materials occurred in early 1983; it helped balance
supply and demand, to a large extent equalized profit rates for synthetic and
cotton textiles (which are close substitutes in production and consumption),
and drastically reduced subsidies for cotton procurement, with only a small
net effect on the Government budget. Prices of many "minor" consumer goods
(which individually do not have a significant impact on living standards) and
the majority of agricuLtural commodity prices have been decontrolled and are
now set by negotiations between producers and commercial units. "Floating
prices" (up to 20Z above or below official prices) are now allowed for many
industrial producer goods (either for all output or for output above the
mandatory plan target). Price adjustments for key energy products and raw
materials (which in many cases are severely underpriced) and for subsidized
basic consumer goods like grain and edible oil have proven more difficult to
impLement, hindered by the potential impact of price changes on urban living
standards and on the finances of energy-using enterprises. Nevertheless, some
price rises have occurred (e.g. for coal and petroleum), and moreover the
share of free market transactions (at largely uncontrolled prices) has
increased in recent years.
14.       Reforms in the employment and wage system have made limited pro-
gress. The bulk of urban labor is still allocated administratively, and
transfers of workers or professionals Among enterprises are heavily impeded.
Numerous attempts are being made to link individual performance more closely
with rewards, including piece-rates, "floating wages," and various types of
contractual "responsibility systems." These have achieved some success, but
problems of egalitarian distribution of bonuses remain, and many enterprises
give out bonuses in kind or disguise them as allowances in order to evade
regulations.
15.       China's foreign exchange rate system has been unified with the
abolition of the "internal settLement rate" (Y 2.8 to S1) at the beginning of
1985. Direct foreign investment (which was first allowed in the late 1970s
but developed slowly due to the lack of a legal framework) is being actively
encouraged and joint venture agreements have increased sharply. In adaition
to four "special economic zones" open to foreign investment and subject to
more flexible policies, 14 coastal cities were recently opened up in the same
way.
16.       Significant steps have been taken to develop new tools of indirect
macroeconomic management. The central banking functions of the People's Bank
of China were separated from its commercial banking functions (which were
given to the newly established Industrial and Commercial Bank of China) at the
beginning of 1984. The central bank relies on redeposit requirements and a
discount window to influence the operations of specialized banks, and even-
tually may use discount rates and interest rates in general as a flexible tool
of macroeconomic management. Adjustments in indirect taxes may be used to
affect profitability and supply, in the absence of or as a supplement to price
reform. Scope for horizontal flows of investment funds is also widening, as



-5-
enterprises invest in each other and in joint ventures and as some individuals
purchase stocks. Thouigh restrictions on secondary trading remain, Government
bonds purchased by individuals can now be sold to banks or used as collateral
for loans.
Long-term Issues and Prospects
17.       The Central Committee of the Chinese Communist Party issued a major
document on urban reforms in October 1984. which reaffirms and consolidates
recent reforms and provides some general guideLines for the direction of
future reform. It emphasizes the need for breakthroughs in: (a) enlivening
and better motivating urban enterprises; (b) clearly separating Government and
enterprise functions (and limiting direct intervention by Government organi-
zations in enterprises' day-to-day operations); kc) reforming the price sys-
tem; (d) improving incentives in the wage and bonus system; (e) establishing a
planning system that is in harmony with greater reliance on the market mechan-
ism and developing indirect macrGeconomic management; (f) upgrading managerial
personnel to meet the new demands on them in a reformed economy; (g) removing
obstacles to a unified national market and promoting cooperation and tech-
noLogy transfer among regions; and (h) expanding utilization of foreign capi-
tal and advanced technology. Among the main themes of the document are the
roLe of competition in promoting a more dynamic, flexible economic system; the
recognition that a certain degree of income inequality is necessary to provide
better incentives for economic development; the need for clear responsibili-
ties and appropriate incentives at all levels in the economy; and the recog-
nition that thoroughgoingprice reform must invoLver liberalizing the -wode of
price determination, not just adjustments in administratively set prices.
Managers of large state-owned enterprises, however, will still be appointed by
Government organizations; a few key products will still be subject to manda-
tory planning and distribution by the Government; state ownership and control
over certain institutions like banks and railways will not be relinquished;
and establishment, relocation, changing product lines, mergers, and shutdown
of enterprises will still be saxbject to Government approval.
18.       The Central Committee declaration represents a political commitment
to economic reform, which will help foster an environment in which fundamental
reforms can be gradually implemented in a coordinated way. But specific
policy measures will take a considerable length-of time to design and then to
implement. Many of the reforms required will be very difficult, particularly
since reforms in different areas are closeLy interrelated, and thus appro-
priate sequencing and coordination are essential. For example, price reform
in the absence of improvements in enterprise financial discipline will have
limited benefits, yet the more profit-oriented behavior that would result from
tighter financial discipline would exacerbate the adverse impact of distorted
prices. Similarly, reform of the labor allocation system will be inconplete
without eliminating many of the "social responsibilities" of enterprises
(which now provide housing, medical care, and pensions for their workers and
in many cases education and jobs for workers' children) and replacing them
with Covernment-supported social service programs.
19.       China's objective of quadrupling the gross output value of industry
and agriculture between 1980 and 2000 (which means GDP growth of well over 6%



-6-
p.a.) wilL require significant improvements in efficiency aa well as continued
high saving and investment rates. There will be major structural changes in
the economy over the next two decades, including a reduction in the share of
agriculture, a rise in the share of industry and possibly in that of services
(which at present is unusually low), and substantial urbanization (in smaller
towns if not in large cities). There will also be a shift within agriculture,
away from grain and basic crops and into cast crops and animal husbandry.
20.       Certain physical/technical constraints will hinder the attempt to
achieve China's targets for the year 2000 and its longer-term goal of catching
up with developed countries. Despite rapid growth and substantial improve-
Nments in efficiency in recent years, agriculture may again become a constraint
on overall growth, since land in China is severely limited. In energy, short-
ages of fuel (primarily coal) and electricity may continue to constrain growth
in transport and commercial infrastructure. Without large new investments and
improved efficiency, economic growthi will lag. In mobilizing resources in all
these areas, China could profitably make use of foreign borrowing. Finally,
the rising share of the elderly in China's population (related to the slowdown
in population growth) means that more resources will have to be devoted to
maintaining their consumption levels, especially in the decades after 2000.
21.       Poor motivation and inefficient utilization of labor in the state
sector of the economy are major problems which can be solved only by coor-
dinated reforms in labor allocation, the wage system, enterprise management,
and social services, among other things. Reforms in the system of education
and training to develop China's "human capital" potential also are crucial.
Backward technology and inefficient use of existing technology must be
addressed by a combination of reforms, appropriately directed investment, and
transfer of advanced foreign technology. Irrational location of factories:
suboptimaL scale of many pLants, and poor utilization of physical capital in
general are reLaced problems.
22.       If reforms successfully transform the economic system, with a bene-
ficial impact on growth and efficiency, a new set of issues will come to the
fore. Management of a reformed economy with indirect fiscal, monetary, and
other instruments is a major issue. In this context, maintaining an adequate
saving rate (if the Covernment no longer accounts for the bulk of aggrp-,e
saving) and avoiding inflation (as well as deep cyclical downturns) wiLl be
major goals. Assuring an adequate minimum standard of living for the popula-
tion and an appropriate level of social services will become a major chalLenge
as enterprise and rural communal responsibilities in these areas are
reduced.  The problem of poor, backward rural areas in various parts of the
country will continue to require attention.  Redistributing financial resour-
ces through the fiscal system, easing restrictions on migration out of the
poorest areas, and lowering nonagricultural wages to make investment in them
more attractive are some options for alleviating poverty in these areas.
23.       The Government is in the process of finalizing its Seventh Five Year
Plan (covering the period 1986-90). The combination of potentially funda-
mental reforms and the urgent need for large investments in many parts of the
economy to build the foundation for further growth makes this task diffi-
cult. In order to mobilize the investment resources needed for rapid,



-7-
sustained economic growth and deveLepment, China will need to rely in part on
foreign borrowing. Recognizing this need, the Government plans to gradually
draw down its substantial foreign exchange reserves and hopes to attract
foreign crpital through a variety of channels. China also has a claim to
concessionary lending because it is still one of the poorer countries of the
world. But China's access to concessionary capital to finance development and
modernization is limited; apart from Bank Group funds, a significant amount of
concessionary capital is likely to come only from Japan and a few other bila-
teral donors and will probably average no more than $500-600 million p.a.
during the rest of the 1980s.
PART II - BANK GROUP OPERATIONS
24.       To sustain rapid growth over the coming decades, to increase effi-
ciency and innovation, and to maintain equity in distribution. China will need
continuing and fundamental reforms. These challenges are compounded by
China's large investment requirements and difficulty in efforts to open up to
the rest of the world. In light of this, there are several broad objectives
for the Bank to pursue in its relationship with China. First, the Bank can
offer China development experience and institutional knowledge as well as
opportunities for interaction with the Bank's other member countries. Second,
the Bank can assist China in removing major constraints on development and in
improving investment planning and policy coordination in the priority sec-
tors - namely energy-, transport, other infrastructure, human development and
industry.  Third, the Bank can assist the Government in efforts to remove the
remaining pockets of poverty.
25.       The Bank Group's strategy to meet these objectives is formulat-d in
line with China's broad development priorities and related issues outlined in
Part I of this report. However, Bank Group lending can provide only a small
portion of overall resource needs. As a key element of the strategy, there-
fore, the Bank's lending operations wilL aim to create a substantial demon-
stration effect applicable to China's overall development efforts. For
example, projects involving new techniques for land development or for provi-
sion of social services have been designed so they can be repeated by local
authorities with their existing resources. Some of the agriculture projects
and rural health projects are examples of this approach. The introduction of
international competitive bidding through Bank projects (first to finance
goods, and later civil works) is being adopted by the Government for most
local purchases and many domestic construction projects.
26.       Bank assistance can help improve the efficiency of investment,
through introduction and dissemination of improved analytical techniques for
investment and project planning and through institution building. Preparation
of the project appraisal manuals for the China Investment Bank and the Agri-
cultural Bank of China, consultant assistance and the EDI-sponsored programs,
as well as specific sector work in transport, industry, health, education and
other sectors have improved the quality and content of project proposals.
Assistance to Chinese enterprises and agencies through staff training, con-
sultant assistance, creation or reorganization of institutions, and improve-
ment of costing and financial management has been included in a number of



8
projects ranging frcm the ports and railway projects to the several education
and petroLeum projects. Sector work in enterprise management, urban develop-
ment, health and industry has also provided assistance for improvement of
investment efficiency.
27.       Human resource constraints are a particularly serious problem for
China's development. There are severe scarcities of higher level trained
manpower. Substantial economic and sector work and technical assistance and
training components in most of the Bank projects are providing support. In
terms of poverty alleviation, the rural health project, proposed urban and
water supply projects and sector work on labor mobility and regional develop-
ment options address poverty, health and equity issues.
28.       Transfer of technology in the broad sense is of fundamental impor-
tance in China's efforts to improve efficiency of the economy. Outmoded,
inefficient and costly industrial technologies are serious impediments to
developnent and are wasting valuable energy resources.  Here, the Bank can
play the role of an intermediary. In transportation, energy, industry, agri-
culture and even education, the Bank can finance transfer of technology
through equipment imports, provision of foreign consulting assistance,
arrangement of training and promotion of licensing and other agreements such
as are now being discussed in the railways and other projects. Long-term
investment for new technology will require increased foreign borrowing in the
future and the Bank can assist China through cofinancing. Progress is being
made in introducing co-financing under the first and second power projects,
coal, urban, water, and-,some agriculture projects, and the Bank will continue
these efforts.
29.       For most of these elements of country strategy, however, progress
will be gradual and will require sustained Banw involvement over a series of
projects in various sectors.
Economic and Sector Work
30.       Economic and sector work in China was initially designed in part as
a learning experience to provide the Bank with a basis of knowledge on the
development and functioning of the Chinese economy. It also introduced the
Covernment to alternative ways of economic analysis and views about its
achievements.
31.       In the last four years, the above approach has been well received
and has fostered economic and sector work that is responsive to the problems
of adjustment and reform. Follow-up to the first economic report emphasized
technical assistance and sector work for investment analysis and selection
techniques and enhanced sector planning.  The content of the lending program
has been directly influenced as a result. The rural credit project, the China
Investment Bank projects, and future regional industry projects are examples
of the links between economic and sector work and the lending program.
32.       More fundamental research by the Bank in collaboration with Chinese
economic research institutions into the problems of enterprise management is
nearing completion. The research has yielded insights into the attitudes of



-9-
enterprise managers toward system reform and has led to better understanding
of how policy changes can improve planning, performance and management of
enterprises. In addition, there is a variety of project-related sector work
underway through studies included in the projects. These are expected to
produce the basis for detailed discussion of development options and policies
in the various sectors.
33.       Current economic work focuses on future options and issues to the
year 2000. A comprehensive report will be ready later this fiscal year. In
light of the experience of other countries in making the transition from Low
to middle income levels, the report will pay special attention to inter-
sectoral linkages and cross-sectoral and economy-wide issues.
34.       Future economic'and sector work will be based on the conclusions of
the economic report and will look in more detail at some of the issues
raised. It will continue to improve our knowledge of the economy - its struc-
ture, the issues and constraints in key sectors, and the functioning of the
economic management system. Collaboration with Chinese research institutions
on issues of institutional and policy change will continue. Review of the
investment program in key sectors when the Seventh Five Year Plan (1986-90) is
finalized will help develop the next generation of projects for the lending
program.
Lending Operations
35.       Since China's%change of representation -in the Bank Group in- May of
1980, 27 projects involving lending of $2,795.6 million to China have been
approved. Annex II contains a summary statement on these loans and credits as
of March 31, 1985. For this fiscal year we expect to present a total of
twelve projects to the Board. These include the already approved projects for
Second Agricultural Research, Second Power, Second University Development,
Changcun (Luan) Coal Mining, Seeds Development, Rural Water Supply, Highway,
Second Railway, Fertilizer Rehabilitation and Energy Saving; the proposed
Pishihang-Chaohu Area Development Project, as weLl as projects in forestry and
gas engineering.
36.       For FY86 and beyond, the China lending program should continue to
grow from current levels. Areas of emphasis would include development of
energy resources, transport infrastructure, skilled manpower and improved
technology. We will also investigate the feasibility of a regional approach
in a number of sectors and will take better account of intersectoral linkages.
37.       In the energy sector lending has included six projects, which have
emphasized increased energy output and technology transfer through financing
of equipment, technical studies, training and consultant assistance. The
Lubuge Hydropower Project has resulted in the Government's extensive use of
competitive bidding for power projects. The Second Power Project places
particular emphasis on better system planning. Fuel alternatives for electric
power, generating plant location and interconnection of power grids will be
the subject of future work. For development of China's petroleum and coal
resources, Bank Group assistance will emphasize acquisition of appropriate
technologies, least cost planning of investment and related transport
investment programs.



- 10 -
38.       In the transport sector, railway, port and road capacity must be
substantially increased. So far, one project each in ports and highways and
two in railways have focussed on increasing capacity, upgrading technology for
lower cost operations, and establishing better costing systems. Expanding
domestic capacity to manufacture improved transport equipment will continue to
be a theme in the sector and this should provide scope for substantial foreign
private sector involvement. Improved management and information systems and
analytical techniques for better cost control will be encouraged under the
projects, which, once proven, will be suitable for wider use throughntit trans-
port enterprises.  Intermodal coordination and planning and assessment of
alcernative investment choices wilL have increasing prominence in both lending
and sector work.
39.       In agriculture, six projects have emphasized support services
through improved research and education, production increases through new land
development, reclamation, use of improved technologies and management, and
strengthening of the agriculture credit system. Projects in seeds develop-
ment, forestry and agriculture credit will continue to strengthen support
services and rural institutions. Land and area development projeccs such as
the proposed Pishihang-Chaohu Area Development Project, will endeavor to
provide models of integrated regional development. Specialized activity
projects such as fisheries, livestock and agro-processing may also be devel-
oped to support ongoing structural transformation in agriculture.
40.       In the industrial sector, two projects have focused on establishing
and strengthening the China Investment Bank. Improved investment selection
criteria, incentives for more efficient management, technology transfer, and
energy conservation are priorities for future projects. Lending will have a
two-pronged approach - further strengthening of the China Investment Bank (and
perhaps other financial intermediaries) and financing large regional produc-
tion-oriented projects such as for machine tools and cement, to expand output
and demonstrate the merits of improved subsector analysis and planning. A
fertilizer project will rehabilitate, modernize and save energy in selected
fertilizer facilities and strengthen research and design capabilities.
41.       Further expansion of higher education and improvement of teaching,
curricula and graduate quality will be needed to the end of the century. The
human resource constraints have already been addressed by five education
projects and a component of the Rural Health/Medical Education Project.  The
value of international competitive bidding for equipment purchases and of
international advisory panels for educational policy and curriculum reform has
been demonstrated in the first projects. Improved university management is
being encouraged through establishment of quantitative targets for growth,
student-teacher ratios, classroom utilization, laboratory experiments per-
formed, and other reforms (including development of evaluation and monitoring
procedures and greater decentralization). Projects in health, urban develop-
ment and water supply will assist the Government in addressing difficult
poverty-linked questions of affordability, cost recovery, and minimum stand-
ards with focus on particularly impoverished regions.
42.       Implementation.   Project implementation is generally proceeding
well.  There have been some initial delays in procurement, but these are now



- 11 -
being addressed through a central procurement agency. Most project agencies,
as well as the Ministry of Finance and the State Planning Commis§ion, have
established and staffed offices to handle Bank Group projects. To support
further expansion of the lending program, accelerate project preparation,
improve project impLementation, and facilitate further economic and sector
work, the Bank Group will open a resident office in China early in FY86.
PART III - AGRICULTURE AND WATER RESOURCES IN CHINA
Agriculture
43.       Agriculture in China, incLuding crops, livestock, forestry and
fisheries provides sustenance to over one billion people. It is the source of
income for some 190 million farm families, and accounts for about 35Z of the
country's GDP. Only about 100 million ha of China's land area of 960 million
ha are arabLe. Farming systems are intensive, with large inputs of labor,
chemical and organic fertilizer and water. Nearly half of the arable land is
irrigated. Foodgrains occupy about 80Z of the cropland and account for about
55% of total agricultural output. This intensive system of food production
allows China to meet the basic food requirements of its population (about 22%
of the world's total) from less than 8Z of the world's arable land. Agricul-
tural production is carried out largely on household-managed farms within a
framework of collective or state ownership of land and major fixed assets.
Since 1978, the gross valZet of agricultural output has grown at an avwerage
annual rate of about 7Z, or more than twice the rate achieved over the pre-
vious two decades. Output of foodgrains increased by about 3.81 annually over
the last decade, reaching a record of over 400 million tons in 1984 despite
declines in cropped area and area sown with grains. Demand for agricultural
products is expected to increase steadily over the next two decades in
response to increasing per capita income and moderate population growth.
China's cultivated area will remain essentially unchanged over the period--
land lost to roads, urbanization, and industrial development will be approx-
imately offset by newly reclaimed land. As a result, the production gains
required to feed a population growing by at least ten million per year and to
supply the raw materials to meet rapid growth in industrial demand will have
to come almost entirely from increased yields on existing cultivated areas.
Water Resources
44.       Background.  In an effort to make more efficient use of scarce water
resources and to solve China's perennial problems of drought, flood and
famine, the Government since 1949 has supported major investments in irriga-
tion and flood control works. Total irrigated area expanded from about 16
million ha in 1949 to a current figure of about 47 million ha, of which about
90% is from surface sources and 10% from groundwater. This irrigated area has
an estimated productivity twice that of rainfed areas and accounts for about
two-thirds of total grain production and three-fourths of total output of
commerical crops. The expansion of irrigation facilities has been a major
factor in the increase in grain production from about 113 million tons in 1949
to over 400 million tons in 1984. Despite such successes, the water supply



- 12 -
capacity has not kept pace with growing demands for water. One important
factor is that in most irrigation projects, the area effectively irrigated
proved to be less than originally pLanned. Projects of the 1960's typically
involved large, centraLly-funded storage or diversion dams and main conveyance
systems, some of which were models of skillful engineering design and con-
struction. It was left to local governments to construct networks to distri-
bute water to the farmers' fields. In the absence of adequate local financ-
ing, the result was either failure to complete the distribution system or
substandard construction from the standpoint of materials, planning and
design. Compounding these problems of inadequate investment in system comple-
tion has been a lack of funds for system maintenance, repairs and equipment
replacement. Lack of adequate control structures and the poor condition of
watercourse channels at the farm level are major factors contributing to
China's generally low irrigation efficiency.
45.       Agencies.  The Ministry of Water Resources and Electric Power
(MWREP) oversees all activities in the water resources and electric power
sectors, including planning, design, construction and operation of water and
power development projects of regional importance. Standard government pro-
cedures require funds for major projects to be approved by the State Planning
Commission (SPC) in accordance with annual and five-year plans and then chan-
neled through the MWREP to the provinces involved. Planning and allocation of
resources for smaller projects are typically handled by provincial governments
subject to Ministry approval. Most provinces have separate water resources
and power bureaus which are apiministratively responsible to the provincial
governments and receive technical guidance from the MWREP. In the case of
Anhui Province, the Anhui Water Resources Bureau (AWRB) has overall respon-
sibility for the planning, survey, design, construction, operation and main-
tenance of irrigation, drainage and flood control works. A similar structure
of water resources agencies exists at the prefecture (or municipality) and
county levels. Prefectural and county bureaus have primary responsibility for
construction and maintenance of canals (except some main canals maintained by
the provinces), associated irrigation and flood control structures and medium-
sized reservoirs. Responsibility for branch canals and associated structures
and small reservoirs is shared with districts, townships and villages acting
through specially-appointed water resources management groups. In areas where
there are large-scale, ongoing water controL projects-such as the Pishihang
region of central Anhui--provincial governments usually establish a special
system of irrigation area management agencies to coordinate activities in the
several counties and prefectures that are beneficiaries of the project.
46.       Current Policies and Programs.  The reduction of state investments
in water resources as part of sector-wide budget cuts introduced in 1981 has
led to a redefinition of water resources development policies and programs.
Current policy calls for: (a) reducing investments in new irrigation systems;
tb) increasing the efficiency of existing systems through rehabilitation and
completion of irrigation and drainage structures and improved water manage-
ment; and (c) shifting the burden of financing operation and maintenance costs
from the central to local governments while requiring the latter to increase
water charges to fully cover these costs. Water charges in the past were kept
low relative to costs of supplying water, in partial compensation for low
state procurement prices. RefLecting improvements in farm prices, higher fee



- 13 -
structures, determined on a province by province basis, have recentLy been
introduced in 14 provinces, municipalities and autonomous regions including
Anhui Province. MWREP plans to increase the irrigated area by 8-10 million ha
by the year 2000. Over half of this planned expansion would take place in the
rice region south of the Huai River, about 1.6 m ha in the North China Plain,
and the remainder in the Northeast, the arid areas of the Northwest loess
region, and in Xinjiang and Gansu. Most of the expansion south of the Huai
wouLd be the result of upgrading of existing works, an approach which offers a
relatively quick return on investment. Along with improvements and additions
to the irrigation networks, the Government is planning measures to protect
about 19 m ha of presently cultivated land from waterLogging and soil salin-
ity.
47.       Agr-iculture and Water Resources in the Project Area.  The 12
counties and one municipality in central Anhui benefiting from the project
extend over 25,450 sq km, 918,000 ha of which are cultivated, and support a
farm population of 8.2 million. The average farm size is only about 0.5 ha,
including 0.4 ha of irrigated land, indicating the need for very intensive
cultivation, high yields, and a reliable water supply. The limited scope of
forestry, animaL husbandry, fisheries and side occupations, which together
represent only 20Z of farm income in the project area, accounts for the area's
relative poverty. Average total income in 1983 was only Y919 per family, or
Y202 per capita, compared to a national average of Y310 per capita. The
Pishihang irrigation system presently supplies water to 533,000 ha in eight
counties in the project area, 80% of it through a gravity-fed network. As a
result of past investments in Pishihang irrigation-development, the area
served by thie scheme now accounts for nearly one-fourth of the grain marketed
in Anhui though it represents only one-seventh of the province's cultivated
area. Despite this achievement, the system is still incomplete, particularly
at the lower levels of the distribution network. On the main canals, 90% of
the designed earthworks and 60% of the control structures have been completed
whereas at the level of branch canals, laterals and sublaterals. the figures
are only 70% and 20% respectively. At the on-farm level, there is a need for
additional ditches and control structures and improved layout to reduce the
incidence of field to field irrigation. In the case of the Lake Chao region
which adjoins Pishihang, though efforts since 1949 have resulted in partial
flood control, major problems remain. For example, when the flood tide stage
on the Yangtze coincides with excessive runoff into Lake Chao, the Yuqi River
is unable to handle all of the outflow. Resulting crop and property damage
averages about Y68 million per year.
Bank Lending for Agriculture and Water Resources Development
48.       The Bank's strategy for lending in China's agriculture sector has
been to support the Government's efforts to expand and diversify agricultural
output through more efficient use of human and physical resources. Sector
lending to date has focussed primarily on land development and strengthening
agricultural support services. Future lending is expected to increasingly
concentrate on support for specialized product subsectors and area develop-
ment. Projects of the specialized product subsector type include a proposed
forestry development project, a project in aquaculture, and possibly a live-
stock project. The area development approach combines in a single project



- 14 -
assistance to land development and support services previously the subject of
separate projects. It responds to central and local government emphasis on
increasing farm incomes through diversification into higher-valued agricul-
turaL activities even in areas where staple crop production can be
increased. The proposed Pishihang-Chaohu Area Development Project is the
first of its kind in China. Additional possibilities include assistance in
developing the infertile, "red soils" areas of South China and the arid
regions of Gansu and Xinjiang Provinces. The lending program will also con-
tinue to support repeater projects in areas such as rural credit which are
judged to be of key importance in the shift from collective to household-
managed farms.
49.       The Bank's involvement to date with water resources development in
China has been in the context of land development projects: the North China
Plain Project (Cr. 1261-CHA) focussed on drainage improvement, irrigation from
groundwater, and desalinization, and the Heilongjiang Land Reclamation Project
(Ln. 2261-CHA/Cr. 1347-CHA) is developing a drainage system for reclaimed
area. InstalLation of on-farm sprinkler or pumped irrigation facilities have
been components of subprojects appraised under Rural Credit I (Cr. 1462-
CHA). The proposed Pishihang-Chaohu Area Development Project would involve
the Bank Group for the first time with China's surface irrigation and flood
control systems; it would also establish a new relationship with a major
Government agency, the MWREP. Future lending for water resources development
would support the Government's emphasis on improving efficiency of existing
systems with special emphasis on improvements% in system planning and operation
and farm-level irrigation and drainage works. -This focus would not preclude
Bank Group participation in new projects in areas of acute poverty if economic
returns were promising, as when substantial areas of new or low-productivity
land could be transformed into high-yielding irrigated farmland at reasonable
cost.
Project Formulation and Rationale
50.       The proposed project supports comprehensive rehabilitation and
improvement of the largest irrigation and associated flood control scheme in
the country. The major rationale for Bank participation is to make available
tG MWREP the Bank Group's experience in establishing irrigation, flood control
and rural development schemes in other parts of the world. In particular,
Bank Group involvement would provide access to new technologies available
within the international community: e.g., new mapping techniques to help in
the design and layout of on-farm ditches and drains, use of numericaL modell-
ing in resource planning and management, and advanced equipment for data
collection and water monitoring and control. Study tours, technical assist-
ance and the projecc-financed studies of system operations would help update
the technical knowLedge of staff of water resource agencies who have been
isolated from recent developments abroad, and upgrade their planning and
management capabilities. The overall objectives of Bank Group involvement in
the proposed project would be to assist the Government in developing a model
of integrated irrigation and rural development that might in the future be
extended to other irrigation areas in China. The Pishihang-Chaohu irrigation
and flood control area is an appropriate location for such a project
because: (a) the existing volume of water storage is sufficient for expansion



- 15 -
of irrigation water deliveries without further dam and reservoir construction;
(b) crop yields are well below potential and the area can enlarge its market-
able surplus; (c) Anhui Province in general, and the project area in particu-
lar, are traditional poverty areas which the project can assist by raising
income and consumption levels.
PART IV - THE PROJECT
51.       The original project proposal, prepared by MWREP, the Anhui Water
Resources Bureau (AWRB) and Anhui Agriculture, Animal Husbandry and Fisheries
Bureau .(AAAFB), was reviewed by a Bank Group mission in June 1984. During
that and a subsequent mission, discussions invoLving these organizations and
Bank staff led to various changes in the project's scope and technical
features. Negotiations were held-in Washington from April 22 to 29, 1985 with
a Chinese delegation led by Mr. Wang Liangsheng, Deputy Director, External
Finance Department, of the Ministry of Finance. A Staff Appraisal Report No.
5538-CHA, dated May 15, 1985 is being distributed separately. Special
features of the project are given in the Loan/Credit and Project Summary and
in Annex III. Maps of Anhui Province (IBRD 18749) and the Project location
(IBRD 18750) are attached.
Project Objective
52.       The main objective of the project is tdincrease the productiofi of
crops and other agricultural products in central Anhui by developing water
resources, reducing flood damage, developing rural infrastructure and support
services, and improving Anhui's overall capability to plan and manage irriga-
tion and flood control schemes.
Project Features
53.       Pishihang Irrigation System ($72 million).  The project would
improve irrigation facilities serving some 320,000 ha in the existing
Pishihang irrigation area, through channel excavation, embankment construc-
tion, addition of control structures and on-farm ditches and drains. Excava-
tion on the canaLs would increase canal capacity and embankments would be
strengthened and repaired. Additional structures would provide more effective
transportation over the main canals and better water control and drainage
outfalls for areas with drainage now cut off by built-up canal embankments.
The area served by sublateraLs (30-50 ha units) would receive special atten-
tion.  On-farm ditches and drains with proper control structures would be
constructed in order to minimize field-to-fieLd irrigation. The project would
provide technical assistance to AWRB in use of aerial photography to produce
maps of proper scale for layout of on-farm works.
54.       Chaohu Flood Control System ($70 million).  The project would
improve flood control, drainage and irrigation water supply benefiting 220,000
ha in the Chaohu area, through the excavation of a new flood channel and con-
struction of control gates, bridges, a lock, and two major pumping stations.
The new channel would provide an additional outlet to the Yangtze River for



- 16 -
flood overflow spilled from Lake Chao, China's fifth largest lake. The
pumping stations would supplement the flood removal capacity of this channel
by evacuating flood water from another channel into the Yangtze when high
stage in the latter prevents gravity flow. The stations would also allow
waterlogged areas to be drained, and water from the Yangtze would be pumped                     v
into Lake Chao for irrigation use during the dry season.
55.       Rural Development ($45 million).  The network of roads linking
county seats with townships would be expanded by 15Z with the addition of
gravel roads.  The rural electrification system would be expanded through
installation of 35 kV, 10 kV, and 3-8 kV lines, aLong with construction of
necessary substations. To help remedy serious soil deficiencies in both
phosphate and potassium, the project would procure 70,000 tons of diammonium
phosphate and potash for application as a soil amendment. Assurance was
obtained that a plan for provision of phosphate and potassium fertilizers to
the project area would be prepared and discussed with the Bank Group prior to
November 1st of each year starting 1985. (Section 2.07 of the draft Anhui
Project Agreement). In support of both the commercial and environmental
aspects of forestry development, the project wouLd establish nurseries for the
production of seedlings for border and commercial forest plantings. Some
13,000 ha of commercial forests of pine and other species would be planted on
land too steep for cropping and on watersheds surrounding reservoirs;
additional plantings would be made along field borders and in shelter belts.
56.       The project would strengthen the seed, research and extension sys-
tems by constrirtring new or expanded facilities and-providing equipment and
vehicles. Expansion of seed breeding facilities would include enlarged culti-
vation area, grain storage facilities, and drying floors, as well as some
small-scale drying and processing equipment and bulk storage facilities. The
extension system would be expanded by constructing and equipping eight new
county agrotechnical centers, 14 soil testing laboratories, four district and
144 township extension stations, 14 crop pest warning stations, and 3 pig
breeding farms, while other facilities, including fish nurseries, would be
upgraded and better equipped. Construction wouLd include new libraries,
offices, classrooms and housing for extension personnel, and laboratories,
greenhouses, hothouses and growth chambers for simple experiments and demon-
strations. Equipment to be provided includes audio-visual aids, demonstration
farm machinery, soil testing instruments, refrigerators, incubators, and
vehicles for extension personnel.
57.       To provide a model for effective water use management for irrigated
agriculture, the project would construct laboratories and offices and provide
equipment for a field irrigation experiment station near Liuan City. Aside
from providing a short-course training program, the station would develop an
experimental data base on irrigation water requirements which would become the
basis for revising water allocation practices for the Pishihang area. To
strengthen agricultural research facilities, the project would expand seed
breeding and nursery facilities at the Liuan Forestry Research Institute;
construct and equip laboratories for the Liuan Agricultural Research
Institute; and add hothouses for hybrid rice breeding and fish fry overwinter-
ing at the Chaohu Agricultural Research Institute.



- 17 -
58.       At negotiations, an understanding was reached that a Technical
Advisory Group (TAG) wouLd be formed to assist the Anhui Province Steering
Committee in developing detailed plans for the rural development component.
The Group would consist of local experts who would agree to serve on a short-
term consultancy basis as needed during the life of the project. It was
further agreed that a list of consultants who would participate in the TAG
would be presented to the Bank by December 31, 1985.
59.       Rural Credit ($7 million).  The project would increase provision of
agricultural credit in the form of interest-bearing, medium-term loans to
enterprises and specialized households for the development of agroprocessing,
animal husbandry and fisheries. AppLications for loans would be made to local
branches of the Agriculturail Bank of China, which would carry out subproject
appraisals and administer lending operations. Assurance was obtained that ABC
Anhui would appraise all subprojecrs using the procedures and criteria set out
in the Rural Credit Project Appraisal Manual issued by ABC Beijing and
approved by IDA in Cr. 1462-CRA (Section 2.04 of the draft ABC Project
Agreement). The Manual requires preparation of project appraisal reports
which incorporate financial and economic cost-benefit analysis (using a 10%
discount rate), and the selection of projects for sublending based on the
resuLts of appraisal. Assurances were also obtained that subloans for the
first three subprojects appraised by ABC Anhui would be submitted to IDA for
approval, and that individual subloans in excess of $300,000 would require
IDA's prior approval (Section 2.05 of draft ABC Project Agreement). The ABC
component would include provision of training and some equipment for ABC staff
in the project- area.
60.       Training and Technical Assistance ($7 million).  To strengthen the
ongoing capability of local institutions to provide technical training in
hydrology and agriculture, the project would establish a Water Resources
Training Center, upgrade two agriculturaL secondary schools to the polytechnic
leveL, and improve the training facilities at the county agrotechnical cen-
ters. The Training Center would be designed to upgrade the level of the 2,80C
technical and managerial personnel working in the Pishihang irrigation area
and to train new employees, in canal system management, hydrological data
collection, telemetry, computer operations and financiaL management. The
project would include construction of about 4,000 sq m of classrooms and a
dormitory and would provide teaching equipment, books and materials. The
Liuan and Chaohu Prefectural Secondary Agricultural Schools would be upgraded,
with provision of buildings and equipment bv the project, to three-year poly-
technics, with Liuan emphasizing pesc control and agricultural economics and
Chaohu specializing in livestock and fisheries training. Extension workers in
the project area would also receive training in the form of 30 day short
courses offered by the county agrotechnical centers.
61.       The project would strengthen irrigation and flood control management
by providing equipment, training and technical assistance to the Pishihang GA
and a Chaohu Water Control Center to be constructed by the project. The
project would provide (1) a communications system linking observation sites,
control gates and pumping stations, and the control center; (2) computer
equipment and training to monitor and analyze flood elevations, amounts of
rainfall and runoff, climatological data and irrigation water requirements as



- 18 -
a basis for calculating water discharge and inflow plans.  To strengthen
project management, Bank and local staff would conduct a project launch work-
shop in Anhui for staff of the PMOs. AWRB, Pishihang GA, and Chaohu Water
Resources Bureau. The purpose of the workshop would be to review the total
process of implementation and to familiarize project staff with their respon-
sibilities. The workshop would be followed by a three week course in project
appraisal techniques designed for Anhui staff of ABC and AAAFB as prevaration
for implementation of the project's credit component. The project would also
provide office space, housing, office equipment and vehicles for the PMOs, and
supplementary office equipment to provincial and local offices of Anhui ABC.
62.       The project would provide 62 man-months of overseas study tours and
41 man-months of overseas training for staff of local water resource and
agricultural agencies and project management offices. Study tours would cover
such topics as techniques for design of on-farm works; water resource and
flood control management technologies and equipment; alternatives in monitor-
ing, control and communications; and rural development project management.
Overseas training would focus on such areas as regional water resource plann-
ing, floodplain management, operation and maintenance of pumping equipment,
and microcomputer applications in water system operations.  The project would
provide 45 mnn-months of consulting services to (a) direct-a study tour on the
use of aerial mapping in planning on-farm works and to design a work plan for
on-farm mapping of the project area; (b) to assist the AWRB in conducting
studies of irrigation and flood control system operations and (c) provide
local training in modern techniques of resource management and agricultural
production. An assurance was obtained that a repOrt presenting the main
findings of the studies would be prepared by the Anhui Project Management
office (PMO) and submitted to the Bank Group for review not later than
December 31, 1989 (Section 2.09 of the draft Anhui Project Agreement).
Water Supply, Demand and Quality
63.       Water for the three irrigation areas is supplied by five storage
reservoirs constructed on the headwaters of Pihe, Shihe and Hangbuhe. These
reservoirs provide a high degree of flow regulation and have spilled only
infrequently and in small quantities. As a result, almost all of the average
annual inflow to the reservoirs of 4.9 billion m3 is available for irrigati30n
use. Catchment areas below the reservoirs contribute another 0.7 billion m,
so that total annual regulated flow available for the canal system averages
5.6 billion m3. The annual irrigation requirements for 680,000 ha based on
present cropping patterns would be 4.3 billion m3, hence irrigation demands
could be satisfied. Additional supplies, important in dry years, would be
available from surface runoff stored in small reservoirs, retention ponds and
lakes in the service areas.  Expected shifts in cropping patterns as a result
of the project would reduce annual requirements for irrigation water.
Cost Estimates
64.       The total project cost in December 1984 prices is estimated at
US$264 million, with a foreign exchange component of US$82 million, or 31Z of
the total. No taxes are imposed on major cost items, and imported materials
and equipment would be exempt from duties. Construction costs are based on



- 19 -
quantity estimates derived from designs using prices currently prevailing in
the project area. Pric'es for locally available equipment are based on data
provided to AWRB and AAAFB by local suppliers. Prices for steel, cement,
timber, chemical fertilizer, imported equipment and vehicles are based on list
prices obtained from manufacturers. Physical eoutingencies (10% of project
base costs) equal 152 of base costs of irrigation and flood control civil
works. For the calculation of price contingencies, it is assumed that
exchange rate adjustments will, on average, be made to maintain the parity of
purchasing power during project implementation. Price escalation for both
foreign and local costs when expressed in US dollars, is based on annual
international price escalation rates for all goods and services of 5% in 1985,
7.5% in 1986, and 8% in 1987-90; and when expressed in yuan, is based on price
escalation rates of 3% p.a. in 1985-90. Price contingencies would amount to
16% of the total cost.
Financing
65.       Bank Group assistance would be an IDA Credit of SDR 75.7 million
(US$75 million) and a Bank Loan of US$17 million, and would cover 35% of total
project cost. The balance of US$171.5 million equivalent would come from bud-
getary grants from the central government (about US$ 19.1 million), provincial
and local governments (US$ 73.4 million), lending from the ABC (US$ 2.9 mil-
lion), and investments of farmers and collectives (US$ 76.1 million).
Procurement
66.       Goods worth about US$54 million, or 592 of the Loan/Credit, would be
procured through international competitive bidding (ICB) in accordance with
Bank Group guidelines. It is expected that there would be four main procure-
ment packages: (i) steel, cement and timber (US$26.1 million); (ii) pumps and
electrical equipment (US$10.9 million); (iii) vehicles, laboratory and office
equipment (US$4.4 million); and (iv) chemical fertilizer (US$12.7 million).
Qualified domestic manufacturers would be awarded a preference over the com-
peting foreign bidders of 15Z or the customs duty, whichever is lower, in bid
comparison. Prior Bank Group review of contract awards wouLd exclude small
contracts ($50,000 or less) estimated to cover less than 15Z of the value of
all contracts. Items including breeding animals and small amounts of equip-
ment costing not more than $50,000 per contract and aggregating to not more
than $2.0 million would be procured on the basis of three price quotations
under procedures satisfactory to the Bank and Association. Civil works,
including earthworks (US$110.7 million, of which $8.7 million would be Bank
Group-financed) and construction of structures (US$48.1 million, of which $24
million would be B-nk Group-financed) scattered over 13 counties and carried
out over five years, would be too dispersed to be suitable for ICB. Construc-
tion of structures would be carried out through contracts let under local
competitive bidding (LCB) procedures, which have been reviewed and found
acceptable to the Bank. Labor contributed by farmers or hired under local
procedures and directed by AWRB supervisors would be used for earthworks and
on-farm development. The remaining components (US$33.8 million, none financed
by the Loan/Credit), mainly small equipment items fabricated locally and
construction of rural buildings, would be procured locally under procedures
which are acceptable to IDA and the Bank. In the past, LCB has been rarely
used in local construction outside the water resources system, but PMO
management would encourage its use in rural development project components.
Consultants would be selected under terms of reference agreed with IDA and the
Bank and in accordance with Bank Group Guidelines on the use of consultants.



- 20 -
PROCUREMENT ARRANGEMENTS
(US$-million) /a
ICB    LCB     Other /b   Total
Earthwork and on-farm works                                  110.7        110.7
(8.7)         (8.7)
Construction and installation /c                    48.1                   48.1
(24.0)                 (24.0)
Construction materials /d                   26.1                           26.1
(26.1)                         (26.1)
Pumps and electrical equipment /e           .10.9                           10.9
(10.9)                         (10.9)
Chemical fertilizer                          12.7                           12.7
(12.7)                         (12.7)
Vehicles, equipment
and breeding animals /f                    4.4              1.0           5.4
(4.4)            (1.0)         (5.4)
Rural credit /g                                                8.2           8.2
(2.9)         (2.9)
Training and technical assistance                              7.6           7.6
(1.3)         (1.3)
Other components /h                                           33.8          33.8
ota         _ -                      54.1   48.1      (0)           (0)
Total                                 54.1   48.1    161.3          263.5
(54.1) (24.0)   (13.9)         (92.0)
la   All amounts include contingencies.  Figures in parentheses indicate
amounts financed by Loan/Credit.
/b Includes (i) procurement of equipment on the basis of evaluation of bids
from at least three suppliers; (ii) local procedures, including force
account and investments by collectives; (iii) technical assistance guide-
lines.
/c   Of irrigation and flood control structures only.
7T   Of which, for use in irrigation and flood control structures, $21.2 miL-
Lion; rural roads, $3.2 million; other rural infrastructure and construc-
tion of extension and research faciLities, $1.7 million.
/e   Of which, pumps, transformers and electrical accessories, $8.2 million;
transformers for rural electrification, $2.7 million.
/f   Of which, vehicLes, $1.8 million laboratory and office equipment,
$2.6 million; breeiing animaLs, $1.0 million.
/g Financed-solely from IDA credit.
/h Including costs of land acquisition, tree planting, animal and fish
breeding, rural rnads and electrification, seeds, extension and research,
other than costs of materials and equipment procurement included in other
categories (see notes d-f).



- 21 -
Disbursement
67.       Disbursements under the Loan/Credit against expenditures for con-
struction materials, pumps and electrical equipment, chemical fertilizers, and
equipment and vehicles would be at 100% of the foreign exchange costs of
imported items or 100% of the ex-factory price of locally manufactured
items. Disbursements for overseas training and expert services would be 100%
of total costs. Disbursement against contracts for the construction of struc-
tures for the water conservancy system would be at 50%. Disbursement for
earthworks on the Pishihang main, branch and sublateral canals (excluding on-
farm earthworks) would be 20% of total expenditures, and disbursement against
use of mechanical dredges in canal excavation for the Chaohu component would
be 50% of total expenditures. Disbursements for overseas training, construc-
tion contracts-of less than $200,000, equipment, fertilizer and vehicles
costing less than $100,000 and earthworks would be against statements of
expenditure (SOEs). In the case of structures, SOEs would be supported by
contract documents, retained by the Anhui PMO for review by Bank Group super-
vision missions. In the case of earthworks, SOEs would be supported by
progress reports showing physicaL quantities and unit prices which would be
updated annually by AWRB and reviewed by the Bank. Disbursement for construc-
tion contracts amounting to $200,000 or more would be against contracts and
supporting documents submitted to the Bank Group. Disbursements against
agricultural credit extended by the ABC would be at 35% of subloans exten-
ded. Supporting documentation would be retained by the Anhui ABC and made
available to Bank Group supervision missions. In order to provide for effi-
cient disbursement of loan/credit proceeds for the irrigation and flood con-
trol components, a special account would be opened in US dollars in the Bank
of China with an initial deposit of US dollar equivalent of SDR 4.05 million
which represents the average estimated four month expenditure. For the rural
credit component, a separate special account with an initial deposit of US
dollar equivalent of SDR 510,000 would be opened in the Agricultural Bank of
China. Applications for replenishment of these special accounts would be
submitted quarterly, or whenever the special account is drawn down to 50Z of
its initial deposit, whichever comes first. It is estimated that the project
would be completed by December 1990, and closing date would be June 30,
1991. In view of the advanced state of design work and the experience of AWRB
with civil works construction, the projected disbursement schedule is shorter
than the disbursement profile for Bank Group Operations in irrigation and
drainage in the region.
Accounts and Audits
68.       Records of civil works expenditures would be maintained by the Anhui
branch of the People's Construction Bank (PCB) which would be responsible for
disbursements to enterprises engaged under the project. Records of civil
works and equipment expenditures under the rural credit component would be
maintained by the Anhui branch of ABC. These records would be forwarded
annually to the Anhui PMO, which would keep parallel records of expenditures
on materials, equipment and civil works and prepare an annual account of these
expenditures. Assurances were obtained from the Government that the accounts
would be audited annually by the State Audit Agency and that the audited
accounts would be submitted to the Bank Group within six months of the close



- 22 -
of each financial year (Section 3.01 of the draft Anhui Project Agreement and
Section 4.01 of the draft ABC Project Agreement).
Project Management
69.       Organization.  To ensure efficient and timely execution of the
proposed project, a special project management organization would be estab-
lished at the provincial, prefectural and county levels. A provincial Project
Management Office (PHO) would be set up as a separate office within the Anhui
Foreign Funds Utilization Office which currently handles development activi-
ties in Anhui under the IDA-financed North China Plain Project (Cr. 1462-
CHA).  The PMO would coordinate and supervise project implementation in the
participating prefectures and counties; review technical standards for design,
construction, operation and maintenance of project works; disburse funds to
executing units; administer project technical assistance and training pro-
grams; and ensure prompt delivery of project inputs. The PMO would also carry
out monitoring and evaluation activities and prepare for submission to IDA
twice yearly reports on project progress as well as a project completion
report. A small project unit would be set up within MWREP's Planning
Department to serve as the Ministry's liaison with IDA and AWRB. The prefec-
tural PHOs would coordinate and arrange compensation for transfers of funds,
material and labor among counties. Major functions of the county PMOs would
be contract management and supervision of local units involved in construction
of project works. During negotiations an assurance was obtained that the
provinciaL. prefectural and county_PMOs and the MWRER's project unit would be
established by September 1, 1985 and maintained and adaquately staffed with
qualified personnel during the life of the proposed project (Section 2.03 of
the draft Anhui Project Agreement and Section 3.04 of the draft Development
Credit Agreement).
70.       The pro%incial ABC would appoint a staff member to liaise with the
provincial PMO regarding the credit component of the project. In addition, a
small Project Unit (PU) would be established in the provincial ABC office and
in each of the ABC's county offices (subbranches) participating in the project
to appraise and supervise project subloans, ensure the proper utilization of
project funds and procurement of project investment items, maintain project
accounts, and prepare progress reports. An assurance was obtained at
negotiations that the provincial and county PUs and the ABC liaison position
with the provincial PMO would be established by September 1, 1985 and main-
tained and adequately staffed with qualified personnel during the life of the
proposed project (Section 2.02 of the draft A3C Project Agreement).
71.       Onlending Arrangements.  Aside from procurement of materials and
equipment under ICB, the proceeds of the proposed Loan/Credit would be used
primarily for earthworks and construction of structures for Pishihang-Chaohu
area development. Funds for these items as well as for rural credit overseas
training, study tours and consulting services would be made available to the
Government of Anhui Province through the People's Construction Bank (PCB) and
its Anhui branch. Local (provincial, prefectural and county) contributions to
the project would be channeled through the Anhui PCB and other branches. For
the rural credit component, Anhui Provzince would relend $2.9 million to ABC on
terms acceptable to the latter and IDA, under a Subsidiary Loan Agreement



- 23 -
which would be an additional condition of cr.edit effectiveness. Through its
office in Anhui, ABC would onlend project funds to borrowers at the prevailing
interest rate for long-term agricultural loans. Project Agreements
incorporating these terms and conditions would be signed between IBRD/IDA and
the Anhui Province as well as between IDA and ABC. State Council approval of
the Loan and Credit Agreements and Anhui Project Agreement would be a
condition of effectiveness of the loanicredit (Section 5.01(a)), draft Loan
and Credit Agreement).
72.       Operation and Maintenance.  The Pishihang Ceneral Administration
and ics branch administrations would be responsible for the operation and
maintenance of the project's irrigation and drainage ,orks. %)peration and
maintenance of the Chaohu works would be carried out by specially created
management units for each facility established under the Chaohu Prefectural
WRB. Operation and maintenance costs for both the Pishihang irrigation and
drainage network and the Chaohu flood control facilities would be met by a
combination of water use charges and the "social labor obligation" which
requires each farmer to contribute one labor day per cuLtivated mu per year to
desilt and repair the primary canal system. Maintenance of on-farm works
would be carried out as needed bv the individual farm households which are the
beneficiaries of the improved structures. Major repairs to the structures are
included in the budget of the water resources system.
Production and Prices
73.       Crop Yields and Production.  With or without the project, changes in
cropping patterns would be limited. The area has a strong comparative advant-
age in rice production which would be reinforced by project improvements.
Because of a rapidly expanding market for livestock products and project
support for their production, demand for feedgrains would increase. This in
turn would induce expansion of area in barley, maize and soybean at the
expense of wheat and single-cropped rice. Yield increases as a result of the
project wouLd occur at different rates in areas benefiting from different
components of project works. Reflecting improved on-farm irrigation through-
out much of the area, improved seeds, extension services, soil fertility, and
other improvements in infrastructure, yields of rice on average would increase
from 4.0 t/ha co 4.9 tons (23%) at full development (1994); wheat from 1.9 to
2.4 tons (26Z); corn, from 1.8 to 2.7 tons (50%); and soybean, from 1.3 to 1.6
tons (23%). Total production of foodgrains (rice and wheat) would increase
from 3.9 to 4.9 million tons (26%); feedgrains (including soybean) from 0.2 to
0.5 mt (124%); oilseeds from 0.3 to 0.4 mt (24%); and fibers from 0.05 to 0.1
mt (132%).
74.       Forestry, Livestock, Fisheries.  The project would increase the
scope of activities in and, therefore, the percentage of farm income derived
from, forestry, livestock and fisheries. In forestry, upgrading and consoLi-
dation of nurseries and direct investment in tree planting would add 19,370 ha
of commercial forest and 6,930 ha of border plantings.  With good management
practices, each hectare woull yield an average of 1.9 m3 p.a. of poles and
logs in years 5-24 and 110 m of logs at maturity. Annual timber production
would rise to 270,600 m3 p.a. by 1994 and standing volume to 7.2 million m
(12Z). As a result of the project, pig and poultry raising would be increas-



- 24 -
ingly specialized and market-oriented. The development of local feed pro-
cessing enterprises with support from the credit component, increased availa-
bility of higher-quality concentrates, introduction of improved breeds, and
expanded veterinary services would raise efficiency, improving the finishing
rate for pigs to about 100% and for ducks to 192%. Numbers of finished pigs
would increase by 245% to 2.7 milLion. chickens by 113% to 4.9 million, ducks
by 466% to 35 million, egg production by 172% to 41,000 t, and draft animal
stocks would grow by 92 to 440,000. In the fisheries subsector, nurseries
would be expanded to permic stocking of an additional 18,200 ha of fishpond.
Under intensive management, yields would exceed 3.75 c/ha and total project
area output of fish would increase from 22,700 to 90,800 t.
75.       Processing, Marketing and Prices.  Though China in the last few
years has built up such ample reserves of rice, wheat, cotton and oilseeds as
to create a potential export surplus, domestic consumption of fine grains is
on the rise and expected to again overtake supply. Shortages of feedgrains
are also expected to occur in response to expansion of the livestock sector;
this will force either large net imports of feed from abroad or shifts in
domestic cropping patterns such as are expected to occur in the Pishihang-
Chaohu area as a result of the project. Central Anhui is expected to continue
to speciaLize in foodgrains while other regions shift focus to feedgrains or
industrial crops. In line with this, project area foodgrains exchanged for
feedgrains produced in northern Anhui are projected to increase from 10,000 t
at presenE to at least 200,000 t at full development. The project area is
well situated to serve as a commercial supply base for deficit regions since
it has access by waterway to-the Changjiang and by rail to north and south
China. Moreover, expansion in marketing and movement of commodities, both
inter- and intra-provincial, is being facilitated by the Government's increas-
ing support for private sector transport, marketing and processing operations
and by recent measures to replace the quota procurement system with con-
tractual arrangements to buy from farmers at fixed prices. Production above
contractual requirements would be sold on the fret market at prices determined
by supply and demand. For purposes of the financial analysis, the average
farmgate price of each crop was taken to be a weighted avc-age of official and
free market prices. The weights of market prices include all amounts retained
by farmers (including seed and feed). Similar assumptions were applied to
livestock, fisheries, and forestry products. In view of the ongoing nature of
the marketing system reforms, future price trends are-highly uncertain; hence
the financial analysis was conducted largely in 1984 prices.
Benefits
76.       Improved irrigation and drainage affecting 549,000 ha and improve-
ments to support services and infrastructure over 918,000 ha would add one
million tons of foodgrains, 0.3 million tons of feedgrains, 67,000 tons of
oilseeds, and 62,000 tons of fiber crops to current project area production.
Increased production of other products would include pork (133,000 tons), beef
(4,300 tons), chicken (3,900 tons), e5gs (25,800 tons), ducks (56,600 ions),
fish (68,300 tons), sawlogs (47,300 m ) and standing timber (789,000 m ).
Flood protection affecting 220,000 ha would eliminate social losses of Y68
million per year, including about 34,000 tons/year of grain. Social benefits
from the project include increased incomes for 2 million farm families and



- 25 -
creation of about 200.000 additionaL jobs or 7t more than without the proj-
ect. Projecced per capita incomes ac full development (1994) would range
between US$77 and US$88, or increases oi 29% t2 57% respectively, while the
national per capita income is expected to rise to about US$560. Thus, while
mcst of the project beneiiciaries would tiave Lncomes above the absolute pov-
erty line of US$67 per capita, they would stiLL be below the critical consump-
tion Level (critical consumption level of USS14.). defined as one-fourth of
the GNP per capita. Without the project per capita incomes would decline, due
to population growth.
77.       Project Charges.  The Government rec.gnizes the need to increase
water charges to provide incentives for more efficient water use and to make
available funds for management. maintenance and repair of irrigation and flood
cdntroL works. The Anhui provincial government issued a revised irrigation
fee structure in 1982, which wiLL provide revenues in excess of these costs.
The proceeds from the ioarncredic would be recovered through a combination of
cash or labor levies on benefitine housenolds (Y155 million), payments for
purchase of chemical fertilizer, animal or fish stock, and commercial seeds
(Y45 million). ABC loan repaymen_s (Y19 million), irrigacion fees (Y27 mil-
lion). and labor obligations for repair and maintenance of the system
('21 million D.a.). T:i addiciar., -he Chaohu flood control works would elimin-
a:e an annuai Dublic ioss o. Y13 million p.a. in destruction of property and
disaster reliet exvenditure. The cost recovery index would be 74X, not consid-
ered excessive in view or a Low rate of general rural taxation (US$15/ha). The
rent recovery index, discounced over the life of the project is 22X for the
3r0jec. as a wno'Le. but ranges from 262 to 29% in areas benefiting from irri-
gation or flood control wdrks. As per capita incomes at full development fall
well below tne -ritical consumption level, the low rent recovery indices are
considered satisfactory.
78.       Economic Analysis.  A total initial investmenc cosc of US$222 mil-
lion. which includes physical contingencies but excludes price contingencies,
was used in the economic analysis. Project works were assumed to have a
residual value in the 25th year of 25Z of initial investment cost. Discounting
costs and benefits over 25 years, the project's economic rate of return (ERR)
is 36%, ranging from 33-34% in the areas benefiting from water resources works
to 46% in areas benefiting from rural development components alone. At a dis-
count rate of 12%, the net present value (NPV) of the project is Y3.1 billion
(US$1.1 billion equivalent).  The high economic rates of return reflect the
low per hectare costs of upgrading and completing existing irrigation and
flood control systems as well as high benefit/cost ratios for rural develop-
ment components. Sensitivity of the ERR was tested to shortfalls from projec-
ted yields or prices, cost overruns, benefit delays,and variations in the
economic value of labor. No single variant proved crucial to the project's
economic viability.
Risks
79.       The project faces no significant technical or organizational risks.
The project management organization builds on a similar interagency structure
which has been successful in coordinating the implementation of the Anhui
portion of the North China Plain Agriculture Project. Moreover, the parti-



- 26 -
cipating agencies have worked together successfully in project preparation.
AWRB, the leading agency involved in construction, operation and maintenance
of large-scale water control works has a competent staff and decades of exper-
ience. Marketing for rice invoLves some uncertainty, which could lead to the
use of rice as feedgrain in place of imports of maize from other areas. This
might be an efficient solution of the marketing and feed supply problems if
adequate high-protein feed suppflements were provided.
Environmental Effects
80.       Project activities wouLd have no adverse environmental effects.
Drainage improvements would reduce waterlogging and flooding, and thereby cut
off a major route for-the transmission of parasitic disease. Installation of
proper structures on sublaterals and construction of orderly on-farm water
channels would reduce soil erosion and spread of chemicals into water-
courses. The afforestation component would enhance timber and fueLwood sup-
plies, add to groundcover and reduce surface runoff, and extend windbreak
protection to most of the cultivated area.
PART V - LEGAL INSTRUMENTS AND AUTHORITY
81.       The draft Credit Agreement between the People's Republic of China
and the Association, the draft Loan Agreement between the People's Republic of
China and the Bank, .i7e draft Project Agreement among the AssoNiation. the
Bank and Anhui Province, the draft Project Agreement between che Association
and the Agricultural Bank of China, and the Report of the Committee provided
for in Article III, Section 4(iii) of the Articles of Agreement are being
distributed to the Executive Directors separately.
82.       Special conditions of the project are listed in Section III of
Annex III. Additional conditions of loan and credit effectiveness are the
approval of the Loan and Credit Agreements. and Anhui Project Agreement by
China's State Council, as well as execution of a satisfactory Subsidiary Loan
Agreement between Anhui and ABC.
83.       I am satisfied that the proposed loan and credit would compLy with
the Articles of Agreement of the Bank.
PART VI - RECOMMENDATION
84.;      I recommend that the Executive Directors approve the proposed loan.
A. W. Clausen
President
Attachments
May 17, 1985
Washington, D.C.



-27-                                             ANNEX I
Page 1 of 6
~IXA  PEPLrSUP. O? - SOCIAL IuDICATaM  DATA SRtUT
CIBL. PEOFFs 331. 0?. or            iNmZc SUPs (CIC D AUTRAcISJ in
M051STmsr CMOaS?                  ES3DI3T?C) lb -
LOW 1NK MDDLE INCOME
19iOLk      IswOLk     nmal           ASIA A PACzr£c        ASL6 rACtFIC
10112.                              9561.0       9561.0      956L0
Am1=LTmAI.                          5237.6      332.0        3865.9
PM  CANU  VWll)                         40.0 /C     11.0        3L0.0           278.6                   1091.2
_mir inu   "a CUSE
(KU.0G31 0? OIL ou  ZVILPrJ)         1.91.0      250.0        AUO             2172.0                   567a3
MIUA!m An vimA 13r115110
P 1PULAXhOEjUD-YEAR (130S83)   687100.0    845700.0   1006175.0
Bam             CZ Eor OTAL)         16.4 id        ..         20.6           21.J7                     36.
POPOLATI0E MO2C!I0lS
POILATIOM IN EAR 2000 (HILL)                               1196.3
S>TSIaRAIT POPULAT1M  (IL)                                . 1661.0
PLAXIOU MOMNT                                                 1.7L.
POPULATION DSIT
mR S0. so .                         71.9         U.5        103.8           166.6                    26L9
MM So. N-. ACK. LAND              211.1        217.9        256.B           365-5                   1735.1
POPULATICE STrUCU  (S)
0-14 135                           38.9         37.7        30.9            35.6                     39.0
15-" lES                            56.3        57.2         63.3            5a                       57.6
65 AM5 A1Ot                         4.8          5.1         5.5             6.3                      3.3
IFSOraLI    comminu    CZ)
TOTAL                                1.3          2.1         1.5             1.9                      2.3
313aM                                 ..          ..           ..             4.1                     64.
CuDt 3131 SATE (MM T0o5)              35.2 la     36.0         1U.             27.7                     30.1
D1 1AZ1 3AZZ  CM mooUs)               23. 7/-      10.1         6.6            10.1                      9.5
GO0e5 _TIooocTioM am!                  2.8 re      2.3          1.2             1.8                      LO
FAMILY riLAmUxM
A TS. AUAL (US)                       ..          ..           ..              . 
s  Z         8r 3A 3 WM)              ..          ..         69.4 IIf                                 52.7
t w mm D naD. CS
%NUEl 0? P00WD PMD. mR CAPIT
C1969-71.100                            ..       100.0        124.0           112.8                    123.0
NM CAPITA SMT o0
C*AOr    CZ or 31Q11331E11)         93.0         68.0       107.0            97.7                    116.4
tl635 (CRAM   U OAT)             56.0        53.0         66.0            56.8                     57.0
Or WICH AIDL AND PUrLSE           16.0         16.0        17.0 l          14.9                     16.1
ONl CAES 1-4) DCAll RATE              26.0        16.0          7.0             9.8                      7.2
LIM EPCT. AT 3l1  (TEARS)             41.0 /b     52.3          6.5            60.0                     60.-
133? !URl. ` 2 W  m(PM ImDJ  ' U       5.077     109.0         67.0             3.8                     66.3
AES TO SAM S  (0?)
TDOTL                                 --           -'        41.o            32.9                     37.0
ORB"3                                 .                      s--c            70-9 94.8
mAL                                 .                                      22.1                     26.4
ArSS TO mITA DXSPOSAL
CZ OF P0PULAZXI0E
AL                                    ..          ..           ..            18.1                      L3
llM                                   ..          ..           ..            72.8                     47.4
UL                                    ..          ,.           ..             6.                      33.3
1P0131A420  M  rPtExCIAM            6390.0 tl   3830.0 /I   1SL100 /I       3484.2                    7769.6
ror. PM   3SZBC 13301              6050.0-    2870.0-    1790.0             *793.1                    2460.4
torn.  U uomzA. Mm
TOAL                              1060.0       ;60.0        490.0          1066.5                   1066.2
o3"                               210.0           ..        160.0          296.0                     651.2
33OIUI                           10160.0          ..       1020.0          5993.4                   2594.6
A     OS P   OSPAL                      ..          ..           ..              ..                     27.0
£92385 SrE0 or rOISEOn
TOTAL                                 .. ''                   5.2
316                                   ..          ..          6.2...
2..                                               ..          5.5
AVERAG NO. oF PEPSOXSIIOrA
TOTAL                                                          ..              .        
:,                  *n                                   ,.3..               .. ..              ..
AcS TO ELIrT. CZ or U1!UM)
TOTAL                                                     ..                  .
MURAL                                ..           ..
].- ,, -EA                                              . .     - ..



ANNEX I
-28-                                          Page 2 of 6
W130   OFZ  IM. 1 - 100W. Z3IC&Y0I DATA SE
am     A30U   31. 0  *                m     0  0S) I!.
urn?            (HIS?a 31001? ISUZN=i)l&
33=1?      ~~LWV INCOM           NiLZ w
i,.obk      is7Oab-    31?naLb    ASIA A 1002IC              ASIA A vaU:ZC
ADJOSTIM Ol   LU
*njunm ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~~s Eamuinw  bIRo InoLSlh
PLMfIz3  TOTAL                      105.0       110.0         111.            97.4                         0
ALE                        ..           ..         130.           15                        103.5
..                                     ..         106.            83.7                      5L2
SZCOIIWI: TOWUL                     ZL.0         23.0          4.0            35.           ,           ".0
FALL                       ..           ..           .1             .6                       48.7
MALK                       ..           ..         33.0            26.1                      43.1
OCAXIIA L   0C     S   Z)                ..          ..           2.2            2.2                      17.5
1U1IL-UACE RAfO
lRDEfhZ                                ..          ..         20.0            3.5
S_     T                               ..          ..         17.0            18.7                      23.5
ADs L-ACT U.  (I)                     43.0 d                     "*-  e.        s.4                       72.9               -
ASSseS  CSCUSIND W                       ..          ..            . 2           0.o                      10.1
3*31  INUEICKSfTIOS    erC              ..         14.2       311.3            112.1                     113.1
TV  *CEZVUSlTIMSAMIDP                    .. F0.                 27.             LW.7                      30.t
NIP*MC (UAUX GNRL
IMErM)  CZ3AI0
T            NOUaa                   ..           ..           ..            10.2                       mg
CME  A_AL A?NDNCAZ                      .. ..                     ..             3.0                       3.4
TOCAL LAUOL 0e  CUTM)             321040.0    33055.0    47341.0
FEALK CPEZT                         31.3         38.0         27.2            33.3                      33.5
AGRCULU  (E    C                       ..          ..           .9            a0                        322
IN 7    (PERCENT)                                             1"4.7                                     17.l z.
rnATzcZb50M I ATE CWZ3UT)
TOTAL                               40.3          01.0        47.0            42.0                      38.7
AZ                                   53.5        54.3         57.2            54.7                      50.9
FkuI                                37F.0        33.0         30.0            29.3                      24.0
IC0INOMCD 3EFMIIDWI0C ROTILO            0.5         1.0          0.3             1.0                       1.1
1DmIr or HIVATE LNI
IF T 520r  ousOLDS                     .           ..         12.5              ..22
KIST 200 O0F O50IDS                    ..          ..         3w.. LI                                   48.0
-NS? 20iS 01 UOhODh                    ..          ..s         0./              ..                       0.
S  4tK 0o  MlUSEM                   - ..           ..         18.4 Li           ..                      15.5
- -. ur   -om 
UTIAUD *3501211 10WEETf 10001
LZVEL (USS M  C0*1C1)
URI"5                                                                        133.9                     130.
IL                                    ..           ..           ..           111.0                     1320
CSZDSIVE *0UT DNG
LEVEL (CUS 133 CAFITA)
03341                                  ..          ..           ..              ..           m77.9
RU.A                                  ..           ..           ..              ..                     104.0
ESTDU    rDr. BELO 11S5OSIZ
POsT? INCl LEVEL (1)
035*5                                 ..           ..           ..            43.8                      23.4
IDEAL                                 ..           ..           ..            51.7                      37.7
NOT AVAEILAIL
MOT A11LCASIZ
MOTES
IA   Tm group aw*fhay  for each indicor are popalio-u.Agbted a It£mdc Umtn. Covamta of countrisa.       _ s
ndimcator dapaud  on avalahlity of data and is nt ucifora.
11Dm  ath.-z-Lca noted. -Dat for L9%0  rflr oe an  year bat_m    1959 an  1961: Data for 1970' btmn 1909 and
1971: and data fEr 'IAr Necua  atSalts- beemwae 1950 an  1912.
Ic  7watepacad 1957-62 daa; /d 1906; /a 1955-1535 average:  If ParcAage of all .azTrie            n of child baaclug
A" praccIng contaception;45 9?7   /b 1935-0  average;  11 Senior doctor of _-m   undLcude;
Ua lbthucim of paple       b_ e.i"   par capia Lncm. 197S datc.
A*U11 papulatiom end vilua *tat cica are eauk  e_tet  ubic  dlffr Eno einese offical&  stariaticm.
otnal adcatiola only:  Don-Imue .rmllnt La uomhEnctla.
was DII ncioa and coerage differ free thDm  of Cia" official atatleica.
.i.  1904



we stta   aid P. -  s    -Wa-." a-w   At as--P- pp
s--ua         lSia Z-SP  - lat  -usa-a.  we -ia--a-p -
M- , AMua  1aus    Al - 9 ta-u-ognot e          d- I          - anal-d
.spaweV5tj sI tbpeu-~j "e Aqi.
P.-u-ad4 .u.   -uu.ta AIM  pp-a -ad u-sqaa  n.-Su 1-   it  -.'
-a-f   -u  a   a-   v-np-i us--u  - ..-pi-   p -4 a  ae- I
p- -n I-P--a  ~  ~        ~        ~ ~~ - u    wuS -s' -_s. as- as-ua-lat .1 a.IMdai
ama 5F                                                 we ~~~~~~~~aum..P  Nb aplea GIptsat-a    a5I"  Ml --a  as 1pn-A.
-a-u's nfl pa. aa.dua   a-lu-at-                                                  *ea.   ,II Ju.n..  :    t''w    -s                  .nJ I
u-u--.  - -   ttaae  p   saqa,   lu- taad  "uatI - tasw                          sa- :aPaut5414                    ttt   Taa   aa   t   asi3ff
a-tat- (usas.  usat a-a aned auta...-a-a  stuta5-a  saaR                                                                                      sitas
u-d  rat  sl m- wu   .S-   -u  ---wasaNaa
i- Is"l -.a  P-Rip-  u-i' u-Ja -,   .aaae-r  l  taa   a..aea-u t.AtIeM                                   l         tlauI   -tpsap-a   tun
tuba is sar, us ris-)-- pa-a -1u  ba-t  a-as.a  te-a                              utt.t     a-i -aau   P   Dios a s-sw t.,-  %aa-a deuSv St
- a-us p-au-a -(-5535i~5  aat u-vl --a   ut-   u         ru.I-laSt                -ap-sa m. -A-"           ',I- a-4.-  -E-st  Ms -u. ua..c      t- , 3 J.
p-                         "M~~~~~~~~~taa-run
tDa-J US'-u u1-Sau                      sali  'uea   -t   eafu-  n-s81           'na.t1qsadau
md,  Ziv_    ov.-   'Zi                                        .1111e-a %t r - -ass'  - t   a  s.-eu-a at-asp-u  se. a-          utu-
us-issa-aft    we11 Mts__s  ..r as-asS   _uas  a:i utat  usit ..%I                        Ina .- p.. p-P-a   l .     t. Vus"t-P  swta  ia
asuua  A   aI . -(As.  weue- aa--)  assaaa   -  uads                           sE, saP  u-ap sgaeu-aaS                     M ap-a-e  Jaa.a   a Saaa  at-sas
p- iatpas_ we'aa            tu .uia  a   aa -Au-aLasas  Staea                                  u -:LI u- ps   P.uuatt.aaiMf P-a- -AdM Ps ps.a-l  a_aaM_
-;Pe lfatadatua  -all  -   usl   - - sqL,  eu-  tn w ed  ta-ea  at.  aaa  Auia-t  t-tat-asUaa    -a-iastn   ut.st
taasa-n aS- uu  p -aaG     td-n-    ee         ut:"-Jataaasd                         - uPd  us   af -a i-als...d                ai-   tni-lt   i
a-  a-- suta-  w it-               uuu-      a           ua  asus-tpua-                                    (Tu-s-ufs -; M  -ass-t oat-   asau   ua   r
a apsasuaua-a -   i a      au i P- '.ttus   uafssuiula-1
M.  -P,    _,_ .3                 I~~~~t.p Jd`    e                  eawess  %-ua    aas sa a.                      flaea-a-fiPu
weaatj             %uasat  tuu--   -uiit-as-i- Mum-tps .--t-aa.J-&  -al   we" vuap -     O    iv-d-pa ma-a -susa
u--  as  we     ZSt Sout ATsiSt_id
mb- s-lbi-  n-aa' u-aua ftat-taaae-awa-s   se                      -s -                         -l  ass a-ut. a-pusa g-a-   -  dtaa                 a-3`4'aptuu
AL        P_.".       3~-at  sul-paa- 5-uuat- (san ,..M                                      sas)aas- aaldu  e
p  a   e  - S pAMa-ap.--tn-   ausatta    a-sac                                   atla --d du- t-At-   us  at-          wesausetasl-iu    p
-pa- .        - -u&  J  u-a -p    .a-    tnAt.               -                 tsta-a  ass  u-_ r-       - i-pam-u-a  p-u    ausss-s-n-i'a
pupat   t a-            A.s-   apuata  -u  u s--a  psu-ap aauaaSqud                                                                                    ar--tel-
~auip-la5 -fi muse 1ata-  u-a-u     d-a-s da-s.   _a.u-0t                             we9e ma- sa   -tiss S- -a   as-ue-aLunu
-     P-j         u--a  SI ad- a-3.t-n-Ia-   S=-S  a  ssansIa su   ttaa                             -    Wuaats is asaSas  -asafsussaa
-pa.a p.uu.d~aat-a                                                -lap es  w -S-      tle iORu-a i  -
-etaq- 'uaata-pt -a -upa t-:                       dltea   t   -Sia-   aus,I-,I st- M       f~t fas,
aua  --Nfl   PI" uS-ol-W      mi-st pntsa   s  aa,et-1 usu-pu  u4s S-i -1                                       pa-..d wej -a-at SS tppAu-".w..a-
a    we east' It    A.-stul AtS  S--  sSta  J.tan-utaaP  assPqt a wtt -,                                          we1a-  i-a-i-lt _      -a5
-t Itas-  supl Is" - aa-r, we  uaaaa  - .aaea                                      M Msa-~aaaa                                     -au-p sas  tIa.
a-ni asatususat t-iupn-  -,tuia-M             ta-M--aas                            ts   a   ta-au usaat-Idea    a-n-  Lataaa  u-a  a-aa           P
at--a   s - pp   nbe   es  a iasoalluals-a                                         teals -T-is   -u    - .fusat  .a-uuPtsaua   autn
n-lu-san-a iu-i    iflaptata. pa   .zian  tuiaa   ntat-stu-Salo-o -8 ta-Suta uATII-ut eas  a.-uta A. oe-ti-,
n  s  tn-ata                 fs?P-'PuIP - I        0 -q uuia   a-3 suvsa-uWme  I-___-i-a fet
las-a-s ta-Ic -    At-l -    u-a we,11. -a- tea-   - l-p. t-I...                     ata  eat- sa W et-aut n flu   s ao'    j a-uuaua-a  pesaa-sd fi -L i
sas as-s-s-Las-u. a alS-s   -u-tRFM      anf  s   se MItu=-a_- A5' M s    Nt   uuttiu  - i- -a-  -(ll aw                                  - Iua-ds-
au-s PS -a'ptuuu -Pui'-i AaKa-ea- tn-au-us us.-I1t MIA-ti                          we) teso t-WaqdIS, - wu-                ia-aae   -t
ete  we ata- *asu-a wee P- u %aq we I .aa-itu-                              outtMt Lault - aua--as      df we  I--                       O ReI         asi    ea-
-P I-d         j iaCi   idI                     na   assAa   - s--P Lsuuta  P-. tauts-aat- pa lun w-
.."   ._F     I  -.1-.1-  it  i                   a-u     P. anl- pSt   -Ia. AM Lsa=        ot-asaiai-i
-'i-auS-a Stia. sat  we%~aa   u-   pat  P-ta-al 'tlsam,   AmtluaAuusa a-                            s  at-u    j
- aaat we   nt- --- -  at`a` us_ aaeaaaa Laatai  -a  u-S                       as]  a=l    ut- -lpnitu.s.qu  eu - uuui_ sau-- ea.-u
P- raiddlig-a-isa i taut-a  anld.1- ld pwnetn 'ItM u-u-PS rust                                                          - we .l  U1t-lW          a
t-p lad- I  -M            ~- -Pasra-I  P  ' atn- -m  u-asw!=p    auq-t'a-i   -  .a    --u   ttt-    aau
a--   e-s-swu -K-- 1-4a.ata  J -_  -  - -s    pa1-n-  s--  s-sate                                                                                   P  *atup
saSseamap a -  u.i~~asp  us d-ua   u-us.s - tnwuasfla.-I M              lm-ooltulel            o.p    M..--up m aw ase
u-lieu   Li-53- atenalle-  .59 "tI- -v    -a-uA-u10- -.uietlualea-as-1 ~                 fta-  Ma-mt seu-  w-a   -Pu  -15-I   tua-a.M   -a..S. M1      l   d-nt
ne   ea 1-ais-,s  aql-pat-  a;"iM4is uP(,.  pePAaa
ai.u-ut nausuadli - Taa-s we - ~ ~ ~ ~ --I-PI-u-a-p AnFaastdsI.d,daolalaaean                                            ."    -a- Ama ..et t(fl-
AIM  -.-dl                                             ta-ta.tu- .  s-u-a-6   as-s  a-uul-  al f    - et" i-ea-tut. a- u-ta                   J.tnsi --v   a-u
we  -o-somi.stt- d,A u    "Ur u-us  MOMa   auu.PI-" jpau.'a-a as"M "      -3l-1-WS0PO  sipa-aeedu-1 a-a-d  duteatAPa is, na-u    - %mosatniaa-
Paiuset pae~Aupqtp  .a-ade  - -e.ihta~ta  tflalsai                                                                         5s  tet  e  aa
-af  u--a-al-s  a-w                                                                         ua  .a-waipasa   a    talf   s,n-aaiui-



ANSXlS I
-30-                                                Fe    f 6
Population       1,008 million (id-1952)
cm per capitalt 08310  (1982)
CH= - ECOWUC IUD1cA&OU
Indicator                 1957-70   1970-77   1978     l 9otb tX) t cenatant price
hdicet  1957-70   1970r-77   i978 1979 cwt9    c a1981     1982      1983      1984
*ndl"tor  78  TA              C.tlute)
Production
Gross output
Agriculture                              2.2       3.4       9.0      8.6       3.9       6.6      11.0       9.5
Lght indtry                              8.3       7.8      10.8      9.6      18.;      14.1       5.7       8.7
Heavy industry                          11.6       9.3      15.6      7.7       1.4     -4.7        9.9      12.4
Not Mhterial Product (100)                 5.2       4.8    .12.4       7.0       6.1       4.8       7.4       9.1
1957      1970     1977      1978      1979      1980      1981      1982      1983
Prices
Retail price Index (1970-100)  92.2    100.0    102.7    103.3    105.4    111.7    114.4           116.6    118.3/h
NNP deflator      (1970-100)  90.7    100.0        99.1-   100.5    104.5    108.4        110.5'   110.9      111.87F
Exchange rate     (Y/USS)       2.46      2.46      1.86      1.68      1.55      1.50      1.71      1.89      1.9iI
Amount                                                         Average annual growth
1982                Share of GDP (2)                         (2) at conatent prices
National Accounts         (S bn,)    1957       1979    1982    _!85      1990     1957-70   1970-79   1979-82   198Z-90
-    -          --               -=   -7-r               ~
CDP                        264.5      100.0  100.0   100.0   IOC.D   100.0            5.8      T5.8       5.1       6.5
Agricolture               97.5         ..   32.5    36.9    34.0    29.4            1.6   ' .2          5.L       3.2
Induatry                 107.0         ..   43.5    40.4    43.0    45.7           12.1       8.9       7.4       8.2
Otber                     60.0         ..   24.0    22.7    23.0    24.9            3.5       4.3       0.3       7.8
Consumption                184.4       76.4   68.4    69.7    70.0    71.0            2.7       5.4       5.8       6.8
Investment                  76.0       23.2   32.5    28.7    30.3    29.8            9.8       6.8       0.9       7.0
Export. CNFS               N,23.5       3.7/b   6.0      8.9      9.D      9.6        1.6/b     8.0/b    19.9       7.5
Imports CIIS                1'9.4       3.57b   6.8      7.3      9.3     10.4        2.37C    9.47w      7.7      11.3
National savings            80.1       23.6/c  31.9    30.3    30.0    29.0
As 2 OF CDP
Public Finance                                                   1957           1979           1981           1983
Current revenue, (ecluding foreign borr-ig)                    28.7           34.5           31.9           29.1
Current expenditures                                           16.1           22.8           23.3           21.3
Surplus (+) or defclet  -)                                   +12.6          +11.7          +8.6           +7.8
Capital expenditurna                                           11.9           16.9            9.9            9.4
Foreign borrowing /d                                            0.7            0.9            1.6            0.7
Other indicators                                               1957-79        1979-82        1982-90
GD? groach rate (Z)                                             5.8            5.1            6.5
GDP per capita growch rate (Z)                                  3.8            3.9            5.3
Energy consumption groath rate (S)                              8.5            1.9
ICOR                                                            5.4
marginal caving. rate                                           0.42
Import elasticity                                               1.6            1.5
/a  RIP basi.
7i; Cood only.
GDs.
Td- cross.



31                                                        Page 5 oE 6
Population        1,008 million (mld-1982)
CXP per capita:  US$310  (1982)-
CHINA - EXTERNAL TRADE
Amount
(llllon USS at                Annual growth rates (Z) (at constant 1980 prices)
currant price.)                    Actual                                 Projected
Indicator                              1983         1980       1981        1982        1983       1984         1985        1986
a      External Trade
Merchandise exports                22,223          17          16           6         10         14            5             5
Energy                            4.466          ..                     ..          ..         ..
Other primary                     4,947          .          ..          ..           .
M'aufactures                     12,557          ..         ..          ..          ..
Other                               253          ..         ..          ..          ..
Herchandise imports                18.970          17         -9          10          29         30            9            N
Food                              2,735          ..         ..          ..          ..         ..           .
Energy                               99          ..                                                        ..             .
Machinery and %%quipment          3,537          ..          ..         ..          ..         ..           .
Other                            12,599          ..         ..          ..          ..         . -
Prices
Export price index (1980-100)          ..         100        103          99          89         86          9;            95
Import price index (1980-100)          ..         100        105          91          79         76          8r            85
Tetus of trade index (1980-100)        ..         100         98          N8S        113        113          112           'I:
Composition of merchandise trade (Z)                     Average annual increase (is
(at current prices J                                 (at constant prices)
1980     1981      1982     1983      1985     1990      1957-70  1970-79  1979-82  1982-85  1995-90
Exports                 100.0    100.0    100.0    100.0         108   - 100          1.6      8.0      12.9       9.6
Energy                 25.1      22.9     23.8      20.1        11       C8          ..           '-    .. 
Other primary          28.4      24.1     22.8      22.3       24        :4          ..        ..        .
Manufactures           46.5     47.8      50.5      56.5       60        71          ..        ..       ..        ..        .
Other                   0.0       5.2      2.9       1.1         5        5          ..        ..
lIports                 100.0    100.0    100.0    100.0         100      100         2.3      9.4       5.4      21.9        7
Food                     ..      19.6     22.5      14.4        16       17          ..        ..
Energy                  0.0       0.0      0.0       0.5         C        8          ..        ..        .
Machinery and
equipment            27.5     24.2      19.1      18.7       24        25          ..        ..
Other                    .       5 56.2   58.5      66.4       60        50          ..        .
Share of trade with          Share of trade with         Share of rrade with countries with
Industrial countries (Z)      developing countries (2)    centrally planned economies (:) Ia
1978    1981    1983         1978    1981    1983               1978      1981       1983
Direction of Trade lb
Exports                       37.3    45.9    42.1          51.6    5G.2    53.1               11.1       3.9        4.
Injnrts                       73.3    76.8    68.1          17.5    18.7    24.2               9.2        4.5        o.4
la  Includes the Soviet Union, Eastern Europe, Cuba, North Korea and Mongolia.
4      /b  Based on IF:  "China - Recent Economic Developments." October 1984. p. 90b.



ANNIX I
-32-                                          PF56= f 6
Population    a  1,008 mUllon (mid-1982)
GNP per capita:  US5310  (1912)
CHINA -B ALACE OF PANruYns, IXrTRKAL CAPITAL AND DEnT
(0Ilion US5 at current prlces)
Actua                                    Projected
Indicator                                           1979       1950      1981       1982       1983      1984       1985      1990
Blalnce of Payments
Exports of go''  and services                   15,351    20,901    25,157    25,989    26,389    29,060    32.000    53,300
Of which.  ..ercbandixe f.o.b.                13.658    18,492    22.027    22.476    22.223    24,450    27.000    45.700
Imports of goods and services                   18,204    24,752    24,380    20,793    22.U8    28.060    31.900    62,600
Of which:  lhrchandise f.o.b.                 16,212    22,049    21,047    17,830    18,970    23,710    26,900    52,600 0         .
Net transfers                                      596        500       680        412        511       600        700       800
Oirrent account balance                         -2,257    -3.351      1.457      5.608     4,442      1.600        Soo    -8.500
Forelgn direct Investment (net)                      -         57       265        359        478       670        80b     1,500
lLT 1oans (net)                                    800      1,130       416        426       899      1,000      1,200     4,000
Official                                         350        446       479        557        789         .
Private                                          450        684       -63       -131        110
Other capital                                    2,054      2,555       365       -102    -2,481    -1,070    -1,300       1,0
Change in net reserves C'-" - lncrease)           -597      -391    -2,503    -6,291    -3,338    -2,200    -1,500         2,000
International reserves                           7,274      7,665    10,168    16,459    19,797    22,000    23,500
of vhich:  gold                                5,120      5,1Z0     5,120      5,120      5,120
Reserves as amonths imports                        4.8        3.7       5.0        9.4       10.6       9.4        8.8
External Capital and ODbt
Gross dlsobursements                                           ,.
Concessional Loans s                                .
DAC                                               ..
OPEC
IDA                                               ..
Other                                                                   ..
Nonconcessional Loans
Official export credits
IBRD
Other wultilateral                                 ..
Private
External debt
Debt outstanding & disbursed                              5,433     5,785      6,058     6,397
Official
Private
Undisbursed debt
Debt service
Total service paymerts
Interest                                        ..        ..         ..         ..
Payments as 2 exports GCFS                                  5.8       8.c/a    109;a      5,5fa
Average Interest rate an new loans (t )
Average maturity of new loans (years)                                     .
/a Including same early repayment of principa:.



ANNEX 1I
-33-
STATUS OF BANK GROUP OPERATIONS IN THE PEOPLE'S REPUBLIC OF CHINA
A. STATEHENT OF BANK LOANS AND IDA CREDITS
(as of March 31, 1985)
Loan or                                                                                    US$ million
Credit                                                                              Amout (less cancellation)
Number     Year    Borrover                     Purpose                             Bank     ID"    Undisbureed
2021/1167  1981    People's Republic of China  University Development               100.0    100.0        50.6
1261    1982    People's Republic of China  North China Plain Agriculture           -      60.0        19.6
2207    1982    Peoole's Republic of China  Three Ports                           69.0       -         49.6
1297    1982    People's Republic of China  Agric. Education & Research             -      75.4       28.1
2226/1313  1982    People's Republic of Chins  Industrial Credit                     40.6     30.0        56.4
2231    1983    People's Republic of Chilna  Daqing Petroleum                    162.4       -        110.1
2252    1983    People's Republic of China  Zhongyuan-4enliu Petroleum           100.8       -         91.2
Z261.'1347  1983    People's Republic of China  Heilongjiang Land Reclamation        35.3     45.0        41.1
1411    1983    People's Republic of China  Polytechnic/TV University               -      85.0       77.5
1S12    1983    People's Republic of China  Technical Cooperation                   -      10.0        8.0
1417    1984    People's Republic of China  Rubber Development                      -     190.0       74.6
-382    1984    PeopLe's Republic of China  'ubuge Hydroelectric                 145.4       -       141.6
2394    1984    People's Republic of China  Railway                              220.0       -       178.1
1462    1984    People's Republic of China  Rural Credit                            -      50.0       41.1
1472    1984    People's Republic of China  Rural Health & Medical Educ.            -      85.0       76.1
2426    1984    People's Republic of China  Karamay Petroleum                    100.3       -       100.1
2434/1491  1984    People's Republic of China  Second Industrial Credit             105.0     70.0       170.2
2444/1500  1984    People's Republic of China  Second Agricultural Education         45.3     23.5        65.5
1516    1985    People's Republic of China  Second Agricultural"'Research           -      25.0       24.1
1551    1985/a  People's Republic of China  Second University Development           -     145.0      145.0
2493    19857w People's Republic of China  Second Power                          117.0       -        117.0
2501    19857W People's Republic of China  Changcun (Luan) Coal Mining           126.0       -        126.0
Tocal                                                         1,367.1    903.9    1,791.6
Total now held by Bank and IDA                                1,367.1    903.9
Total Undisbursed                                             1,181.5    610.1
B. STATEMENT OF IFC INVESTMENTS
Cas of March 31, 1985)
None
:
/a  Signed on March 15. 1985, but not yet effective.
7r; Signed on March 15. 1985, but not yet effective_
T7 Approved on March 14, 1985, but not yet signed_
Notes: (1) Subsequent to the above date of Statement A, the following projects were approved:
Seeds Development - credit of $40.0 million (already signed).
Raral Water Supply - credlt of $80.0 million (already signed).
HLghlay - credit of 530.0 million and loan of $42.6 million.
Second Railway - loan of $235.0 million.
Fertilizer Rehabilitation and Energy Saving - loan of $97.0 million.
(2) The statas of the projects listed in Part A is described in a separate report on all Bank/IDA
financial projects in execution, which is updated twice yearly and circulated to the Executive
Directors on April 30 and October 31.



-34-
ANNEX III
Page 1
CHINA
PISHIHANG-CHAOHU AREA DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Supplementary Project Data Sheet
Section I: Timetable of Key Events
(a)  Time taken to prepare the project:    14 months
(b)  Project prepared by:                    Staff of Ministrv of Water
Resources and Electric Power,
Anhui Water Resources Bureau.
and Anhui AgricuLture, Animal
Husbandry and Fisheries Bureau
(c) First presentation to Bank and
first mission:                         February 1984
(d)  Departure of appraisal mission:        November 1984
(e)  Completion of negotiations:            April 22-26, 1984
(f)  Planned date of effectiveness:         September 1985
Section II: Special Conditions
Anhui Province:
(a) plan for provision of phosphate and potassium fertilizers to the
project area would be prepared and discussed with the Bank Group
prior to November of each year (par&. 55);
(b) a report presenting the main findings of the operations studies
would be prepared by the PMO and submitted to the Bank Group for
review not later than December 31, 1989 (para. 62);
Cc)  the provincial, prefectural and county project management offices
and the MWREP's project unit would be established by September 1,
1985 and maintained and adequately staffed with qualified personnel
during the life of the project (para. 69);
ABC:
(a) the ABC provincial and county project units mad the ABC liaison
position with the provincial PMO would be maintained and adequately
staffed with qualified personnel during the life of the project
(para. 70).



ANNEX III
Page 2
(b) ABC Anhui would appraise all subprojects using the procedures and
criteria set out in the Rural Credit Project Appraisal Manual issued
by ABC Beijing and approved by IDA under Cr. 1462-CH; subloans for
the first three subprojects would be submitted to IDA for approval;
and individual subloans in excess of $300,000 would require IDA's
prior approval (para. 59).
I.
-f



W~~~~~~~~~1 ___ 1n1,                                                                                  4
-'- .X3;t>   s  s                                                 CHINA
,~ m4,:w,_, - ,¢,PISHIHANG - CHAOHU AREA
. .w  SHANDONG   ,.                                    DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
ANHUI PROVINCE
,<. . ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~as........ INg               A............
- kcmdy mom.
34-~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~--f .Wy
JIANGSU
H A  HN EJ.ANG-- 
-:.~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~0
. ; z><2\ P  j7& n-,!-~~~~~~~~~T cfwb
HUBEI                                                        j.-                        - -  -
1                        .                    I. r- .  -  2Z3
- ,-  ---'-.         ..... \             ,--'',                                                  =1          ,,.
*  r               / (r                 ~~~~~~~JIANGXI          _      \z               0     5 4 
(                N~~~~~~~~~ILOMTS0
n l                *         1_ ;      /           II?                  I1WNK               -.. I. .  & 



